23 July 2020||NEW DELHI/JAIPUR,||SC will hear today Rajasthan Speaker’s plea against HC order||A Supreme Court Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, is scheduled to hear on Thursday an appeal filed by the Rajasthan Speaker’s office challenging the State High Court’s order to defer anti-defection proceedings against former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs till July 24. The other two judges on the Bench are Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. The virtual court hearing will begin after 11 a.m. Mr. Pilot and the other legislators filed a caveat petition in the court, saying “nothing should be done” without notifying them first. In another development, the Enforcement Directorate raided the premises of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s elder brother Agrasen Gehlot in Jodhpur in a fertilizer case. The Congress accused the BJP-led Centre of using the ED to target the ruling party leaders in Rajasthan after failing in its conspiracy to “kidnap democracy” and topple the State government. The Centre was creating a “raid raj”, it said. Speaker C.P. Joshi expressed the hope that the top court would pass directions before July 24, when the High Court is scheduled to give its verdict on the writ petition filed by Mr. Pilot’s camp. “Else, my special leave petition will be rendered infructuous and the Speaker’s powers will be curtailed,” he said. “I do hope that the dignity of the Speaker’s office will be maintained. I respect the judges, but the roles of all constitutional authorities are well-defined,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-will-hear-today-rajasthan-speakers-plea-against-hc-order/article32167264.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Daily caseload crosses 1,000 mark||Intense community transmission of COVID-19 across all districts took the caseload over 1,000 in the State on Wednesday. With 1,038 new cases on Wednesday, the total caseload has gone up to 15,032 in a matter of days. Approximately 80% of these cases — 839 out of the 1,038 cases — are locally acquired infections, indicating the intensity of community transmission across the State. In 57 of these cases, the source of infection could not be established. Global pattern While this exponential increase in cases totally follows the global pattern of disease transmission, with a significant proportion of health-care workers forced to go into quarantine every day, many health institutions are struggling to find its feet in the midst of the pandemic. Till July 20, 267 health-care workers had tested positive, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. On Wednesday, 24 health-care workers tested positive across the State, 18 of them in the capital city. Situation in capital The situation in Thiruvananthapuram, where community transmission was officially declared for the first time in the State, continues to be intense. In the district, 208 out of the 226 cases (92%) reported on Wednesday are cases of local transmission, with 15 cases having no epidemiological link. The district has the highest patient load with 2,421 cases. The Chief Minister said the spread of the disease in border localities was worrying. The Parassala neighbourhood in Thiruvananthapuram district was particularly at risk owing to its proximity to Tamil Nadu.  The government would not allow coastal dwellers to congregate on beaches or indulge in group games and other recreation to prevent the peer-to-peer transmission of the disease. With 272 recoveries, the current number of patients undergoing treatment in various districts is 8,818. The total number of recoveries so far are 6,164. Mr. Vijayan said that of the active patients in hospitals, 53 were being treated in ICUs and nine patients were currently on ventilators. Five deaths were reported in the State on Wednesday. More deaths While the death in Idukki figures in the official stats, four confirmed deaths reported from Kollam, Kozhikode, Kasaragod and Kannur are yet to figure in the official tally because of reporting time bar. The official death toll as on Wednesday is 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-caseload-crosses-1000-mark/article32167576.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,||How can Constitutional authorities sit on files indefinitely? asks HC judge||Justice N. Kirubakaran of the Madras High Court on Wednesday questioned the delay in disposing of the State Cabinet’s recommendation to the Governor on September 8, 2018, to release all seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The seven have been in jail for 29 years. During the hearing of a case seeking 90-day parole for convict A.G. Perarivalan, the judge said: “Nobody, much less a constitutional authority, can sit on a file like this. The makers of the Constitution did not prescribe a time limit because of the immense trust they had on people who may come to occupy high constitutional posts.” Leading a Division Bench along with Justice V.M. Velumani, he said: “The recommendation can be either accepted or rejected but the decision should be taken within a reasonable time. Otherwise, courts will have no option but to interfere.” The views were expressed to Additional Public Prosecutor Prabhavati Ram, representing the State. The judge went on to clarify: “By observing these things, we do not condone the acts of these convicts. They have conspired together and taken the lives of not only a former Prime Minister but also that of many innocent people including policemen. No doubt that it was a cruel assassination. This one heinous crime did change so many things in the country.” Health complications Earlier, senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, representing the writ petitioner G. Arputham, 72, said her son could be shown some leniency in grant of parole since he had been under incarceration for nearly three decades. He claimed that the convict was suffering from several health complications and hence vulnerable to COVID-19 inside the prison. The senior counsel and the petitioner’s counsel on record S. Saravanan said despite the Cabinet's recommendation, the convicts were not being let out because Governor Banwarilal Purohit was yet to take a decision. The issue had been pending with the Governor for nearly two years now. Responding, the APP said the petitioner’s son was already granted parole between November 12, 2019 and January 12, 2020. “As per prison rules, the convict will become eligible for next parole only after two years,” she said. The APP sought time for appearance of State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan to answer queries on the larger issue related to permanent release. Accepting her request, the judges adjourned the case to July 29 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/how-can-constitutional-authorities-sit-on-files-indefinitely-asks-hc/article32167383.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Tax sops likely in Kerala Finance Bill||Despite a lingering uncertainty over revenue collection and resumption of trade and commercial activities, the Kerala Finance Bill may offer tax sops to bail out the economy from the crisis triggered by COVID-19. The prime concession may be a cut in property tax, which is expected to give a major fillip to the real estate sector that has virtually become moribund following the economic slowdown and the virus spread. A substantial sum may be apportioned for distributing free Onam kits and rice to indigent sections. The accent is on easing the woes of the common man reeling under the grave crisis and reviving the economy through supportive steps using available resources, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told The Hindu . The government had expended about Rs. 900 crore for distributing kits following the imposition of the lockdown and now the cost for distribution of kits comprising essentials is expected to touch Rs. 1,000 crore. A lion’s share of the resource would be channelised for health care, mainly for COVID-19 containment. Considering a spike in cases, the accent would be on setting up First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) and bolstering the existing facilities to manage exigencies. Since local bodies are functioning as the pivot of COVID-19 containment, they have been given the freedom to use the Plan funds for setting up treatment and quarantine centres. “Paucity of funds would not impede local governments from taking up such challenges, especially when the State is fighting a pandemic. The virus spread is feared to mount the pressure on ventilators and hospital beds and the current focus is on improving such amenities,” he said. Spending priorities COVID-19 has altered the spending priorities and needs, but the unpredictability in revenue collection and resumption of normal life, trade and business activities are all constraining the government from going liberal. Though the country is passing through Unlock 2.0, lockdown curbs still cover a major part of the State. Hence, the government has virtually no leeway to be too liberal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tax-sops-likely-in-kerala-finance-bill/article32167581.ece
23 July 2020||Pune,||New high: 10,576 cases in a day||Maharashtra reported an unprecedented spike of 10,576 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, making it the State’s highest single-day surge till date — and possibly the highest single-day jump in any State — as the total case tally soared to 3,37,607. With over 280 deaths reported on Wednesday, the State’s total death toll stands at 12,556. Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 1,04,678, with 1,310 new cases reported on Wednesday. Of these, only 23,393 are active. With 58 deaths, the city’s death toll has risen to 5,875. The State has reported a daily surge of more than 8,000 cases at least eight times in the last 12 days, with the previous high of 9,518 reported on July 19. Of the total case tally, 1,36,980 are active ones, said State Health Department officials. With 5,552 patients discharged on Wednesday, the cumulative recoveries till date has gone up to 1,87,769. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “The State’s recovery rate stands at 55.62%, while its case fatality rate is 3.72%.” As per the State health department figures, Pune district reported a staggering surge of more than 3,000 cases and 57 fatalities as its total case tally surged to 63,351. Its death toll has reached 1,514. District administration officials said the number of active cases in the district was less than 21,000, with Pune’s recovery rate standing at more than 62%. Aurangabad district, the hotspot in the Marathwada region, reported a record 27 deaths, as the district’s death toll climbed to 416. A big case spike of 348 took its total case tally to 10,629, of which 4,623 are active cases. Thane district in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 29 deaths as its death toll rose to 875, while Kolhapur district in western Maharashtra, which is under a strict lockdown, reported 16 fatalities to take its total death count to 53. In the (MMR), Thane reported a big spike of 638 cases as the district’s total case tally surpassed the 29,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 485 new cases, taking its cumulative case tally to 19,466. Navi Mumbai reported 340 new cases, taking its total case tally to 13,815. Raigad district reported a big surge of 299 cases as its total tally touched 6,889. In north Maharashtra, Nashik and Jalgaon districts, both major hotbeds of the novel coronavirus, reported massive spikes. Nashik recorded 490 cases to take its total tally to 10,745 of which 4,544 were active. With seven deaths reported on Wednesday, the district’s death toll has reached 383. Jalgaon reported 183 new cases and nine fatalities. “Till date, of a total of 16,87,213 laboratory samples, 3,37,607 (20%) have tested positive. Nearly 44,000 samples were tested across the State on Wednesday,” said Dr. Awate.   The State’s recovery rate stands at 55.62%, while its case fatality rate is 3.72% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-high-10576-cases-in-a-day/article32167679.ece
23 July 2020||LUCKNOW/ jaipur,||11 Rajasthan policemen get life term for ex-royal’s killing||A Mathura court on Wednesday sentenced 11 policemen, including the then Deputy Superintendent of Police, to life imprisonment for the murder of ‘Raja’ Man Singh, the titular head of the Bharatpur erstwhile princely state in Rajasthan and seven-time legislator, and his two associates in 1985. Sessions judge Sadhna Rani Thakur also found the accused, all retired members of the Rajasthan police and the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary, guilty of rioting armed with deadly weapons and unlawful assembly. Man Singh, then 64, and his two associates were shot dead by the police on February 21, 1985, a day after he drove his vehicle into a stage set up for an election rally of then Rajasthan Chief Minister Shiv Charan Mathur, causing it to topple. The vehicle also damaged a chopper kept at the site for the CM. The Independent legislator, seeking an eighth term, was furious after Congress workers tore his posters and pulled down his banners. Narayan Singh, lawyer for Man Singh’s family, said the 11 policemen sentenced included then DSP Kan Singh Bhati and Station House Officer Virendra Singh. Compensation The court also directed the Rajasthan government to compensate the families of the three victims and the four injured with Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 2,000 each, respectively. Man Singh’s daughter and former Bharatpur MP Krishnendra Kaur ‘Deepa’ said justice had finally been delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-rajasthan-policemen-get-life-term-for-ex-royals-killing/article32167255.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Chelluboyina, Seediri join Jagan’s team||Members of the Legislative Assembly Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopalakrishna and Seediri Appalaraju were sworn in as Ministers at a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan administered the oath of office and secrecy in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Dharmana Krishna Das, a senior member of the Cabinet, has been elevated to the post of Deputy Chief Minister. He will now hold the portfolio of Revenue and Registrations and Stamps. Mr. Venugopalakrishna, representing the Ramachandrapuram constituency in East Godavari, has been allocated the portfolio of Backward Classes Welfare.  Dr. Appalaraju, a doctor by profession representing the Palasa constituency of Srikakulam district, has been allocated the portfolio of Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries. The Roads and Buildings portfolio has been allocated to Malagundla Sankaranarayana who earlier held the portfolio of Backward Classes Welfare. Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam, Legislative Council Chairman Shariff Mohammed Ahmed, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, and family members of the new Ministers were present. Later, Mr. Krishna Das told newspersons that he would forever be grateful to Mr. Jagan. The newly-sworn in Ministers also thanked the Chief Minister for giving them an opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chelluboyina-seediri-join-jagans-cabinet/article32167198.ece
23 July 2020||Kolkata,||Protest continues despite HC order to pay school fees||A group of parents on Wednesday gathered in front of a private school in Kolkata’s Park Street, held posters and raised slogans. The parents said that since the school was not open, they did not want to pay the full school fees for their wards studying in the school. Several private schools in Kolkata, and in other towns and suburbs of the State, have witnessed similar protests over several months since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic forced educational institutions to close down. The protests on Wednesday came after two developments on Tuesday. A group of parents had approached the Calcutta High Court demanding appropriate discounts on account of reduced costs in the running of the schools over the last four months. The Calcutta High Court had on Tuesday directed that the outstanding dues of each student, as on July 31, had to be cleared to the extent of 80% by August 15. The Court also directed that none of the 112 schools involved should discontinue making online courses available to any of their students, or prevent them from participating in online examinations, unconditionally, till August 15. In the order, Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya said the counsels representing the schools had stated that contractual employees may not have been paid or their services may not have been renewed but regular employees had been paid by the schools. The order mentions that the State’s Advocate General in his submission had said that not all private, unaided schools have paid the salaries or dues of their employees, including teachers. In another development, the State’s Education Secretary, in an order earlier this week, had suggested that schools should consider the matter of late payment in a sympathetic manner. “All schools functioning in the State of West Bengal should not increase any fee including tuition fee for the academic session 2020-2021,” the order by Education Secretary Manish Jain said. The order stated that no new fee should be introduced by schools and students should not be denied services, including online classes. Mr. Jain also mentioned that schools should not charge transport fees and fees for co-curricular activities. Despite repeated assurances from the State government that no extra fees should be charged, the protests over fees payment have continued across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protest-continues-despite-hc-order-to-pay-school-fees/article32167636.ece
23 July 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,||Two CBI officials probing Sattankulam torture, twin deaths case test positive||As two CBI officials investigating the case of Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks tested positive for COVID-19, the accused, who had been taken into custody by the Central investigating agency till Thursday, were produced in the court and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. The three accused – constables Chelladurai, Saamadurai and Veyilumuthu – were produced before Chief Judicial Magistrate T.V. Hemanandakumar and remanded in judicial custody. They were lodged in Madurai Central Prison. Meanwhile, three other accused in the case – constables Thomas Francis, Murugan and Muthuraj – have approached the CBI Court in Madurai seeking bail. Earlier on Tuesday evening, the CBI officials took Chelladurai, Saamadurai and Veyilumuthu to Sattankulam police station. The CBI officials, led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Shukla, grilled Saamadurai since he had taken Jayaraj and Benicks to the Judicial Magistrate Court at Sattankulam on June 20 to be remanded in judicial custody. Then the investigators interrogated Chelladurai, who had taken the duo to Kovilpatti sub-jail, where he had reportedly signed in the prison records. Veyilumuthu had to answer the queries pertaining to the first information report he had fed in the police station computer. The entire process was videographed. Meanwhile, another team of CBI officials visited the house of Jayaraj where they grilled Jayasingh and Thaaveethu, both relatives of the deceased, to corroborate the statements they had recorded with the CB-CID officials. Since some locals, who were perching atop a neem tree close to Sattankulam police station, were reportedly watching alleged custodial torture of Jayaraj and Benicks on June 19 night, the branches were chopped off. The CBI officials questioned DSP Nagarajan, who reportedly replied that he had done it only after informing the CB-CID officials. However, the CBI officials told him that no more pruning should be done in the tree without their consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-cbi-officials-probing-sattankulam-case-test-positive/article32167408.ece
23 July 2020||R. RajaramPUDUKOTTAI,||RDO inquiry ordered into police firing||The Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) and Divisional Magistrate, Pudukottai, will conduct an inquiry into the incident of police opening fire in air at Posampatti village in the district on Tuesday. Sub-Inspector Saravanan attached to K. Pudupatti police station opened fire in air using his service pistol to quell a clash that broke out between two groups in the village. Sixteen persons have been arrested in connection with the clash, which was apparently triggered by a social media post against a village resident. The inquiry into the firing is conducted based on the orders of Collector P. Uma Maheswari and as per Police Standing Orders. RDO M.S. Dhandayuthapani visited the village on Wednesday and conducted inquiries with the villagers regarding the incident and the circumstances which led to it. The SI would also be questioned during the course of the probe and a statement obtained from him. The RDO would submit a detailed report to the Collector. Meanwhile, police deployment continued in the village as a precautionary measure. Z. Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, told The Hindu that the situation remained normal at the village. K. Pudupatti police have registered a case against the accused under various IPC sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting) and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) on a complaint from the SI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rdo-inquiry-ordered-into-police-firing/article32167386.ece
23 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Vishwanath , Yogeshwar, Bharathi Shetty among five nominated to Council||The BJP government on Wednesday nominated five people, including former Ministers C.P. Yogeshwar and A.H. Vishwanath, and the former MLC Bharathi Shetty, to the Legislative Council just a few days ahead of its first anniversary. In a surprise choice, the party has also chosen two low-profile candidates, Shantaram Budna Siddi and Talwar Sabanna. While the 55-year-old Mr. Siddi is the first person from the tribal Siddi community to become a graduate, Dr. Sabanna, who hails from an OBC community, is a professor in the Economics Department of Rani Channamma University, Belagavi. Both of them have links with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Balancing act BJP insiders said the choice of candidates for the Upper House shows that the party central leadership has maintained a balance between the party organisation, promise of protecting political interests of newcomers, and political freedom of the Chief Minister. Mr. Yogeshwar had lost the Assembly elections in 2018 from Channapatna against the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, while Mr. Vishwanath, who migrated to the BJP from the JD(S), had lost the byelection. Ms. Shetty, a close associate of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, had served as an MLC earlier. Mr. Yogeshwar, who had played a prominent role in ‘Operation Lotus’ (the code name for wooing legislators from other parties into the BJP), was upset over not getting political accommodation. Similarly, Mr. Vishwanath too was agitated over not getting his due despite crossing floors to the BJP. The party has now pacified both of them through their nomination to the Council. Similarly, the trend of recognising low-profile persons from the party cadre too has continued with the nomination of Dr. Sabanna and Mr. Siddi, party leaders observe. Cabinet expansion? The nomination of both Mr. Yogeshwar and Mr. Vishwanath, who are strong aspirants for ministerial berths, has triggered political speculation that Cabinet expansion is on the cards. While a section of the party leaders feel that the present situation, with COVID-19 pandemic at its peak, may not be conducive for any ministerial expansion, the aspirants are hoping that the party leadership would take up the exercise as soon as the situation comes under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vishwanath-yogeshwar-bharathi-shetty-among-5-nominated-to-council/article32167304.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Another lockdown looms, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the worrying spike in fresh COVID-19 cases might compel the government to lockdown the State entirely. The administration was yet to take a final call on the matter. The relentless march of the infection might require the government to restrict life totally as it had done earlier.  The government could not afford the outbreak to overwhelm its finite health resources. It needed to protect those on the frontline of the battle against the plague from falling ill. The government required to keep the COVID-19 caseload at a manageable level. The daily number of COVID-19 positive cases had touched thousand. A majority of the infected persons had contracted the disease through contact. The spectre of community spread loomed over the State. Kerala’s high density of population and social cohesion were conducive to the spread of the disease. The government had commandeered ambulances, readied ventilators and hospital beds to receive patients. It had walled off several localities as critical containment zones to prevent the disease from radiating out of epidemic hotspots. Mr. Vijayan said the government was also concerned that another shutdown could further hurt the State’s tottering economy, which was opening up, though haltingly. The government has permitted retail traders in critical containment zones to procure essentials from wholesalers on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The police would allow wholesalers to take wares into critical containment zones between 7 a.m. and 1 p.m. A senior police official said the government might put curbs on inter-district travel if the pandemic situation worsens. The administration has asked the police to ensure that those arriving in the State on short visit permits stick to their declared itinerary. The district administrations have already shutdown most major markets in the State and placed severe restrictions on retail trade. Plea to media Mr. Vijayan urged the media not to exaggerate small administrative hiccups as failures of the health system. Such propaganda would only demoralise caregiver who risks their lives daily to battle the scourge.  The relentless march of the infection might require the government to restrict life totally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-lockdown-looms-says-cm/article32167577.ece
23 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Five held for black marketing of remdesivir and tocilizumab||The Anti Extortion Cell (AEC) of the Thane Crime Branch has arrested five people, including two medical representatives, for the alleged black marketing of remdesivir and tocilizumab injections, which are used in the treatment of COVID-19 and cancer respectively, the police said on Wednesday. The police said a decoy approached the accused and placed an order for nine injections. While Remdesivir was being sold at a rate six times higher, Tocilizumab was being sold at double the rate. Remdesivir injections were fixed at Rs. 25,000 per vial, while Cipla Ltd has priced Cipremi (the generic version of remdesivir) at Rs. 4,000 per 100 mg. The accused also charged Rs. 80,000 for one vial of Actemra (tocilizumab injection), while its MRP is Rs. 40,600. A team of AEC and Food and Drug Administration officials learnt that the accused would arrive at Teen petrol pump at Naupada in Thane at 9 p.m. on Tuesday with three injections: two of remdesivir and one of tocilizumab. The team then laid a trap and nabbed three of the accused. “During interrogation, the trio revealed the names of two of their accomplices. They were nabbed from Navi Mumbai on Wednesday,” Pravin Pawar, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime), Thane, said. The accused have been identified as Arun Ramji Singh (35) from Ghatkopar, Sudhakar Shobhit Giri (37) from Khar, Ravindra Mohan Shinde (35) from Koparkhairane, Wasim Ahmed Abdul Ahmed Shaikh (32) from Kamothe, and Amitabh Nirmal Das (39) from Kamothe. “One person from Pharma Care in Wadala, who is a distributor of Cipla, is wanted in the case,” said Rajkumar Kothmire, senior police inspector, AEC. Mr. Kothmire said Mr. Giri and Mr. Singh were medical representatives and finalised rates for the injections with customers. The duo then handed over the injections to Mr. Das, who owned an Ola cab. Mr. Shinde would drive the car and deliver the injections to the customers. The accused have been charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013, the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-held-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-and-tocilizumab/article32167678.ece
23 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal records a new high of 39 deaths||West Bengal on Wednesday yet again recorded a single-day spike in COVID-19 fatalities, with 39 deaths. The death toll crossed the 1,200-mark and has reached 1,221. Of the 39 deaths, 15 were reported in Kolkata, 11 in the North 24 Parganas, three in the South 24 Parganas, three in Hooghly, two in Howrah and one each in five other districts. The number of active cases are 18,450. The State has recorded 2,291 new cases — Kolkata the highest at 694 and the North 24 Parganas 624. The tally of infections has increased to 49,321. The State will observe a complete lockdown on Thursday. Civic bodies like Barrackpore, Baranagar and Bongaon, all located in the North 24 Parganas district, and Bardhaman town announced a lockdown for almost a week. Questions on strategy Raising questions on the State government’s strategy to contain the pandemic, CPI(M) State secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra said none of the recommendations it had made in the all-party meetings have been implemented by it. Dr. Mishra suggested localised testing using a rapid mechanism so that containment measures can be implemented more strictly. He said he had spoken about community transmission which was taken very lightly by the State government. Earlier this week, the government admitted to community transmission in certain pockets. The CPI(M) leader warned that if cases continue to rise and people do not get treatment then their faith in the government will be shaken which may lead to anarchy. Meanwhile, a suspected COVID-19 patient, his pregnant wife and their child were allegedly assaulted by their neighbours at Patuli, following which Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asked people to fight the disease and not those who are infected. The ongoing combat against the pandemic is a “fight for survival”, Ms. Banerjee said, adding that people should unitedly stand by the patients and help them recover quickly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-records-a-new-high-of-39-deaths/article32167638.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘E-commerce sites must state country of origin’||The Centre told the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that all e-commerce entities, including Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal, have to ensure the mandatory declaration of country of origin of imported products sold on their respective sites. The Department of Consumer Affairs, in an affidavit, said the law relating to the issue was enacted under the Legal Metrology Act, 2009 and the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011. The department stated that the enforcement of the provisions of the Act and Rules rests with the State and Union Territory governments. “Whenever violations are observed, action is taken by the legal metrology officials of the State/ UT governments in accordance with the law,” it added. Dent to economy The affidavit came in response to a petition filed by advocate Amit Shukla who said he had done a detailed research of several e-commerce entities and found that most of them did not mention the country of origin of products offered on sale. He argued that the economy of the nation would suffer if the sites continue the practice. The court had earlier this month issued notices to major e-commerce entities on the contentions raised in the plea. Responding to the petition, Snapdeal said it functioned as a “marketplace-based” e-commerce model in which it only acted as an “intermediary” and merely provided its information technology platform to connect third-party sellers with potential consumers. ‘Data field available’ Snapdeal said it had ensured that a data field pertaining to “country of origin” was available on its system, which may be filled in by a seller when creating a new product listing. However, the seller could, at his own risk, choose to leave the field blank as the site had not made it mandatory to enter data in the designated field. This relaxation, Snapdeal explained, was made as the “law does not mandate a disclosure of the country of origin/manufacture/assembly separately, in case of India-manufactured goods”. Snapdeal contended that in many cases, finished goods sourced from different countries are packed together or assembled in a third country, prior to their shipment to India. It could not be simply presumed that the rules intended that the last country of export alone be declared as the “country of origin”, unless the law was amended or clarified to expressly state so, it argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-commerce-sites-must-state-country-of-origin/article32167449.ece
23 July 2020||Ghaziabad/New Delhi,||Ghaziabad scribe succumbs to bullet injury||Vikram Joshi, the Ghaziabad journalist shot at by assailants on the night of July 20, succumbed to bullet injury on Wednesday in a private hospital, said police. He was shot four days after lodging a complaint at the Vijay Nagar police station against three persons for harassing and making objectionable comments against his niece. Nine persons, including main accused Ravi and Shehnoor Mansoor alias Chhotu, who had allegedly shot the journalist with a .315 bore countrymade pistol, were arrested on Tuesday. Joshi’s sister accused Raghvendra Singh, the police post in-charge of Pratap Vihar who was suspended on Tuesday, of being directly involved in the murder. “There has been a lapse and the responsibility has to be fixed,” said Manish Mishra, Superintendent of Police (City). He said Ravi lived near the residence of Joshi’s sister and the two families had a history of acrimony. “On July 16, there was a clash between the two groups and Ravi’s group also lodged a counter-complaint,” said Mr. Mishra. “Ravi was hospitalised and it seems it was there that he hatched the plot,” said Rakesh Mishra, Circle Officer I, Ghaziabad. Furkan Malik, a family friend of Joshi who had accompanied him to the police station on July 16, said, “Even a few hours before his murder, Vikram called and told the police post in-charge that he could see Ravi’s friends doing a recce of the area.” District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey reached Yashoda Hospital, where Joshi had been admitted, and announced a relief of Rs. 10 lakh for his family. Death sparks outrage Joshi’s death sparked outrage across the region. Offering condolences to the journalist’s family, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the U.P. government as he tweeted in Hindi, “They promised Ram Raj but delivered Goonda Raj.” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said there has been a complete collapse of law and order in U.P. and questioned Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s silence on the recent spate of incidents. The Samajwadi Party announced financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh for Joshi’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ghaziabad-scribe-succumbs-to-bullet-injury/article32167448.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Reinstate Ramesh Kumar as SEC: Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has directed the Andhra Pradesh government to take steps for the reinstatement of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as State Election Commissioner (SEC) as per the May 29 High Court judgment. This was communicated to Mr. Ramesh Kumar by the Governor’s secretary two days after the former submitted a representation to the Governor seeking his restoration as SEC. During a July 17 hearing on the contempt petition filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar, the High Court said he was at liberty to represent his case to the Governor. Accordingly, he met the Governor on July 20. It was stated in the letter sent to Mr. Ramesh Kumar on July 21 that the State government has been instructed to implement the High Court judgment which came in his favour. The Governor’s direction came at a time when the special leave petition filed by the government against the High Court verdict and its application for stay on the contempt proceedings initiated by Mr. Ramesh Kumar are pending disposal in the Supreme Court. The High Court on May 29 struck down the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, through which the government curtailed the tenure of the SEC from five to three years and the consequent appointment of Madras High Court retired judge V. Kanagaraj as new SEC. The court had ordered that Mr. Ramesh Kumar be restored as the SEC, which was challenged in the apex court by the State government, which asserted that his act of self-restoration as SEC was beyond the conceivable mandate of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reinstate-ramesh-kumar-as-sec-governor-tells-ap-govt/article32167207.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Special Officer will look into irregularities in Kukke Subrahmanya project, says Minister||Minister for Muzrai, Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary said on Wednesday that the Headquarters Assistant to the Commissioner at the Office of the Commissioner for Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Department has been appointed as Special Officer to inquire into the alleged lapses and irregularities in the implementation of the Rs. 180-crore master plan project at Kukke Subrahmanya. Speaking to media persons at Kukke Subrahmanya after reviewing works being taken up under the project, he said that there were complaints about irregularities and lapses. The inquiry officer will submit a report to the government within a month from now. He said that the Public Works Department has been instructed to complete the works, including laying a 4.2-km four-lane concrete road, in the town by November this year. The department has promised that it will be done. The Minister said that sevas will be allowed in temples in the State only after COVID-19 comes under control. Till then, only darshan will be allowed. The mass marriage programme planned by the government will be organised only after consultation with the Health Department. He said that public celebrations of Nagara Panchami will not be allowed. Only archaks can carry out rituals related to the festival in temples. The Minister said that a special auditor will be appointed to Kukke Subrahmanya temple for auditing. Advocates will be appointed soon to settle cases pertaining to the temple pending in courts. The Minister said that the government is taking steps for implementing the Sixth Pay Commission payscales for temple staff. MLA from Sullia S. Angara was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-officer-will-look-into-irregularities-in-kukke-subrahmanya-project-says-minister/article32167505.ece
23 July 2020||ONGOLE,||Youth picked up by police for not wearing mask ‘dies in custody’||A Dalit youth allegedly died in police custody after he was picked up by the police for not wearing mask and helmet in a COVID-19 hotspot of Chirala town in Prakasam district. A case of custodial death was registered after Y. Kiran Kumar, under treatment for head injury, died in a private hospital in Guntur late on Tuesday. While the relatives of the youth claimed that the youth was allegedly beaten up for not wearing mask, Prakasam police maintained that the youth jumped out of the jeep while being taken to the II Town police station resulting in a head injury. Police denied that Kiran Kumar was beaten up by the sub-inspector. The Prakasam police, in a note, said on seeing Kiran Kumar and his friend, Shini Abraham, moving on a motorcycle without masks, a constable Rami Reddy at Kothapeta check-post reprimanded them on July 18. At this. the duo allegedly in an inebriated condition, created a ruckus and allegedly beat up the constable, who, in turn, informed sub-inspector Vijay Kumar, who took them into custody. The injured Kiran Kumar was first shifted to the Chirala Government hospital and later to a private hospital in Guntur for better treatment. Cases registered On a complaint from the constable, a case was registered against the duo under IPC Sections 353,188,269 and r/w 34 IPC, Sec 185 of Motor Vehicles act and Sec 51 of Disaster Management Act. Another case was registered on a complaint from the youth’s father, Mohan Rao, against the SI under IPC Section 324. Compensation On coming to know of the death of the youth, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to Kiran Kumar’s family. Guntur Range Inspector-General of Police J. Prabhakar Rao has appointed Guntur District Additional Superintendent of Police Gangadhar as special enquiry officer to hold a comprehensive inquiry into the case as directed by the Chief Minister. Prakasam District Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal handed over the case to Darsi Deputy Superintendent of Police for an impartial probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-picked-up-by-police-for-not-wearing-mask-dies-in-custody/article32167202.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Doctors, nurses may act as invigilators for CET||Hospitals with their outpatient departments, wards, and surgical theatres are where doctors and nurses treat and take care of patients. Soon, they will be able to add examination centres to their list of workplaces, and supervision of test takers as a new skill set. The Karnataka government plans to rope in doctors and nurses as invigilators at examination centres where students who have tested positive for COVID-19 will be taking the Common Entrance Test (CET), scheduled for the month-end. Sources in the Higher Education Department said that in each district, a COVID Care Centre will be turned into an examination centre where students who have contracted the virus can write the CET. These centres would be fitted with CCTV cameras so that a designated team can monitor them. “Doctors and nurses assigned to these centres will be trained in the examination protocol. One of our Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) staff members will be present outside the examination hall and will assist the doctors and nurses if they need any guidance,” a senior official in the department said. This decision was taken as department officials said they did not want to put an invigilator’s health at risk by exposing him/her to infected students. Doctors and nurses at the centres would be equipped with personal protective equipment, masks, etc, said officials. By ambulance Students with COVID-19 can travel to the designated examination centre by an ambulance that would be arranged by the department. “They will need to provide documents and health certificates stating that while they have COVID-19, they are fit enough to appear for the examination,” said a senior official. Initially, the government had announced that only asymptomatic students could write the CET. However, on July 21, it was decided that any student with COVID-19 who feels fit to write the examination can appear for it. Food arrangement will also be made for students as they will have to write the examination in two hour-long sessions — one in the morning and the other in the afternoon — on July 30 and July 31. The government’s decision to go ahead with the CET has not gone down well with a section of students’ organisations and groups such as the Forum of Former Vice-Chancellors of Karnataka, which on Wednesday, urged the government to cancel the test. Stating that the surge in COVID-19 had led to a havoc, the forum said, “Students taking the CET will not only be unprepared, but will also be under high tension and risk which will affect their career.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-nurses-may-be-roped-in-as-invigilators-for-cet/article32167306.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi,||Doctors attacked at K.C. General Hospital||Over the last two days, Karnataka witnessed two incidents of irate relatives of COVID-19 patients attacking hospital staff and property at Bengaluru and Belagavi. Doctors at the K.C. General Hospital in Bengaluru were allegedly attacked late on Tuesday evening by the attendants of a COVID-19 patient. Sources in the hospital said that a 43-year-old woman was brought to the hospital with severe acute respiratory infection and low oxygen saturation. “We did not have intensive care unit facilities but we admitted the patient. The patient passed away,” a source in the hospital said. The family demanded that the body be given to them, but hospital authorities refused as it was a positive case and needed to follow necessary protocols. Then the restive mob allegedly attacked them. The hospital has lodged a complaint.  In Belagavi, an irate mob allegedly set fire to an ambulance on the district hospital premises after an old man died there. They alleged that the patient died of negligence by doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-attacked-at-kc-general-hospital/article32167309.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,554 test positive for COVID, nine succumb||Total COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 49,259 with 1,554 more swab samples testing positive on Wednesday. Nine more COVID patients died on Wednesday, taking the toll to 438. The new cases include 842 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 132 from Rangareddy and 96 from Medchal districts. Out of the total 49,259 cases, 11,155 are active cases, 37,666 have recovered, and 438 have died. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate which was 16.27% till Tuesday, dropped to 15.94% on Wednesday. Tests per million population stands at 7,327. Meanwhile, State Health Minister Eatala Rajender held video conference with District Medical and Health Officers where various aspects related to COVID identification and managing the cases were discussed. During the course of the meeting, Mr Rajender identified the threat faced by ASHA workers as they conduct door-to-door health survey. He has appealed to ASHA workers, Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANM) at sub centre, medical officers at Primary Health Centres (PHC) and others to take utmost precautions and directed officials to conduct tests at the earliest if they have fever. Mr Rajender has also held a meeting with Vijay Yeldandi, Clinical Professor of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Illinois, USA, on Wednesday. Mr Vijay explained some aspects of COVID prevalence such as first and second wave. He suggested that doctors should be consulted if a healthy individual takes more than 20 breaths per minute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1554-test-positive-for-covid-nine-succumb/article32167534.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,||ED joins investigation in gold smuggling case||After the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Customs, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) s getting involved in the probe of the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The NIA Special Court on Wednesday allowed an application filed by the ED to arrest the accused in the case. Officials of the ED moved the application for the arrest on the day. Currently, the NIA has arraigned Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and P.S. Sarith as accused in the case and charged them with the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. As the accused are currently in the custody of the NIA, the ED officials will formally record their arrest and proceed with the investigation. The Enforcement Directorate will be registering its case as an economic offence at the Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, which has been designated as the court to try offences such as money laundering. Meanwhile, Customs officials have secured an order from the NIA Special Judge to book cases against Swapna and Sandeep. The Customs had earlier arrested Sarith. The bail application of the accused will come up before the NIA judge on July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-joins-investigation-in-gold-smuggling-case/article32167582.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||Stranded bus passengers halt local train||Upset over the discontinuation of State Transport buses, passengers created a ruckus at Nallasopara railway station for over two hours on Wednesday. The Western Railway said around 8.25 a.m., nearly 200 commuters entered the station, jumped on to the tracks and stopped a local train heading to Virar. The agitation ended after the police intervened and bus services resumed at 10.30 a.m., aithorities said. An office-goer said the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation stopped plying its buses for Mumbai in the morning, leaving employees of private companies stranded. They were not even able to board local trains as they do not fall in the essential services category, he said. “Security was later stepped up at the railway station and the bus stand,” a Government Railway Police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stranded-bus-passengers-halt-local-train/article32167682.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||No use of UAVs at friction points||The Chinese and Indian armies have agreed to not use unmanned aerial vehicles at the friction points in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), other than for mutually agreed “short time periods”. The confidence-building measure has impacted real-time verification of the de-escalation process, as aerial objects cannot be used within 10 km of the face-off sites, a senior government official said. Earlier, the two armies had agreed to a 30-day moratorium on foot patrolling at all the friction points while they pulled back from their positions. The official said that as of now, they were not engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at any of the points, but a continuous verification was required and they were prepared for the long haul. The Corps Commanders of both armies have held four rounds of talks so far — on June 6, 22, 30 and July 14 — to de-escalate from the build-up areas in Galwan Valley, Gogra-Hot Springs and Finger area along the Pangong Tso (lake). India has demanded that status quo be restored along the unsettled boundary line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-use-of-uavs-at-friction-points/article32167265.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,||444 deaths added to Chennai’s COVID-19 toll||A total of 444 deaths were added to Chennai’s COVID-19 toll on Wednesday, based on the recommendations of a Death Reconciliation Committee. The development came on a day Tamil Nadu witnessed its highest single-day spike in cases, with 5,849 persons testing positive for the infection. With the inclusion of the 444 deaths, the city’s toll increased to 1,939, while the State’s figure rose to 3,144. According to the Health Department’s bulletin, the details of the deaths of COVID-19 patients in the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) since March 1 were collected and compiled by the Directorate of Medical Education for medical college hospitals, and the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services for its own institutions and private hospitals. As per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research, all deaths of COVID-19 patients are to be declared as COVID-19 deaths, irrespective of the underlying or antecedent cause of death. In line with these guidelines, the committee was constituted to reconcile COVID-19 deaths by comparing the details of deaths obtained from hospitals with those obtained from burial grounds. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine had constituted the committee, headed by P. Vadivelan, director of public health and preventive medicine (officer on special duty). Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were Central government guidelines — Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 deaths. “On this basis, the committee was formed to look into the differences in the number of deaths reported by 102 hospitals in Chennai and the COVID-19 deaths recorded in the burial grounds of GCC. Initially, 530 such deaths were brought up. The committee expanded the scope of its assignment and took into account all deaths recorded from March to mid-July. Of these, 444 deaths were identified. Though doctors were of the view that these deaths were due to underlying co-morbid conditions and not due to COVID-19, the government has decided to record all 444 deaths as COVID-19 deaths based on the Centre’s guidelines,” he said. He added that as per the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and the Union government, with COVID-19 being a new disease, if a person who tests positive dies, any other underlying cause of death, like cardiac arrest, breast cancer or leukaemia, or any death before being tested, was to be considered a COVID-19 death. “This was not the case in Tamil Nadu alone. Similar exercises to reconcile death data were done in Maharashtra and Delhi. In Maharashtra, 1,382 deaths were reconciled, and in Delhi 344,” he pointed out. “The deaths were not left out on purpose. These were counted as deaths due to underlying causes with incidental COVID-19. We need a permanent solution. The Chief Minister has instructed that such a reconciliation exercise should be done on a weekly basis. Accordingly, a team headed by the DMS, along with the Directors of Medical Education and Public Health and Preventive Medicine and health officials of GCC, will check if any deaths were left out, every week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/444-deaths-added-to-chennais-covid-19-toll/article32167360.ece
23 July 2020||Kolkata,||CM expresses shock over journalist’s killing||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed shock over the killing of journalist Vikram Joshi in Ghaziabad. She said an atmosphere of fear has been created in the country and voices are being muzzled. Joshi, who was shot in the head by assailants on July 20, succumbed to his injuries early on Wednesday, his family said. “My heartfelt condolences to the family of Vikram Joshi, a fearless journalist who passed away today. He was shot in U.P. for filing an FIR to book his niece’s molesters. An atmosphere of fear has been created in the country. Voices being muzzled. Media not spared. Shocking,” Ms. Banerjee said in a statement. Joshi lodged a complaint with the police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16. He was shot around 10.30 p.m. on July 20 near his home in Vijay Nagar, according to officials. The journalist, who worked with a local daily, was admitted to a private hospital. So far, nine people have been arrested in connection with the case, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-expresses-shock-over-journalists-killing/article32167639.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh and clean||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-and-clean/article32167308.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||One more held for attack on Ambedkar’s house in Dadar||The Matunga police on Wednesday arrested a 20-year-old man in connection with the vandalising of Rajgruh, the house of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar in Dadar. Vishal Ashok More alias Vitthal Kanya, a resident of Kalyan, was nabbed by a team of personnel from Matunga police station. An officer said Mr. More is the main accused in the case. Mr. More, who lives on a footpath outside Kalyan railway station, has admitted to the crime, the police official said. This is the second arrested in the case. The police had arrested Umesh Jadhav (35), a resident of Parel in, on July 9 in connection with the case. On July 7, the two men allegedly entered the premises of the two-storeyed heritage bungalow in Hindu Colony and smashed potted plants and pelted stones at windows before fleeing. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had condemned the incident and said the government will not tolerate the “desecration of a pilgrimage centre like Rajgruha”. The State government also provided round-the-clock police protection to the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-held-for-attack-on-ambedkars-house-in-dadar/article32167681.ece
23 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,||Largest single day spike in district||The district recorded 1,049 COVID-19 cases in a single day on Wednesday. This is the largest spike on a single day so far. Though the total count was not confirmed, it is estimated that it would be around 4,481. With two more deaths, the death count has gone up to 57. According to health officials, the spike was due to intensive testing at very active and active clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/largest-single-day-spike-in-district/article32167761.ece
23 July 2020||Kolkata,||Can banks be opened during lockdown: unions ask State||Bank unions on Wednesday sought clarification from the West Bengal government whether banking services are exempted from the fresh lockdown to be imposed twice a week. The administration has decided to impose a lockdown in the State on two days every week till August. The shutdown would be clamped on Thursday and Saturday this week. The measure will be enforced on Wednesday next week and the second day will be announced later. The government had on Monday issued a notification directing bank branches to be closed on Saturdays. Over 2,000 staffers have been affected by COVID-19, the unions said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/can-banks-be-opened-during-lockdown-unions-ask-state/article32167640.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,||School initiative sees cultivation of fallow land||Despite being left uncultivated for decades, the fields surrounding Nittur High School in Udupi wear a green look now. An initiative by teachers, students, parents, and alumni has resulted in about 75 acres under paddy cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/school-initiative-sees-cultivation-of-fallow-land/article32167311.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,||City relishes unlock||After a week-long lockdown, life slowly limped back to normalcy in the city on Wednesday as restrictions were eased and non-essential traders were allowed to open. There was slow-moving traffic towards the city at toll booths. A large number of vehicles, mainly goods vehicles, were seen entering the city from Nelamangala toll gate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-relishes-unlock/article32167310.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi to hold sero-survey every month, says Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the government will conduct a serological survey every month to know the percentage of people in the city who have developed antibodies against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-to-hold-sero-survey-every-month-says-jain/article32167451.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ex-judge to steer panel probing Dubey killings||The Supreme Court on Wednesday approved the U.P. government’s choice of former judge B.S. Chauhan for heading the panel to probe the killing of eight police officers and the alleged fake encounter killings of Vikas Dubey and his associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-judge-to-steer-panel-probing-dubey-killings/article32167452.ece
23 July 2020||Pune,||Pune's waste pickers demand life cover||Kagad Kach Kachra Panchayat has demanded that the 7,500 waste pickers working in Pune be provided with a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh each for death due to natural causes or accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punes-waste-pickers-demand-life-cover/article32167683.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||MVA, Oppn. lock horns over GR on meetings||The State government and BJP have locked horns over the State’s recent directions to district administration and officials saying it was not mandatory for them to attend meetings called by leaders of the Opposition in the State legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-oppn-lock-horns-over-gr-on-meetings/article32167680.ece
23 July 2020||Chennai,||State’s first plasma bank opens at RGGGH||The State’s first plasma bank has opened at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). It can collect plasma from seven donors at one go, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-first-plasma-bank-opens-at-rgggh/article32167362.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath lauds ‘rapid use’ of IAF assets||A rapid deployment of the Indian Air Force (IAF) assets in forward locations in response to the prevailing situation in eastern Ladakh sent out a strong message to India’s adversaries, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said at an Air Force Commanders (ACC) conference that began on Wednesday. “Mr. Singh said that the nation’s resolve to defend its sovereignty stands firm on the faith its people have in the capability of its armed forces. He alluded to the ongoing efforts for de-escalation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and urged the IAF to stand ready to handle any eventuality,” the IAF said in a statement. Mr. Singh assured the commanders that all requirements of the armed forces, whether financial or otherwise, would be fulfilled, it stated. Addressing the ACC, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said the IAF was well-prepared to counter short-term as well as strategic threats and the units were evenly poised to counter any aggressive action by the adversary. “He noted that the response by all Commands in ensuring deployment and readiness of forces was prompt and laudable. He emphasised on the need to focus on the ability to handle situations at a short notice for ensuring a robust response,” the statement said. Last week, addressing troops at Lukung near Pangong Tso, Mr. Singh said the progress in the talks with China should lead to a resolution of the issue but stressed that there was no guarantee to what extent the issue would be resolved. While some initial progress has been made in the disengagement from the stand-off areas, its second phase has been held up despite talks at the military and diplomatic levels. Since the beginning of the stand-off with China along the LAC in early May and the combat fatalities in the Galwan clash on June 15, the IAF has raised its alert level and forward deployed its front line fighters along the LAC. Its new inductions, the AH-64E Apache attack helicopters and CH-47F(I) Chinook heavy lift helicopters, have also been deployed in Leh. According to a defence source, Mr. Singh also said it was incumbent on the armed forces to be prepared to respond both at a short notice as well as build and sustain military capabilities to deter any adversary in the long run. “IAF’s role in some of the most challenging circumstances is well-regarded by the nation. Their contribution during the nation’s response to COVID-19 pandemic has been highly praiseworthy,” he said on Twitter. Rafale induction Bolstering its capabilities amid the ongoing stand-off, on July 29, the IAF is scheduled to induct the first batch of five Rafale fighter jets from France at Air Force Station, Ambala. The IAF had stated that its aircrew and ground crew had undergone “comprehensive training” on the aircraft, including its highly advanced weapons systems and were “fully operational now.” Post arrival, efforts would focus on operationalisation of the aircraft at the earliest, it said on Monday. In the three-day ACC, discussions would take place on the current operational scenario and deployments. The action plan for operational capability enhancement of the IAF in the next decade would also be discussed, the IAF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-lauds-rapid-use-of-iaf-assets/article32167220.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India records highest single-day recoveries||India reported its highest ever number of recoveries on a single day, with 28,472 COVID-19 patients having been cured or discharged from hospitals in 24 hours, according to a statement from the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. “With this, the number of patients recovered stands at 7,53,049. This has strongly boosted the recovery rate to 63.13%,” said the Ministry. It said the constantly increasing number of recovered patients had further widened the difference with active cases. “This difference is showing a progressively growing upward trend. While the national recovery rate has improved, 19 States and union territories are posting a recovery rate higher than the national average,” said the Ministry. Oxygen concentrators Meanwhile, India on Wednesday received the first tranche of 4,475 oxygen concentrators from the Temasek Foundation, Singapore. The Foundation has offered to donate 20,000 concentrators to India. The remaining concentrators will be received next month and these devices will be made available to States and union territories for use in management of moderate COVID-19 cases. Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, said these concentrators were helpful in the management of patients classified as moderate cases, who might require low oxygen support. “They convert atmospheric air to therapeutic oxygen that has a concentration of 90-95%. As the machine obviates the need for transportation and refilling of heavy oxygen cylinders, they can be placed in the wards where such patients are provided care. These machines can be used at COVID Care Centres and railway coaches that have been re-purposed as COVID Care Centres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-highest-single-day-recoveries/article32167232.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fiscal push after vaccine: CEA||The Centre is likely to wait for the development of a COVID-19 vaccine before committing to any further “fiscal push” to revive the economy, according to Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian. After he addressed a webinar organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) on Wednesday, Dr. Subramanian was asked whether the government was planning any further fiscal measures as part of an economic stimulus, as opposed to monetary and credit-based measures which have so far dominated the Centre’s response to the crisis. The CEA responded that the government was willing to do whatever was necessary to drive consumption, but added that at a time of uncertainty, people were unwilling to spend. He cited higher balance data from Jan Dhan accounts to argue that people were more inclined to save than spend during the pandemic, thus flattening demand. “The question is not about if but when,” he said, regarding a fiscal package. “Once we have the vaccine, then the uncertainty that people have will go down significantly. If the vaccine comes through in the next few months, then the time will be right for a fiscal push as it will generate demand for even discretionary spending. The timing is important so that the bang for the buck is maximised.” Boosting demand Industry groups have been demanding immediate fiscal measures as a necessary step to boost demand and support vulnerable small businesses. Earlier this week, scientists at Oxford University said they have had encouraging results in early trials for a vaccine, which seems to be safe and induces an immune reaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fiscal-push-after-vaccine-cea/article32167242.ece
23 July 2020||Chennai,||T.N. sees highest single-day spike with 5,849 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded its highest single-day number of COVID-19 cases with 5,849 persons testing positive on Wednesday. This took the State’s overall tally to 1,86,492 even as 4,910 more persons were discharged after treatment and 74 persons succumbed to the infection. This is the first time that the daily count of COVID-19 crossed 5,000 in the State. Chennai accounted for 1,171 of the fresh coronavirus infections, while the majority of the remaining cases were reported in the northern and southern districts. Of the 74 deaths, 21 persons died in Chennai. There were eight deaths in Cuddalore, seven in Madurai, six in Virudhunagar, five in Tiruvallur and four in Tiruvannamalai. Kerala reported a markedly high 1,038 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s total case load to 15,032. Intense community transmission across all districts was cited as the likely cause. Five more COVID-19 deaths were reported in the State. Approximately 80% of the cases – 839 out of the 1,038 – were locally acquired infections. In 57 cases, the source of infection could not be established. Till July 20, COVID-19 positive tests among health workers stood at 267, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. On Wednesday, 24 health care workers tested positive, 18 in the capital city. In Thiruvananthapuram, where community transmission was declared earlier, 208 of 226 cases (92 %) reported on Wednesday were attributed to local transmission, with 15 having no epidemiological link. The district had the highest load with 2,421 cases. With 272 recoveries, there were 8,818 patients undergoing treatment in the State. Total recoveries were 6,164. Mr. Vijayan said that of the active patients in hospitals, 53 were in ICUs and nine patients on ventilators. While the death at Idukki was added to official data, four confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Kollam, Kozhikode, Kasaragod and Kannur were yet be added because of reporting time cut-off. The State death toll was 45. With 55 new deaths in Karnataka on Wednesday, the total toll touched 1,519. The number of new cases was 4,764, taking the total to 75,833. There was a huge spike compared to a month ago. While there was a 706% increase in positive cases, there was a 969% increase in deaths compared to June 22. The Department of Health and Family Welfare said 11 of the 55 deaths included patients who either died at home or were brought dead to hospitals. Of 4,764 new cases, 2,050 were from Bengaluru Urban. Of 47,069 active cases in Karnataka, 618 were in ICUs. Meanwhile, 1,780 patients left hospitals after treatment, raising recoveries to 27,239.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-ap-report-big-rise-in-new-virus-cases/article32167214.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KEAM: one more student tests positive||One more candidate who appeared for the KEAM-2020 entrance examination in the State capital on July 16 has tested positive, even as the move to register police cases against candidates and parents for crowding at KEAM venues has drawn flak. A 17-year-old boy from Poonthura who sat for the exam the St Antony’s school at Valiathura has been declared positive, the District Collector said on Tuesday. He was tested on July 20 after his mother tested positive and he is still asymptomatic. Two candidates who sat for the exam and a parent had been declared positive on Monday. Meanwhile, more criticism poured in on Wednesday over the decision of the City police to register cases against 600 ‘'identifiable persons’ for overcrowding at venues. MP shocked Expressing shock at the decision, Shashi Tharoor, MP, has demanded that the cases be withdrawn. He wrote on Facebook that he was shocked to learn that the Medical College police registered a case against students for crowding at the entrance of the St Mary’s school at Pattom on the day of the exam. “'I condemn the government’s move to file police cases against those who were forced by the government to appear for an avoidable exam, without allocating enough centres,” he said. BJP State president K. Surendran said the case should, in fact, be registered against the State government for holding the examination. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had ignored a letter by Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan urging him to put off KEAM, Mr. Surendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keam-one-more-student-tests-positive/article32167583.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED launches probe into gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate has initiated a money laundering probe into the alleged large-scale smuggling of gold through air cargo shipments addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Kerala. The ED will pursue the financial trail in the case, while the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has already been probing the criminal aspect of the conspiracy to smuggle gold into the country in large quantities from the UAE. The agency suspects that the proceeds might have been used to finance terror activities. Those involved in the case are suspected to have smuggled in about 250 kg of gold since July 2019. According to the NIA, K.T. Ramees has been identified as the kingpin of the racket. The businessman from Malappuram was arrested by the Customs Department earlier this month. Four suspects held The NIA has so far arrested four suspects, while the Customs Department has arrested 13 persons in connection with the smuggling racket, after the seizure of 30 kg of gold at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5. Accused Sarith P.S., a former employee of the UAE consulate, was arrested by the Customs Department. Swapna Suresh, also a former employee of the consulate, and Sandeep Nair were arrested by the NIA in Bengaluru on July 11. Further investigation led the agency to zero in on Dubai-based Faizal Fareed. The NIA has approached the Interpol seeking a “Blue Notice” against him, to gather more information about his identity and location. A probe team also visited Faizal Fareed’s ancestral place recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-launches-probe-into-gold-smuggling-case/article32167193.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. needs to ‘go beyond’ alliances, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has said that the U.S. needs to learn to work with a more multipolar world and “go beyond” alliances. His comments, made at the U.S. India Business Council’s India Ideas Summit, echoed remarks he made earlier this week that India would never be part of an alliance. “I think the U.S. really has to learn to work ... with a more multipolar world, with more plurilateral arrangements, go beyond alliances with which really it has grown up over the last two generations,” Mr. Jaishankar said. “I am now specifically referring to India, given our history of independence and the fact that we really are coming [from] different places. There will be issues on which our convergence would be more, somewhere it would be less. I think the quest in the last 20 years, and I see that continuing into the future, is really to find more common ground,” he said. Both India and the U.S. are currently grappling with a more assertive China and tensions in their bilateral relationships with China. “We have the ability today, by working together to shape the world…We are working on maritime security, counter-terrorism, connectivity, how to respond in the case of corona to pandemics…even issues like climate change, the knowledge economy. So, I think a large part of it is how do we actually, while strengthening our bilateral agenda, shape a larger agenda,” he said. Innovation-tech partnership Mr. Jaishankar was optimistic that the trade differences between India and the U.S. could be resolved and the relationship be shifted to a “higher gear”. “This ability to work together in the world of innovation and technology, I think that is really what will set our relationship apart. There, it is vital that we have a …very strong convergence on the big picture.” Mr. Jaishankar said India was changing and the conversations India and the U.S. were currently having as, “rebalancing of the world economy conversations” where “up and coming players” have some different concerns from “ established players”. “Established players obviously want, in many cases, the advantages which work for them currently to continue in the long run. I think it will be fair to accommodate the legitimate concerns of emerging economies, emerging companies, emerging technologies. And that harmonisation, how will we do that? I think that’s a very important part of our relationship building,” he said.  Mark Warner, Democratic Senator from Virginia and Co-Chair of the Senate India Caucus, a discussant in the panel with Mr. Jaishankar, called for a technological “alliance of the willing” to counter China’s domination in the field. “I think this idea of countering the Communist Party of China’s rise and desire to dominate new technologies may be a chance for a new set of cooperation [sic] between India, the United States, based on these technology alliances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-needs-to-go-beyond-alliances-says-jaishankar/article32167225.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||24% RS members face criminal cases||About a quarter of the sitting Rajya Sabha members have declared criminal cases against themselves, according to an analysis of their self-sworn affidavits by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) released on Wednesday. With three seats vacant and Kerala MP K.K. Ragesh’s affidavit being unavailable, the ADR report said that an analysis of 229 of the 233 Rajya Sabha seats that represent the States and the Union Territories showed that 54 MPs or 24% had declared criminal cases. Out of the 229 MPs, which included the newly-elected representatives taking the oath on Wednesday, 28 or 12% had declared serious criminal cases. The report stated that 14 of the 77 BJP MPs and eight of the 40 Congress MPs had declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. The ADR analysis found that 203 of the 229 MPs, or 89% of those analysed, had declared assets over Rs. 1crore, including 90% of the BJP MPs, 93% of the Congress MPs, 100% of the AIADMK MPs and 69% of the Trinamool Congress MPs. Highest declared assets Janata Dal (United) MP from Bihar Mahendra Prasad had the highest declared assets at Rs. 4,078 crore, followed by YSRCP MP from Andhra Pradesh Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, with assets worth Rs. 2,577 crore, and Samajwadi Party MP from Uttar Pradesh Jaya Bachchan, actor-turned-politician, who declared assets over Rs. 1,001 crore. The ADR report said BJP MP from Manipur Maharaja Sanajaoba Leishemba declared Rs. 5.48 lakh in assets, the lowest of the MPs analysed, followed by Aam Aadmi Party MP from Delhi Sanjay Singh, who declared Rs. 6.6 lakh in assets, and BJP MP from Jharkhand Samir Oraon, who declared Rs. 18.69 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-rs-members-face-criminal-cases/article32167247.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Bihar shelter home: Delhi HC issues notice to CBI||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a plea of Brajesh Thakur, who was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with the sexual assault of over 40 girls at a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, challenging the verdict. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar asked the agency to respond to the plea by August 25, the next date of hearing. ‘Hurried hearing’ In his plea, Thakur said that the trial court had conducted the hearing in a “hurried manner” and hence violated his right to a free and fair trial as guaranteed under the Constitution. On January 20, the trial court convicted him, along with 18 others. On February 11, the court sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment. Thakur was the owner of the NGO, Sewa Sankalp Evam Vikas Samiti, and managed the institution where the assaults took place. “In the present case, neither the Bihar police nor the CBI conducted the potency test of the accused Brijesh Thakur and, despite examining his wife, did not place her statement under Section 161 of the Cr.PC. on record and thereby, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the first, foremost and most important fact which is a pre-requisite in a rape case, i.e. the fact that an accused who is charged of rape is, in fact, capable of committing rape,” the appeal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-shelter-home-delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-cbi/article32167254.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC issues notice to lawyer Prashant Bhushan over tweets||The Supreme Court on Wednesday initiated suo motu contempt proceedings against noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan, saying his tweets on its “role” in the “last six years” and a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a motorbike undermines its dignity and the office of the Chief Justice of India (CJI) in the public eye. “We are, prima facie , of the view that the aforesaid statements on Twitter have brought the administration of justice in disrepute and are capable of undermining the dignity and authority of the institution of Supreme Court in general and the office of the Chief Justice of India in particular, in the eyes of public at large. We take suo motu cognisance of the aforesaid tweet also apart from the tweet quoted above and suo motu register the proceedings”, a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra recorded in a written order. The court issued contempt notice to Mr. Bhushan. It also issued notice to Attorney General K.K. Venugopal to assist the court in the proceedings. The case is scheduled for hearing on August 5. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, appearing for social media platform Twitter, said the cause title of the case showed ‘Twitter Communications India Pvt Limited’ as the respondent party. He said the correct description is ‘Twitter Incorporated, California, USA’. The court asked the social media platform to file a reply. 2009 case Meanwhile, another suo motu contempt case against Mr. Bhushan, dating back to 2009, is listed on July 24 before the same combination of judges. Former Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal is a respondent party in the case with Mr. Bhushan. The case was initiated on the basis of an interview given by Mr. Bhushan, in which he made remarks about the presence of former CJI S.H. Kapadia on the Forest Bench of the apex court that decided the Niyamgiri mining lease case in Odisha in favour of Sterlite Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-issues-notice-to-lawyer-prashant-bhushan-over-tweets/article32167216.ece
23 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Afghan goods arrive via Attari-Wagah||Over 14 trucks with goods worth Rs. 5 crore from Afghanistan have crossed over to India through the Attari-Wagah border in Punjab’s Amritsar since Pakistan allowed Afghanistan to send goods to India, a trade body said on Wednesday. Both Pakistan and India had suspended trade through the border in March to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. Semblance of normalcy Pakistan had allowed Afghanistan to send goods to India using the border from July 15 under the Pakistan-Afghanistan Transit Trade Agreement. “The arrival of 14 trucks laden with dry fruits, mulathhi [liquorice] and assorted goods in the last four days till July 21, worth over Rs. 5 crore, has brought back a semblance of normalcy in the markets,” said Ashok Sethi, director of the Confederation of International Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Place orders Traders from India usually import dry fruits and herbal items from Afghanistan. Mr. Sethi said Indian traders who dealt in Afghan food items such as almonds, raisins, fig, apricots, mulathhi and spices had started placing orders since transit trade was allowed. The resumption of business would revive the Rs. 250 crore dry fruits trade, which would benefit a large section of people, including daily wage earners and transporters, directly and indirectly, he said. Leading Amritsar-based custom clearing agent Jaspal Singh said: “Our business had come to a standstill for the last four months, resulting in a huge loss, as there was literally no work at the land port. Zero imports had rendered the entire labour force jobless.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-goods-arrive-via-attari-wagah/article32167244.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Deputy Collector’s post, house site for slain Colonel’s wife||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao handed over the letter of appointment as Deputy Collector to Ms. Santoshi, wife of Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life fighting the Chinese forces in Galwan valley last month. Mr. Rao also had lunch with nearly 20 relatives of Ms. Santoshi, who were invited for the occasion, at Pragathi Bhavan. The Chief Minister ordered that the colonel’s widow be given a posting in and around Hyderabad and that she should be trained under the guidance of a secretary in his office, Smita Sabharwal, a release said. Mr. Rao also inquired about the well-being of the late colonel’s family. Ministers G. Jagdish Reddy, V. Prashant Reddy and S. Niranjan Reddy, Rajya Sabha member B. Lingaiah Yadav and TRS MLAs of erstwhile Nalgonda district Gyadari Kishore, B. Mallaiah, Saidi Reddy and C. Lingaiah, were present. Earlier, Hyderabad Collector Swetha Mohanty handed over documents pertaining to a 711 sq yd plot on Road No. 14 near K.B.R. Park at Banjara Hills to Ms. Santoshi. The land costing Rs. 20 crore was among the three sites in Shaikhpet mandal that were offered to Ms. Santoshi to choose from. Ms. Mohanty, Ms. Santoshi and other officials visited the place. The family was already offered Rs. 5 crore as ex gratia days after the colonel’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deputy-collectors-post-house-site-for-slain-colonels-wife/article32167200.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||KTR seeks novel revenue models for municipal bodies||Minister for IT & Municipal Administration and Urban Development department, K.T. Rama Rao, on Wednesday directed every urban local body - municipal corporation or municipality, to come up with innovative revenue generation methods along with a water audit to provide adequate drinking water supply. Municipal officials concerned should be paying utmost importance to sanitation and cleanliness in towns and cities, he said and called for futuristic development of municipalities surrounding Hyderabad. He was interacting with municipal commissioners of Hyderabad Urban Agglomeration (HUA) within Outer Ring Road (ORR) at a training programme at MCR HRD institute. The minister claimed that the government has brought in new policies to decentralise the administration across the State to take it closer to the public and mentioned that number of districts, revenue divisions, mandals and municipal corporations have been increased as a part of this exercise. The commissioners were asked to formulate a 30-year future plan for every town, keeping in mind the increasing population considering that a majority of the population in Telangana will be living in its towns in the coming years. Providing essential services to the growing population has been the top most priority of the Government and hence, administration decentralisation was chosen as a tool for the same. The number of municipalities were increased to 141 and sufficient funds have been allotted for faster development. Earlier, KTR paid floral tributes to “Abhyudaya Kavi” Daasaradhi Krishnamacharya, on the occasion of his birth anniversary. An App related to the cleanliness programs in all the municipalities was also launched on the occasion.  Govt. has brought in new policies to decentralise the administration across the State. K.T. Rama Rao, Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ktr-seeks-novel-revenue-models-for-municipal-bodies/article32167538.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Misgivings about OGH fate||The fiat by Director of Medical Education ordering abandoning of the Osmania General Hospital on Wednesday triggered misgivings about the fate of the heritage structure. Already, there has been a growing demand, especially among the doctors and staff working at the hospital, for dismantling the building and developing another medical facility. ‘Hygiene of importance’ “This is a medical facility where hygiene is of prime importance. We cannot have a hospital where there is a threat of drainage water flowing in. For nearly 45 years, we have been working under the threat of falling roof coupled with poor sanitary conditions” says Dr. K. Ram Singh of Osmania General Hospital. Heritage activists are upset over the demand for demolition of Hyderabad’s landmark hospital. “Five years ago, there was a similar demand. We had carried out an inspection and found that the building was structurally stable. We are willing to do another study to find the structural stability of the building,” says Anuradha Reddy of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. “The building enjoys the same protection under the orders of the High Court as Irrum Manzil,” she says. The High Court had ruled that “the identity and character of a city is defined by its heritage and architecture ”. Completed in 1926, the OGH is part of the Musi riverbank transformation executed with the munificence of Nizam Osman Ali Khan, the vision of M. Viswesaraya and executed by British architect Vincent J. Esch. The High Court, the City College and Kacheguda railway station are part of that grand landscape planning. “The OGH is structurally similar to the High Court building. The ingress of drainage water will not damage the structure except for superficial damage on tiles and plastering. The sub-structure would not be affected. The building has been neglected for too long but it is not delicate or unstable,” says architect and structural designer S.P. Anchuri who earlier carried out an inspection of the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/misgivings-about-ogh-fate/article32167550.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Justice B.S. Chauhan to steer panel probing Dubey killings||The Supreme Court on Wednesday approved the Uttar Pradesh government’s choice of its former judge B.S. Chauhan heading the commission to inquire into the gunning down of eight police officers and the “fake” encounter killings of their alleged assailants, history-sheeter Vikas Dubey and his associates. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said the “single-most important aspect” of the commission’s inquiry should be how Dubey came to be released on bail or parole. Dubey and his associates allegedly ambushed a police team that was on its way to his house at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 2 night and killed eight policemen. “Had he been in jail, this would not have happened in the first place,” Chief Justice Bobde said. ‘Appalling situation’ The police caught up with Dubey at Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. According to the official version, he was killed by the police team escorting him back to Kanpur when he allegedly tried to escape after the vehicle carrying him met with an accident. CJI Bobde has time and again said the court found it “appalling” that a man like Dubey, who had 64 criminal cases against him, including under the National Security Act, got parole or was out on bail. He called it a “failure of the system”. The panel’s task is to enquire who all in the State officialdom are responsible for his release. It will also inquire into any “collusion” between the police or any State department with Dubey and suggest steps to prevent recurrence in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-bs-chauhan-to-steer-panel-probing-dubey-killings/article32167251.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Osmania hospital in-patient block sealed||A week after rainwater flooded into Osmania General Hospital’s century-old in-patient block, orders were issued to vacate the building and seal it on Wednesday. Though there was widespread speculation that this is a step to bring down the in-patient (IP) block — built in 1917 by the seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan — sources in the know of things said that the orders were issued to avoid any illegal activities in the vacant building. The OGH has three blocks: IP Block, OP (out-patient) block and Quli Qutb Shah block. The IP block has been in the news from 2015. Because of years of neglect, it needed repairs which were not fixed. Water leaking through roofs, seeping through walls, chunks of lime mortar crashing from ceiling to ground or on patients made healthcare professionals fear for their life. In 2015, the Telangana government announced a new building for the hospital. Patients were shifted from the IP block to other sections of the hospital and to other hospitals too. However, heritage activists and leaders of Opposition parties opposed the move to destroy the over-100-year old building. After some more incidents of lime mortar crashing to the ground, doctors and staff at the hospital formed OGH Joint Action Committee to demand a new building. The protests launched in the beginning of 2018 lasted for over 90 days. Incidentally, the current in-charge Superintendent of the hospital R Pandu Naik was chairman of the JAC. He was in the forefront of the protests which were called off after assurances were given to construct a new building. Years passed by, but there was no action . On July 15, rain water from the stormwater drains gushed into the IP block when patients were still undergoing treatment there. Apart from patients in General Medicine and Intermediate Care, three Operation Theatres function in the same building. Besides, the Superintendent’s chamber and offices of Heads of Department function from there. This triggered fresh round of protests by doctors and staff . They launched one-hour protests from Tuesday with the same demand. Meanwhile, patients from the General Medicine and Intermediate Care were shifted to the Quli Qutb Shah block. Operation theatres were still functioning from there. The protesting doctors demanded that the old building be demolished to construct a new one. The State’s Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy on Wednesday issued orders to the hospital’s superintendent to vacate the building and seal it. “No activity should be undertaken in the old building,” the order states. This led to speculation that the ground is being prepared to bring down the building. “The huge building is almost vacant. We want to avoid a situation where someone sneaks in to drink alcohol or to create nuisance. So the orders were issued to seal it. This is for safety of the building and of the medical community, patients there,” sources in the State Health department said. In-charge superintendent of the hospital Dr Naik said that alternate places for the Superintendent’s chamber and other offices is being identified and the building will be vacated. Operation Theatres too were shifted to out-patient block. Protests to continue Meanwhile, doctors from the hospital who have been protesting for one hour everyday said that they will continue the protest until the State government announces a new building for the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/osmania-hospital-in-patient-block-sealed/article32167195.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||PM Modi invites U.S. firms to invest in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday invited U.S. companies to invest in India’s healthcare, infrastructure, defence, energy, farm and insurance sectors, saying the country offers openness and opportunities. “Today, there is global optimism towards India. This is because India offers a perfect combination of openness, opportunities and options. Let me elaborate. India celebrates openness in people and in governance,” Mr. Modi, said while addressing the U.S.-India Business Council. Economic resilience He said the COVID-19 pandemic had shown the importance of economic resilience, which can be achieved by stronger domestic economic capacities. “This means improved domestic capacity for manufacturing, restoring the health of the financial system and diversification of international trade,” he added. “India is emerging as a land of opportunities. Let me give you one example of the tech sector. Recently, an interesting report came out in India. It said for the first time ever, there are more rural Internet users than even urban Internet users,” he said. Stating that open markets mean more opportunities, Mr. Modi said during the last six years the government had made many efforts to make the Indian economy more open and reform-oriented. Reforms have ensured increased competitiveness, transparency, digitisation, innovation and policy stability, the Prime Minister said.  India offers a perfect combination of openness, opportunities and options Narendra Modi Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-modi-invites-us-firms-to-invest-in-india/article32167218.ece
23 July 2020||Guwahati,||Kaziranga worker saves 3 boys from drowning||A worker of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam went beyond his work brief of saving flood-affected animals to rescue three boys from drowning in the Brahmaputra. Bidyut Bikash Borah, the range officer of KNPTR’s Agratoli Range, said speedboat operator Bolin Bora had on May 19 rescued the three boys clinging desperately to a piece of driftwood. The trio had been swept from Biswanath district on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra upstream. “The guards on the ceiling of the inundated Maklung anti-poaching camp adjoining the river spotted three heads trying to stay above water and cries for help. The current of the river was too strong for them to get to them in a country boat,” the range officer told The Hindu . Most of KNPTR’s 223 anti-poaching camps have a country boat tied nearby for emergency operations. Mr. Bora, 40, sped off as soon as he received the message and hauled the three teenagers onto a speedboat. The three boys — brothers Mahan Jyoti and Joyguru Kutum and Sankar Medhi from Raonmukh village in Biswanath district — said they had ventured out in a country boat to collect grass near the riverbank. The boat, caught in a strong current and wind, overturned. “The boys had drifted for three hours before they could be rescued,” Mr. Bora said. The range officer said the three boys were handed over to their relatives at Bokakhat in Golaghat district as it was too late for them to return to Biswanath that day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kaziranga-worker-saves-3-boys-from-drowning/article32167250.ece
23 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||3 foreign experts injured in OIL blowout accident||An accident at the blowout natural gas well in eastern Assam’s Baghjan on Wednesday injured three of the six foreign experts flown in more than a month ago to control the disaster. Well No. 5 near the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park is one of the 22 crude oil and natural gas wells operated by the Oil India Limited (OIL) in its Baghjan Oilfield in Tinsukia district. It had burst into flames almost a fortnight after experiencing a blowout — uncontrolled escape of gas at great speed — on May 27. “It was not a blast but a work-related accident where a lateral fire took place. They received minor injures at the fag-end of the critical operation to successfully remove a damaged spool,” OIL spokesperson Tridib Hazarika said. The three injured were from the Singapore-based Alert Disaster Control. Doug Dallas was slightly more injured in the right hand than the other two — Anthony Steven Reynolds and Craig Neil Duncan. “They were taken to a private nursing home in Dibrugarh from where they were released. They will resume operation tomorrow [Thursday] for installing the blowout preventer,” Mr. Hazarika said. Installation of the blowout preventer on the remaining undamaged spools within “a day or two” is expected to tame the fire on the well.  Operations delayed OIL officials said removal of the damaged spool could have been done earlier had the operations not been delayed first by floods and then by blockades by local people forcing them to shut down 12 wells in the vicinity of the blazing blowout well. OIL has been dishing out more than Rs. 30 lakh per day on the six foreign experts — the three others are from the U.S. and Canada. These experts were on the verge of going back to their countries after locals had virtually held them captive for 18 hours at the Baghjan site on July 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-foreign-experts-injured-in-oil-blowout-accident/article32167454.ece
23 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Maoists torch road roller, bulldozer in Telangana||Maoists struck terror in the remote tribal village of Battinapalli in Charla mandal by torching a road roller and a dozer at a road construction site late on Tuesday night. Tension escalated in the border areas of Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency following the incident. Sources said that a group of rebels swooped on the road construction site on the periphery of Battinapalli, an interior village dotting the State’s volatile border with Chhattisgarh, in the dead of night. They set on fire two machines, including a road roller parked at the site, before vanishing. They left behind a letter in the name of the CPI (Maoist) State committee at the incident spot. The note contained slogans urging people to observe ‘Martyrs’ week’ from July 28 to August 3, sources added. The incident comes a few days ahead of the Telangana bandh called by the newly-reconstituted State committee of the CPI (Maoist) on July 25 demanding the immediate release of the ailing octogenarian poet Varavara Rao from Maharashtra jail and withdrawal of the State police’s Greyhound force from the forest areas It triggered tension in the border region of the State amid the all-out efforts by the district police to avert revival of Maoist activities. In a statement, SP Sunil Dutt condemned the incident. “The ultras targeted the new road being laid between Battinapalli and Tippapuram for providing road connectivity to tribals living in the far flung areas,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoists-strike-again-torch-road-roller-and-bulldozer/article32167564.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||11 policemen get life term for ex-royal’s killing||Three of the 18 persons initially accused — Kuldeep, Nekiram and Sitaram — died during trial, while one Mahendra Singh had been discharged, said Mr. Singh. Three policemen, who were accused of forging the general diary entries and facing charges under Section 218 of the IPC, however, were acquitted. Apart from Bhati (now 82) and Virendra Singh, the other persons convicted by the Mathura court are Bhanwar Singh, Padma Ram, Ravi Shekhar Mishra, Jeevanram, Sukhram, Hari Singh, Sher Singh, Chattar Singh and Jagmohan, all aged above 60. Long stint Man Singh, who was the third son of ‘Maharaja’ Krishn of Bharatpur, was first elected as an MLA from Rajasthan in 1952 and was undefeated till his death as an Independent MLA, even resisting the waves of 1977 (Indira Gandhi) and 1980 (Janata Party). On February 20, 1985, Man Singh — furious after Congress workers pulled down his banners — damaged a stage set up for then Chief Minister Shiv Charan Mathur and a chopper. For the chopper incident, Man Singh was booked for attempt to murder. In the 1985 Assembly elections, the Congress fielded Brijendra Singh, a retired IAS officer, against Man Singh from the Deeg seat. “On February 21, 1985 Raja Man Singh along with Thakur Hari Singh, Thakur Sumer Singh and others was going to the Deeg police station to surrender when the then deputy SP Kan Singh Bhati and other policemen fired indiscriminately at him near the Anaj Mandi as part of a well-planned conspiracy,” said Mr. Dushyant in a statement. Man Singh and his two associates died on the spot. The police had claimed that Man Singh and his supporters had refused to surrender when they went to arrest him and opened fire, following which the police fired in self-defence. Man Singh’s daughter and former Bharatpur MP Krishnendra Kaur ‘Deepa’ said her family had full faith in the judicial process and justice had finally been delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-policemen-get-life-term-for-ex-royals-killing/article32167209.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||SC will hear Rajasthan Speaker’s plea today||In a steady progression of events on Wednesday, Speaker C.P. Joshi’s office filed the special leave petition in the apex court, through advocate Sunil Fernandes, three minutes to noon on Wednesday and within a day of the High Court order. Shortly after the petition was filed, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, while appearing in another case, happened to complain to Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde about the lack of a proper mechanism to mention cases for urgent hearing in the current virtual court system. He said his team had been trying hard, but without success, to mention the Rajasthan Speaker’s case for an early hearing. The CJI told Mr. Sibal that he would apprise the court Registry and see if the case could be put up before a Bench. By evening, the case was listed before Justice Mishra’s Bench. ‘Lakshman Rekha’ The petition said the High Court crossed the “Lakshman Rekha” by asking the Speaker to put off his decision on the disqualification notices issued to the 19 dissident legislators on July 14. The High Court order was an affront to the powers of the Speaker. It was “illegal and perverse” and “destroys the delicate balance envisaged by the Constitution between the legislature and the judiciary”, it stated. The Speaker said the High Court’s interim order granting extended time to Mr. Pilot and the other MLAs to file their replies to the July 14 anti-defection notices amounted to violation of Article 212 (courts not to inquire into the proceedings of the legislature). “The notice dated July 14 is a proceeding in the House and immune from judicial interference at that stage. The notice was only limited to inviting comments from the Respondents [Mr. Pilot and other MLAs] and there was nothing adverse against them at that stage. A notice is much prior to any final determination or decision on disqualification. The proceedings, including the notice, are in the realm of the legislative proceedings under Paragraph 6(2) of the Tenth Schedule,” the Speaker’s office argued. It said judicial review of an ongoing anti-defection proceedings was limited. Kihoto Hollohan case The petition referred to the Constitution Bench judgment of the top court in the Kihoto Hollohan case in 1992 in this context. “Judicial review cannot be available at a stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speaker/Chairman and a quia timet action would not be permissible. Nor would interference be permissible at an interlocutory stage of the proceedings,” the Speaker’s office quoted from the 28-year-old verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-will-hear-rajasthan-speakers-plea-today/article32167210.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China not to use UAVs at friction points||India has demanded that status quo be restored along the unsettled boundary line. China had amassed troops since April-May all along Eastern Ladakh and occupied positions in India’s perception of the LAC. “The two armies have agreed to not take any step that could derail the ongoing talks. No foot patrolling and not flying UAVs within 10 km of the friction points are among the measures to build confidence, but it also adversely affects real-time monitoring,” said the official.  As reported by The Hindu , Chinese troops are yet to fully move out of Patrolling Point (PP) 15 of Hot Springs area and continue to occupy positions within 1.5 km of the India’s perception of the LAC. “There is a very small window when UAVs can be used. The topography in some places is such that UAVs cannot be used, and foot patrolling is not allowed… this is why the physical verification is slow and takes time,” said the official. After the Galwan Valley incident, the flashpoint of June 15 violent clashes when 20 soldiers were killed, the Corps Commanders had agreed to disengage and withdraw fully from other face-off sites along the LAC. “General flying is not allowed and ground commanders have been asked to assess and constantly keep a vigil on the ground. The agreement allows use of UAVs, but not in an indiscriminate manner and only at mutually agreed time periods,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-not-to-use-uavs-at-friction-points/article32167211.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||45 RS members take oath||Forty-five of the 61 newly elected members took oath on Wednesday, and for the first time, the ceremony was held inside the Rajya Sabha hall when Parliament is not in session. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu urged the new members “not to fall prey to the temptation of disrupting the proceedings of the House for short-term gains”. The BJP now stands at 85 members, more than double of the Congress, which is down to 40. Hence, the Rajya Sabha is no longer a roadblock to any legislation proposed by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. A little before the oath-taking ceremony commenced, BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia walked across the aisle to greet members from his former party, including Congress MP Digvijaya Singh. Mr. Scindia won’t be the only former Congress MP to be sitting in treasury benches after joining the BJP. He will be accompanied by the former chief whip of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, Bhubaneshwar Kalita, who recently joined the BJP. Out of the 45 who took oath, 36 members were first-timers to the Upper House, and 12 members have been re-elected, including NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh, and Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and Janata Dal-United leader Harivansh Narayan Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/45-rs-members-take-oath/article32167221.ece
23 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Ghaziabad journalist dies of bullet injury||Ghaziabad journalist Vikram Joshi, who was shot at by assailants on the night of July 20, died of bullet injury on Wednesday at a private hospital, police said. Mr. Joshi was shot four days after he lodged a complaint in the Vijay Nagar police station against three persons for harassing and making objectionable comments against his niece. Nine persons, including two of the three main accused, Ravi and Shehnoor Mansoor alias Chhotu, were arrested on Tuesday. Mr. Joshi’s sister Payal alleged that Raghvendra Singh, police post in-charge of Pratap Vihar, who was suspended on Tuesday, was directly involved in the murder of her brother. Superintendent of Police (City) Manish Mishra said the inquiry would look into all aspects. Mr. Mishra said Ravi lived near Ms. Payal’s residence, and the two families had a history of acrimony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ghaziabad-journalist-dies-of-bullet-injury/article32167230.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||66% of private schools using WhatsApp: survey||The popular image of private school education in the time of COVID-19 is the affluent child using a laptop for Zoom classes. In actual fact, over two-thirds of private schools assessed in a preliminary survey by the Central Square Foundation (CSF) are using WhatsApp, probably on a shared phone, as the main mode for teaching and learning during the pandemic. More than 80% of teachers in these schools have not been paid after March, it found. The preliminary survey of about 90 stakeholders to assess the impact of COVID-19 on the private school system was part of a wider report on the status of the sector by CSF and Omidyar Network, released through a webinar on Wednesday. Budget schools “Almost half of all students are enrolled in private schools in India today. Most of these are not elite schools; 70% of students pay less than Rs. 1,000 per month and 45% pay less than Rs. 500 per month. About three-fourth of children in urban India go to private schools,” said CSF founder and chairman Ashish Dhawan. Given that many low income parents wait until March-April, at the time of the year-end examination, to pay annual fees for the previous year, the lockdown meant that more than half of the school owners surveyed have uncollected fees ranging from Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 4.8 crore due from the previous year. “Out of about 3,900 budget schools that I have been tracking, 58% say they have not received one paisa in fees since the lockdown,” said Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the National Independent Schools Association, which has 70,000 private schools as its members. He urged the Centre and State governments to give parents of school-going children direct benefit transfers (DBT) in order to pay fees. Releasing the report, NITI Aayog Chief Executive Amitabh Kant said States must ensure that the reimbursements for students of Economically Weaker Sections must be paid promptly to private schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/66-of-private-schools-using-whatsapp-survey/article32167234.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘People were promised Ram raj, got goondaraj’||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over the killing of Ghaziabad-based journalist Vikram Joshi. “Journalist Vikram Joshi was killed for opposing the molestation of his niece... My condolences to the bereaved family. The promise was of giving ‘Ram raj’ but gave ‘ goondaraj ’,” Mr. Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said there had been a complete collapse of law and order in U.P. She said the assailants had similar criminal charges against them in other police stations too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-were-promised-ram-raj-got-goondaraj/article32167235.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will discuss all disputed areas with China: Bhutan||A day after China repeated its claims over Eastern Bhutan, Bhutan issued a rare statement, asserting that “all disputed areas” will be discussed when the Bhutan-China boundary talks, which have not been scheduled for four years, are held again. “The boundary between Bhutan and China is under negotiation and has not been demarcated. Twenty-four rounds of ministerial level boundary talks have been held,” a statement from the Royal Bhutanese Embassy in Delhi, made available to The Hindu , said. “The 25th round of boundary talks has been delayed by the coronavirus pandemic. All disputed areas will be discussed during the next round of boundary talks, which will be held as soon as it is mutually convenient,” it added. Key statement The statement is significant as Bhutan’s government rarely comments on foreign policy issues or gives details of its talks with China, that were started formally in 1984. It also indicates that despite China making new claims on Bhutan’s eastern boundary, and the Sakteng forest sanctuary on the border with Arunachal Pradesh, Bhutan is prepared to discuss these in the dialogue between them. On Tuesday, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) had responded to questions over its assertion that Sakteng was disputed, made at the Global Environment Facility (GEF) meeting first in early June. In response, the MFA had said Bhutan’s “Middle (Northern), Eastern and Western sections of the border are disputed”. Reviving reference to an earlier “swap proposal” between the Northern and Western sections of Bhutan’s border, the MFA spokesperson Wang Wenbin had added, “China has proposed a package solution to these disputes. China is opposed to making an issue of such disputes at multilateral forums and China remains in communication with the relevant parties regarding this issue”. The Ministry of External Affairs has made no statement on China’s claims on areas bordering Indian territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-discuss-all-disputed-areas-with-china-bhutan/article32167239.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Jnana alone liberates||The comparative efficacy of the paths of karma and jnana as sadanas for the spiritual aspirant in the attainment of the highest Purushartha, moksha, is taken up for discussion in the text Naishkarmya Siddhi of Sureshvaracharya. After putting forth the arguments of the opponents who believe that karma by itself can lead to moksha, the acharya begins to refute the same in convincing terms, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. The opponent’s argument is this: ‘Karma can be managed skilfully so that no papa or punya will accrue and at a certain stage all karma is neutralised. For this, first of all, one has to avoid all kamya karmas. Then care is taken to refrain from all prohibited acts, nishiddha karma. This ensures that there is no further sorrow and it also keeps away from sins. Then one just engages in nitya naimittika karma for the rest of his life. By this stance, one can avoid further birth. If there is no further birth it is moksha. What is the need to do sravana, manana, nidhidyasa, etc?’ The acharya argues that each of the opponent’s arguments regarding kamya karma, nishiddha karma and nitya naimittika karma as a means to liberation does not have any support from the scriptures. It is pointed out that each jivatma in the course of the journey through the cycle of birth has accumulated the fruits of past actions that continue to be unlimited. In every birth both good and bad effects of actions are added. Above all, it is not possible to be totally free of desires. Lapses can occur even for realised souls. It follows that engaging in nitya karma and refraining from other types of karma cannot be the solution to erase karma. At the same time, jnana or realisation has the power to release one from karma bondage. Jnana is the only path to liberation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jnana-alone-liberates/article32167240.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CM blames officials||Candidates are not to blame for the crowding at the KEAM entrance venues, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Those tasked with enforcing regulations should have ensured that crowding was avoided, he said. “Crowds were to be expected when students exited the venues.” On the status of police cases, he said he would examine the matter. There was no transmission of the disease due to the incident, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-blames-officials/article32167584.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Body of EFLU assistant prof. found||The decomposed body of an assistant professor of the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) was found on Wednesday. According to the Osmania University police, the victim is Rahul Balusu (45), a faculty member of the varsity’s Computational Linguistics Department. He was found hanging in his house outside the university campus, in Srikar Apartments in Tarnaka. Police said preliminary investigation revealed that Balusu had been depressed for around seven years. “He was last seen on July 20 in the afternoon by somebody who knew him. On Wednesday, his body was found by the watchman and the maid as foul smell was emanating from the house. The door was locked from the inside. Later, the locals broke open the door and found his body hanging and in a decomposed state. We are not suspecting any foul play,” said Sub-Inspector of Police M Saikumar, adding that the reason for his purported depression was to be investigated. Police said they would investigate whether family problems could have led to the suicide. A case was registered.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-eflu-teacher-found/article32167552.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Three SCR workers run over by engine||In a tragic incident, three SCR employees were killed on the spot on Wednesday near Vikarabad, after a train engine rammed them while they were working on a railway bridge. According to the Government Railway Police, the accident took place around 2 km from Vikarabad town between 11.45 a.m. and 12 noon. The engine was moving from Vikarabad to Hyderabad. The victims have been identified as Pratap Reddy (58), a resident of B N Reddy Nagar; Naveen (34) and Shamsheer Ali (25), both residents of Secunderabad. The trio had travelled to Vikarabad to execute the work of painting a bridge assigned to them and were part of a group of 12. They purportedly did not inform the local stations of their presence in the area and were unaware of movement of trains or engines on the route. GRP Superintendent B Anuradha said that the locopilot is not at fault and has not been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-scr-workers-killed-as-train-engine-knocks-them-down/article32167208.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Trinamool backs virtual panel meets||The Trinamool Congress, in a letter to both Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, has requested that meetings of parliamentary committees be held via videoconference, and that the presiding officers of both Houses have the freedom to decide the procedures for functioning of the panels. In the letter, the party pointed out that the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Rajya Sabha and the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Lok Sabha established that the decision of the presiding officers was final when deciding the procedure of functioning of the committees. Both Houses have maintained that the rules have to be amended by the Rules Committees and then approved by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-backs-virtual-panel-meets/article32167236.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||3.18 lakh new subscribers in May: EPFO||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Wednesday said it had registered a growth of 3.18 lakh new subscribers in May, indicating that “net new enrolments have started to make headway for most industry classifications”. According to the provisional payroll data published by the EPFO on Monday, the month-on-month increase in subscribers was 218%. Despite the lockdown, around 1 lakh net new subscribers were added to social security schemes of the EPFO in April... The subscriber base growth is on account of increased number of new subscribers, lower exits and higher rejoining by exited members,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/318-lakh-new-subscribers-in-may-epfo/article32167245.ece
23 July 2020||JAIPUR,||ED raids to intimidate MLAs: Cong.||The Congress on Wednesday accused the BJP government at the Centre of using the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to target the ruling party leaders in Rajasthan. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at a press conference that Agrasen Gehlot had been targeted just because he was the Chief Minister’s brother. The case in which the ED conducted the raids on Wednesday pertains to the alleged illegal export of potassium chloride to Malaysia and Taiwan from 2007 to 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-raids-to-intimidate-mlas-cong/article32167252.ece
23 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab reports six more COVID-19 deaths||Punjab recorded 414 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and reported six more deaths, taking the death toll to 269, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 11,301. The major chunk of the new cases, 81 and 73, were reported from Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana districts respectively. Chandigarh reported 29 new COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-reports-six-more-covid-19-deaths/article32167455.ece
23 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab reports six more COVID-19 deaths||Punjab recorded 414 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and reported six more deaths, taking the death toll to 269, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 11,301. The major chunk of the new cases, 81 and 73, were reported from Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana districts. Chandigarh reported 29 new COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-reports-six-more-covid-19-deaths/article32167644.ece
23 July 2020||Srinagar,||J&K reimposes lockdown till July 28||As Jammu and Kashmir’s COVID-19 cases crossed the 15,000 mark, the J&K administration on Wednesday decided to re-impose a strict lockdown up to July 28. A government spokesperson announced “a complete lockdown in all red districts, excluding Bandipora, of the Kashmir division from today [Wednesday] evening till 6 a.m. of July 27”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-reimposes-lockdown-till-july-28/article32167226.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Post-law, 82% fall in triple talaq cases, says Naqvi||There has been about 82% decline in triple talaq cases since the law against the “social evil” was put in place, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Wednesday, terming August 1, when the legislation came into being, “Muslim women’s rights day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/post-law-82-fall-in-triple-talaq-cases-says-naqvi/article32167228.ece
23 July 2020||Patna,||Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh dies of COVID-19||Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh, 69, died of COVID-19 late on Tuesday. He is the first legislator from Bihar to die of COVID-19. The BJP MLC from Darbhanga district was admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences here on July 13 after his sample test report was found positive. Bihar, so far, has reported 198 deaths due to COVID-19 and 28,564 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-bjp-mlc-sunil-kumar-singh-dies-of-covid-19/article32167237.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Highest spike with 5,849 new infections||Tamil Nadu recorded its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 5,849 persons testing positive on Wednesday. This took the State’s tally to 1,86,492, even as 4,910 more persons were discharged after treatment and 74 persons succumbed to the infection. This is the first time that the daily count of cases in the State crossed 5,000. Chennai accounted for 1,171 of the fresh infections, while a majority of the remaining cases were reported in the northern and southern districts. With 430 new cases, Tiruvallur’s tally breached the 10,000-mark. Ranipet witnessed a surge and recorded 414 cases, while Kancheepuram saw 325. There were 223 cases in Chengalpattu, 208 in Tiruvannamalai and 103 in Villupuram. While Madurai continued to report fewer cases when compared to previous weeks, other southern districts recorded a high numbers. There were 197 cases in Madurai, while Virudhunagar had 363, followed by Thoothukudi with 323. There were 164 cases in Theni, 150 in Kanniyakumari, 112 in Tirunelveli and 99 in Dindigul. Tiruchi also witnessed a surge in cases with 213 persons testing positive for COVID-19. A total of 178 persons tested positive in Coimbatore, while Thanjavur recorded 106 cases. A total of 74 returnees also tested positive for COVID-19. As of date, the total number of persons discharged in the State stands at 1,31,583, while 51,765 persons are under treatment. Of the 4,910 persons discharged on Wednesday, 1,731 were in Chennai, 471 in Virudhunagar and 445 in Madurai. Of the 74 deaths, 21 were recorded in Chennai. There were eight deaths in Cuddalore, seven in Madurai, six in Virudhunagar, five in Tiruvallur and four in Tiruvannamalai. Among them was a 23-year-old man from Madurai. He was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on July 7. He had chronic kidney disease (CKD) and tested positive for COVID-19. He died on July 20. With this, the State’s toll rose to 3,144, as another 444 deaths were notified based on the Death Reconciliation Committee’s report.  Testing infrastructure The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours touched 60,000 in the State. A total of 60,112 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 20,95,757. In fact, the number of individuals tested so far crossed 20 lakh. Till date, a total of 20,15,147 individuals have been tested in the State. “We have increased our testing capacity. So far, we have tested two million samples. The laboratories are functioning on three shifts every day. We have got the approval for taking up testing of pooled samples in places where the positivity rate is less. If we have the capacity to test 50,000 samples now, there is a possibility to test 70,000 samples when pooled testing is taken up,” Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highest-spike-with-5849-new-infections/article32167399.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City’s peculiar trend in COVID-19||A gradual fall in Chennai’s tally of active cases of COVID-19, coupled with the persistent rise in the number of recovered cases, has made it clear that a different dynamic is at play here. Senior officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation are not inclined to conclude that the peak is over, and say they would prefer to wait for some more time. There is an indication that the number of fresh cases may stabilise. However, the figure still remains over a 1,000 cases a day. “The case count would have to show a steady decline,” Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said. Joint Commissioner (Health) P. Madhusudhan Reddy pointed out that in any instance of epidemiology, there will not be a single peak. The present phase could even be a “lull”, by which one should not assume that “the curve is getting flattened”, he said. With the community poised to ramp up economic activity substantially in the coming weeks, testing capacity would likely have to increase. At the same time, the infrastructure for testing people would have also improved substantially, as there would be more private laboratories and increased capacity at government laboratories, he added. The officials were responding to the data compiled for six fortnights between May 12 and July 21. During the last fortnight (July 7-21), which coincided with the relaxation of the conditions of the “intense lockdown” in the city, the number of recovered cases continued to go up, registering a 57% rise, whereas the tally of active cases went down by 9,000 in absolute figures (-37%). When asked why three zones — Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam — had a higher proportion of active cases than Royapuram and Tondiarpet during the last fortnight, Mr. Reddy said they constituted nearly a third of the city’s population, with each having 9 lakh to 10 lakh people. “They are the highly populated zones of Chennai,” he said, adding that the cases were in proportion to their population. Aggressive testing “We are aggressively identifying cases,” the Joint Commissioner said, adding, “The cases are within our horizon. There is no cause for concern.” He expressed the hope that in a few weeks, Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam would show a downward trend. The nature of settlement in the two zones in the northern part of the city, where people share a lot of common resources, is one of the key reasons for Royapuram and Tondiarpet initially recording a higher number of cases than other areas. “We did not omit any contact or symptomatic person from testing, which was another reason,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citys-peculiar-trend-in-covid-19/article32167373.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pooled samples to be tested for infection in 21 districts||Pooled samples will be tested for COVID-19 in 21 districts in Tamil Nadu where the positivity rate is less than 5%. The Director of Public and Preventive Medicine has written to all nodal officers of government and private RT-PCR laboratories on testing pooled samples for COVID-19. The guidelines were already communicated to Deputy Directors of Health Services, deans of medical college hospitals, Joint Director of Health Services and nodal officers of laboratories in the State. As per the guidelines, pooling of samples in a 1:5 ratio will be taken up in areas with a positivity rate of 2%-5% to increase the testing capacity, early detection of COVID-19 cases in the community and to improve the ‘turnaround time’ of the samples tested. As on July 16, the positivity rate of less than 5% was observed in 21 districts as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal data. These districts are deemed fit for pooled sample testing, the DPH said. The districts where pooled sample testing will be undertaken (with the positivity rate in brackets) are: Pudukottai (4.75%), Tirunelveli (4.64%), Tiruchi (4.48%), Villupuram (4.41%), Tiruvarur (4.18%), Tenkasi (3.97%), Ariyalur (3.94%), Nagapattinam (3.63%), Perambalur (3.27%), Salem (3.12%), Kanniyakumari (2.84%), Tirupattur (2.52%), Krishnagiri (2.36%), Coimbatore (1.93%), The Nilgiris (1.79%), Thanjavur (1.73%), Dharmapuri (1.46%), Tiruppur (1.41%), Karur (1.38%), Namakkal (1.32%) and Erode (0.86%).  According to an advisory issued by the ICMR, a pooled testing algorithm involves PCR screening of a specimen pool, comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing only if a pool screens positive. All individual samples in a negative pool are regarded negative, resulting in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools test negative. The preferable number of samples to be pooled is five. A district health official said that when samples were pooled, it helped in quicker testing compared to when individual samples were tested. “Individual samples will be tested if any pool tests positive for COVID-19,” he said.  Pooling of samples in a 1:5 ratio will be taken up in areas with a positivity rate of 2%-5% to increase testing capacity and for early detection of cases and improving the turnaround time of the samples tested||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pooled-samples-to-be-tested-for-infection-in-21-districts/article32167395.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plasma bank comes up at RGGGH||The State’s first plasma bank has come up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) at a cost of Rs. 2.34 crore. The facility has the capacity to collect plasma from seven donors simultaneously, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Wednesday. After inaugurating the facility, the Minister said the State government was planning to set up plasma banks at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital at Omandurar Estate, the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University and the government medical colleges in Salem, Tiruchi, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli. “The trial of convalescent plasma therapy has been completed successfully in the State. We are launching the facility today, with two donors (persons who have recovered from COVID-19) coming forward to donate plasma,” he said. Under the trial, 24 out of the 26 COVID-19 patients who had received convalescent plasma had returned home after recovery at RGGGH. At the Madurai Medical College, four patients were treated with convalescent plasma, the Minister said. People can donate plasma 14 days after recovering from COVID-19. Those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, renal diseases and cancers, and those who have undergone organ transplants are not eligible to donate plasma. Eligible persons can donate plasma twice, after an interval of 14 days. At the bank, 500 ml of plasma would be collected from each eligible donor, and the process would take a maximum of 30 minutes. The plasma is stored at a temperature of 40 degree Celsius, and could be stored for up to a year, a press release said. The equipment for the plasma bank was procured through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. Dr. Vijayabaskar urged patients who had recovered from COVID-19 to come forward and donate plasma without fear or apprehension. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Health Department officials took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plasma-bank-comes-up-at-rgggh/article32167401.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rare spinal tumour removed from nine-year-old girl||Doctors at Kauvery Hospital recently performed a complex surgery to remove a spinal tumour from a nine-year-old girl. A statement issued by the hospital said the girl developed a limp after a minor fall. A physician consulted by the family suggested physiotherapy sessions. As her condition deteriorated, the family consulted G. Balamurali, head, Department of Spine Surgery, who advised them to bring the girl for examination without delay to avoid further complications. On investigation, the girl was found to be affected by a rare paediatric spine tumour, the statement said. “Magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed an aggressive tumour in her spine with more than 50% compression of the spinal cord and high blood supply to the tumour,” Dr. Balamurali said. He added that the removal required utmost precision and expertise. “A preoperative embolization was performed that helped in reducing blood loss during surgery and helped in the optimum excision of the tumour,” he said. Congratulating the team, Aravindan Selvaraj, executive director, Kauvery Hospital, said it was expertise and high-end technology which led to the success of the treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-spinal-tumour-removed-from-nine-year-old-girl/article32167369.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parking near Ritchie Street still an issue||Despite the allotment of parking areas for two-wheelers and cars coming to Ritchie Street, motorists continue to park haphazardly on Anna Salai, especially on the stretch near the Government Estate Metro, extending till the Periyar Statue junction. Since the lockdown was relaxed earlier this month, people have been flocking to the city’s electronics hub every day. As entry of vehicles into the inner streets is barred, they are parked along the road. “After repeated complaints, police placed barricades and regulated parking. But many still park haphazardly and some even leave their vehicles on the pavement. It becomes difficult for customers to enter shops and for pedestrians to access the pavement. The situation worsens in the afternoon despite police presence,” a shopkeeper on Anna Salai said. A senior police officer said parking arrangements had been made on Swami Sivananda Salai. R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders’ Association, Ritchie Street, said shopkeepers were surprised since footfalls in the market are disproportionate to the number of parked vehicles. Another trader, who wanted to remain anonymous, said people visiting other places nearby could be the reason for the sudden surge in parked vehicles. Mukesh Khubchandani, president, All India Electronics Association, Chennai, said the number of people visiting the market had reduced and many were placing orders over phone. Traders said sales, on average, had dipped by 40%-50%. “Only retailers are buying. Business is yet to pick up for wholesalers,” Mr. Khubchandani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parking-near-ritchie-street-still-an-issue/article32167368.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karuppar Koottam issue: Rajini hails govt. action||Actor Rajinikanth on Wednesday criticised Periyarist group Karuppar Koottam for making derogatory video on Lord Murugan and the Tamil hymn in his praise, Kandha Sashti Kavasam , and thanked the State Government for acting swiftly. In a short statement on his Twitter handle, Mr. Rajinikanth said, “The group had made derogatory statements against Kandha Sashti Kavasam and hurt the sentiments of millions of Tamils. I appreciate the State government for taking immediate action and deleting all videos of the group for their disgusting action,” he said. Mr. Rajinikanth hoped that the attack on religion and Gods would and should end. He ended his statement by praising Lord Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karuppar-koottam-issue-rajini-hails-govt-action/article32167375.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharathiraja, Ilaiyaraaja to work together||The Bharathiraja-Ilaiyaraaja combination that introduced the Tamil audience to an authentic rural setting in the late 1970s is coming together again after a gap of over two decades. “They have agreed to work together in the film Aatha . The casting is not yet finalised and the work will begin after the COVID-19 pandemic is over,” said writer and film director Bharathi Krishnakumar, who has penned the story for the movie. Mr. Krishnakumar, who has directed many documentaries and worked as an associate to Mr. Bharathiraja, said it was a village subject and Mr. Bharathiraja was the ideal person to direct the film. “When we finalised the story, Bharathiraja spoke to Ilaiyaraaja and he agreed to score music for the film,” he said. Film producer and director Chitra Lakshmanan also announced the coming together of the two personalities in his YouTube channel. “Bharathiraja actually wanted to discuss the story with Ilaiyaraaja, but the latter advised him not to come in view of the pandemic,” Mr. Lakshmanan said. The duo first came together for the film Pathinaru Vayathinile , which bagged the national award for playback singer S. Janaki. It also won four State awards, including the best director award for Bharathiraja. Though they together made memorable films and songs, difference of opinion between them led to Mr. Bharathiraja roping in other music directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathiraja-ilaiyaraaja-to-work-together/article32167376.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Delhi resident airlifted to Chennai for lung transplant||A Delhi resident was on Wednesday airlifted to Chennai for a lung transplant. Around 11 a.m., the air ambulance landed at the Chennai airport and the patient, in his early 60s, was transported to a private hospital on Nelson Manickam Road. Tested positive “The patient was admitted in mid-June after testing positive for COVID-19. The patient suffered from COVID-19-related lung fibrosis and both the lungs were severely affected, necessitating a transplant.” “Two tests were then performed and when the results returned negative for COVID-19, a decision was made for carrying out a lung transplant,” Rahul Singh Sardar, co-founder and director of ICATT Air Ambulance Service, said. Fahim Husain from the company said that the family and the doctors decided to airlift the patient to Chennai for the transplant. “The ventilator and oxygen levels were carefully monitored through the journey from the hospital in Delhi to Chennai,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delhi-resident-airlifted-to-chennai-for-lung-transplant/article32167407.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Delay reopening of schools and colleges: Prince of Arcot||The State government must delay its decision regarding the reopening of educational institutions until the State is declared free of COVID -19 cases, Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali said on Wednesday. In his appeal to the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, he said many parents were hesitant to send their children to schools and colleges, and wanted the reopening to be postponed. He said the reopening could lead to a spike in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-reopening-of-schools-and-colleges-prince-of-arcot/article32167364.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State restrained from seizing pet dogs||The Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained the State government from seizing pet dogs either from professional breeders or other owners for alleged non-compliance of the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules of2017. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the interim order on a case filed by Kennel Club of India (KCI), questioning the legal competence of the Centre to frame such rules on a subject under the State government’s domain. The order was passed after KCI counsel Ratnasami Srinivas said the rules were completely draconian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-restrained-from-seizing-pet-dogs/article32167381.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death at Ambattur||A 47-year-old man was hacked to death by three unidentified persons who came on bike in Athipet, near Ambattur, on Wednesday. Police identified the victim as Veeramani, a resident of Mettu street, Athipet. He was into real estate business. Police sent the body for post-mortem. A search has been launched to nab the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death-at-ambattur/article32167365.ece
23 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police quiz Idhayavarman||A team of police officers questioned DMK MLA L. Idhayavarman on Wednesday and took him to the scene of the clash at Sengadu. After this, the MLA was remanded again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-quiz-idhayavarman/article32167366.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman chases, nabs phone thief||H. Geethapriya, 28, bravely chased down a bike-borne duo who snatched her mobile phone. Early on Monday, two persons on a bike stole her phone when she was waiting near the KFC outlet in Ashok Nagar. She hailed an autorickshaw and managed to nab one of them. The police interrogated him and later nabbed his accomplice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-chases-nabs-phone-thief/article32167370.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Apply for retotalling from July 24’||The Directorate of Government Examinations has said that students can apply for copies of answer scripts of Class XII board and Class XI arrear exams as well as retotalling of marks from July 24 to 30. Plus Two students can also receive their provisional statement of marks during the same time. In a circular, the DGE said regular students can apply for answer scripts through their schools and private candidates through the centres where they took up the exams. The State government has issued orders permitting students to come to school from July 24 to 30 as well as to involve teaching and non-teaching staff in this. Provisional mark sheets will be issued at the schools during the assigned time slots. Not more than 20 persons can come during a slot of one hour and everyone must wear a face mask. Students and parents in containment zones or those in quarantine have been asked to collect the mark certificates after the containment zone is declared normal or after the quarantine period is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apply-for-retotalling-from-july-24/article32167406.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMPRF gets Rs. 394 crore||Funds to the tune of Rs. 394.14 crore has been received by the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF), through donations from individuals and organisations in response to the Chief Minister’s appeal for contributions to undertake relief measures against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmprf-gets-rs-394-crore/article32167390.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. continues to top in disbursements to MSMEs||Tamil Nadu continued to top the country in terms of sanctions and disbursals under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) announced by the Centre to support the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector, in view of the economic distress caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. According to an analysis of State-wise disbursal of public sector banks under the scheme done by the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), Southern Region, Tamil Nadu is the largest beneficiary with Rs. 4,383.4 crore disbursed to 1,59,662 MSMEs. It accounts for 10.48% of the total disbursal of public sector banks. The analysis is based on data released by the Finance Ministry, as on July 15. Tamil Nadu is followed by Maharashtra with Rs. 4,267.87 crore disbursed to 1,24,712 MSMEs, and accounting for 10.20% share and Uttar Pradesh with Rs. 4,239.3 crore disbursed to 1,92,479 MSMEs and accounting for 10.14% share. Among the southern states, Tamil Nadu is followed by Karnataka, accounting for 6.77%, Andhra Pradesh 5.61%, Kerala 4.51%, Telengana 4.48% and Puducherry with 0.24% of the total amount disbursed across India. However, the FIEO noted that after initial sanctioning and disbursals, there was slow growth both in sanctioning as well as disbursals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-continues-to-top-in-disbursements-to-msmes/article32167393.ece
23 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery units resume production||Jewellery manufacturers, who resumed operations on Wednesday, plan to take up several measures to control the spread of COVID - 19 in the units and localities where the goldsmiths live. Coimbatore District Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association president B. Muthuvenkatraman told The Hindu the units can work with maximum 10 workers. This has provided jobs to 60 % of the workforce. The units were closed first on June 24. It is almost a month now. The rest will also be opened in the coming weeks, he hoped. “We live and work in congested areas. Hence, the manufacturers will join hands with the Coimbatore Corporation and carry out a series of measures to control the spread,” he said. A committee has been formed by the manufacturers. With the approval of the authorities, members of this committee will visit smithies, factories, and houses in the jewellery making clusters in the city. They will be provided with thermal scanners, oximeters, masks, and face shields. They will take random tests. The manufacturers will also provide disinfectants to the Corporation to be sprayed regularly in the clusters, Mr. Muthuvenkatraman said. The spread is mainly because of people moving in and out of the district. It can be controlled with joint efforts. The workers or goldsmiths now do not go anywhere except their house and work place, he said. According to Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association president S.M. Kamal Hasan, 25 % of the small smithies resumed operations on Wednesday. “There was a lot of confusion in the morning as the officials were not sure if we can start functioning. We got a clarity only by noon. Further, without bus service not many workers could come. On Thursday, probably another 10 % will start functioning,” he said. “Units located in containment areas will remain shut,” he said. The Association plans to hold awareness sessions at the smithies on the precautions to be taken and distribute pamphlets. Coimbatore Jewellers’ Association president Sabarinath said just about 50 % of the jewellery retailers were able to open shop on Wednesday. “A lot of workers and even shop owners live in containment areas. They are unable to come out. The government should relax the containment norms. We expect business to resume full only next month or by the end of this month,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-units-resume-production/article32167415.ece
23 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private vehicle drivers stage demonstration||Members of various associations representing drivers of taxis, auto rickshaws, trucks and private buses staged a one-day strike in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on Wednesday pressing for charter of demands. Organised by All India Tourist Vehicle Drivers’ Association, the strike was supported by 12 other associations. In Coimbatore, the drivers staged a demonstration in front of the Regional Transport Office (Central) on Dr. Balasundaram Road. In a petition to Joint Transport Commissioner of Coimbatore Zone K. Umasakthi, the association members sought six month extension for renewing fitness certificates and vehicle insurance. The petition also demanded that the State government must provide cash assistance to all drivers. In Tiruppur district, nearly 200 private bus drivers from various associations staged a demonstration at Arulpuram near Palladam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-vehicle-drivers-stage-demonstration/article32167422.ece
23 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bids to be finalised shortly for Avinashi Road flyover||The State Highways Department is expected to finalise bids shortly for the construction of a flyover on Avinashi Road for 10 km. According to an official of the Department, the pre-qualification tender was opened recently, and three companies have submitted details. The financial bids will be finalised in a week. The Department plans to construct a four-lane flyover for 10.1 km from Uppilipalayam in Coimbatore at a total cost of Rs. 1,620 crore. The flyover will end near KMCH. It will be completed in three years and will have eight ramps. Regarding social media posts that the project cost is over quoted, a source dismissed the allegations and said the Avinashi Road flyover would have ramps and several other features to ensure that vehicles taking the existing road were not affected. Further, the costs were based on current rates. “The flyover is one of the long-pending demands of the city and was planned in detail. Since the volume of work and hence, the costs, are huge, it is attracting a lot of criticism too,” source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bids-to-be-finalised-shortly-for-avinashi-road-flyover/article32167414.ece
23 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation shifts vegetable market to Ukkadam Bus Stand||Coimbatore Corporation has shifted the Lorry Pet vegetable market back to the Ukkadam Bus Stand after a person in the area had died due to COVID-19. Sources familiar with the development said a few of the traders had shifted to the Bus Stand by Wednesday afternoon. The rest would shift on Thursday morning. Until further orders, the vegetable traders would have to set shop there. The Corporation’s move came even as a section of people there attempted to stage a protest demanding that the civic body shift the market and disinfect the area. They said that the death due to COVID-19 of a scrap iron merchant at the market there, the heavy movement of people through Lorry Pet made them place the demand. In another COVID-19 related development, the Corporation had closed down the Pattu Nool Urban Primary Health Centre after a worker had tested positive. The civic body officials said the Centre would remain shut on Thursday and Friday for disinfection. The day also saw the Corporation seal five meat and chicken shops near Thadagam Road after a flying squad found violation of the physical distancing norms at the outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-shifts-vegetable-market-to-ukkadam-bus-stand/article32167409.ece
23 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Left parties stage protest||Members of the Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI (M) staged protests in several parts of the city on Wednesday condemning the social media posts against the parties and its leaders and demanding action against those who make such posts. Speaking to reporters after staging a demonstration in Tiruppur, K. Subbarayan, MP, alleged that the BJP and the AIADMK were unable to tolerate the progress made by the oppressed communities in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-stage-protest/article32167416.ece
23 July 2020||COIMBATORE / CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marxist thinker and Tamil writer Kovai Gnani no more||Noted Marxist thinker, Tamil scholar and literary critic Kovai Gnani died in Coimbatore on Wednesday due age-related ailments. He was 85 years old and is survived by two sons. Born Pazhanisamy in 1935, he studied Tamil literature at Annamalai University. He served as Tamil teacher for about 30 years. He wrote under the name Kovai Gnani and his works, all in Tamil, include 28 critiques, 11 anthologies, and three works of poetry. “He never identified himself with any political party or movement. He was a voracious reader and well-versed in both Tamil and English. His in-depth knowledge in Tamil moved him towards Tamil nationalism. But he was particular that any nationalism should be firmed anchored in Marxism,” said write S.V. Rajadurai (SVR), who had worked with him since 1965 and ran a magazine Parimanam and wrote for Nigazh edited by Gnani. Mr. Rajadurai said he was one among the Marxists who introduced Italian communist leader Antonio Gramsci to the Tamil political and literary world. Though he lost his eyesight at the age of 55, Gnani’s pursuit of knowledge continued till his last days. He played a major role in founding the Vaanampaadi poetry movement. He was editor of several Tamil literary magazines, including Parimanam, Velvi, Nigazh and Tamil Neyam . Of these, Tamil Neyam is a treasure trove of information on the lives and works of Tamil scholars. “Unlike political parties that viewed Marxism merely as a political idea, Kovai Gnani approached it primarily as a philosophy. He reiterated the ethics in Marxism and that allowed him to strike a chord even with environmental issues along with another Marxist thinker S.N. Nagarajan,” said Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) MP Ravikumar. Mr. Rajadurai said though he was a Marxist, Gnani never allowed his ideology to come in the way of his personal friendship. “He would always be surrounded by friends from all political parties and movement,” he said. Writer Jayamohan, one among them, always considered Kovai Gnani as his Guru. “I met him in 1989 and he remained a guide to all my writings and creations. It was he who introduced me as a writer to the Tamil world and my stories like Padugai and Bothi were published in his literary magazines,” said Mr. Jayamohan. According to the website kovaignani.org he was always concerned with Tamil Virtue (Aram) and the Tamil way of thinking. “In his view, Tamil Virtue implies equality and socialism. We can easily call Gnani a Tamil Marxist,” said the website. “He tried to understand Tamil literature and Marxism through each other. He understood humanity through the two and tried to bridge the two in his works,” says his youngest son Madhavan Palanisamy. He was the recipient of Iyal Virudhu given by Canada Illakiya Thottam and Pudhumai Pithan Vilakku Virudhu and many other awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marxist-thinker-and-tamil-writer-kovai-gnani-no-more/article32167427.ece
23 July 2020||COIMBATORE / CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Writer dead||Noted Marxist thinker, Tamil scholar and literary critic Kovai Gnani died in Coimbatore on Wednesday due to age-related ailments. He was 85 years and is survived by two sons. Born Pazhanisamy in 1935, he wrote under the name Kovai Gnani and his works, all in Tamil, include 28 critiques, 11 anthologies, and three works of poetry. “He was a voracious reader and well-versed in both Tamil and English. His in-depth knowledge in Tamil moved him towards Tamil nationalism. But he was particular that any nationalism should be firmly anchored in Marxism,” said writer S.V. Rajadurai (SVR), who had worked with him since 1965. Though he lost eyesight at the age of 55, Gnani’s pursuit of knowledge continued till his last days. He played a major role in founding the Vaanampaadi poetry movement. Won several awards According to the website kovaignani.org he was always concerned with Tamil Virtue ( Aram ) and the Tamil way of thinking. “In his view, Tamil Virtue implies equality and socialism. We can easily call Gnani a Tamil Marxist,” said the website. He was the recipient of Iyal Virudhu given by Canada Illakiya Thottam and Pudhumai Pithan Vilakku Virudhu and many other awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/writer-kovai-gnani-dead/article32167384.ece
23 July 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in accident||A Tiruchi-bound container truck lost control and toppled killing four persons, including the driver and the cleaner, near Thoppur in the small hours of Wednesday. The truck carrying railway bridges from Sivadi to Tiruchi was navigating through Thoppur Ghat bend near the Anjaneyar temple, when the truck lost control. The lorry rammed across the median into a head-on collision with a two-wheeler from the opposite side, before toppling over. The two-wheeler riders were killed on the spot. The lorry driver Selvam (30) of Sangiliyandapuram, Tiruchi, cleaner Thangaraj (55), Vazhapadi, Salem along with the two-wheelers riders Chinnavan(55), a watchman from Nallampalli in Dharmapuri, and Ariya Gounder of Dharmapuri were killed on the spot. Thoppur police have registered a case. The bodies were recovered and sent to Dharmapuri government medical college hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-in-accident/article32167413.ece
23 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Protest before hospital||Residents here in Thadicombu police station limits staged a dharna and blocked the road in protest against a private hospital, which allegedly admitted COVID-19 patients in their lodge near the Collectorate complex. Residents led by Chandrasekaran informed the police that it was a clear case of violation. Many children and senior citizens were residing near the lodg. They have converted some rooms into Covid-19 care centre. When Joint Director Health Sivakumar clarified that only the private hospital was permitted to admit COVID-19 patients and not the lodge. Two women saw the hospital authorities bringing two patients in an autorickshaw to the lodge. After persuasion, they took the patients back to the hospital, the police added.  More hospitals authorised In a press release, Collector M Vijayalakshmi said that apart from the Government Hospital, eight private hospitals including St. Joseph Hospital, City Hospital, Raja Rajeswari Hospital, Sheeba Hospital in Dindigul, Leonard Hospital Batlagundu, Christian Fellowship Hospital at Ambilikai and Oddanchatram and Vel Multi Speciality Hospital Palani have been authorised to admit COVID-19 positive patients by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-before-hospital/article32167656.ece
23 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||PHC closed||Kamala Nehru Corporation PHC was closed for three days here on Wednesday. Health officials said the watchman tested positive four days ago. However, the premises were sanitized and continued to receive patients. With a conservancy worker and a nurse also testing positive, the hospital was shut down for three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phc-closed/article32167664.ece
23 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Parents will be consulted on school reopening, says Minister||Schools will be reopened after seeking parents’ opinion only after the impact of COVID-19 subsides, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan at Gobichettipalayam on Wednesday. Addressing the media after laying the foundation stone for various works worth Rs. 2.73 crore, the Minister said that the impact of COVID-19 was high in the State and the government was handling the pandemic effectively. This was appreciated by the Central government, he said. “Let the impact subside first. An opinion will be sought from the parents after that,” he said, adding that the Chief Minister would take a final call on the issue. The Minister said that the results for Class 12 students, appearing for the exam on July 27, and results for Class IX board examinations would be published by the month-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-will-be-consulted-on-school-reopening-says-minister/article32167396.ece
23 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protest seeking quota in medical courses||Seeking 50% reservation for Backward Classes (BCs) in medical and dental seats, cadre of Tamil Puligal Katchi staged a demonstration in the city here on Wednesday. Cadre said that 50% reservation for BCs in the State in All India quota seats for the medical courses, both undergraduate and postgraduate levels were denied for the past four years. Cadre said that earlier the State government filled up the seats with local residents of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-seeking-quota-in-medical-courses/article32167410.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Track doubling: focus on 85 km in four stretches||With the first phase of doubling work for around 45 km around Vanchi Maniyachchi railway station recently commissioned, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) officials have targeted the completion of another 85 km of track doubling in four stretches by March 2021 in the Madurai-Nagercoil/ Thoothukudi doubling project. The first phase of track doubling in the southern districts beyond Madurai was commissioned on July 16. A double track is available up to Madurai in the Chennai-Nagercoil/Thoothukudi sections. “We are progressing as per schedule and we hope to complete the total project as planned provided there is no more disruption due to the pandemic,” a senior official said. Instead of taking up the work in a linear manner, the officials have identified certain bottleneck stretches and are addressing them with the provision of a second railway line on priority. In the next phase, a 41 km stretch on the Tirumangalam-Thulukkapatti section; 23 km stretch on the Kadambur-Kovilpatti section; 14 km stretch on the Gangaikondan-Tirunelveli section and 7 km stretch on the Thattaparai-Milavittan section will be taken up. “Earthen work on almost the entire 85 km stretch has been completed. With major bridge work already done, only 20 minor bridge works on the Kovilpatti-Kadambur section are under way,“ he added. The bridge works are expected to be completed by September. “Almost 40% of the work on the 85 km stretch have been completed and in some stretches, even track linking works have started,” he added. With around 50% of the 260 km-long doubling project slated for completion by March 2021, a seamless double track would be available from Tirunelveli to Kovilpatti. Similarly, with another 41 km stretch between Tirumangalam and Thulukkapatti simultaneously getting ready, a majority of the Tirunelveli-Madurai section would have double tracks by the turn of the next fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/track-doubling-focus-on-85-km-in-four-stretches/article32167655.ece
23 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai colleges help students who have difficulty applying online||As applications for undergraduate courses go completely online, college administrations across the district are offering a helping hand to students from remote areas and to first generation learners who face trouble applying through the internet . Hundreds of calls flood the offices of Thiagarajar College every day regarding how one must apply, says Principal D. Pandiaraja. “We patiently take them through the entire process of application and explain to them about how to manoeuvre any glitches. The prospectus online has several numbers which are always reachable. I am reachable too and have attended at least 60 calls today,” he says. He adds that the college went online with its applications last year too. It has hence been easy to handle the queries this year, he said. Principal of Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women S. Vanathi says that the college is a government facilitating institution. “We have a separate faculty coordinator who directs students in case they face any trouble. A notice board outside our college states the name of our website and has also provided details regarding who to contact in case of emergencies,” she said. Principal, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, B. Manoharan, says that applying online has been a challenge for a section of students. “I myself have seen a number of families cramming outside computer centres near the college. Although a section is definitely affected by this move, we are confident that they will apply since they have been told that they can use government e-sevai centres or can contact their schools to apply” he said. Lady Doak College’s Principal Christianna Singh said that their college too went online last year and that only a few people had problems navigating through their website. “Since we are a minority institution, we also encourage people to directly write to us in case they have any problems. If they are persons who cannot afford the finances, we are more than willing to accommodate them based on their merit,” she said. American College has already received close to 15,000 applications, said Principal M. Davamani Christober. He said that since the State government had already provided a number of students with laptops, they would surely be able to apply online. He added that faculty had been stationed in the college to clear the doubts of students who would come to their college premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-colleges-help-students-who-have-difficulty-applying-online/article32167666.ece
23 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Many rural students go to browsing centres to submit applications online||With colleges opting for online admissions this year, students from rural areas, who have poor access to high speed internet connectivity, have to travel to the nearest browsing centres to apply to colleges. Though browsing centres are present across rural areas, some students still have to travel to the city to reach browsing centres. K. Santhosh, a student who passed out of Government Higher Secondary School in Mukkulam village of Sivaganga district, had to travel to Vandiyur in Madurai city on Tuesday for a browsing centre. “In the absence of public transport, I travelled on a two-wheeler to reach the city. I chose to travel to Madurai city because I thought those working at the browsing centres here are well informed and would fill up my college applications correctly,” he said. T. Alaguraja, who runs a browsing centre at Usilampatti town, said that around 50 students visited his centre in the past two days to apply for college admissions. “While applying for many colleges, students have to scan their documents and upload their photographs. Hence, they come to computer centres,” he said. Most of the rural students are unaware of how to pay online or they lack internet banking facilities, he added. “So, the students pay the owners of browsing centres the college application fee, apart from additional service charges. The owners then pay for the online application through their accounts,” he said. The browsing centres charge around Rs. 100 as service charges for every online application that is filed, he added. M.Sainithii, a resident of Sholavandhan, said that it would be nice if the government opens e-seva centres in rural pockets exclusively for online college admissions. “For many students paying additional charge for every online application is unaffordable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-rural-students-go-to-browsing-centres-to-submit-applications-online/article32167667.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court nod to terminate pregnancy of teen||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday allowed the termination of the seven month pregnancy of a 15-year-old girl after taking cognisance of reports from medical experts who said that termination could be considered. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the Dean of Thanjavur Medical College and Hospital to immediately commence the process of termination of pregnancy, without delay, keeping the well being of the girl in mind. The court was hearing a petition filed by the girl’s aunt who had sought termination of her pregnancy. It was said that the girl was sexually assaulted by her father and grandfather who had been arrested for the offence. The girl had lost her mother. Earlier, a team of medical experts was constituted to examine the 15-year-old’s condition as the gestation period was 25 weeks. The medical team after examining the girl said that the termination of pregnancy could be considered. The court relied upon Supreme Court judgements that allowed termination of pregnancy, exceeding the statutory limit, taking into account compelling reasons. If the pregnancy of the girl was continued, it would affect her well being, the court said.  Medical experts who examined the 15-year-old’s condition said the termination of pregnancy could be considered||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-allows-teen-to-terminate-pregnancy/article32167378.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC allows termination of minor girl’s pregnancy||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday allowed the termination of the seven month pregnancy of a 15-year-old girl after taking cognisance of reports from medical experts who said that termination can be considered. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the Dean of the Thanjavur Medical College and Hospital to immediately commence the process of the termination of the unwanted pregnancy, without delay, keeping the well being of the girl in mind. The court was hearing the petition filed by the girl’s aunt who had sought the termination of the girl’s pregnancy. It is said that the girl’s father and grandfather had sexually assaulted the girl. They have been arrested for the offence. The girl had lost her mother. Earlier, a team of medical experts was constituted to examine the condition of the girl as the gestation period was 25 weeks. The medical team after examining the girl said that the termination of pregnancy can be considered. The court relied upon Supreme Court judgements that allowed the termination of pregnancy, exceeding the statutory limit, taking into account compelling reasons. If the pregnancy of the girl was continued, it would affect her well being, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-allows-termination-of-minor-girls-pregnancy/article32167676.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report from Construction Workers Welfare Board||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has put forth a series of queries to the Construction Workers Welfare Board to answer with regard to providing financial assistance to the workers. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to provide adequate COVID-19 financial assistance to these workers. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Construction Workers Welfare Board to file an affidavit with regard to the number of registered workers on their roll, details of those who had renewed and those who had not renewed their registration and how many had renewed through online mode. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by the Thamizhaga Kattida Thozhilalar Madhiya Sangam. The sangam sought a direction to the State government to provide COVID-19 financial assistance to these workers irrespective of whether they had renewed their membership or not. During the course of the hearing, Senior Counsel P. Wilson submitted that once a construction worker was registered with the Board and assuming that he had not renewed his membership, he is deemed to continue in the register of the Board until and unless the registration is cancelled in the manner known to law. He pointed out that the State government had extended COVID-19 relief measures to the Boards representing unregistered sector workers. However, the same was not extended to the construction workers who were registered but had not renewed the registration due to various reasons. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian submitted that most of the workers registered with the Board were inter-state workers and were large in number. In the absence of renewal, it was difficult to enumerate them for the purpose of giving benefits, he said. The case was adjourned till July 28 for filing of the counter affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-from-construction-workers-welfare-board/article32167675.ece
23 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to submit report in other police torture case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the CB-CID to submit a status report on the investigation into the custodial torture case of Mahendran. The allegation of custodial torture has been levelled against the same Sattankulam police personnel involved in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the CB-CID to submit the status report with regard to the progress made in the investigation on August 7. Earlier, the State government had informed the court that the CB-CID had taken over the investigation into the case. The incident was reported to have occurred before the custodial deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks. In her petition, S. Vadivu, the mother of Mahendran, alleged that her son was tortured by Sattankulam police in the name of inquiry, in which he sustained injuries on his head and private parts. The police personnel also threatened her of dire consequences if she spoke of the police torture to anyone. After Mahendran was let off, he was taken to Government Thoothukudi Medical College and Hospital as he complained of giddiness and pain. The CT scan report revealed a blood clot in his brain. Later, he succumbed to his injuries, she said, and added that the family was forced to receive the body without the the post-mortem done. She said the villagers had complained to the Collector, the Superintendent of Police and other officials, but no action was taken against the police personnel. Had her complaint been looked into seriously by the officials, the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks could have been avoided, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-submit-report-in-other-police-torture-case/article32167674.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP says his predictions on positive cases turn true||Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan, has said the total number of COVID-19 positive cases recorded in Madurai district as on July 21 has not only vindicated his warning issued to the State government in June, but also exceeded the predictions he had then made. In a statement, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said that he had issued a statement on June 26 drawing the attention of Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, seeking immediate action as Madurai had then posed the danger of having 7,883 positive cases by July 21. “My statement was based on certain statistics and predictions made by Union Health Ministry with a 7.9% growth rate of positivity,” he said. Stating that he was flayed by the State Revenue Minister, R.B. Udhayakumar, by saying that the MP was trying to create panic among the people. “However, the fact now remains that on July 21, the district has got 8,517 positive cases as per State Government records. The State Government and the Minister should realise that our intention was not to create panic, but to impress upon you to the factual situation and make the Government take preventive steps,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-says-his-predictions-on-positive-cases-turn-true/article32167677.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman found murdered||M. Muthayee, 55, a resident of Periyachittalotti, was found murdered with her throat slit open in her farm under Peraiyur police station limits on Tuesday night. The police said she had gone to her farm where she had raised cotton on Tuesday afternoon. Since she failed to return home, her relatives had gone in search of her where they found her lying dead with cut injuries. Based on her son’s complaint, M. Kannan (38), the police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-murdered/article32167657.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea seeks COVID-19 aid||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a response from the State government in a public interest litigation petition filed by a dress presser from Madurai who sought a direction to the government to provide COVID-19 assistance to unregistered washermen/washerwomen and dress pressers . A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State government. The petition, filed by K.P. Manikandan from Madurai, said relief measures should be extended to unregistered washermen/washerwomen and dress pressers, as they were finding it hard to make ends meet. The case was adjourned till August 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-seeks-covid-19-aid/article32167671.ece
23 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CBI officials test positive for COVID-19||After two CBI officials investigating the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks tested positive for COVID-19, the accused who were taken into custody by the CBI were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. The three constables Chelladurai, Saamadurai and Veyilmuthu were produced before Chief Judicial Magistrate T.V. Hemanandakumar and remanded. Earlier, the CBI had been granted custody of the three till July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-officials-test-positive-for-covid-19/article32167385.ece
23 July 2020||MADURAI/RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Opposition flays attack on CPI leader||Members of the Communist Party of India (CPI) and several other Opposition parties protested against right wing organisations for allegedly defaming CPI and its senior leader R. Nallakannu, here on Wednesday. CPI’s Madurai Urban Secretary M. Saravanan said that right wing organisations had defamed a veteran leader of their party — who has contributed much to the development of Tamil Nadu — by spreading lies. “Nallakannu brought out the issue of sand mining in Thamirabarani river, but instead of looking at the good it has led to, they [right wing outfits] have been spreading fake news online,” he alleged. He added that these outfits had launched a targeted online hate campaign against writer Sundaravalli, deputy secretary of Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artists Association (TNPWAA) and spoke about her in a derogatory manner on social media. “We have submitted our petition to police in Chennai. Such fake news should not be circulated without any basis,” he said.  Rajapalayam The cadres staged a demonstration protesting against right wing organisations for making derogatory statements against the Communist party, their leaders and social reformist Periyar E.V. Ramasamy. Leading the protest at Seithur, the party Virudhunagar district secretary, P. Lingam, said that besides belittling remarks against their party office building, they also made cheap comments against a progressive woman activist. Similarly, they made false accusations against Mr. Nallakannu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-flays-attack-on-cpi-leader/article32167668.ece
23 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen held for ferrying refugees||Two fishermen in the district were arrested by the Q Branch police on Tuesday for allegedly ferrying two Sri Lankan Tamil refugees to the island nation from Nagapattinam, based on information passed on by the Sri Lankan Embassy. Tamilvannan and Chandiran of Seruthur fishing hamlet were arrested after they were found to have ferried Balakrishnan and his friend Thilakson, housed in refugee camps in Tiruchi and Kancheepuram respectively, to Sri Lanka on a fibre boat. The two refugees, who were arrested in Sri Lanka by a naval team and interrogated at the Kankesanthurai Harbour, had confessed that the Nagapattinam fishermen had transported them in lieu of payment of Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-held-for-ferrying-refugees/article32167377.ece
23 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||2 fishermen arrested||Two fishermen in the district were arrested by Q Branch Police on Tuesday for allegedly ferrying two Sri Lankan Tamil refugees to the island nation from here. Tamilvannan and Chandiran of Seruthur were arrested after they were found to have ferried Balakrishnan and his friend Thilakson, housed in refugee camps in Tiruchi and Kancheepuram, to Sri Lanka on a fibre boat. The refugees, who were arrested in Sri Lanka and interrogated at Kankesanthurai Harbour confessed that the fishermen transported them in lieu of payment of Rs. 25,000. The arrests of the fishermen came after the Sri Lankan Embassy passed on the information to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-fishermen-arrested/article32167700.ece
23 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No rules violated in presenting Annual Financial Statement, says Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday reiterated his government’s stand that no rules were violated in presenting the Annual Financial Statement (AFS) for the current financial year. Giving a detailed clarification after the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and nominated legislators belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party raised a controversy surrounding the Budget presentation, the Chief Minister said the session was convened to present the AFS with the permission of Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi. Producing the proof of the file noting which the government sent to the Lt. Governor on July 17 seeking her permission to convene the session, he said she didn’t raise any objection on the presentation of the AFS. Denying any delay in submitting the Budget estimates to the Centre for approval, Mr. Narayanasamy said the file was sent to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on May 13. The MHA sought a few clarifications after a few days, and this was immediately presented to the Centre. The government received communication from the MHA on July 16 informing them about the assent given to the estimates. “I sent the file the next day to the Lt. Governor seeking her permission to convene the Assembly to present the AFS. She signed the file without seeking any clarification,” he said. Mr. Narayanasamy said on the night of July 19, he received a letter from Ms. Bediasking the government to re-schedulethe Assembly session. The governmentwent ahead with the presentation of the Budgeton July 20 itself as there was no violation of rules. The issue saw heated exchanges between the ruling Congress members and the AIADMK and nominated legislators. The AIADMK members staged a walkout condemning the attitude of the Congress government and the Lt. Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-rules-violated-in-presenting-annual-financial-statement-says-narayanasamy/article32167403.ece
23 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Kiran Bedi approves Demand for Grants||Defusing a crisis over passing the Budget for 2020-21, Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday gave the nod for presenting the Demand for Grants in the House. The Lt. Governor also accepted the Government’s invitation to address the House on Friday, a press statement from Raj Nivas said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kiran-bedi-approves-demand-for-grants/article32167404.ece
23 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Assembly against power privatisation||The Assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the Centre to withdraw its decision to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory. Moving a government resolution, Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan said the Centre took the decision to privatise power distribution without consulting the territorial administration. The move would impact pro-poor schemes, including the free electricity programme of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-against-power-privatisation/article32167405.ece
23 July 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rajapalayam MLA tests positive||Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian has tested positive for COVID-19. The result was conveyed to the DMK MLA over phone on Tuesday night. “Our party president M.K. Stalin called me this morning to check on my health. On his advice, our party leaders K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Thangam Thennarasu made arrangements for my admission to a private hospital in Madurai,” said the MLA, who was on his way to the hospital on Wednesday morning. After he developed fever on July 12, he volunteered to get his samples tested at the government hospital in Rajapalayam on July 14, he said. “Though I was in touch with health officials for the results, it came only on the eighth day. Health officials said that since the samples had been sent to Nagercoil, there was a delay in getting the results,” Mr. Thangapandian said. In the intervening period, he did not allow family members or outsiders to interact with him. “Even on Tuesday, I participated in the State-wide protest against exorbitant electricity charges in nearby Chettiyarpatti, with only a few people around me,” he said. His wife and son, who contracted the virus a few weeks ago, have recovered after treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajapalayam-mla-tests-positive/article32167388.ece
23 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Shops close at 4 p.m.||Most of the traders in Thanjavur district closed down their commercial establishments at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, the first day of the 10-day self-imposed restriction in business hours announced by traders associations across the district in view of a sudden spurt in the number of positive cases .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-close-at-4-pm/article32167711.ece
23 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Lorries off the road in Thoothukudi||More than 5,000 lorries were off the road for 12 hours as truck owners struck work on Wednesday in protest against sharp increase in diesel price. Cargo movement from Thoothukudi VOC Port came to a grinding halt here between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. They said the Union Government had increased the fuel price on several times and diesel had become Rs. 15 dearer since March. Even as the lockdown had telling impact on the cargo movement and owners are struggling to repay the loan they had availed for buying the vehicle, the fuel price increase had almost decimated the industry. Banks to which the hypothecation of the vehicles had been done were coercing the truck owners to repay the loan regularly or face the seizure of the trucks for recovering the loan through public auction, truck owners said. The toll had also been increased instead of removing the toll plazas where the Union Government had recovered entire cost of the four-lane road laid by the National Highways Authority of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorries-off-the-road-in-thoothukudi/article32167658.ece
23 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors save teen’s life||Doctors of Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital saved the life of a boy who had fallen from a tree. When M. Ramesh, 13, of Kamarajarpuram near Saayalkudi, his elder brother Selvamani and another friend went to pluck jamun fruits from a tree on Tuesday. Ramesh, who was harvesting fruits from top of the tree, fell down and sustained injuries. He was shifted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Investigations showed that he had sustained fracture in the skull and broken skull bones have pierced through the brain to cause blood clot. Neurosurgeon Raja S. Vignesh and his team performed a surgery to remove broken pieces of bones in the brain and removed blood clots. Ramesh is fast recovering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-save-teens-life/article32167661.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi district records new single-day high with 213 positive cases||The central region saw a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with a total of 482 patients testing positive on a single day. Tiruchi recorded the highest number for a single day with 213 new cases. Thanjavur district registered 106 fresh cases, while 45 tested positive in Tiruvarur, 59 in Pudukottai, 26 in Ariyalur, 15 in Perambalur, 14 in Nagapattinam, and four in Karur. Three deaths were recorded in the region: two in Pudukottai and one in Karur. A 57-year-old man and a 75-year-old man, both diabetic patients, died at Pudukottai Medical College Hospital after suffering respiratory failure. A 78-year-old man with leukaemia, admitted to Karur GH after testing positive, died of respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Of the 213 to test positive in Tiruchi, many hailed from Manapparai, Srirangam, Thennur and Varaganeri, said a senior health official. All were admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Of 3,408 test samples tested over the last two days, 34 were positive, while 3,068 tested negative. A total of 47 patients, including 44 from Tiruchi, were discharged from MGMGH, while 45 including 43 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the COVID Care Centre at Khajamalai. In Thanjavur, contacts of vendors at Darasuram Market continued to test positive for the viral infection. Of the 106 new cases, 98 were admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, six to a private hospital in Thanjavur and one each to Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital and Tiruchi GH. In Ariyalur, two of the 26 patients were primary contacts of an individual who tested positive earlier, while 10 were secondary contacts. The other patients had travelled to the district. The total number of cases in the district, including them, stood at 710. Meanwhile, 591 patients recovered and returned home. There were 83 active cases undergoing treatment at Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, five at Perambalur GH, 13 at Tiruchi GH and 10 at various private hospitals in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Chennai. Among the 15 who tested positive in Perambalur were six patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses, three contacts of a frontline worker and six family members, including a five-year-old boy, of a man who tested positive earlier. A total of 14 patients tested positive in Nagapattinam including six women. The patients were admitted to Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. Three patients were involved in supplying vegetables in Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam and contracted the infection from there, while three returned from Chennai and one from Tiruchi. The remaining were primary contacts, a senior official said. In Karur, four patients tested positive and undergoing treatment at Karur Government Medical College Hospital. A total of 84 active cases were undergoing treatment at Karur Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-district-records-new-single-day-high-with-213-positive-cases/article32167708.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Left parties stage demo||CPI and CPI(M) cadre on Wednesday staged a demonstration in Tiruchi condemning the derogatory remarks made in a social media post against CPI State unit office ‘Balan Ilam’ in Chennai and party leader R. Nallakannu. The demonstrators alleged that the remarks were made by the BJP and Sangh Parivar members. The stir was conducted as part of a State-wide call. In Tiruchi city, the demonstration held near Ramakrishna theatre was led by CPI urban district secretary A.K. Dravida Mani and CPI-M urban district secretary R. Raja. Members of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Dravidar Kazhagam participated. The demonstrators demanded the arrest of those behind the derogatory remarks. CPI cadre staged similar demonstrations at Perambalur, Padalur, Arumbavur and Kunnam in Perambalur district, said police sources. Party cadre also staged a demonstration In Thanjavur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-stage-demo/article32167705.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two-wheeler patrolling introduced||Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan inaugurated the two-wheeler patrolling, christened ‘Nellai Kaavalar,’ on Wednesday to enable the police reach the scene of crime or victims within the shortest possible time to track and nab culprits immediately. Inaugurating the patrolling at Nanguneri police station, he said the 24 x 7 two-wheeler patrolling team, each with 2 policemen, would rush to the scene of crime within the next few minutes and would be ready to assist the victims of crimes in all 32 police stations of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-wheeler-patrolling-introduced/article32167660.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Aid for self-employment projects||Youth who have returned to their native places in four blocks in Tiruvarur from other districts, States and countries can avail financial assistance for taking up self-employment projects on fulfilling certain conditions. Collector, T. Anand has said Rs. 1 lakh will be extended as a long-term loan to eligible youth through the Village Poverty Reduction Committee (VPRC). Either the applicant or a family member should be a SHG member.While the upper age limit for male applicants is 35, it is 40 for women. They should possess required skill and experience in the trade or business. The VPR scheme is being implemented in 174 villages in Needamangalam, Valangaiman, Mannargudi and Muthupettai blocks. Interested persons can contact their VPRCs or the District Office, Tamil Nadu Rural Renaissance Scheme, Tiruvarur in person or over phone – (04366) 290137 or 93852 99730.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aid-for-self-employment-projects/article32167696.ece
23 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Feeding neglected horses in Ooty||Horses that have been neglected by their owners since the ban on tourists in the Nilgiris during the lockdown are being fed by volunteer organisations with the help of local government departments. The horses, which were used to offer rides to tourists prior to the pandemic, have largely been left to fend for themselves by their owners, who are unable to afford the costs of their upkeep. Many of these animals, mostly former race horses, are a common sight at trash heaps around the town. “Many of them are in an emaciated state as they have not been fed for weeks,” said M. Balaji, a resident of Tamilagam Road in Udhagamandalam. Horses that were kept in Khandal have been making their way to the surrounding residential areas and forests, searching for food. The Worldwide Veterinary Service (WVS-India), the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Nilgiris district), the district administration and the Department of Animal Husbandry have now teamed up to provide food for the horses in need of assistance. Nigel Otter, chairman of WVS-India, said that around 20-25 former race horses were being fed. “Feed is also being given to owners of horses who are taking care of the animals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/feeding-neglected-horses-in-ooty/article32167392.ece
23 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Indian black turtle rescued||An Indian black turtle ( Melanochelys trijuga ) was rescued by the Forest Department staff from a populated part of the Udhagamandalam town on Tuesday. Forest officials said they received information about the presence of the turtle, usually found around lakes, ponds and water bodies, in a residential area on Good Shed Road, Udhagamandalam. Local residents had safely contained it till the Forest staff reached the spot. After it was rescued, the turtle was taken to a small pond in Udhagamandalam town and released. The Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris Division), K. Saravanakumar, said that the Forest Department was unsure as to how the turtle found its way into a populated human settlement. “We will investigate whether it accidentally came into the area or was brought there by people,” said Mr. Saravanakumar. An ecologist familiar with the species said it was usually found in the lower slopes of the Nilgiris and in the Sigur plateau. “Turtle meat is highly sought-after as there is a unproven belief that it can cure a variety of ailments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-black-turtle-rescued/article32167423.ece
23 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Movement of vehicles restricted||Movement of two-wheeler and four-wheeler in the Bazaar area here has been prohibited to prevent spread of COVID-19. In an order, the Local Incident Commander, R. Banugopan, said that Virudhunagar taluk has recorded around 500 positive cases from July 8 to 21. “So, they are prohibited with effect from July 21.” Vehicles coming from Madurai Main Road and Pullalakottai Road should be parked on Desabandhu ground and KVS Middle School ground. Vehicles would not be allowed beyond those parking lots into the bazaar area. People should walk through the bazaar area to buy groceries or vegetables. Traders and employees of shops should park their two-wheelers in Desabandhu ground or KVS Middle School. Four wheelers should be parked in Old Bus Stand. Traders can operate heavy vehicles for loading and unloading of goods between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. All entries of the bazaar area would be barricaded to prevent movement of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/movement-of-vehicles-restricted/article32167662.ece
23 July 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Record number positive cases, deaths in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district registered the highest single-day tally of 363 positive cases and death toll of six on Wednesday. With this, the district’s death toll rose to 34 and the total number of cases to 4,287. The day also saw the highest number of patients getting discharged – 471. The district now has 2,072 active cases. The fresh deaths – the patients were in the age group of 53 to 72 – were reported between July 19 and 21. Collector R. Kannan said the sudden increase in the number of cases was due to the increase in tests. “The number of tests has been increased to 2,000 to 2,500 these days after the testing facilities were increased. We have also got an automated RNA extractor that saves us time and speed up the testing capacity,” he added. While up to 1,000 samples are tested at Government Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital every day, the rest are sent to hospitals, including private laboratories, in other districts. Thoothukudi recorded 326 new cases – 323 of them indigenous – which pushed the district’s tally to 4,241. The district has 2,232 active cases. Kanniyakumari In Kanniyakumari, 152 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday which took the case count to 2,721 and the number of active cases to 1,725. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli recorded 120 new cases with which its tally went up to 2,972. The district has 1,079 active cases. Tenkasi reported 85 new cases to have an overall case count of 1,344 with 891 active cases. In Madurai, 197 persons tested positive – all are indigenous cases – on Wednesday, which took the district’s case count to 8,705. A total of 445 persons were discharged, and the district now has 3,016 active cases. There were seven deaths in the district. The victims included a 23-year-old person with comorbidities. The death toll stands at 174. Theni Theni registered 167 fresh cases, which took the total number of positive cases to 2,899. Periyakulam, Theni, Chinnamanur, Andipatti and Uthamapalayam reported many of the fresh cases. There were two deaths. Dindigul Dindigul had 101 new cases which took the district’s tally to 1,826. Forty-one people were discharged from hospital. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram accounted for 89 new cases, with which its case count rose to 2,692. A total of 70 people were discharged. Sivaganga Sivaganga recorded 73 fresh cases, which took its tally to 1,760, and 64 discharges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/record-number-positive-cases-deaths-in-virudhunagar-district/article32167673.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2 die in Krishnagiri, Coimbatore reports 178 cases||Krishnagiri district reported two COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, while Coimbatore and Salem districts continued to see a wave of positive cases. Coimbatore district reported 178 new cases on Wednesday, taking the number of total number of positive cases in the district so far to 2,539. The district has 1,236 active cases. Of the 178 cases, 17 were from Sami Iyer Street near Selvapuram, 10 from Emerald Jewel Industry Industry Ltd at Narasimhanaickenpalayam, six from Ponnusamy Street near Kovaipudur, five from PRS quarters and four from Kalyan Nagar near Achipatti. On Wednesday, 63 persons recovered and were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Salem saw 99 new cases, of which 98 were indigenous while one case was a person who returned from another district. A total of 2,560 cases were reported, so far, in the district while 1,697 were discharged, including 91 persons on Wednesday, while 844 persons continue to be under treatment. Sixty-nine persons tested positive in Krishnagiri. This has taken the total number of active cases to 243 in the district. Six members of the family of DMK MLA Senguttuvan have reportedly tested positive in Krishnagiri, three days after the MLA tested positive. A total of 520 cases of infection were reported in the district. 41 in Namakkal Namakkal district reported a highest single-day spike of 41 cases taking the district’s tally to 395. As many as 196 persons were discharged while 197 continue to be under treatment. Tiruppur district reported 29 COVID-19 cases, including a 11-month-old baby, taking its overall tally to 567 cases. The baby and her 28-year-old mother were residing at Maasi Street, Samathuvapuram at Thekkalur in Avinashi Block and both tested positive, Health Department sources said. In Tiruppur Corporation limits, a three-year-old girl along with two women aged 66 and 26 from Pandiyan Nagar also tested positive. The eldest case on Wednesday was an 84-year-old man from Ahathiyar Street. Apart from Corporation limits, cases were also reported from Avinashi, Pongalur and Vellakoil Blocks. Out of the 567 COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district as of Wednesday, 285 patients have recovered and 277 are active cases. A total of 930 swab samples were lifted in Tiruppur district and 19 COVID-19 patients from the district were discharged on Wednesday, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Twitter. After inspecting a fever surveillance camp organised by the Tiruppur Corporation, Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan told mediapersons said that according to a source analysis, nearly 93% of all the COVID-19 cases in the district were either those who came from other districts or their contacts. 600 camps City Health Officer N. Boopathy said nearly 600 fever surveillance camps had been organised by the Corporation in the past two weeks. The Collector said regulations had been tightened for issuing e-pass, to arrest the spread of COVID-19. It was being issued only for emergency purposes. In the Nilgiris, 12 persons tested positive, bringing the total number of cases recorded in the district to 528. The district administration said that 279 people have recovered and 247 people are undergoing treatment. Seven persons tested positive in Dharmapuri taking the total number of active cases to 244. On Wednesday, 18 persons were discharged. A total of 486 cases were reported in the district. Erode reported six new cases taking the district’s tally to 518. While 391 persons were discharged so far, 119 persons continue to be under treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-die-in-krishnagiri-coimbatore-reports-178-cases/article32167421.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||444 deaths added to city’s toll||In line with these guidelines, the committee was constituted to reconcile COVID-19 deaths by comparing the details of deaths obtained from hospitals with those obtained from burial grounds. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine had constituted the committee, headed by P. Vadivelan, director of public health and preventive medicine (officer on special duty). Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were Central government guidelines — Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 deaths. “On this basis, the committee was formed to look into the difference between the number of deaths reported by 102 hospitals in Chennai and the COVID-19 deaths recorded in GCC burial grounds. Initially, 530 such deaths were brought up. The panel expanded the scope of its assignment and took into account all deaths recorded from March to mid-July. Of these, 444 deaths were identified. Though doctors were of the view that these deaths were due to underlying co-morbid conditions and not due to COVID-19, the government has decided to record all 444 deaths as COVID-19 deaths based on the Centre’s guidelines,” he said. He added that as per the guidelines of the WHO and the Union government, with COVID-19 being a new disease, if a person who tests positive dies, any other underlying cause of death, like cardiac arrest, breast cancer or leukaemia, or any death before being tested, was to be considered a COVID-19 death. “This was not the case in Tamil Nadu alone. Similar exercises to reconcile death data were done in Maharashtra and Delhi. In Maharashtra, 1,382 deaths were reconciled, and in Delhi 344,” he noted. “The deaths were not left out on purpose. These were counted as deaths due to underlying causes with incidental COVID-19. We need a permanent solution. The Chief Minister has instructed that such a reconciliation exercise should be done on a weekly basis. Accordingly, a team headed by the DMS, along with the Directors of Medical Education and Public Health and Preventive Medicine and health officials of GCC, will check if any deaths had been left out every week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/444-deaths-added-to-citys-toll/article32167389.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club donates medical equipment to Tiruchi GH||Rotary Club of BHEL City Tiruchi, Rotary Club of Greater Shaheen and Rotary International Rotary Foundation on Wednesday donated 19 special equipment to be used at the Intensive Care Unit at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. The equipment, worth 41.31 lakh, was handed over to Collector S. Sivarasu and Dean K. Vanitha at MGMGH by Rotary office-bearers. The Dean, along with Medical Superintendent R. Yeganathan, conducted a demonstration of High Flow Nasal Cannula used at COVID-19 ward to supply oxygen to patients. “The hospital is already in possession of four such devices, two in paediatric ward and two in general ward. Ten new devices have been provided by the government to be used at COVID-19 ward,” Dr. Yeganathan said. The device, which costs Rs. 1 lakh each, was used to supply oxygen at a high flow for patients suffering from respiratory distress. “It is non-invasive and allows supply of 60 litres of oxygen in a minute, assisting the patient to breathe and get enough oxygen supply,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-club-donates-medical-equipment-to-tiruchi-gh/article32167704.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railway employees tested for COVID-19||Nearly 40 employees of coaching depot behind Coimbatore Railway Station were tested for COVID-19 on Wednesday after an employee tested positive. A railway official from Carriage and Wagon department said that the employees went to a primary health centre near Oppanakara Street for the lifting of swab samples. The depot was closed on Wednesday for fumigation and will reopen on Friday, he said. In a letter to Health Department on Wednesday, Southern Railway Mazdoor Union member S. Jone Sebastian said that an assistant in the Carriage and Wagon department tested positive and that her husband died after testing positive to COVID-19. Both their children also tested positive, he wrote in the letter, requesting that all employees must be tested for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-employees-tested-for-covid-19/article32167419.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai, Thanjavur step up control measures||A sudden spike in the number of positive cases in Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts is seeing the district administrations accelerating measures to check the spread of infection. Until July, the daily number of positive cases in Pudukottai was below 50. Over the last month, however, there has been a sharp increase with the district crossing a total of 1,000 cases last week. “We have noticed an increase in primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients also testing positive,” said Collector P. Uma Maheshwari. The virus is being carried into the district from travellers. “We have instructed all 20 check-posts in the district to check the entry of travellers, especially those travelling from hotspots. International travellers are being traced and asked to remain in home quarantine even if their test is negative,” she said. Streets with more than three positive persons are declared containment zones. Door-to-door checks are conducted and patients with severe acute respiratory illnesses and influenza-like illnesses (ILI) are monitored regularly. Announcements are made to inform the public that they can visit primary, secondary or tertiary care centre if they experience symptoms. Fever camps are under way, especially in localities with containment zones, she listed the measures. The district has 14 facility quarantine centres, while Government Ranee’s Hospital and Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial District Headquarters Hospital have exclusive treatment wards. “A few private hospitals have also been asked to prepare beds and other facilities if the need arises,” the Collector added. In Thanjavur, more than 80% of the cases recorded since July 10 belong to a cluster identified at Darasuram Vegetable Market in Kumbakonam. According to Collector M. Govinda Rao, a transporter from Uttar Pradesh, who arrived to distribute a load of potatoes, tested positive in May. Two months later, three vendors tested positive. “A special committee was formed when the UP man tested positive to monitor the market. While the three men had symptoms of ILI, many in the cluster were asymptomatic,” he said. When authorities conducted contact tracing, they found Darasuram market to be the common link. Within 10 days, at least 100 positive cases have emerged from the cluster. “A total of 20 containment zones in 18 hamlets were identified. Fever camps were conducted in each of the hamlets, where body temperature and oxygen saturation through a pulse oximeter were checked,” the Collector said. Vendors associations across Thanjavur volunteered to reduce their hours of business until July 31. “We will not be able to close our shops as we require business during these difficult times. However, we agreed to shut shop early. We are now open from 6 a.m. to 4 pm,” said V. Sathyanarayanan, secretary, Kumbakonam All Traders and Industries Association. Orders were soon passed to shut TASMAC shops at 4 p.m. Traders all over the district followed suit, while vendors in Pattukottai decided to shut shop for a week from July 19 to July 26. The district is also scaling up treatment and quarantine facilities, Mr. Rao said. “While Thanjavur Medical College Hospital is fully equipped to treat symptomatic patients, we are increasing quarantine units and isolation centres for asymptomatic cases,” he said. Two private colleges and hotels function as facility quarantine centres. A government housing building in Vallam has been converted into an isolation centre. “We provide bedding, food, hot milk, eggs and fruit for families who can stay together in the flat. They have also been given helpline numbers,” he said. A similar facility is being readied in Kumbakonam. In Thanjavur, a private engineering college is being prepared. “The increase in cases is a natural trend considering the movement of the public. We are fully equipped to handle it,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukottai-thanjavur-step-up-control-measures/article32167707.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 commit suicide in separate incidents||Upset over her son being alcoholic, a 70-year-old woman committed suicide at her residence on Tuesday night. Later, her son jumped into a well and ended his life. The police said that Rukmani lost her husband and was residing with her son Muthusamy (45) at Seenapuram Karandipalayam in Perundurai. Muthusamy, who is unmarried and alcoholic, failed to take care of their agricultural land which led to frequent altercations between the two. The police said that on Tuesday night, she committed suicide by hanging. Muthusamy came home in an inebriated condition and found his mother dead. Upset over it, he jumped into an unused dry well in the area. In another incident, upset over delay in his marriage, a 22-year-old youth committed suicide at Gobichettipalayam while his girlfriend, who also attempted suicide, was admitted to the hospital. Those with a suicidal tendency can contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents/article32167411.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ramp commissioned at library||An overhauled ramp for the physically challenged was installed at the District Central Library in the city on Wednesday. The existing ramp at the library was renovated and rebuilt with hand rails at a cost of Rs. 50,000 under the auspices of Young Indians by Confederation of Indian Industry. R. Ravichandran, District Differently Abled Welfare Officer was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramp-commissioned-at-library/article32167701.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Be cordial, says Chamber||Karaikal Chamber of Commerce has urged the district administration to instruct officials to adopt a cordial approach towards trade and business establishments while implementing lockdown. In a letter to Collector Arjun Sharma, Chamber president A. Muthaiya said at a time when transactions had dwindled down due to restricted hours of business, officials implementing safety protocol were imposing hefty fines on customers even for minor deviations. While assuring fullest cooperation to authorities, the Chamber president urged the Collector to issue proper instructions to officials to have smooth relationship with the business community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-cordial-says-chamber/article32167699.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed after a tipper lorry rammed a tractor on Tiruchi-Chennai National Highway at Kottaimedu near Samayapuram on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as P. Sellaiyan, 40, tractor driver, and A. Arumugam, 60. Police sources said the two were engaged in watering plants on the central median from a tractor, when the tipper lorry rammed their vehicle from behind. They died on the spot. The lorry driver sustained injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article32167706.ece
23 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||A first for the Siddi community||Shantaram Budna Siddi was waiting at the post office in his village of Hitlalli, sending a memorandum to the State government requesting for grant of land for a hostel for tribal students, when his phone rang. The call from the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru was to tell him that he had been made a MLC. “I did not understand it fully. I thought someone may be playing a prank. I went home for lunch. It was then that my wife and I started getting calls continuously, congratulating me for the nomination,’’ he told The Hindu . Mr. Siddi, who lives in his modest home on the outskirts of the forest in Hitlalli village of Yallapur in Uttara Kannada district, has become the first person from the Siddhi tribal community to be nominated to the Karnataka Legislative Council. He is among the five persons nominated by the State government to the Council on Wednesday. The soft-spoken community organiser had this to say about his nomination: “Till now, I could do whatever little I could to help the people and drop the rest if I could not. No one would question me. But now, people across the State will be watching me closely. If I am given a list of 10 tasks, I will have to complete all of them, my responsibilities have increased”. He further said: “I am no politician. I have spent all my life in social service. But today’s nomination has made me step into the field of politics. I don’t know how it will be ”. He has also been working as a volunteer and state unit secretary of the Vanavasi Kalyan Prakalpa, a tribal welfare initiative of the RSS. He was introduced to the VKP when Prakash Kamat, a vibhag pracharak of the RSS and VKP in-charge, met him at a friend’s house. Mr Siddi was working as a farm labourer, despite being a graduate. Mr. Kamat asked him to work as a full-time worker of the VKP for a honorarium. He accepted the offer and began a career in social service. “I could have got a government job based on my degree. But once I began working here, I liked it,” he said. Over the last 32 years, Mr. Siddi has been touring the State, organising tribal communities, helping them get government facilities, get access to higher education and jobs. He says his focus would be the all-round development of tribal communities, especially forest-dwelling groups like Siddis. Mr. Siddi was the first graduate from his community to pass out of Karnataka University in 1988. He served as a member of the Western Ghats task force of the State government in 2008-2009. He has also been involved in the Vruksha-Laksha NGO working for afforestation and environment awareness. His wife Susheela runs a petty shop. Their elder daughter has completed her degree and his son is still in high school.  I am no politician. I have spent all my life in social service. But today’s nomination has made me step into the field of politics. I don’t know how it will be. Shantaram Budna Siddi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-first-for-the-siddi-community/article32167357.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||74% of COVID-19 victims aged above 51||Nearly 74% of the deaths due to COVID-19 in the State are among people who are above 51 years, with the highest being in the 61 to 70 age bracket. Many of them had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza like Illnesses (ILI). No deaths were reported among those below 10 years. Various studies have found that children have good immunity that helps them fight the virus better. The State war room has analysed the data of 1,403 deaths that were reported till Monday. Besides the 1,403 deaths due to COVID-19, six other patients who tested positive died due to “other causes.” This includes 378 people who tested positive and were admitted to hospitals and those who tested positive after death. Most of the patients who passed away were those who had comorbidities or a suppressed immunity system. Doctors and officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that many passed away as they did not come to the hospital in time and had delayed getting tested or approaching a doctor even though symptoms had persisted for several days. S. Sachidanand, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) who heads the death audit committee, recommended “reverse quarantine” of the aged population. “People who are now going out to work should not come in close proximity with their elderly parents. They should isolate them if they are above 60 and particularly if they have comorbidities. They can be asked to stay in a separate room or separate floor until the number of cases being reported reduces,” he suggested. He said that the committee also plans to recommend to the government that all the SARI patients should be treated immediately and should not be shifted to another hospital. The State government undertook a house-to-house survey of patients who have SARI and ILI. “There should be no delay in treating patients with respiratory conditions. During our analysis, we have found that many of the SARI patients are brought dead to government hospitals and die when they are being shifted from a private hospital to a government hospital.” A doctor from a State-run hospital in the city said that many of the patients, particularly those from low socio economic backgrounds, had delayed getting tested as they were worried about the stigma. Medical Education and COVID-19 in-charge Minister K. Sudhakar has said that early diagnosis and early treatment are key to reducing the number of deaths in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/74-of-covid-19-victims-aged-above-51/article32167337.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No work proposed under SCP, TSP by 73 MLAs and 36 MLCs||During the Assembly session during March, legislators cutting across party lines had spoken about the problems due to non-release of Legislators Local Area Development Fund and had urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to release the money to enable them to take up development in their constituency. It has now come to light that 73 members of the Legislative Assembly in 11 districts and 36 members of the Legislative Council in 16 districts have not proposed or taken up any work under the mandatory Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) and Scheduled Caste Special Component Plan (SCP) for 2019-20. This is despite the dissatisfaction expressed by Mr. Yediyurappa in January over the progress of implementation of the two plans and asking for programmes to be speeded up, reveal documents on progress of Karnataka Legislators Local Area Development Scheme (KLLADS). In fact, in January, the Chief Minister had pointed out that the overall progress in SCP and TSP were a dismal 15% and 9%, respectively, of the total fund allocated. Even by the end of the financial year (by March), 73 MLAs and 36 MLCs did not propose any programme under the plans, forcing the State administration to raise concern. Flagging the issue to the respective district Commissioners, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, in a communication to them in the last week of June 2020, pointed out that it was violation of law that no development work had been taken up under the two plans. Under KLLADS, the legislators get an annual grant of Rs. 2 crore of which 24.12% has to be spent mandatorily on the welfare of Scheduled Castes (17.17 %) and Scheduled Tribes (6.95 %) under these two plans. Of the annual Rs. 600 crore coming into KLLADS, Rs. 110 crore has to be spent on SCP while Rs. 45 crore has to be spent on TSP. ‘Unfortunate’ A senior government official said: “It’s unfortunate that these legislators have not proposed programmes for the welfare of SC and STs especially in districts like Yadgir, Ballari and Raichur that have high SC/ST population. It also shows the mindset of the representatives.” The official said a mechanism had to be developed to see that the fund is spent, since the problem of non-expenditure repeats year on year. “Thankfully, the fund does not lapse if not spent,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-work-proposed-under-scp-tsp-by-73-mlas-and-36-mlcs/article32167347.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Issue SOPs to probe child pornography and missing children cases’||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to issue standard operating procedures (SOPs), within three months, to conduct investigation into cases of child pornography and missing children, while issuing a series of directions on enforcing laws related to the care, the protection, and the rights of children. Noticing that many important provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015 and the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 cannot be effectively implemented in the absence of rules, the court cautioned the government that it may has to issue drastic direction if the rules are not framed within a reasonable period. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna, passed the interim order while hearing two PIL petitions, through which the court has been monitoring enforcement of laws related to child rights in the State. Noticing the insensitive manner in which a report of the Union government on child pornography was dealt with by the police recently, the Bench also said that SOPs should specify guidelines for investigating complaints related to child pornography. ‘To guide police’ The Bench said that SOPs should be formulated to ensure that the Special Juvenile Police Unit, the Child Welfare Police Officer and the Child Protection Unit discharge their duties and to guide the police unit to conduct proper investigation, including in the cases of missing children, as per the law.  Noticing from the documents that many child welfare committees (CWCs) lack adequate infrastructure, the Bench also directed the government to provide adequate infrastructure to all the CWCs across the State within two months and come out with a uniform staff pattern for all the CWCs if no staff pattern is followed at present. Inspection The government has also been directed to ensure that CWCs conduct inspection of residential child institutions and provide a dedicated staff at the directorate of the Integrated Child Protection Scheme. As Juvenile Justice Boards (JJB)s are headed by the Chief Judicial Magistrates or the Chief Metropolitan Magistrates, the Bench also directed the Registrar-General of the High Court to issue directions to the Principal Magistrate of the JJBs to follow the mandate of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model Rules, 2016 framed by the Union government as State government has not yet framed the rules. Also, the Bench asked the government whether the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, which has an important role to monitor implementation of the Act, has been submitting reports to the government as per the law. If not, the commission will have to be directed to submit reports, the Bench added.  Court’s directive  All Juvenile Justice Boards directed to submit data of cases  Asks whether government has set up more than one child welfare committee in any district  ‘Are CWCs submitting quarterly reports on pending and disposed cases?’  ‘Are District Magistrates reviewing performance of CWCs?’  JJB members to be provided with week-end online training by the Karnataka Judicial Academy  Government to spell out manner of conducting social audit of implementation of Juvenile Justice Act||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issue-sops-to-probe-child-pornography-and-missing-children-cases/article32167354.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lax officials will face action||On day one of the lifting of the lockdown, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired meetings of some zones of Bengaluru and instructed officials to act swiftly while handling COVID-19 patients. The Chief Minister held a meeting of R.R. Nagar zone and discussed the shortcomings while dealing with allotment of beds, operation of ambulances and admission to patients to hospitals. He warned that action would be taken against officials if the public expressed grievances against them. Negligence on the part of some officials would damage the image of the government, the Chief Minister said. Containment zones Officials have been told to take strict action in containment zones, hire ambulances in case of shortage of vehicles, and make efforts to shift infected patients to hospitals. He emphasised the need to ramp up testing and ensure results are available within 24 hours. He instructed officials to provide him information on the progress in their respective zones on a regular basis. Revival of economy Noting that the government would pay more attention to revival of the economy henceforth, the Chief Minister told officials and elected representatives to discharge their responsibilities in their respective zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lax-officials-will-face-action/article32167319.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for private COVID Care Centres on the rise||Many patients who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms prefer to check into hotels that have tied up with hospitals rather than isolating themselves at home. Less than a week after private COVID-19 care facilities were set up at 12 hotels in Bengaluru, more than 50% of the beds have been filled. As of Wednesday afternoon, 479 out of 917 beds in these hotels were taken. Several doctors and hotel managements told The Hindu that many patients consider booking rooms a “safer option” especially if they are living with elderly parents, children or pregnant women as they do not want to risk infecting others.  Rajendra Kumar Kataria, senior IAS officer who is in charge of COVID Care Centres, said that these facilities also help keep hospital beds open for patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities. “A majority of the positive patients are asymptomatic and don’t need much medical assistance. They can stay in these centres particularly if they are afraid that their family members may contract the infection from them,” he said. Patients are given three meals as well as snacks in the evening, said P.C. Rao, president of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association. R. Ravindra, Medical Director at Suguna Hospital, said that they have tied up with a hotel close to their hospital to provide medical assistance to patients. “Out of 50 rooms in the hotel, 40 are already filled. While doctors visit them once a day, nurses visit them twice a day and are available on call. The patients are given pulse oximeters and thermometers and told to check their temperature and oxygen saturation as well as pulse levels,” he said. Sustainable? However, despite the demand, hospitals that are already facing a shortage of doctors, nurses, and ward boys say that they may find it difficult to sustain this arrangement or expand and tie up with more hotels. A doctor working with a private hospital said it was important for people to remain in isolation in their hotel rooms for the required duration. “There are some people who get bored and homesick and end up returning home even though they had signed up for 10 days. We want to discuss this with the government to ensure that patients remain in the hotel rooms for at least a week,” said the doctor.  Community-led centres  The State government has also persuaded apartments and Residents Welfare Associations to set up COVID Care Centres on their premises. “Around five apartments have agreed to set up community-led COVID Care Centres at their club house or vacant flats. We have had a meeting with the apartment federation and more apartments will sign up for this. We have convinced them and told them that it will be easy for them to monitor the positive patients from their apartments if they are at one location,” said Mr. Kataria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-private-covid-care-centres-on-the-rise/article32167338.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on land diversion||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition challenging diversion of 61 acres of protected Amruth Mahal kaval lands in Chikkamagaluru district for the construction of canals under the Upper Bhadra project. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order on the petition filed by D.V. Girish and two other environment and wildlife activists from Chikkamagaluru. “The Amruth Mahal kaval lands in Basur kaval are part of the conservation reserve notified under Section 36-A of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and cannot be allotted to Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd. for their project,” the petitioners contended. Some parts of the land to be used for the project are part of the Basur Amruth Mahal Kaval Black Buck conservation reserve, the petitioners claimed while pointing out that Amruth Mahal kaval grasslands apart from supporting cattle, are an important habitat for several species of endangered fauna. It was pointed out that in a letter, the Deputy Director of Amruth Mahal Cattle Breeding Centre of the State government, Ajjampura in Chikkamagaluru, had written to Joint Director of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences Department clearly stated that the proposed Upper Bhadra canal passes through the kaval, the land assigned for pasturage of Amrith Mahal cattle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-state-on-land-diversion/article32167343.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A year after stepping down as CM, HDK rakes up old issues||A year after stepping down as Chief Minister following the resignation of 17 JD(S)-Congress legislators, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy attacked the BJP for using “immoral means” to bring down his government and trained his guns at former Chief Minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah as well. He stepped down on July 22, 2019, after losing majority in the Assembly. Without referring to Mr. Siddaramaiah by name, Mr. Kumaraswamy in a long post released to the media on Wednesday recalled developments during the 14-month rule. While he attacked the BJP for resorting to unethical ways to topple the government through ‘Operation Lotus’ and indulging in horse trading, it was his detailed attack on Congress leaders that raised eyebrows. Especially since it came soon after the Congress extended support to JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda in the Rajya Sabha polls. “A section of the Congress leaders was unhappy at the high command not taking them into confidence and had become intolerant from day one. This section had conveyed to the high command that it could break the JD(S) had it been given some time,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said, adding that this section also urged him to continue the Budget presented by outgoing Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. “I did not stop any of the programmes, but gave relief to farmers through loan waiver. It did not make them happy.” Further, the JD(S) leader said: “Let the big [Congress] leader introspect on how much the BJP and the Congress leaders strategized to remove my government. I did not commit any mistakes in 14 months. But this section went on saying that they should wait till the Lok Sabha polls. This was the ‘Siddaushada’ (ready medicine) of the Congress leaders.” Mr. Kumaraswamy said that several Congress leaders did not like that he had invited inviting 24 regional political party leaders to his oath-taking ceremony. “After offering unconditional support to form the government, the Congress started demanding cabinet berths and portfolios, deputation of officers of their choice. It is true that I have been treated like a clerk,” he said. Responding to the barrage of comments, while refusing to be dragged in, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he did not know why Mr. Kumaraswamy had raised the issues now. Mr. Kumaraswamy later took to Twitter stating that he had remembered the developments because Mr. Siddaramaiah had recently said that the Congress would have won 8 to 10 seats if it had gone alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-year-after-stepping-down-as-cm-hdk-rakes-up-old-issues/article32167349.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||42 doctors recruited||The BBMP has appointed 42 doctors and 16 other staff, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, on a six-month contract. They will be working at zonal levels. Another step is to use tele-medicine and tele-doctor facilities to manage patients at COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs), and create a web portal for tele-medicine consultation for those in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/42-doctors-recruited/article32167324.ece
23 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cong., farmers to launch campaign against land reforms Act changes||The Congress has decided to launch a Statewide struggle along with various farmers’ organisations against the sweeping changes brought to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, through an Ordinance. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of farmers’ leaders, convened by Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah in Bengaluru on Wednesday, to elicit the views of farmers’ groups on the amendments. Mr. Siddaramaiah told reporters that farmers’ leaders had vehemently opposed the amendments that included easing restrictions on buying farm land and the extent of land that one could hold. “They said the changes will sound the death knell for farmers and they also maintained that it would also affect food security. It would also pave the way for farmers losing their livelihoods,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the party would first take up a campaign against alleged irregularities in the procurement of medical equipment to handle the COVID-19 situation. The proposed campaign would also include some of the changes brought about by both the State and the Union governments to the APMC Act and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, he said. Pointing out that more than 13,000 cases related to land disputes were pending before various courts, he said the amendment would now provide clean chits to those facing such cases. “About 1.7 lakh acres of land valued to be Rs. 70 to 80 crore that could have been confiscated by the government is now being given away due to such amendments,” he said. He accused the government of yielding to the real estate lobby, rich and housing societies who would now “mint money by misusing the amendments.” Mr. Siddaramaiah attacked Revenue Minister R. Ashok over the amendments to land reforms Act. “Was Mr. Ashok active in politics when such reforms were brought about? Does he know the spirit behind bringing about such reforms? Has he ever tilled the land or at least held the plough? I have tilled the land along with workers,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Revenue Minister should at least know the consequence of bringing about such amendments. Farmers’ leaders Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, Chamarasamali Patil and Veerasangaiah, besides Congress leaders K.R. Ramesh Kumar, Ramalinga Reddy and H.C. Mahadevappa were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-farmers-to-launch-campaign-against-land-reforms-act-changes/article32167351.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Land acquisition process in Karnataka, Maharashtra need overhaul: NGO||A study by a civil society organisation, which undertakes research and activities to promote accountability and better governance in India, shows serious delays in the process of land acquisition in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Three districts each The study that analysed land acquisition cases, conducted by Daksh across three districts each in Karnataka and Maharashtra, highlights major shortcomings in both States when it comes to dealing with court cases relating to land acquisition which leads to more time being taken to resolve cases. This study was conducted by manually collecting data from all district courts in the districts of Bengaluru Rural, Mysuru, and Kalaburagi in Karnataka, as well as Beed, Amravati, and Raigad in Maharashtra, from 2008 to 2018. The key aspects of the data studied from district courts included average disposal time, average pendency time, average number of hearings, number of cases filed, and disposed. Additionally, the researchers looked at cases that reached the high courts. The study found that half of all land acquisition cases related to compensation. The cases involving a challenge to compensation constitute 52.9% and 51% of the aggregate land acquisition litigation before the Bombay and the Karnataka High Courts, respectively. In these cases, the Bombay HC increased compensation in 46.8%, and the Karnataka HC in 41% cases. The study also said that several States are yet to establish the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authorities as mandated by the Land Acquisition Act, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-acquisition-process-in-karnataka-maharashtra-need-overhaul-ngo/article32167355.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Overall progress under KLLADS only around 48%||The overall progress made under KLLADS during the 2019-20 fiscal has been just about 48%. While Rs. 948 crore was available in KLLADS at the beginning of the financial year, the State government released Rs. 296 crore during the year taking the total amount in the Personal Deposit accounts of Deputy Commissioners in the State to Rs. 1,290 crore. While Rs. 618 crore was spent during the year, Rs. 668.93 crore still remains. As many as 15,224 projects are yet to be completed and are more than two years old, which is also violation of the guidelines laid down for utilisation of the funds.Many Deputy Commissioners have justified the delay of over two years as the fund has been partly used for projects that get other funds. However, government sources said several programmes are as old as 2008, and have not been efficiently monitored to be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/overall-progress-under-kllads-only-around-48/article32167350.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP aims for 20k tests a day||To fill the gap of inadequate rate of testing, the BBMP is planning to conduct 10,000 rapid antigen tests and 10,000 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests a day. The decision was taken at a meeting of the BBMP Task Force on COVID-19 that was held earlier this week where “various actionable solutions”, such as laboratory services, home isolation and the dearth of ICU beds, were discussed. According to the Task Force, lack of manpower, delay in testing and reporting, and overburdening of labs in the city by samples referred from other districts are the main problems as far as laboratory services are concerned. Existing oxygen beds will be upgraded to high-flow oxygen beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-aims-for-20k-tests-a-day/article32167317.ece
23 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Actor roped in||The BBMP has appointed actor Ramesh Arvind as an ambassador to create awareness among the public on COVID-19. As part of the initiative, the civic body on Wednesday released a video of the actor appealing to people to contain the spread of the pandemic by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-roped-in/article32167330.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Record spike of 4,764 cases in a day||Karnataka reported the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases at 4,764 and 55 death owing to the infection on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases in the State reached 75,833 and the toll stands at 1,519. There is a huge spike in the number of cases and deaths in the State, compared to a month ago. While there is a 706% increase in the number of positive cases reported, there is a 969% increase in the number of deaths since June 22. While the number of positive cases on June 22 stood at 9,399, the number of deaths was 142. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s daily update of cases, 11 of the 55 deaths reported on Wednesday included patients who either died at their residence or were brought dead to hospital. High in Bengaluru Of the total 4,764 cases reported on Wednesday, 2,050 are from Bengaluru Urban. Meanwhile, 1,780 patients walked out of hospitals after being treated and cured, and the total discharges now stands at 27,239.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/record-spike-of-4764-cases-in-a-day/article32167312.ece
23 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||No quarantine for candidates attending SSB interview||The State government has exempted home quarantine for candidates attending the SSB interview to be held in Bengaluru from July 31. In a release, Captain Manivannan, Leader, Home Quarantine Task Force, and Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Services and Fisheries, said this decision has been taken following requests from candidates seeking clarification on whether they need to come 14 days before the date of interview and quarantine themselves at their cost. In a circular, Captain Manivanan said that there was no need for 14 days home quarantine and candidates are advised to report at the Border Receiving Centres (BRCs) at the airport, railway station and bus terminus. The list of candidates who will be reporting to the SSB campus will be collected daily and tallied with the list of candidates reporting at the BRCs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-quarantine-for-candidates-attending-ssb-interview/article32167329.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM calls on Governor||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday called on Governor Vajubha Vala and briefed the latter about measures taken by the government to tackle rising cases of COVID-19. He informed him about various decisions taken by the government, including Ordinances promulgated for amending AMPC Act and Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, sources said. Sources said he also explained to the Governor about transparency maintained by the government in the purchase of equipment for handling the virus. Hours after Mr. Yediyurappa’s visit to the Governor, five nominations for the Upper House were notified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-calls-on-governor/article32167334.ece
23 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Following appeal, 27 govt. schools adopted||Responding to an appeal by adviser to State government [Education Reforms], M.R. Doreswamy, to adopt and develop three government schools, A. Manjunath, Magadi MLA, has adopted three government schools. Actor Kiccha Sudeep has adopted four government schools. Likewise, REVA and PES Universities have also adopted 10 schools each. Prof. Doreswamy in a release has stated that vide his letter dated June 20, 2020, he had appealed to all MLAs and MLCs to adopt and develop government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/following-appeal-27-govt-schools-adopted/article32167352.ece
23 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic pushes this labour colony to the brink||The COVID-19 pandemic has made life miserable for residents of Vinoba Nagar, once the labour colony at Kudremukh in Mudigere taluk. The colony with about 150 families has been in a bad state for decades and the turn of events over COVID-19 has worsened the situation, with no job opportunities for the residents. The residents were all once workers at Kudremukh Iron Ore Company (KIOCL), which stopped operations in 2005 following the Supreme Court’s order. While the permanent employees moved to different places, the contract labourers remained in their colony. They took up jobs in coffee plantations and construction sites. Like an old-age home Now, they hardly get job opportunities. The youth are forced to travel to distant places, leaving the elders at home. As a result, the colony now looks like an old-age home with hardly any caretakers. The residents live in small houses with no proper roofing. As the place is known for heavy rain, they spend sleepless nights in the rainy season. Even after years of struggle, the colony has not been attached to a local gram panchayat, denying them all necessities. No house has got electricity supply in the last 40 years. There is no water supply, roads and public transport. Recently, a couple of COVID-19 cases were reported in Kalasa. As a result, the residents of the colony cannot go to work in the area around Kalasa. “Now the infection is spreading in rural areas. We are scared of going out, and people also hesitate to let us into their places for work,” pointed out Babu, a resident of the colony. Manjula, also a native of the colony, now stays put at Mudigere with her family. “We have moved out to Mudigere as there are no schools for our children near the colony. All that we need in the colony are basic needs to lead a decent life with dignity,” she said.  The colony falls in the limits of Samse Gram Panchayat, geographically. However, it has not been included in the panchayat. The people are hopeful that they would get at least some benefits if the area is brought under the panchayat. Anil, a resident of the colony, said: “We have rights to vote for Assembly and Parliament, but not the gram panchayat. We have been demanding that our locality be included under the panchayat so that we get minimum facilities,” he said. Only source of income Vikram Kudremukh, a documentary filmmaker and native of Vinoba Nagar, opined that people in big cities would find it difficult to even imagine that these people have been living without electricity supply for the last 40 years. “With the help of some people in Kalasa and nearby areas, the colony people get foodgrains. Besides that, the only source of income for majority in the colony is the old-age pension, provided by the government,” he said. Since 2005, when KIOCL closed down its operations, the residents have been demanding rehabilitation. Their efforts prompted the district administration to identify land at Kalmakki near Kalasa. However, it did not proceed following the objections from that locality.  The virus is spreading in rural areas. We are scared to step out, and people hesitate to let us into their places for work. Babu Colony resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-pushes-this-labour-colony-to-the-brink/article32167342.ece
23 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Final warning to pvt. hospitals||With private hospitals dilly dallying over providing beds for COVID-19 patients, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has issued the final warning to managements to fall in line. Chairing a meeting of the health task force and special teams formed to manage beds for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals here on Wednesday, Mr. Patil said that those who failed to cooperate with the government in fighting the pandemic would be dealt with seriously. The Deputy Commissioner said that the government had asked the private hospitals to admit symptomatic patients on priority. “Admission should be done as per the list disclosed by the private hospitals to the district administration. And, asymptomatic patients should be treated either at Covid Care Centres or should be asked to undergo home isolation,” he said. Stating that no symptomatic patient should be sent back without providing treatment in private hospitals, Mr. Patil, however, clarified that the private hospitals should not claim that they had admitted asymptomatic patients and beds had been occupied. The Deputy Commissioner said that the nodal officers appointed for management of beds should be alert round the clock and attend to grievances of COVID-19 positive patients. They should also ensure that hospitals identified as COVID-19 hospitals reserved 50 % of beds for such patients, he added. He further clarified that if any asymptomatic positive patient wanted to get treated in private hospitals, he should be shifted to the general ward and should not be allowed to occupy a bed reserved for symptomatic patients. Referring to the practice of shifting COVID-19 patients from private hospitals to KIMS Hospital in Hubballi even when beds were available with them, Mr. Patil said that it was nothing but breach of COVID-19 treatment protocol and action would be taken in such cases. The district administration has appointed 17 nodal officers for ensuring availability of beds for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals, he said. Oxygen support Meanwhile, the district administration has taken steps to provide oxygen support for 125 beds at the Civil Hospital in Dharwad and for 50 beds each at the taluk hospitals in Kundgol, Kalghatgi and Navalgund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-warning-to-pvt-hospitals/article32167520.ece
23 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Directly from the farm to consumers||An initiative aimed at ensuring better prices for farmers and also reaching vegetables and fruits at lower prices on their doorsteps of consumers was launched by Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar here on Tuesday. Launching “VBasket”, under which it has been proposed to take vegetables and fruits to the doorsteps of consumers, Mr. Shettar said that the company had been told to function in such a way that would benefit both farmers and consumers. Mr. Shettar said that steps were being taken to set up “Raita Sante” across the State where farmers would be able to sell their produce directly to consumers. “In other States, the initiative has been successful. We have asked officials to study the models in other States and adopt them here,” he said. Anand Jadhav of “VBasket” said that initially, seven vehicles would be used to procure vegetables and fruits directly from farmers. Later, another eight would be added. “The initiative will do away with the services of middlemen. After procurement of vegetables and fruits directly from farmers, we will process them and then take them to the doorsteps of consumers. The produce will be priced at 30%-40% less than the market price,” he said He also said that in the wake of COVID-19, cleanliness was being given high priority and all staff had been given masks, gloves and face shields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/directly-from-the-farm-to-consumers/article32167507.ece
23 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Belagavi records 219 fresh cases||The number of COVID-19 positive cases which had come down in Dharwad district on Tuesday again went up on Wednesday with the district recording 158 cases. And, Belagavi recorded 219 cases, the highest single day spike so far in that district. In Dharwad, where the total number of positive cases has reached 2,485, 135 patients were discharged. The district recorded five more deaths taking the toll to 78. With 845 patients being discharged so far, the number of active cases in the district stands at 1,562. Davangere in Central Karnataka too witnessed an increase with 96 cases on Wednesday. Gadag recorded 71 cases followed by Bagalkot 70, Uttara Kannada 63, Vijayapura 52, Haveri 50 and Chitradurga 40. Meanwhile, Haveri recorded four COVID-19 deaths, Uttara Kannada three and Bagalkot saw two deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-records-219-fresh-cases/article32167517.ece
23 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Special teams to check fertilizer availability||Close on the heels of farmers complaining to the district administration about reported shortage of urea and high prices for fertilizers, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has directed the officials to take strict action against offenders. Various organisations had raised the issue of farmers being forced to pay higher prices by fertilizer dealers. Referring to the complaints submitted to the district administration, the Deputy Commissioner has said that at a time when the district had received good rainfall and the sowing target had been met, such development would not be tolerated. Mr. Patil has directed the officials of the Department of Agriculture to procure sufficient quantity of fertilizers, particularly urea, and supply them to farmers based on demand. According to a release, during a recent meeting, Mr. Patil directed the Joint Director of Agriculture to form special teams to visit and check fertilizer availability and take steps to ensure that shopkeepers displayed stock details along with the price fixed by the government. As per official data, there is a demand for 17,000 tonnes of urea till July-end and the district has received 17,917 tonnes so far. Considering the good rainfall, and in anticipation of demand going up, the department has written to the State government seeking an additional supply of 4,000 tonnes of urea. Meanwhile, in an attempt to make people adhere to COVID-19 advisory, the district administration on Tuesday decided to take the help of Fire and Emergency Services and use water canons against those violating guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-teams-to-check-fertilizer-availability/article32167518.ece
23 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Letter campaign for Shiva temple in Ayodhya launched||A letter campaign urging the Prime Minister of India to help build a temple for Lord Shiva in Ayodhya was launched here on Wednesday. The former chairman of Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority Lingaraj Patil, Congress office-bearer Rajat Ullagaddimath and president of Sremad Veerashaiva Sadbodhana Samsthe Prakash Bendigeri and others launched the letter campaign at the Srishail Mutt branch in Hubballi on Wednesday. The samsthe plans to send 1,008 letters to the Prime Minister urging him to build the Shiva Temple in Ayodhya. The organisation has in a release said that recently during excavation in Ayodhya, a Shiva Linga had been found. And, since Lord Ram was a great devotee of Lord Shiva, building a Shiva Temple in Ayodhya would be apt. The organisation has appealed to people to send letters to the Prime Minsiter urging him to build the Shiva Temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/letter-campaign-for-shiva-temple-in-ayodhya-launched/article32167527.ece
23 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||War hero dies||Ex-serviceman Rangappa Kavadimatti (76) who had fought for India in both the wars against Pakistan (1965 and 1971) died of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Rangappa Kavadimatti, a native of Hangaragi village in Badami taluk of Bagalkot district, had settled down in Hubballi, and now, both his sons are in the Army. During the Kargil war, Rangappa Kavadimatti had sought the Army to give him a chance to go to the front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/war-hero-dies/article32167522.ece
23 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three more deaths in Bidar||Bidar reported three COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday taking the toll in the district to 66. As per information provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the district also saw 77 new cases. As many as 186 people were discharged. With the new cases and discharged patients, the total number of infected persons rose to 1,546 and the active cases came down to 457. Kalaburagi reported 175 new cases and a death. With the new cases, the total number of infected persons in the district jumped to 3,141 which included 59 deaths and 1,881 people discharged. There are 1,211 active cases in the district as on Wednesday. Ballari reported 134 new cases taking the number of infected persons in the district to 2,989 which included 62 deaths and 1,371 discharged patients. With the withdrawal of lockdown orders soon after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s public announcement on Tuesday, life came back to almost normal across Kalyana Karnataka region. All shops were open and business was as usual. Markets were heavily crowded in certain areas such as the Supermarket area in Kalaburagi and people were seen transacting their business unmindful of social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-deaths-in-bidar/article32167510.ece
23 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shravana Sanje||The Kalaburagi Basava Samiti is organising Shravana Sanje-2020 during the month of Shravan of the Hindu Lunar Calendar. Samiti district president Vilasavati Khuba said that Shravana Sanje-2020 will be streamed live on Facebook @Basavasamithiglobal and YouTube live Basava Samithi. Writers and scholars will deliver a series of lectures called “Sharana Charitre” on the contribution of 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara and his contemporaries between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. from July 21 to August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shravana-sanje/article32167511.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||School marks 50 years by cultivating land left fallow||Despite being left uncultivated for decades, the paddy fields surrounding Nittur High School in Udupi wear a green look now. An initiative taken up by teachers, students, parents, and alumni of the school has resulted in about 75 acres coming under paddy cultivation for the first time in years. The government-aided private high school, managed by Nittur Educational Society, is observing its golden jubilee this year. The initiative was its way of recording 50 years of imparting education. The headmaster of the school, Murali Kadekar, said: “When I began teaching at this school, there were green paddy fields all around. But as I neared retirement from service [this year], the once-rich paddy fields were dry with no cultivation. I thought the old glory could be brought back with the school playing an instrumental part in it.” In February, the school called a meeting of students, alumni, parents, teachers, and owners of uncultivated paddy fields and placed before them the idea of launching a campaign called “Hadilugadde Besaya” (re-cultivating paddy on fields left uncultivated). Many owners gave the green signal to till their land. But the implementation was not easy. There were a number of issues such as rebuilding bunds, removing loads of debris and plastic, arranging water supply, seedlings and the like. The issues were addressed one by one by forming five zonal committees for Karambally, Perampally, Kakkunje, Nittur, and Puttur, all areas surrounding the school. Finally, the cultivation with a mixture of manual labour and machinery began on June 22 at Nittur and ended after 24 days, on July 15 at Karambally with the planting of paddy on 50 acres under the direct supervision of the school. Inspiration to others The school’s initiative prompted some other farmers nearby to take up cultivation of their paddy fields on their own, with about 25 acres coming under paddy, said Mr. Kadekar. All those paddy fields come under the jurisdiction of Udupi City Municipality. “Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat also planted seedlings for about three hours one day during the campaign,” the headmaster said. The proceeds of the harvest (sale of paddy) will be used to reimburse the expenses of the five zonal committees. If there are further savings, they will be donated to an orphanage or any other institution serving society, Mr. Kadekar said. “The school will not take a single rupee from the sale of harvest,” he said. Mr. Kadekar also said that the school, in the past five years, has been taking its class 10 students to paddy fields elsewhere and making them plant seedlings and do harvesting for one day. But this time, irrespective of class, the students joined hands in planting seedlings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-marks-50-years-by-cultivating-land-left-fallow/article32167326.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi launches mega campaign on face masks and social distancing||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Tuesday urged people to strictly maintain social distancing and wear face masks always as more and more ILI and SARI cases were being reported of late. The administration, he said, is geared up with enough treatment facility while private hospitals too will join when the need arises. He was speaking to reporters at Udupi after launching a mega campaign to create awareness about social distancing and face masks. All local bodies — urban as well as rural — were asked to levy hefty fines on violators of face mask and social distancing norms, he said and urged people to follow these rules even with their relatives. Enough beds Mr. Jagadeesha said that as many as 1,200 beds were available for COVID-19 care, while another 1,200 could be arranged in a day’s notice. Kasturba Medical College Hospital, Manipal, would provide a 150-bed COVID-19 treatment facility from Wednesday, while it would add another 50 beds in the coming days on the request of the administration. Government hospitals in Kundapur and Karkala with 200 and 100 beds respectively could also be converted as COVID-19 hospitals in addition to the existing 140-bed facility at TMA Pai Hospital in Udupi, he said. The district has enough ventilators — 50 — with the government facility itself and another 20 were being added. The administration has held four rounds of talks with private hospitals wherein they were told to be prepared to offer enough number of COVID-19 beds on demand. Only after exhausting the available government facilities, private hospitals would be asked to share the responsibility, Mr. Jagadeesha said. While 90% of COVID-19 positive cases were from outside the district earlier, nearly 50% of the positive cases being reported since two days were of influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory illness. As such, people should exercise more caution, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Bus facility Regarding the demand to reintroduce bus facility, he said that he would shortly allow services. Routes are being identified, he said and added that no bus, private or KSRTC, should carry more than 30 passengers. Action would be initiated against violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-launches-mega-campaign-on-face-masks-and-social-distancing/article32167508.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Redesigned II PU video lessons for students across State from today||The Dakshina Kannada Pre University Principals Association is making changes to the video lessons on II PU subjects uploaded by it on YouTube to include related notes and assignments. The Department of Pre University Education is making these redesigned video lessons available to students across the State on Thursday. The association started posting on YouTube lectures related to 20 subjects in May for students in the district. “Given the good feedback from students, the department is now making use of this resource to benefit students across the State,” Additional Director of PU Education Mohammed Ziaulla Khan told The Hindu . Nearly 300 lectures by about 80 government and private college lecturers from different parts of the district are available athttps://www.youtube.com- /c/dpuedkpucpa. “Work is on to record more lectures and cover syllabus for the first six months of the academic year,” said association president Umesh Karkera, who is principal of Sri Narayanaguru PU College, Katipalla. Pre University Director M. Kanagavalli initiated the idea of producing video lectures, he added. For better use of these videos, the department on Tuesday notified the timetable for the period between July 23 and August 1 for subject-wise viewing of lectures. There will be four periods of 45 minutes duration each in a day. Classes will start at 9.45 a.m. and end at noon. While the first and the third period will be for viewing videos, the second and fourth will be for writing work related to lectures. Colleges have been asked to have subject-wise WhatsApp groups of lecturers and students. Lecturers have to share links of lectures of the day among these groups. Lecturers should be available to answer questions from students and ensure that the latter carried out the prescribed tasks. Where there are no lecturers in a college for a particular subject, Pre University Deputy Director of the district concerned should set up a group of five lecturers who will answer queries from such students. Students can view lectures not just at the prescribed time but also later. Stating that the new initiative was to keep II PU students involved in studies, the notification told students and parents that they need not worry if they miss out on classes for want of smartphones and internet connectivity. These topics will be covered when regular classes start in the colleges, the notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/redesigned-ii-pu-video-lessons-for-students-across-state-from-today/article32167528.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six die in twin districts||As many as five COVID-19 positive persons with co-morbidities died in Dakshina Kannada, while a 80-year-old man who tested positive and had co-morbidities died in Udupi. According to a bulletin, 162 tested positive, of which 70 had influenza like illness, in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday. In all, 2,160 positive persons are undergoing treatment. In Udupi, 281 tested positive on Wednesday taking the number of active cases to 910.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-die-in-twin-districts/article32167524.ece
23 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man held for illegal cattle transportation||The Kollur Police in Udupi district on Wednesday arrested Unni Monu (65) of Kundapur on the charge of transporting cattle illegally. The police said that a group of local residents on Tuesday night stopped a multi-utility vehicle (MUV) near Marnakatte and found two head of cattle. They also stopped a vehicle that was following the MUV. The police rushed to the spot and found that Monu did not have documents supporting transportation of cattle. On Wednesday, a resident of Marnakatte filed a complaint accusing Monu of stealing cattle from his cowshed. Monu was arrested for an offence under Section 378 of Indian Penal Code and also for an offence under the provisions of Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act. Meanwhile, the driver of the vehicle that was following the MUV was taking workers for spraying pesticide in a nearby farm. After ascertaining that he was not associated with Monu, he was allowed to go on Tuesday night, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-illegal-cattle-transportation/article32167523.ece
23 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru activist’s Save Sparrow initiative wins laurels||An initiative to save and revive the sparrow population in urban areas of Mysuru by a city-based animal rights activist has bagged top honours and recognition in the Save Earth Projects contest conducted by Rajasthan Forestry and Wildlife Training Institute, Jaipur. Kokila Jain of Mysuru bagged the second place among the entries to the competition conducted as part of World Earth Day 2020 early this year. Her initiative ‘Save Sparrows Save Earth’ was launched in Mysuru in the summer of 2019 and entailed distribution of 500 bird houses and feeder bottles to residents interested in the initiative. But before distribution of the bird houses, sparrow dwelling habitats within the city were identified. After the ground work these bird houses were distributed and installed in different localities including Ittigegud, Nazarbad, areas near Varuna canal and Gokulam where there was a potential to revive the sparrow population, said Ms. Jain. The initiative stemmed from a concern over the decline in sparrows in the last few decades and Ms. Jain said she learnt how sparrow habitat had altered over the years due to change in human life style apart from they being deprived of food and space for breeding. So she got a customised bamboo bouse and coconut shell feeder with water bowl installed in Shivarampet area of the city. This was preceded by installation of 10 earthen and bamboo houses with feeder in Siddarthanagar area where there was a small population of sparrows. Her future course of action is to concentrate on five select areas of the city with traces of sparrow population so as to sustain their numbers. Ms. Jain said she will create eco-friendly feeding stations and take up planting of fruit-bearing trees and nectar- or flower-bearing plans so that birds can access their food naturally. She was assisted by Jeev Daya Jain Charity (JDJC) in her endeavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-activists-save-sparrow-initiative-wins-laurels/article32167315.ece
23 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Expressway work could be delayed||Work on the much-publicised 10-lane expressway between Mysuru and Bengaluru is not expected to completed as scheduled in January 2022 due to labour scarcity on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The work, which began in May and December 2019 in two packages, had ground to a halt soon after a nationwide lockdown was declared in March this year. Even though work resumed in the last few weeks, the contractors are finding it difficult to mobilise labourers, majority of whom are migrants and have returned to their native places. “There was virtually no work for three months after the lockdown was declared. Nobody was allowed to work,” said an official in the Public Works Department (PWD). After the lockdown was lifted, the contractors began facing labour shortage. Work was proceeding at a snail’s pace as barely half of the required 8,000 labourers were available. An official overseeing construction of the 118-km-long expressway expects the project to be delayed by at least two months. “If the time lost due to the lockdown and the delay due to labour shortage is not made up in the coming months, there could be a delay of two to three months,” the official said. Traffic volume The official also ruled out the possibility of a decline in traffic volume hastening the pace of work. “There is no such advantage. The pace of work has no connection to decline in traffic volume. Work is taken up only after diverting the traffic,” the official added. The expressway includes construction of by-pass roads for Bidadi, Ramanagara, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya and Srirangapatna. The project faced another hurdle when objections were raised to the alignment of by-passes. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha recently clarified that the objections were resolved when it was decided to build the by-passes on concrete pillars without encroaching upon any water body. The 10-lane highway comprises of a six lane access controlled carriageway for traffic and a two-lane service road on either side for the benefit of local traffic. The highway connects Columbia Asia junction in Mysuru to Panchamukhi temple near NICE Road junction in Bengaluru. The contractor of the project – M/s. Dilip Buildcon Limited – had been given 30 months to complete the work. While the first package between Bengaluru and Nidaghatta began in May 2019, the second package between Nidaghatta and Mysuru started in December 2019. The Rs. 7,400 crore project seeks to reduce the travel time between Mysuru and Bengaluru to 90 minutes from the existing three hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/expressway-work-could-be-delayed/article32167323.ece
23 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tests on JK Tyres staff show high positivity rate||The outbreak of COVID-19 at JK Tyres and Industries in Mysuru appears to be taking a turn for the worse with rapid tests on the employees indicating a high rate of positivity. Apart from the 54 employees who tested positive during swab tests conducted last week, another 176 employees tested positive during the rapid tests conducted for three days on the company premises beginning Sunday. The tyre manufacturer had tied up with Apollo BGS Hospitals in Mysuru to carry out the tests on all its employees, estimated to be around 4,600. According to sources familiar with the procedure, the results were showing a positivity rate of almost 30%. “Around 180 to 200 tests were being conducted every day. If 176 had tested positive out of the estimated 600 tests carried out during three days, the rate of positivity is almost 30%,” said a person familiar with the developments. Mysuru District Health Officer R. Venkatesh, who confirmed the outbreak, told The Hindu that he would visit the company premises on Thursday to take stock of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tests-on-jk-tyres-staff-show-high-positivity-rate/article32167328.ece
23 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Officer pays surprise visit to fertilizer shops||Joint Director of Agriculture R. Devika paid a surprise visit to fertilizer outlets in Kakkera, Rajan Kollur and Kodekal villges in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district on Wednesday and checked stock and records of purchase and sales. She issued a warning stating that if shop owners were found selling fertilizer, chemicals and pesticides at prices higher than those fixed, cases will be booked and action taken against them. So far, 2,32,900 hectares of land against a target of 3.89 lakh hectares has been covered in this kharif season and farmers are using fertilizer for crops such as green gram, cotton and tur dal, which are at different stages of yield, she said. Dr. Devika said that there are complaints that shop owners are creating artificial shortage of fertilizer only with a view to sell it at higher prices. “The department will take such complaints seriously and initiate action against shop owners — first by issuing a notice and then, suspending their licence,” she said. The officer has announced a phone number: 8277933400, for farmers and the general public to submit complaints against those selling fertilizer at higher prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officer-pays-surprise-visit-to-fertilizer-shops/article32167515.ece
23 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two die in Raichur||Two patients admitted to the designated hospital in Raichur died, according to a release here on Wednesday. As many as 135 fresh cases were registered in Raichur, while there were 43 such cases in Yadgir district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-in-raichur/article32167516.ece
23 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Community radio centre launched in Yadgir||Yadgir district, which has been elected as an “Aspiration District” by NITI Aayog, got its first-ever FM radio centre, Kalike Dhwani 90.4 FM. Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao inaugurated it on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/community-radio-centre-launched-in-yadgir/article32167513.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||City relishes unlock||After a week-long lockdown, life slowly limped back to normalcy in the city on Wednesday as restrictions were eased and non-essential traders were allowed to open. There was slow-moving traffic towards the city at toll booths. A large number of vehicles, mainly goods vehicles, were seen entering the city from Nelamangala toll gate. Hosur Road, Tumakuru Road, Old Madras Road and Ballari Road also saw more vehicular movement with people resuming inter-district travel. People, however, stayed away from public transport. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) ran only around 1,500 buses on major traffic routes, and ridership remained low. “We will run 1,500 buses on Thursday as well, and increase operations based on demand,” said a senior BMTC official. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which operated around 600 buses from the city to various parts of the State, also saw fewer passengers. Hundreds of walkers were seen at Lalbagh and Cubbon Park in the morning and evening. G. Kusuma., Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, said that there was no provision for ticketed entry at Lalbagh. S. Umesh of Cubbon Park Walkers Association urged the authorities to close the park even for walkers. “Thousands of people come here to walk. There is a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in areas in and around the park,” he claimed. Most of the restaurants across the city opened dine-in service. “Around 20% of them, however, remained closed. They too are expected to re-open in the next few days. As the CM has said that there will be no lockdown in the future, we are hoping for good business,” said P.C. Rao of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association (BBHA). However, K.R. Market and Kalasipalyam market were closed. Chickpet, the city’s business hub, which has been shut for almost a month, remained largely closed. Initially, a few traders on important roads like B.V.K. Iyengar Road and Avenue Road opened for business, but downed shutters citing lack of communication by the BBMP. Prakash Pirgal of The Bangalore Wholesale Cloth Merchants’ Association said that they had got oral instructions by elected representatives and officials to open from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. “We are waiting for a written circular or order,” he said. Trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta said, “There was some confusion regarding the opening of shops as the barricades were still up. We have requested elected representatives and senior BBMP officials to allow us to resume business. We have got a positive response from them.” According to sources in the BBMP, business in Chickpet will resume within a day or two. “Only areas with COVID-19 cases will be sealed as per the latest containment zone orders,” said a civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-relishes-unlock/article32167316.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Malnutrition high in tribal children’||A large number of people belonging to Scheduled Tribes (STs) in Karnataka, who constitute around 7% (42.48 lakh) of the State’s population, suffer from anaemia, hypertension, lifestyle disorders, and other health problems owing to inadequate health infrastructure in tribal areas of the State, according to the report “Improving health status of tribal population in Karnataka” (2020) prepared by the Department of STs Welfare.  Among the Jenu Kuruba tribes of Mysuru district, it said that 38.6%, 36.8% and 18.6% of children aged between 1 and 5 years are underweight, stunted, and wasted, respectively. The study was carried out among a sampling of 220 children here. Malnutrition was largely due to poverty, poor sanitation, ill-health, and illiteracy, the report said. It said the prevalence of underweight increased with increase in age of the child in the community. It linked malnutrition with unfavourable socio-demographic factors.   It revealed that the prevalence of anaemia among tribal women in the age group of 14 to 49 in Udupi taluk was 55.9%. According to WHO, if the prevalence of anaemia in a population is 40% or higher, that population is to be considered “severely anaemic”. The report highlighted the prevalence of hypertension among the Jenu Kuruba tribes in the age group of 20 to 60 in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district. Among the sample of 1,290 people studied, which constituted (80%) of the people in the taluk, 21.7% were suffering from hypertension. Prevalence of hypertension among men was 28.2% and women 16.5%. Though the report did not mention the causes for hypertension, it recommended the services of NIMHANS, Bengaluru, in outreach and training activities for “tribal mental health”.   Currently, there was no single officer overseeing tribal health within the Health and Family Welfare Department either at the district or State level, the report said, and recommended appointment of a nodal officer in each district. To address the health concerns of the tribals, it proposed a helpline with a health navigator model in each district. With tribal communities speaking different dialects, the report recommended appointment of graduated tribal youth in each district to operate 24x7 helpline facilities. It suggested setting up a special cell of first aid in the tribal area for treating snake, scorpion and dog bite. The Department of STs Welfare under Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, who handles both PWD and Social Welfare portfolios, has begun prioritising tribal health among the various schemes implemented by the department, said Sangappa, director of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/malnutrition-high-in-tribal-children/article32167345.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chairman for KSPCB in August||After a slew of short terms – many of them controversial – the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) is poised to get a chairman in August. The State government, which recently brought out new rules for appointment of the chairman, has now called for applications for the post. Sources in the office of Anand Singh, the Minister for Forest and Ecology, said the new rules have taken into consideration directions and guidelines of the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court. “The board should have a new chairman in August,” said a source. The application notification, issued on Tuesday, specifies that the candidate needs to have a Master's degree in Environment Science or Environment Engineering or an equivalent degree from a recognised university or institute. He/she should have “knowledge and experience in areas related to environmental protection”, or a part of administration in a government department, organisation or university dealing with environmental issues, including air and water pollution, waste management, natural resources management and environmental impact assessment. The KPSCB is a vital organisation vested with powers such as prevention and control of air, water and noise pollution as well as enforcement of important environmental laws. It is currently headed by Vijaykumar Gogi, Principal Secretary (Environment and Ecology). He had to step in following a row over the appointment of M. Sudhindra Rao. The government, which had appointed Mr. Rao on December 30, 2019, made a U-turn in the High Court of Karnataka on March 6, 2020, contending that the appointment was done without framing the rules. Prior to that, K. Sudhakar, now a minister in the BJP government, was made the chairman by the Congress-JD(S) government in place of IFS officer C. Jayaram, raising multiple questions over the legality of the move. Subsequently disqualified due to the political upheaval in the State, Mr. Sudhakar had to resign. Mr. Jayaram had replaced Lakshman, whose appointment was also mired in controversy. V. Ramprasad from Friends of Lakes said uncertainty in the KSPCB had ended up derailing a lot of decisions and processes, such as implementing or enforcing orders of the NGT and the courts, as well as the Environment Impact Assessment. “The lockdown helped to a certain extent by keeping pollution levels low. But now that things are opening up, one needs a proper board with a qualified head. Having four chairpersons in two years undermines the institution, which is supposed to be independent in nature,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chairman-for-kspcb-in-august/article32167318.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers demand insurance cover||The Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha and Karnataka Prantha Kulikarara Sangha have demanded the State government provide insurance cover worth Rs. 10 lakh to farmers and agricultural workers for COVID-19 deaths. In a letter addressed to Rural Development Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, they demanded increased wage under employement guarantee scheme and that workers be considered as construction workers so that they can avail other benefits from the Construction Workers Welfare Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-demand-insurance-cover/article32167340.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Livelihood matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/livelihood-matters/article32167321.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Awareness drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-drive/article32167332.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KASSIA urges govt. to offer payroll support||Small scale industries body KASSIA (Karnataka Small Scale Industries Limited) on Wednesday urged the government to help industries through payroll support to a possible extent in order to help MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises) maintain employment levels. KASSIA welcomed the government decision to postpone the payment of variable Dearness Allowance (DA) by industries for the year 2020-21 in view of the difficulties faced by MSME owing to the pandemic. “This will help the industry retain employment at a time when cash flows have dried up. However, the relief is only temporary and will increase the burden later due to adding up of arrears,” the trade body said. On lifting lockdown It thanked the Government of Karnataka for lifting the week-long lockdown keeping in view the sustenance of livelihoods and the economic activity underpinning them. This is essential though times are hard, KASSIA said in a release. “We would like to urge the industry to ensure health and safety of staff and everyone involved by following the COVID-19 related protocols strictly,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kassia-urges-govt-to-offer-payroll-support/article32167339.ece
23 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha reports 120 cases||In yet another exponential rise in COVID-19 cases, 120 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. As a sign of a worsening situation, almost half of the new patients got the virus through local transmission. While 59 contracted the disease through contact, the source of infections of another four persons hailing from Budhanoor, Alappuzha, Thuravoor and Kayamkulam is untraceable. Besides, 20 personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) at Nooranad unit, 24 people who came from abroad and 13 from other States were diagnosed with the disease. The district now has an active COVID-19 caseload of 745.  Parts of Cherthala taluk remain the hotbed of local transmissions as 11 people from Thuravoor, nine people from Kadakkarappally, seven from Eramalloor, five from Arookutty, three from Chandiroor, two from Pallithode and one each from Ezhupunna and Vettakkal tested positive. The other local contact cases were reported from Arattuvazhi (five cases), Kayamkulam (four cases), Alappuzha (four cases), Pallana (two cases), and one each from Vallikunnam, Chennithala, Payippad, Kandiyoor and Muthukkattukara. As the district’s COVID-19 graph continues to go on an upward trajectory, authorities have further tightened measures aimed at tackling the spread of the outbreak. District Collector A. Alexander has directed the authorities concerned to introduce measures to manage crowd in markets effectively across the district.  Fishing ban till July 29 Ban on fishing and sale of fish along the coast in the district have been extended till July 29. District Police Chief (DPC) P.S. Sabu said 77 cases were registered and 71 arrested in the last 24 hours for violating COVID-19 guidelines. Besides, the police have registered 230 petty cases for not using masks in public places, 10 cases for not maintaining physical distancing, and three cases for violating quarantine norms. Residential areas in wards 13 (Palace ward) and 51 (Kalappura) in Alappuzha municipality and wards 15,19 and 21 in Mararikulam South grama panchayat were declared as containment zones. Meanwhile, 19 people who were undergoing treatment tested negative.  Residential areas in wards 13 (Palace ward) and 51 (Kalappura) in Alappuzha municipality and wards 15,19 and 21 in Mararikulam South grama panchayat have been declared containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-reports-120-cases/article32167686.ece
23 July 2020||Idukki,KERALA||43 new cases in Idukki, 27 through contact||Forty-three people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Idukki on Wednesday, an official release here said. Of this, 27 people contracted the disease through contact while the source of infection was unknown in two cases. Those in the latter category were a volunteer at Rajakkad grama panchayat and a staff at Painavu Government Engineering College. Two expatriates, ten persons who came from Tamil Nadu, and two from Delhi were among those who tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Those who contracted the disease through contact included residents of Devikulam, Kanjikuzhy, Pallivasal, Konnathadi, Rajakkad, Vannapuram, Cheruthoni, Karimpan, and Thadiyampadu.  A resident of Ayyappancoil who had tested positive died, it was confirmed on Wednesday. He was identified as Narayanan, 75, who was under quarantine after he returned from Tamil Nadu. So far, 129 people had recovered from the disease in the district while 276 people were undergoing treatment at hospitals. Confusion in cases The confusion regarding the number of cases on Monday and Tuesday in the district was due to the closure of a lab in Kottayam where swabs collected from Idukki were being tested. The lab was closed for maintenance on Sunday and Monday and it did not release the results on Tuesday. There was confusion as authorities did not reveal the reason and explained that there was no positive case in the district on Tuesday. An official at the district COVID care unit said an average of 500 swabs were being sent for tests from the district to the lab a day and the results would be released the next day. However, on Sunday and Monday, the lab was closed for maintenance and the results were held over. Though there was a COVID lab attached to the district hospital in Idukki, it was being used only for emergency situations.   Though there are facilities to conduct the antigen test at the lab in the district, it lacks facilities to conduct tests on a massive scale. With a surge in cases in Idukki, the lack of testing facilities has come in for criticism. There should be more facilities to conduct the tests in the district, says P.L. Nizamuddin, social activist. He said the delay in releasing test results would affect measures to contain the disease.  Delay in releasing test results will affect measures to contain the disease, says activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/43-new-cases-in-idukki-27-through-contact/article32167687.ece
23 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur records two deaths||Two persons who were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and undergoing treatment died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Pariyaram, Kannur. With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State has reached 49. Sixty-year-old Sadanandan, a resident of Thripangottur in Kannur who died on Tuesday, had been suffering from cancer and heart ailments. His swab has been sent for further examination. Khairunnisa, 48, of Anangoor in Kasaragod, who had tested positive for the virus, died on Wednesday morning. She was referred from a private hospital in Kasaragod to the Medical College Hospital here on July 20. Her oxygen levels were down, and she was suffering from severe pneumonia, said A.T. Manoj, District Surveillance Officer, Kasaragod. The source of her infection is yet to be traced. Samples of her family members have been sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-records-two-deaths/article32167591.ece
23 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||3-MW solar plant inaugurated at INA||Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command (SNC), commissioned a 3-MW solar power plant at the Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, through video-conferencing on Wednesday. This is in line with the Central government’s initiative for achieving 100 GW of solar power by 2022, said a press release. The plant is the largest established by he Indian Navy and has an estimated lifespan of 25 years. The project was executed by the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd (KELTRON).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-mw-solar-plant-inaugurated-at-ina/article32167595.ece
23 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||MCH warns of legal action||The Kannur Government Medical College Hospital has clarified that the news circulated in social media that 100 employees of the institution who had taken the antigen test had tested positive for COVID-19 was completely baseless. Principal K.M. Kuriakose said the institution would take legal action against those who were spreading such false news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-warns-of-legal-action/article32167590.ece
23 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||COVID-19 situation grim in Kasaragod as cases cross 100||The situation in Kasaragod remains worse, as 89 of the 101 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 contracted the disease through contact. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said while three patients came from abroad, the other eight returned from other States. The 89 persons who were infected through contact include residents of Nileshwaram, Chengala, Uduma, Padana, Badiaduka, Karaduka, Kumbadage, Bellur, Puthige, Kanhangad, Kumbala, Madhur, Kallar, Panathadi, Chemmanad, Delampadi, Manjeswaram, and Mangalpadi. Meanwhile, 43 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged from hospitals. In Malappuram Sixty-one persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Wednesday. Thirty-five of them were found to have contracted the disease through local transmission, and the source of infection in 23 of them could not be identified. While 17 cases had returned from abroad, nine had come from other States. Fifty-two persons recovered on Wednesday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said 619 persons were under treatment at COVID treatment centres. In Thrissur Fifty-six persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur district on Wednesday. Of them, 33 got infected through contact. Twenty-five persons tested positive in the Irinjalakuda Assembly constituency alone. The total number of persons who tested positive for the disease so far in the district is 941, while 584 persons have been recovered. In all, 338 persons are undergoing treatment, and 13,710 people are under observation. Restrictions tightened Following the spurt in COVID-19 cases, the district authorities have tightened restrictions in Thrissur. Most shops and business establishments in the city remained closed. The Thekkinkadu and Elthuruthu divisions remained containment zones. Jaihind Market remained closed after a lottery agent tested positive for the virus. The market has been sanitized. In Kannur In Kannur, 43 more people tested positive for SARS-COV-2 on Wednesday. District Collector T V Subhash said four of them were from abroad, 18 from other states, and five from Kannur DSC Centre. As many as 13 persons contracted the disease through contact, while the remaining three are health workers. In Palakkad Thirty-four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Wednesday. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta said 25 infected cases were identified through antigen tests. Seven persons had returned from other States and from abroad. The source of infection in a 40-year-old man from Chandra Nagar has not been identified. A pregnant woman from Thiruvillamala, Thrissur, who came to the district for treatment, was also tested positive. Among those who tested positive in the antigen tests were nine from Kappur, seven from Pattambi, two from Thirumitakode, three from Muthuthala, two from Ongalloor, and one each from Ottappalam and Perumatti. In Wayanad Wayanad district on Wednesday reported four more COVID-19 cases, taking the number of active cases in the district to 314. Officials said a 32-year-old man from Pulpally and a 29-year-old man from Padinharethara, who had returned from Karnataka on different days, as well as a 42-year-old woman and a 21-year-old youth at Kunhome who contracted the disease from a 38-year-old man at Thondarnadu in the district tested positive for the virus. District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 13, and 15 of Thondernad grama panchayat as containment zones.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Thrissur, Kannur, Palakkad, and Wayanad Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-situation-grim-in-kasaragod-as-cases-cross-100/article32167594.ece
23 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Home for the elderly to be declared a COVID-19 cluster||The district recorded 92 positive cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. A total of 82 persons acquired the infection through local transmission, including 20 members of three convents. Nine nuns part of a convent in Keezhmad have tested positive. A total of 27 persons from the convent have tested positive so far. They had come in contact with a nun in Kuzhuppilly who had tested positive after her death last week. Eight persons from the convent in Kuzhuppilly have also tested positive, along with three persons from a convent in Thrikkakara. According to Thrikkakara Municipality vice chairperson K.T. Eldho, the nuns of the convent in Keezhmad were managing a home for the destitute and the elderly in Thrikkakara where the three other nuns have tested positive. Apart from the three nuns in the official figures for the day, he said that 22 inmates of the home had also tested positive, and samples of about 90 others were collected on Wednesday. A Health Department official on the surveillance team confirmed that 25 persons linked to the institution had tested positive till afternoon on Wednesday. “There are around 130 people living in the institution. The situation is grave considering most of them are elderly and destitute,” said local councillor C.A. Nishad. The institution in Thrikkakara would be declared a closed cluster and arrangements would be made for the elderly residents to remain in quarantine there, V. S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, said at a press briefing. All shelters and homes which house elderly people would henceforth be monitored closely, he said. Six persons from the Keezhmad cluster and 13 persons from the Aluva cluster have tested positive. Relief for Chellanam In some relief, Chellanam recorded only one positive patient. A first-line treatment centre began functioning there. Arrangements were made at the centre to collect swabs and also conduct antigen tests. A community kitchen was set up in the area. “The administration’s anxiety over the COVID situation in Chellanam has waned a little,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said. A 26-year-old police officer who was on duty at the Cochin International Airport has tested positive. A 34-year-old resident of Nedumbassery who was working at a hotel in the city was also infected. Two people working at the Maradu market have acquired the infection. A fruit vendor in Palluruthy has also tested positive. A resident of Fort Kochi who was a vegetable vendor at the Ernakulam market, and his 14-year-old son have tested positive. A 29-year-old from Fort Kochi has also been infected through contact. Three patients who were receiving treatment at different private hospitals in the district were also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Eighteen persons recovered from the disease and 987 people are under treatment for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-for-the-elderly-to-be-declared-a-covid-19-cluster/article32167600.ece
23 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Curfew to be imposed in Aluva municipality and nearby areas||A curfew will be imposed in the Aluva municipality and nearby panchayats of Choornikkara, Edathala, Karumaloor, Chengamanad, Kadunagalloor, Alangad and Keezhmad from Wednesday midnight onwards. Strict restrictions on movement will apply to the entire area which will be treated as one large cluster. Wholesale shops would be allowed to remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., and retail stores selling essentials would be open to the public from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said at a press briefing on Wednesday. These restrictions will not apply to medical stores. The Ernakulam Rural police have further tightened measures in the Aluva cluster. Pickets would be erected and more teams would be deployed on the streets to detect violation of lockdown and curfew, said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Directive to hospitals The District Collector has issued directions to private hospitals to resume all functions and departments from Thursday onwards. The order comes after departments of some private hospitals had to be closed when staff members tested positive or came in contact with COVID-19 patients. Directives were issued to private hospitals that have testing facilities for the virus, to make arrangements to treat critically ill COVID-19 patients rather than shift them to the Government Medical College Hospital. All hospitals were directed to disinfect their premises thrice a day. The Collector has also issued a standard operating procedure for private hospitals to keep them prepared to deal with COVID positive patients. This includes a triage system to separate patients with COVID symptoms or contacts of patients, and fast-tracking the consultation of such patients. Private hospitals are also required to identify spaces to admit suspected COVID patients. FLTCs A total of 3,752 beds have been set up at 72 first-line treatment centres for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients. Containment zones Ward 8 of Pindimana panchayat, ward 12 of Kunnathunad panchayat and ward 4 of Marady panchayat were declared containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curfew-to-be-imposed-in-aluva-municipality-and-nearby-areas/article32167598.ece
23 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NoRK remittances set to fall||The steep fall in oil prices and COVID-19-induced job losses in the Gulf will see remittances by non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) dip by at least 15% in 2020. The real estate development and retail sectors in the State are set to take the biggest hit as income levels fall and hundreds of thousands of the jobless return home. It was expected that NRI remittances will hover around Rs. 1 lakh crore in 2020. But the oil debacle and COVID-19 will bring down the income, especially from Gulf countries, by 10 to 15%. The loss in rupee terms is likely to be between Rs. 10,000 crore and Rs. 15,000 crore, said S. Irudaya Rajan of the Centre for Development Studies in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. The Kerala State Planning Board’s rapid survey of the impact of COVID-19 on the State economy says estimates are available for two months, January and February 2020, and that the fall in remittances is likely to be higher than the estimates. The average monthly remittances through private receipts to the State in 2019-20 were Rs. 8,023 crore and a reduction of 28.19% of private transfers is seen from January to February. There is a reduction of Rs. 138 crore in bank deposits in January and February 2020. The total dip in remittances to the State during the first two months of 2020 is Rs. 2,399.97 crore. Martin Patrick, an economist in Kochi, says the retail sector will be the hardest hit with people trying to reduce consumption to adjust to the lower income levels. Sanjeev Kumar, a financial consultant in Kochi agrees. Retail as well as real estate will sway under the impact as the Non-Resident Indian community constitutes a big support to property development in Kerala, he says. Clearer picture Dr. Rajan says a clearer picture on the return of Keralites will emerge after December. Most of those who have already come home comprise family members, including children and spouses, of the job-seeking or employed emigrants. Those who can cling on to their jobs in these adverse times will stay put in their place of work because Kerala is no more a safe haven from COVID-19 unlike earlier in the year when Kerala appeared a safer place. The earlier perception had induced many to rush to the safety of their homes. Dr. Rajan, whose area of research includes migration, estimates that around 2.5 million Keralites work in the Gulf and three to five lakh of them will return home. According to numbers from the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs, of the 4.66 lakh people who have registered with the department for returning home, more than three lakh of them are from the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. The department estimates that there are 40 lakh Malayalis work in foreign countries while another 13.70 lakh work outside the State within India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nork-remittances-set-to-fall/article32167624.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC sets aside takeover of NSS land||The Kerala High Court has set aside a government order directing the Thiruvananthapuram District Collector to resume the land in the possession of the Nair Service Socity (NSS), Sreekanteswaram. Justice A. Mohammed Mustaque passed the verdict on a petition filed by P. Chandrasekharan Nair, secretary of the Karayogam. The petition challenged the government order rejecting the plea of the Karayogam to assign the 12 cents of land and ordering the District Collector to resume the land from the Karayogam. The petitioner had submitted an application before the tahsildar for assignment of the land in 1984. While the application was pending, the tahsildar informed the District Collector that the petitioner had violated lease conditions by subleasing the land to others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-sets-aside-takeover-of-nss-land/article32167646.ece
23 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||1,000 geotextile bags distributed||The district administration under the supervision of the Minor Irrigation Department has distributed 1,000 geotextile bags in Chellanam. The bags are to be filled with sand and laid along the coast to prevent sea erosion and flooding of homes. The bags would be laid with the help of residents in the worst affected wards (13, 17, 18, 19 and 20) of the panchayat, said a press release here. A rapid response team has been deployed using the village office in Chellanam as the base camp. About three tonnes of vegetables were distributed in the wards which were under triple lockdown, the press release said. The district administration has opened two relief camps — in Kumbalanghi and Chellanam — in the wake of continuing rain and rough sea conditions. A collection centre too has been opened for the public to contribute to COVID-19 care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-geotextile-bags-distributed/article32167597.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Counsellor throws light on screen addiction||A teenager threatening not to attend online classes unless allowed to play a rather violent online game may sound incredible. But that is exactly what psychiatrist C.J. John had to share of a recent experience. Having come across the problem of screen addiction way too often during her many daily interactions with parents, Mahitha Vipinchandran, a school counsellor in the district under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), has come up with an awareness video on it. “Working parents remain anxious as they have no way to monitor whether their children strayed beyond online classes. There have been instances of unwarranted messages targeting children infiltrated into their screen space,” she said. The video will be uploaded on YouTube shortly. Dr. John said children could mistake online education as a ‘green signal’ for increased screen time. Therefore, teachers should clarify that it was just a stopgap arrangement to keep them connected with academics. “Overloading children with notes and various online projects is not rational either,” he said. Parental monitoring Priya Manoj, a teacher, said that live online classes for students in primary classes were held in the evening to ensure monitoring by parents. There was also repeated reminders from the school not to overburden children with too much notes, though it might not be practical in the case of students in higher classes, she said. Jisha Sajeevan, employed as a domestic help and mother of two daughters aged 10 and 13 years, bought a second-hand television set and a smartphone for their online education. But now she is worried about their screen obsession and simply cannot wait for schools to reopen. “Earlier, they used to know the phone numbers of only a few friends but now they are in touch with just about everyone and could even be seen chatting with people we hardly know and that is really scary. Before, they hardly had time to spend online as both of them were avid swimmers and were physically active, which is not the case now,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counsellor-throws-light-on-screen-addiction/article32167607.ece
23 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Water supply to Aluva, city areas to be affected||Water supply will be affected in several areas owing to electrical work at the Kerala Water Authority’s water treatment plant in Aluva and pipeline maintenance work at the Pachalam pump house and Kathrikadavu on July 24. The supply will be affected in Aluva municipality, Keezhmad panchayat, Edappally, Palarivattom, Ponekkara and Cheranalloor from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The supply will be disrupted in Kaloor, Thammanam, Kathrikadavu, Pullepady, Ayyappankavu, Pachalam, Vaduthala, Jawahar Nagar, Kumaranasan Nagar, Kadavanthra, Panampilly Nagar, Girinagar, Edakochi, Perumpadappu, Konam, and Palluruthy from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-to-aluva-city-areas-to-be-affected/article32167602.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC upholds takeover of apartment complex||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday held that the takeover of residential buildings for COVID First Line Treatment Centres (CFLTC) by the district administration was permissible under the Disaster Management Act. Justice N. Nagaresh, while dismissing a petition against the takeover of an apartment complex in Kannur for a CFLTC, observed that under Sections 34 and 65 of the Disaster Management Act, the district authority was vested with the powers to take over a building in response to any threatening disaster and take such other steps as may be required in such a situation. COVID-19 fell within the ambit of “disaster” as defined under Section 2(d) of the Act. The petition was filed by S.V. Mohammed Haris and another person, challenging the Kannur district administration’s order taking over their apartment complex at civil line, Kannur. The judge observed that COVID-19 was “spreading in gargantuan proportions in the State.” What was affected by the pandemic was the right to life of the citizenry as a whole. In such a situation, the State government could not be expected to issue individual notices to all apartment owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-upholds-takeover-of-apartment-complex/article32167589.ece
23 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Ten Rupee Challenge’ to help Chellanam||Members of the National Service Scheme unit of Bharat Matha College, Thrikkakara, have launched a ‘Ten Rupee Challenge’ to help the people of Chellanam reeling under COVID-19 pandemic as well as flooding. All have been invited to join the challenge and send Rs. 10 each to Google Pay account +919074977935 of NSS BMC UNIT. The money would be used to provide supplies to residents, said the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ten-rupee-challenge-to-help-chellanam/article32167601.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea seeking directive to register FIR dismissed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed a public interest litigation seeking a directive to the State government to register a crime in connection with the recent gold smuggling through diplomatic channel, Sprinklr, and e-Mobility Consultancy scams under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and an inquiry by the CBI. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali observed that merely because allegations were levelled against the Chief Minister and others and in as much as the allegations related to abuse of power, it could not be contended that the nature and magnitude required issue of a writ as the only remedy available to the petitioner. The petition was filed by Micheal Varghese of Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-seeking-directive-to-register-fir-dismissed/article32167623.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused denies joining IS||Subahani Haja Moideen, who was booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for reportedly joining the terror outfit Islamic State (IS), denied the allegations that he was a member of the organisation. It was during the examination of the accused by NIA Special Judge P. Krishnakumar on Wednesday that Subahani denied the allegations. The court had framed 238 questions to be asked to the accused based on the evidence collected and submitted by the NIA in the case. On his travel to Mosul to join the IS, Subahani said he had never joined the organisation. The evidence collected by the NIA, which was based on the statements by an approver in the case, were false and fabricated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-denies-joining-is/article32167619.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nod for film shooting from August 1||The Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA) has given its nod for starting shooting of new Malayalam movies from August 1. “The shooting can be held by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol prescribed by the authorities,” said B. Rakesh, treasurer of the KFPA. The association decision follows the positive response to its plea for reducing the wages of actors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-film-shooting-from-august-1/article32167628.ece
23 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||133 positive cases in Kollam||The district’s highest single-day spike in COVID-19 patients crossed 100 on Wednesday with 133 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. It includes 116 contact cases (87.2%), one health worker, 11 non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) and five persons with no travel history. With this, the number of total active cases in the district has gone up to 671 while 7,443 persons are under COVID-19 monitoring. The Health Department has traced 4,665 primary and 1,671 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. A doctor from a private hospital is also among the new patients. The District Collector confirmed that the sample of the 75-year-old woman, who had drowned in the Kallada river on July 10, tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Clusters Eighteen persons contracted the disease at Kottarakara Muslim Street that had reported over twenty cases on Tuesday. Kollam currently has clusters at Chavara, Sasthamcotta, Eravipuram, Nendumpana, Anchal, Yeroor, Edamulackal, Thalachira, Pozhikara, Alappad, Chithara, and Elamadu. “The infection is spreading at parts where the community members were not following physical-distancing norms. We have started a door-to-door awareness campaign at such places and samples of primary contacts and those from high-risk category are being collected,” said an official. At present, intensive testing is going on in all clusters and some coastal regions that reported consistent cases. Caseload is expected to be higher in the coming four to five days owing to local transmission, but health officials say efficient containment measures have been initiated. “All these places are under triple lockdown and since there is restriction on movement, chances for spreading are very low. We have already listed the contacts of the current cases and placed them in quarantine,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/133-positive-cases-in-kollam/article32167690.ece
23 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Last rites of Anujith held||The last rites of Anujith, whose organs were donated to eight persons after he was declared brain dead following an accident, were held in Kollam on Wednesday. The 27-year-old’s mortal remains were cremated at his home in Kottarakara in the presence of family and a few others due to the COVID-19 restrictions. Anujith’s heart was flown to Kochi from Thiruvanantha- puram and successfully implanted in a 55-year-old patient on Tuesday. Seven more of his organs, including kidneys, eyes, small intestine and hands will be donated to recipients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-rites-of-anujith-held/article32167688.ece
23 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Highest single-day spike at 51 in Kottayam||Kottayam on Wednesday recorded the biggest hike in the number of the fresh cases on a single day with 51 persons testing positive for the virus. Of these, 41 cases were through local transmission while the remaining 10 cases were from destinations outside Kerala. Of the local contact cases, 23 persons belonged to the Changanassery and Paippad areas. Primary contacts Four persons who attended a funeral at Chingavanam and two persons who were on the primary contact list of a patient from the Vaikom fish market were confirmed of the infection. With this, the number of active cases rose to 333 while the number of persons recovered stood at 275. The persons who tested positive in Changanassery included a 10-year-old son and nine-year-old daughter of a female patient from Paippad, besides her 90-year-old relative. Other persons who contracted the virus through local transmission included fish and meat vendors, head-load workers, family members of the existing patients, and a few others. Of the four persons who contracted virus from a patient in Chingavanam, three are women. Of the remaining patients, the contact sources of at least three persons are yet to be ascertained. Five persons who came from Gulf countries and five who came from other States too tested positive. Twelve persons who were undergoing treatment were discharged during the day. Meanwhile, the authorities are set to open 42 more First-Line Treatment Centers (FLTCs) in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/highest-single-day-spike-at-51-in-kottayam/article32167691.ece
23 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Patients to be discharged if antigen test turns negative||Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients will now be discharged from hospitals if their antigen test results turn negative 10 days after the first test. This is part of the State government’s amended discharge guidelines, which mark a change in the earlier insistence on reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test turning negative for discharging patients. Initially, the government had insisted on two RT-PCR tests turning negative for discharge, which was later changed to one test turning negative. The rise in the number of patients is reported to have led to the change in guidelines and antigen test results are quick too. Asymptomatic persons According to the order issued on July 21, if the asymptomatic persons test positive even after 10 days, the tests will have to be repeated on alternate days till they turn negative. For people with mild symptoms, classified as Category ‘A’ patients, the first follow-up test will have to be conducted on the 10th day since the onset of symptoms if the symptoms have already disappeared or a day after the disappearance of the symptoms. After the antigen test turns negative, the patients can be discharged if they have completed 10 days since the onset of the symptoms or have exhibited no symptoms in three days. If the tests are positive, they will have to be repeated every alternate day till they turn negative. For those in Category ‘B’, whose symptoms are a little more severe, the first follow-up test will have to be held on the 14th day. Once the antigen test turns negative, they can be discharged if they have completed 14 days since the onset of the symptoms or exhibit no symptoms in three days. The guideline for those turning positive is similar to Category ‘A’ patients. For Category ‘C’ patients with severe symptoms, who may also have low immunity, the first follow-up test will be held following an identical method. However, physician’s orders will be necessary. Guidelines for discharge and for those turning positive again are also similar. One more week After the discharge, people should not go to work and avoid non-essential travel for a week. They should not attend weddings or other events and avoid family visits and take adequate rest too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patients-to-be-discharged-if-antigen-test-turns-negative/article32167609.ece
23 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||One more death in Kozhikode district||A 56-year-old man undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here after testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 died on Wednesday morning. Meanwhile, 25 persons tested positive for the virus in the district, 18 of whom through local transmission. According to sources, the deceased is a resident of Pallikkandi in Kozhikode city, who had high diabetes and cardiac problems. He was admitted to the hospital on July 20. He is reported to have contracted the infection from another person in the same area, who tested positive on July 14. His mortal remains were buried at the Kannamparamu burial ground in the city later in the day. This is the third COVID-19 death in Kozhikode district, the first two being reported on May 31 and June 27. The number of cases in Kozhikode is 458. Fourteen were cured of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-death-in-kozhikode-district/article32167588.ece
23 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pulse oximeter may turn a boon||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in June last week decided to distribute pulse oximeters to COVID-19 patients without symptoms and those with mild symptoms who are in home isolation. Around three weeks later, Mr. Kejriwal claimed in a tweet that they had helped bring down deaths of such patients, calling the device a ‘suraksha kavach’ (protective shield). It is better to keep the equipment at home to record the oxygen levels in blood, the falling of which is leading to unexpected death of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients, a section of doctors say. According to Health Department sources, falling of oxygen levels in blood cells and tissues below 94%, called hypoxia, is a major reason of death among the infected population in other parts of the country. “Pulse oximeters will help keep track of the oxygen levels in blood. If asymptomatic people develop COVID-19 pneumonia conditions, they can be hospitalised in the early stage itself. This will help bring down future complications,” A.P. Vijayan, Kozhikode-based senior paediatrician, says. The device has a probe, which consists of light emitting diodes and a light detector called photo-detector, along with a monitor and a display. The user’s pulse is detected using the probe. The device records the pulse rate and the oxygen saturation of haemoglobin in arterial blood. Beats per minute While pulse rate is recorded as beats per minute with 60 to 100 being the safe range, the reading of oxygen saturation levels is recorded as SpO2 and the normal range is between 95% and 100%. If the SpO2 is below this, the user needs to get medical help, Dr. Vijayan says. The device is clipped into the user’s forefinger and it may take around 10 seconds to get the accurate reading, says the World Health Organization. Though the device is not widely available in medical shops, e-marketing platforms are selling them in the price range of Rs. 1,000 and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulse-oximeter-may-turn-a-boon/article32167604.ece
23 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. Council passes 100-point agenda in just 15 minutes||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation had one of its shortest council meetings on Wednesday, when a 100-point agenda was passed within 15 minutes. The meeting was cut short in view of the volatile situation in the city owing to the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran noted that despite stringent restrictions, crowding in public places had become the order of the day. He directed councillors to hold meetings with merchants in each ward to find a solution to the issue. On the previous day, massive SARS-CoV-2 tests were conducted at the corporation office and Puthiyara. At the corporation office, 249 persons, including a large number of councillors, had undergone the test, and the results were all negative. However, five out of the 201 persons tested at Puthiyara turned positive for the infection. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said they were all primary contacts of a person who had tested positive earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-council-passes-100-point-agenda-in-just-15-minutes/article32167586.ece
23 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Marigold farmer sets a model||The marigold farm of a septuagenarian chemical engineer at Edayaranmula, near Aranmula, has sown seeds of hope in farmers looking for alternative farming opportunities in central Travancore. N.K. Krishnan Nair, a 72-year-old Libya-returnee, who is cultivating marigold in 40 cents is a source of inspiration for many. His marigold farm is supplying flowers to vendors at Kozhencherry and Chengannur during the lockdown period, with supply from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka drying up.  1,000 saplings Mr. Nair said people opted for locally grown flowers with Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru witnessing a surge spike in COVID-19 cases. Anticipating disruption in flower supply from neighbouring States following the pandemic outbreak, Mr. Nair procured 1,000 hybrid chrysanthemum saplings from Bengaluru at Rs. 5 for a three-day-old sapling a week before the lockdown in March. The saplings were scientifically planted at his plot at Edayaranmula. Mr. Nair personally tended the garden and the plants were in bloom in two weeks. “Marigold farming is simple. We have to prepare the land for cultivation, plant the saplings, water them and apply organic fertilizers. It requires no pesticide at all as pest infestation is almost nil. Hormone treatment can improve the crop to a great extent,” he said. Mr. Nair said he had been supplying 10 to 12 kg flowers to vendors daily at Rs. 70 a kg for the past six weeks. The flower cost could go up to Rs. 150 to 170 a kg depending on demand. He had already planted another 3,000 saplings in the adjoining 80 cents and is planning to extend the farm to a two-acre plot in the village soon. Mr. Nair said he was receiving enquiries from people interested in floriculture and was hopeful of many taking up marigold farming in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marigold-farmer-sets-a-model/article32167693.ece
23 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two health workers among 49 cases in Pathanamthitta||A total of 49 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday with 37 of them contracting the infection through contact, a release said. A 34-year-old health worker attached to the Community Health Centre at Kanjeetukara and another health worker at the General Hospital at Adoor were among the primary contacts who tested positive on Wednesday. Eight of the 49 infected persons were expatriates while four were persons who had come back from other States. The primary contacts who tested positive hailed from Kadammanitta, Kanjeettukara, Naranganam, Ayroor, Kummannur, Kumbazha, Vaipur, Kunnamthanam, Chayalode, Thuvayur-South, Vadasserikkara, Eliyarackal, near Konni, Kulashekharapathi, Chathankari, Eraviperoor, and Cherukol. Meanwhile, the District Disaster Management Authority declared all wards of Thiruvalla municipality containment zone for the next seven days from Wednesday. Ward IV of both Naranganam and Chenneerkara grama panchayats too have been declared containment zones. 496 active cases A total of 930 cases have been detected in the district so far, of which 433 have recovered from the disease. There are 496 active cases, with 488 people in district hospitals and eight others in treatment outside the district.  37 persons contract disease through contact||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-health-workers-among-49-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32167694.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Surge keeps capital on the boil||The COVID-19 caseload in the district rose by 226 new cases on Wednesday, of which local transmission accounted for 191 cases. The situation in Thiruvananthapuram continues to be serious, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The district administration is planning to step up testing to identify if there is cluster formation at Chala and Karimadom, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. “We will be testing aggressively for the next few days to assess the situation. At the moment, there is no need to panic but to be alert,” Ms. Khosa said. The source of infection remains uncertain in 15 of the cases reported on Wednesday. The day’s caseload included 18 health workers. Locally acquired infection accounted for 94.94% of the cases reported in the district, according to the government. Meanwhile, the situation in regions close to the Thiruvananthapuram- Kanyakumari border remains grave. Twenty-three people in the coastal village of Adimalathura tested positive on Wednesday. Parassala reported ten new cases. Poovar, Pulluvila, and Pozhiyoor reported 14, nine, and five cases respectively. The Chief Minister also expressed concern over the rising number of cases in border areas such as Parassala.The Neyyattinkara depot of the KSRTC was shut after a conductor tested positive. A Fire and Rescue Service personnel attached to the Chenkalchoola unit tested positive, following which three of his colleagues were advised to go into quarantine. New CFLTC A decision has been taken to convert the National Games Shooting Range at Vattiyoorkavu into a special COVID first-line treatment centre (CFLTC) for treating police, health, and sanitation personnel infected with the virus. The facility will be able to accommodate 50 people at a time. The services of police doctors will be made available here. Increasing numbers of front line personnel have fallen prey to the virus in recent weeks, prompting the government to take the decision. Staff strength at other CFLTCs also will be increased to handle the increased caseload, it was decided at a district-level review chaired by Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran. Staff will be drawn from various departments, including AYUSH, to ensure sufficient manpower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-keeps-capital-on-the-boil/article32167651.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One-day House session likely to be deferred||Considering the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State during the past fortnight, the Cabinet is likely to recommend the postponement of the Assembly session scheduled on July 27. The one-day session is set to be convened as per the COVID-19 protocol for passing the Kerala Finance Bill. Decision today Government sources told The Hindu that the Cabinet meeting on Thursday would take stock of the current health crisis and recommend Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to repeal the order issued for convening the session and clear a draft Ordinance for amending the Kerala Provisional Collection of Revenues Act, 1985. This would help the government to secure more time, 120 or 180 days, as per the Cabinet decision, to collect taxes without passing the Bill. As per Constitutional provisions, the Assembly should meet once in six months. The last session concluded on March 13. Hence, the government would have to convene the next session on or before September 12 to fulfil the requirement. UDF stance Meanwhile, the UDF has decided to go ahead with the notice for the no-trust motion. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan contacted Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for finalising the date for an all-party meeting to discuss the problems in holding the session on July 27. Mr. Chennithala’s office said that he had told Mr. Vijayan that the Opposition would go ahead with the notice and the government could take a decision on putting off the session. Law Minister A.K. Balan too contacted Mr. Chennithala and the latter was understood to have reiterated the stance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-day-house-session-likely-to-be-deferred/article32167627.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM’s Office trying to destroy evidence, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has accused the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) of having attempted to scrub out incriminating evidence in the gold smuggling case. He said here on Wednesday that if revealed, the material would expose the dubious links of top persons in the administration with smugglers and terror financiers. He said the Chief Secretary had on July 13 ordered the replacement of the surveillance camera network at the Secretariat based on the false premise that lightning had damaged the system. “There was no lightning this month in Thiruvananthapuram. The Chief Secretary’s order has evoked suspicion. It can only be viewed as a move to erase video evidence of the free run the smugglers and their accomplices had in the Secretariat, the IT Department and the CMO,” he said. Charge against CS Mr. Chennithala said the Chief Secretary (CS) had attempted to justify the use of the government emblem by the Chief Minister's IT fellow, who was removed from service as the gold smuggling scandal erupted in the public domain. The private person had travelled in a car with a government board. He used the State's emblem on his visiting card and letter pads. In fact, the IT fellow was a private person contracted by the IT Department at an unjustifiably high salary afforded by taxpayers. The Chief Minister's close aide had violated the Emblems and Names (Prohibition of Improper Use) Act, 1950.  He said Mr. Vijayan was wildly blaming the Opposition for the pandemic because his administration had abjectly failed in controlling the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr. Vijayan had hired a PR agency to put a shine on his tall claim that the government had kept COVID-19 at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-office-trying-to-destroy-evidence-says-chennithala/article32167626.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. MCH at tipping point||An overload of samples to be tested for COVID-19 and the consequent delay in obtaining results is wreaking havoc at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, (MCH) where over 150 persons, including doctors and patients, have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The hospital administration has so far not come out with the exact figures but every day, with more people testing positive, doctors are demanding that immediate steps be taken to do mass testing of 4,000-odd hospital employees on a war footing, lest the hospital shuts down.The microbiology department at the MCH is testing over 1,100 samples a day from the district now and uses all molecular diagnostic modalities, including RT-PCR, TruNat and Genexpert for COVID testing. Now that the lab has acquired an automated RNA extraction machine, the time taken for results will be reduced, it is believed. However, unless point-of-care tests such as the rapid antigen tests are used widely amongst health-care workers (HCWs) as well as patients, the turnaround time for testing is likely to result in more patients and doctors getting exposed to the virus. “Doctors handling road traffic accident emergencies in the casualty and surgeons operating on such cases are at highest risk because they often have to intervene to do procedures to keep the patient alive even before they can don any protective gear. Last week, after a patient who underwent emergency surgery tested positive — the test results were delayed by five days — scores of doctors and nurses who had unwittingly come into contact with the patient in the ICU were forced into quarantine in panic,” senior residents told The Hindu . The Kerala Medical PG Association and the House Surgeons’ Association have now written to the Health Secretary and the Chief Minister that all HCWs in the MCH be tested immediately. They have also demanded cyclical re-testing at 10-day intervals since every patient and visitor to the hospital are potential COVID carriers. They have also demanded that the HCWs be provided adequate protective gear in non-COVID areas too as unlike those working in COVID wards, those in non-COVID areas have scant protection and are at greater risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-mch-at-tipping-point/article32167647.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four councillors test positive||Four councillors of the city Corporation have tested positive for COVID-19, according to the civic body authorities, raising concerns of increase in number of cases as some of them have been active on the ground in recent days and have come in touch with quite a few people. The councillors of Muttada, Pattom, Cheruvakkal and Vazhottukonam wards have tested positive. Mayor K.Sreekumar said here on Wednesday that the fact that the councillors hailed from wards where relatively fewer number of cases were reported till now pointed to the seriousness of the situation. He requested the city residents to be more vigilant in the coming days. Following requests from many councillors, the Health Department had arranged for their samples to be collected last week. However, samples from only a section of the councillors have been collected till now, according to information from the health wing. More contacts “The samples were collected on Saturday. The councillors might have come into contact with more people during this time. This is still being traced. One of the councillors who tested positive is from the Ulloor zone. He had visited the Ulloor zonal office two days back. Instructions have been issued to conduct tests on employees from the zonal office,” said a Corporation official. Two weeks back, around 60 employees of the city Corporation, including contingent workers, had gone into home quarantine after two employees hailing from Poonthura tested positive for COVID-19. One of the employees who tested positive used to work in the Secretariat health circle, while the other was employed at the Friends Janasevana Kendram at the Corporation office. “Tests were carried out on all the employees from the Janasevana Kendram and all of it were negative. They are set to complete their quarantine period this week,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-councillors-test-positive/article32167648.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||14-day quarantine mandatory for returning migrant labour||Migrant workers returning to the State will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days. Many of workers from epidemic spots in other States are returning to Kerala in search of employment. Kerala could ill afford to run the risk of these workers turning superspreaders or triggering new infection clusters. Only those who have camp-at-site facility can work in Kerala. The government has clarified that the onus is on labour contractors and employers to ensure that the migrant workers are quarantined in separate rooms and subjected to rapid antigen tests immediately on arrival. The rooms should have a built-in toilet facility. The rooms should be airy and reserved for single person use. Persons who bring or hire migrant workers should bear the expense of their board and lodging. They should communicate the identity and other particulars of the workers to local health or local body officials on their arrival. Workers who test SARS-CoV-2 positive will be shifted to First-Line Treatment Centres. Those testing negative too will have to complete the quarantine period. Employers should ensure that workers wear face mask and maintain physical distancing. They should not transport workers crammed in vehicles. Health workers should inspect their dwelling and ensure the environs are hygienic and disinfected routinely. Border check The government has deployed drones to survey critical containment zones in coastal localities. The administration has roped in the Coastal police and the Coast Guard to ensure that there is no movement of people via sea and backwater routes. The police were also monitoring forest pathways that link the State to Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-returning-migrant-labour/article32167612.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||25 RTC depots in State shut||The cash-strapped Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has suffered another setback as it was forced to close 25 depots in the State due to COVID-19 restrictions and bus crew getting infected. The closure of depots has badly hit the revenue from the fleet that is facing poor patronage. Despite the hurdles, the Relay services of the KSRTC from the capital to Thrissur are operating along with inter-district services. Social commitment “The patronage is less and we are running the services due to social commitment,” a top official told The Hindu . The Neyyattinkara depot is the last to be closed on Wednesday after a conductor tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The non-stop Bus on Demand (BonD) services from Neyyattinkara to Thiruvananthapuram launched recently was also called off. The Kattakada depot, near here, too was closed on Tuesday after a conductor tested positive. The units remaining closed are Vizhinjam, Aryanad, Parassala, Pappanamcode, Thiruvananthapuram Central, Vikas Bhavan, Peroorkada, Thiruvananthapuram City, Venjaramood, Poovar, Kattakada, Neyyattinkara, Kottarakara, Chadayamangalam, Punalur, Aryankavu, Kulathupuzha, Adoor, Pathanamthitta, Kayamkulam, Cherthala, Aluva, Irinjalakuda, Ponnani and Vadakara. In addition, KSRTC’s Aluva workshop was also closed. “So far 10 personnel of the KSRTC have tested positive. We had taken all precautions to ensure the safety of the crew and the staff,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25-rtc-depots-in-state-shut/article32167610.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU decides on online exams for BTech||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) Syndicate on Wednesday decided to entrust its affiliated colleges with the conduct of online examinations for final year BTech students. The marks obtained by students in each subject at the college level will be normalised, i.e. consolidated by the university in proportion to their cumulative grade point averages (CGPA) in the previous semesters. The decision to hold the exams is in line with the University Grants Commission (UGC) directive that requires universities to conduct final year exams in the online, offline or blended mode. Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. said priority was given to ensuring that students who had been placed through campus recruitments and those who secured admissions for higher studies were not adversely affected through the protracted exam process. Students less inclined to take the college-level online exams would be permitted to appear for another round of exams in September in the pen-and-paper format. The university has set a tentative target of August end for issuing degree certificates for those taking the online exams. The colleges are likely to be permitted alternative options to grade students who hail from remote areas and other States. Exam cancelled The Syndicate approved the Academic Council recommendation to cancel the exams of intermediate semesters. Instead, the marks (out of 100) will be assigned in proportion to the CGPAs in previous semesters. The marks will be consolidated with the marks of internal evaluation.In addition, 5% marks would be awarded as general moderation in each subject. If a student is unsatisfied with the marks awarded, he/she will be able to cancel them and will be permitted to appear for the next exam conducted for the same subject. The Syndicate decisions are also applicable to MTech, MCA, MBA, MArch, MPlan, BArch, BDes and BHMCT programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-decides-on-online-exams-for-btech/article32167615.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Be more vigilant: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday sought to lay the blame for the explosive situation in the State on the laxity shown by the public in maintaining physical distancing and other precautions. He claimed that even when the Health Department was trying to do more tests amongst the community, there were people who did not cooperate. He appealed to religious and community leaders and other social mobilisers to create awareness amongst the public of the importance of maintaining universal safety precautions. There were 397 areas in the State designated as hotspots at present. He said the health system was fully equipped to deal with the burgeoning caseload. He said the safety of health-care workers was paramount to the government and that adequate stocks of PPE kits, masks, and gloves were being maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/be-more-vigilant-cm/article32167611.ece
23 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TDB cancels Vallasadya||The Travancore Devaswom Board has decided to do away with the Vallasadya associated with the Sree Parthasarathy temple at Aranmula.  The board had not taken any decision on the boat race. It will be made only in consultation with the district administration and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tdb-cancels-vallasadya/article32167695.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police station buildings to be inaugurated||New buildings for six police stations will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan via videoconference on Thursday. He will also inaugurate quarters for police officers, barracks and district-level training centres. The police stations getting new buildings include Thumba in Thiruvananthapuram, Udumbanchola in Idukki, Alathur and Kongaad in Palakkad, and Pookkottumpadam and Kadampuzha in Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-station-buildings-to-be-inaugurated/article32167616.ece
23 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||NIA pastes arrest warrant at Faisal Fareed’s house||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has pasted an arrest warrant at the house of Faisal Fareed, the third accused in the gold smuggling case, at Moonnupeedika in Kaipamangalam in Thrissur. The NIA special court had issued the arrest warrant under Sections 16, 17, and 18 UAPA(Unlawful Activities (Prevention ) Act. The warrant was issued by the NIA Special judge on July 14. Fareed is in police custody in the United Arab Emirates at present. An NIA team reached his house at Kaipamangalam on Tuesday evening and pasted the notice. It inquired about the land dealings of Fareed. Nobody is staying at Fareed’s house for the past year-and-a-half. On July 5, gold weighing 30 kg was seized by the Customs from the “diplomatic baggage” that had landed by at the Thiruvananthapuram airport from the Gulf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-pastes-arrest-warrant-at-faisal-fareeds-house/article32167625.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Beyond the call of duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beyond-the-call-of-duty/article32167622.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dress rehearsal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dress-rehearsal/article32167630.ece
23 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-SCPCR chief succumbs to virus||Former Chairman of State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights in the combined State P. Atchyuta Rao, 59, died of COVID-19 on Wednesday in Hyderabad. He is survived by wife Anuradha and a son. Brother of noted cartoonist Sridhar (of Eenadu ), Atchyuta was doing yeoman service for child rights in both the States through the Balala Hakkula Sangham as its honorary president. On June 18, he actively got a child rescued from the A.P. State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights member Rajeshwaramma and her husband Subbarayudu, who were running a shelter home, ‘Star Society’, at Nandyal in Kurnool district. The home was permitted only for boys, but the couple allegedly accommodated girls too, and Subbarayudu had allegedly illegally detained a 13-year-old runaway child. Anantapur Child Welfare Committee chairperson Nallani Rajeswari expressed shock at the untimely death of a child rights activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-scpcr-chief-succumbs-to-virus/article32167734.ece
23 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||82 buses begin to ply to State from Bengaluru||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) on Wednesday resumed 82 of its bus services from Bengaluru to several destinations in the State following lifting of lockdown measures. Bengaluru Assistant Transport Manager M. Gopinath said in a release that people need to book their tickets online or at the bus stations. The services were run to eight districts in the State from Kempegowda bus station from 6 a.m. Buses were run to Hindupur, Kalyandurg, Anantapur, Tadipatri and Guntakal in Anantapur district; Adoni, Yemiganur, Kurnool, Atmakuru, and Nandyala in Kurnool district; Pulivendula, Kadapa, and Proddutur in YSR Kadapa district; Tirupati, Chittoor, Pileru and Madanapalli in Chittoor district; Udayagiri, Atmakuru, Kavali and Nellore in Nellore district; Ongole, Kanigiri, and Addanki in Prakasam district; Gudivada, Nuzvid and Vijayawada in Krishna district; Vinukonda and Guntur in Guntur district; and to Kakinada in East Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/82-buses-begin-to-ply-to-state-from-bengaluru/article32167714.ece
23 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials vow to increase green cover in Chittoor||Chittoor Member of Parliament N. Reddappa on Wednesday said that each and every household in the district should take part in the mission of Vana Mahotsavam, and come forward to achieve the target of planting two crore saplings in 2020. Launching the 71st Vana Mahotsavam event at BNR Peta village of Chittoor Rural mandal, the MP said that Chittoor district was making rapid strides in afforestation and social forestry schemes. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had set a target of planting 20 crores saplings this year. In order to effectively fight global warming and rising pollution, it is the duty of every household in the State to plant at least ten saplings each. Officials should be at the forefront in carrying out this ambitious mission,” he said. Collector Narayan Bharat Gupta said that an action plan is ready to involve all beneficiaries of house-pattas to be distributed on August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-vow-to-increase-green-cover-in-chittoor/article32167715.ece
23 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charge of raping minor||The police on Wednesday arrested a 45-year-old farm worker at Chintalavaripalle of Somala mandalon charges of raping a minor girl. The accused allegedly lured the 10-year-old girl, who was playing near her house on July 20, on the pretext of giving her chocolates and notebooks, and allegedly sexually assaulted her. As the girl kept weeping in bouts, the parents finally found out the reason on Tuesday night. They lodged a complaint with the Somala police on Wednesday. The police took the accused into custody, when he was about to flee from the village. A case was registered under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-on-charge-of-raping-minor/article32167753.ece
23 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held in murder case||A woman along with her mother allegedly murdered her husband by hitting his head and private parts with a cricket bat when he was asleep on Tuesday night, at Nakkalapalle village of Palamaner rural mandal. Gopinath Reddy (40) and Sunitha (30) of Nakkalapalle village got married 13 years ago, and have a 10-year-old son. Reddy ran a taxi service in Bengaluru, and used to visit the village occassionally. With no business due to COVID-19, he returned home a couple of months ago. He disposed of a three-acre land there and reportedly gave the money to his wife and mother-in-law Chandramma. During the last week, the Gopinath and the two women were said to be quarrelling over the money, as the former wanted them to return it. The two women also reportedly had a spat with the parents and relatives of the deceased over the money. A major fight reportedly ensued in the house on Tuesday night. Around midnight, Sunitha and Chandramma allegedly hit Gopinath’s head and private parts with a cricket bat, killing him instantaneously. On Wednesday morning, neighbours found the body of Gopinath in a pool of blood on the house premises, while the two women were missing. Police shifted the body to Government Hospital for autopsy. The two women were taken into custody when they were moving suspiciously on the outskirts of the village. A probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wife-mother-in-law-held-for-mans-murder/article32167716.ece
23 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘MoU with Amul will boost industry’||The MoU with the Amul Milk Union Limited would be a defining moment in the history of the milk cooperative sector, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. The State government had entered into an Memorandum of Understanding with Amul on Tuesday to enhance the capacities of cooperative dairies. One of the major features of the MoU is to market milk products under the brand name of AMUL, thereby increasing the sales. Attracting new investments into the dairy sector, implementing marketing strategies, impart training to members of milk societies, creatinng marketing facilities for surplus milk and strengthening the distribution system are some of the other key aspects mentioned in the MoU. Apart from this, new milk chilling units and processing plants will be set up at various places in the State. The MoU envisages identification of local markets and supply milk products to State-level markets. The pact is also expected to fetch remunerative prices for dairy farmers and help foster better fodder for cattle, free-of-cost veterinary services, setting up of better dairy plants and diagnostic facilities. Milk procuring centres with Automatic Milk Collection System and Bulk Milk Cooler System (BMCS) facilities will soon become a reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mou-with-amul-will-boost-industry/article32167266.ece
23 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book launched||Adviser and YCP general secretary Shri Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Wednesday launched a book titled “’ajanna Vana Vikasam’, written by A. Ratna Rao, as part of “Jagannanna Pachatoranam”. Saying that the lack of balance in Nature would lead to natural disasters, Mr. Reddy underscored that it was the responsibility of every individual to protect the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-launched/article32167267.ece
23 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||891 new cases reported in East Godavari||East Godavari district witnessed a sharp spurt in COVID-19 cases with 891 people testing positive in the last 24 hours. Many government employees, including those serving at the District Collectorate, police department offices and other key offices, have reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 in the past one week. According to a health bulletin issued by the district administration on Wednesday, 191 new cases were reported from Kakinada city while Rajamahendravaram reported a total of 97 new cases in the span of the last 24 hours. 61 locations On the other hand, the 891 new cases have been reported from 61 locations including all major towns in the district, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/891-new-cases-reported-in-east-godavari/article32167717.ece
23 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||LS constituency as basis for creating new districts opposed||Several political parties and people’s organisations in Prakasam district have opposed the government move of reorganising the districts in the State on the basis of Lok Sabha constituencies. Prakasam district, which is named after statesman and first Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu, will lose its prominence if the district is bifurcated, with its jurisdiction being shared over Ongole and Bapatla Lok Sabha constituencies, they say. “The district was formed by bringing together the most backward parts in the districts of Guntur, Nellore and Kurnool. It will become a non-entity with much of its 100 km-long coastline going to Bapatla and Ramayapatnam sea port to Nellore as it falls Nellore Lok Sabha constituency,” said Prakasam District Development Forum president Ch. Ranga Rao after a roundtable organised here on Wednesday. Protracted struggle The roundtable brought together leaders cutting across party lines and civil society organisations, who decided to wage a protracted struggle against the move. Communist Party of India (CPI) leader R.Venkaiah opined that if necessary, the district could be reorganised into eastern and western Prakasam districts to meet the aspirations of people from Markapur, Giddalur, Yerragondapalem and their surroundings areas, without causing heart-burns among the people in the coastal Prakasam. Indian Red Cross Society former president Ch. Chalamaiah demanded that Prakasam Pantulu’s birth place, Vinodarayunipalem falling under Bapatla Lok Sabha constituency should be retained in the new district with Ongole as its headquarters . “Ramatheertham, Gundalakamma reservoirs and Chimakurthy granite mines, one of the biggest revenue churner, should be retained in the proposed Ongole district,” said Congress leader Sripathi Prakasam. ‘Unscientific move’ Youth Congress district president Sripathi Satish dubbed the ongoing exercise as ‘unscientific’, adding that the Tanguturi Andhra Kesari Prakasam University would go to Bapatla, if the Parliamentary constituency remains the basis for the reorganisation of districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ls-constituency-as-basis-for-creating-new-districts-opposed/article32167757.ece
23 July 2020||Ongole,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held with ganja worth Rs. 60 lakh||Prakasam police nabbed four members of a gang from Tamil Nadu and seized ganja worth Rs. 60 lakh from them on the Chennai-Kolkata highway at Maddipadu in Prakasam district. Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police K.V.V.N.V. Prasad told a press conference here on Wednesday that a police patrol party nabbed the gangsters while they were transporting the contraband in neatly packed plastic bags by a van and lorry late on Tuesday. After the arrest of the four persons, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal formed a special team to unearth the entire ganja peddling racket. Police are on the lookout for four others including two from Tamil Nadu, in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-with-ganja-worth-rs-60-lakh/article32167718.ece
23 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pay Rs. 20 lakh compensation’||The Dalit Hakkula Parirakshana Samithi on Wednesday demanded that the next of kin of the Dalit youth from Chirala, who allegedly died in police custody, be paid an enhanced compensation of Rs. 20 lakh. Samithi district president N. Nagender Rao said the government should also provide a government job to a member of the bereaved family. He also demanded that a murder case be registered against the police personnel concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-rs-20-lakh-compensation/article32167735.ece
23 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more deaths in Prakasam, Nellore districts||Coronavirus continued to inflict a heavy toll across south coastal Andhra Pradesh as four more persons — three in Prakasam and one in Nellore district — succumbed to the pandemic in the last 24 hours, according to health officials. There was also a spurt in the number of new cases with 177 in Prakasam district and 114 in Nellore district testing positive. The number of positive cases rose to 2,849 in Nellore district and 2,806 in Prakasam district. Eleven of the 160 migrants who tested positive had returned to Prakasam district from Telangana while one each had returned from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, a daily status report compiled by the district administration said. Meanwhile, 73 patients — 39 in Praksam district and 34 in Nellore district — were cured of the disease and discharged from designated COVID-19 hospitals. Markapur accounted for a maximum of 27 new cases in Prakasam district followed by Ongole with 26 cases and Addanki with 18 cases. The lockdown was strictly enforced in the ‘mango village’ of Ulavapaddu, which witnessed 58 confirmed cases including 19 new ones. New cases were also reported from Martur (7), Peddaraveedu (3), Maddipadu (2), Santhamagalur (2), Tangutur (2), Thallur (1), Yadanapudi (1), S.N.Padu (1), and Ponnalur (1). Five new containment clusters were formed, taking the number of very active clusters to 27 and active clusters to 136 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-more-deaths-in-prakasam-nellore-districts/article32167721.ece
23 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tonsuring case: ‘YSRCP leader’s role being probed’||Women and Child Welfare Minister T. Vanitha on Wednesday said investigation began into the alleged involvement of YSRCP supporters in the case pertaining to tonsuring of a Dalit youth at Seethanagaram. Addressing the media after visiting the victim in a private hospital here, Ms. Vanitha said the government would not tolerate such heinous acts. “The police are probing the alleged role of a local party leader. Action will be initiated against him if his involvement is proved,” Ms. Vanitha said. ‘Atrocities on the rise’ Meanwhile, APCC president S. Sailajanath said that Dalits were being subjected to various atrocities in the State. He was referring to the tonsuring case and the alleged gang-rape of a 16-year-old girl under the Rajamahendravaram Urban Police limits in the last one week. Speaking after visiting both the victims, he said, “The police are unable to guarantee protection of women.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tonsuring-case-ysrcp-leaders-role-being-probed/article32167754.ece
23 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang-rape survivor gets ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh||Rajamahendravaram Sub-Collector Abhishikth Kishore on Wednesday handed over an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to the mother of a Dalit minor gang-rape survivor from Korukonda. MP M. Bharat, BC Corporation chairman Jakkampudi Raja, and Mr. Kishore handed over a cheque for the amount to the mother of the suvivor. On Wednesday, Women and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha visited the survivor and announced a financial assistance of Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-rape-survivor-gets-ex-gratia-of-rs-10-lakh/article32167755.ece
23 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI arrested; policemen booked under SC, ST Act||Sub-inspector of Seethanagaram police station Sk. Feroz Shah was arrested late on Tuesday night on charges of tonsuring a 23-year-old Dalit youth in the police station. Mr. Feroz was taken into custody following a review by Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohana Rao into the incident . A case under the SC&ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, has been registered against Mr. Feroz and two constables of the Seetanagaram police station. All of them were suspended from service on Tuesday. In a late-night review meeting, Mr. Rao ordered a probe to be led by a senior Deputy Superintendent of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-arrested-for-tonsuring-dalit-youth/article32167201.ece
23 July 2020||Ramesh Susarla,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur GGH made exclusive COVID hospital||With the available health infrastructure in Anantapur district falling short of the requirement in view of the of the spurt in the coronavirus cases, the government has converted the 500-bed Government General Hospital (GGH) here into an exclusive COVID-19 facility. Collector Gandham Chandrudu issued orders to this effect on Wednesday late evening. An action plan is also being readied to shift all non-COVID patients to private hospitals, and allocate the GGH beds to COVID patients in phases. Sharp rise in cases On Saturday, a number of COVID-19 patients were found waiting at the GGH for admission into the COVID-19 and Infectious Diseases Ward. However, the available 164 beds appeared far from adequate, given the sharp rise in the COVID-19 cases. The district reported 674 positive cases on Monday and 458 more cases on Tuesday, straining the health infrastructure to a great extent. The caseload has crossed the 6,000-mark on Tuesday. . Dearth of beds was emerging as a concern as all symptomatic cases invariably land at the GGH. People are also getting admitted to two private hospitals here, but only after being tested positive . Hence, the administration was promoting home isolation for a majority of the patients; but many, owing to stigma, are opting for COVID Care Centres, which are insufficient. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy was pitching for upgradation of the GGH so that close to 700 beds would be made available at one place. There was also palpable public pressure for increasing the bed strength at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-ggh-made-exclusive-covid-hospital/article32167750.ece
23 July 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to organise counselling for victims of chain-snatching||Chain-snatching has become a deep-seated problem for the city police over the course of the past decade. In 2003, the number of chain-snatching cases registered was around 20. The number of cases peaked in 2012, when it crossed the 190 mark. For the city police, however, nabbing the accused is only half the job done, as there is another side to these cases — dealing with women who have been the victims of such cases. Police officerssaid that victims of chain-snatching cases, who are mostly elderly women, undergo a traumatic experience and are unable to move on from such incidents. This aspect is something that the police are now planning to address. “Handling the victims and bringing them out of their trauma is part of our duty and we are working on it,” said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. “It is traumatic for any woman to see her jewellery, and in some cases her ‘mangalasutra’, being snatched away by miscreants. In many cases, they begin suffering from a fear psychosis after the incident,” said Himakar of Government Hospital for Mental Care. “There are many cases where women have also suffered serious injuries in chain-snatching incidents. The offenders mostly come in pairs riding on fast motorcycles, and confront the women and snatch their chains. This itself is a very distressing experience. In many cases, the women suffered injuries after falling down from the sudden impact. Many women also collapse due to a sudden spurt in blood pressure or their necks being cut,” DCP (Crime) V. Suresh Babu said. “There are cases where victims have refused to go back outside. They do not want to even walk to a nearby temple or a grocery store, something that they would do regularly before such incidents. Such crimes have a lasting impact on the victim’s mental health,” he said. Keeping this in mind, the city police is contemplating counselling sessions for women who have been victims of chain-snatching incidents. Though the idea is still in the formative stage, it is learnt that the victims might be asked to attend up to three sessions, which will be conducted by experienced counsellors. “CCTV cameras have aided us in solving a number of chain-snatching cases, and it has become a major deterrent for offenders,” said DCP (Zone-I) Aishwariya Rashtogi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-organise-counselling-for-victims-of-chain-snatching/article32167769.ece
23 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD senior pontiff shifted to Chennai||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Pedda Jeeyar on Wednesday was shifted to Chennai for better medical care. The Jeeyar, who tested positive to COVID-19, was admitted to Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) super hospitality hospital last Friday and after primary treatment was in self-isolation since then at his Mutt in Tirupati. Mutt sources who said that his health condition is reportedly stable at present, however, denied to divulge further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-senior-pontiff-shifted-to-chennai/article32167196.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allot houses to beneficiaries at the earliest, demands BJP||BJP leaders on Wednesday warned that they would perform ‘Gruhapravesam’ for beneficiaries of housing schemes on their own if the government further delayed the handing over of houses allotted to them. Cadres of the BJP and Jana Sena Party staged demonstrations against the government’s ‘dilly-dallying’ on the issue. The BJP blamed the previous TDP government of resorting to corruption in the 20 lakh houses that were sanctioned to the State by the Centre in the last six years, and also criticised the ruling YSRCP for its ‘indifference’ over allocation of houses to the beneficiaries. “The TDP government had inflated construction costs and delayed execution. The present government is purchasing land at double the price, shrunk the land extent to just one cent and remains indifferent to handing over the finished houses. Both the governments diluted the Centre’s schemes and made the Prime Minister’s goal of providing houses to all a distant dream,” the party’s State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy said. In a separate demonstration, State office-bearer and ‘Prabhari’ Jally Madhusudhan said Rs. 10,700 crore had been pumped into the housing scheme both by the Centre and the previous TDP regime and Rs. 11,000 crore more was required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allot-houses-to-beneficiaries-at-the-earliest-demands-bjp/article32167723.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. is responsible for situation in Tirupati: TDP||The TDP has launched a tirade against the State Government over its alleged ‘lackadaisical attitude’ in containing the spread of COVID-19. The party also alleged that the government had failed to infuse confidence among the public. The city unit of the TDP, led by senior leader and former legislator Mannur Sugunamma, held the government responsible for the entire temple city turning into a containment zone. “The city accounts for half of the 5,000 positive cases reported in all of Chittoor district,” Ms. Sugunamma said. She also alleged that the government was failing to trace the primary contacts on time and claimed that an undue delay in announcing test results was also a reason for the rampant spread. Ms. Sugunamma said she wondered how the government could fine people for not wearing masks in public, even as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself was hardly seen wearing one. Ms. Sugunamma is the second leader to raise this issue after the TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh tweeted the same on Mr. Jagan’s Kadapa visit earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-is-responsible-for-situation-in-tirupati-tdp/article32167726.ece
23 July 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spread of infection to outlying areas leads to concern||The spread of COVID-19 cases to the countryside has become a serious cause for alarm, where officials are facing difficulty both in containment as well as contact tracing. Varadaiahpalem, the remote mandal headquarters town bordering Tamil Nadu, registered eight positive cases in a single day, sparking panic among residents. It is believed that a person who returned from Chennai turned out to be the carrier, while the virus was transmitted to people in the vicinity through his primary contacts. Donka Street, which has registered a huge number of cases, has been closed and barricaded. Mandal officials went around the town urging people to stay indoors, and strictly follow social distancing norms when venturing out. Similar is the case in several remote mandals. Though the entire Tirupati city was declared a containment zone, and a total lockdown clamped in the region, the absence of a lockdown in nearby villages is a cause for concern. Officials say that the spread of COVID-19 is alarming in Tirupati Rural, Renigunta and Chandragiri mandals, which overlap with the city’s outskirts. The spread of the pandemic in these villages can take a heavy toll, as monitoring people’s movement is difficult, said officials. “Unlike in towns, the elderly and the children and kids are used to going around the village and being in close proximity with neighbours. There is a greater need for awareness and vigil in rural areas,” said TNSF national coordinator A. Ravi Naidu, who hails from Chandragiri. BJP Kadapa district secretary G.S.T. Lakshman Rao wrote to Collector Ch. Hari Kiran to get the 55 inmates of Kamisetty Andalamma old age home checked. With the senior citizens suffering from cough and cold, he requested deployment of the Sanjeevani mobile testing bus at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spread-of-infection-to-outlying-areas-leads-to-concern/article32167725.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally jumps to 64,713 as virus cases touch new high in State||In an alarming rate of increase in COVID-19 cases and deaths, the State has reported 65 deaths and 6,045 new cases in the past 24 hours as of Wednesday morning. Both are the highest single-day surges. The tally has jumped to 64,713 and the death toll mounted to 823. It took only two days for the State to see the last 10,000 cases reported. Also, the last 100 deaths were reported in two days. On the positive side, 6,553 patients have recovered and were discharged in the past day, taking the total number of recoveries to 32, 127 which puts the recovery rate at 49.65%. The number of active cases now stands at 31, 763. The government, for the first time, tested 49,553 samples in a single day. Of them, 30, 018 are RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests and 19, 535 are rapid antigen tests. Nearly half of the new deaths were reported in Guntur (15) and Krishna (10) districts. The rest were in West Godavari (8), East Godavari (7), Chittoor (5), Kurnool (5), Vizianagaram (4), Prakasam (3), Srikakulam (3), Visakhapatnam (3), Kadapa (1) and Nellore (1). Vizag sees massive surge Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam reported over 1,049 new cases in a day. East Godavari reported 891 ases, Guntur 842, Kurnool 678 and West Godavari 672 cases. These districts account for 68% of the new cases. They are followed by Chittoor (345), Nellore (327), Anantapur (325), Srikakulam (252), Kadapa (229), Prakasam (177), Krishna (151) and Vizianagaram (107). All the new cases are local cases and no imported ones were detected. The district tallies of the local cases are as follows: East Godavari (8,647), Kurnool (7,797), Guntur (6,913), Anantapur (6,266), Chittoor (5,668), West Godavari (4,986), Krishna (4,252), Visakhapatnam (3,479), Kadapa (3,349), Srikakulam (3,215), Nellore (3,010), Prakasam (2,433) and Vizianagaram (1,803).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-jumps-to-64713-as-virus-cases-touch-new-high-in-state/article32167731.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rise in anti-social activities spurs police officers into action||With anti-social elements stepping up their activities and creating law and order problem in the limits of the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate, the police started tracking the movements of rowdy sheeters, history sheeters and other trouble mongers. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu directed Station House Officers (SHOs), sector Sub-Inspectors, intelligence and special branch personnel to step up informant network and keep a tab on rowdy elements. Official warns of action Action would be taken against the officers who neglect law and order in their limits, the Commissioner warned. He directed the police to do counselling, intensify patrolling, vehicle checking at all major junctions and all entrances leading to the city. Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs) and SHOs were asked to conduct meetings with Colonies, Apartments and Residents Welfare Associations. “In all, 459 rowdy sheeters and 518 law and order suspects are there in Vijayawada. Five criminals have been externed from the city to maintain law and order,” Mr. Srinivasulu told The Hindu . Patamata incident The Patamata group clash, that took place in Thotavaari Veedhi for domination, brought to the fore the rowdy activities in the city. The police, who swung into action, rounded up 58 persons in the case so far, and launched a hunt to nab the remaining accused. Two groups headed by Thota Sandeep and Koduru Manikanta alias Pandu, clashed with lethal weapons in an open place on May 30, over settlement between two builders. While Sandeep died, more than 10 persons suffered injuries. “More than 20 persons of the two groups attacked each other with knives, iron rods, surgical blades, sticks and boulders in the residential area causing panic among the locals. All the accused were under the influence of alcohol and ganja,” said an investigation officer. Patamata CI R. Suresh Reddy said counselling was given to about 500 youth after the group clash. Nearly 40 students, who were addicted to ganja and drugs, and their parents were summoned and counselled, the CI said. “We arrested aides of both groups. Few more accused will be arrested in the case. Instructions have been given to check ganja and drug peddlers in the Commissionerate limits,” the Police Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rise-in-anti-social-activities-spurs-police-officers-into-action/article32167271.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP putting spokes in State development: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday said the political atmosphere in the State is so vitiated that the government is forced approach the Supreme Court to distribute house sites to the poor. Participating in the 71st Vana Mahotsavam celebrations, he accused the opposition Telugu Desam Party of putting hurdles in the State’s development. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan launched the Jagananna Pachhathoranam programme of planting saplings across the State, at Ibrahimpatnam where a layout has been developed for the distribution of land to the beneficiaries on August 15. “The government has decided to distribute 33 acres of land to the 1,600 beneficiaries even though it costs about Rs. 3 crore per acre as it is committed to the welfare of the spoor,” It was delightful to see the beneficiaries planting saplings in their plots, he added. “We all know that the TDP moved the Supreme Court against the distribution of pattas to the poor. Hopefully, god will bless us and on August 15, we will be in a position to distribute pattas to all the 30 lakh beneficiaries,” Mr. Jagan said.  ‘Massive green drive’ “Today, we have set in motion the process of planting of 20 crore saplings. We are developing 17,000 layouts in which pattas will be given to the poor and at the same layouts, saplings will be planted,” the Chief Minister said. At present, there are over 1.48 crore houses in the State and with the distribution of 30 lakh house site pattas, the number would go up by 20 %, he said. Later, Mr. Jagan took an oath to protect the environment and administered the same to the gathering. Ministers Peddireddi Ramchandra Reddy, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, Perni Venkataramaiah and Government Whip Samineni Udaybhanu were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-putting-spokes-in-state-development-cm/article32167741.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. failed in containing the spread’||In response to the call given by TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, party cadres staged virtual protests across the State on Wednesday denouncing, what they called, the government’s failure in effectively containing the spread of COVID-19. The week-long programme in all the 175 Assembly constituencies would conclude on July 27, when Mr. Naidu would address them online. The TDP is demanding payment of Rs. 5,000 as cash assistance to the poor families for loss of work due to the pandemic. “Daily wagers, construction workers, weavers, artisans and those in the unorganised sector are the worst-hit,” the party leaders said. “Similarly, Rs. 50 lakh should be paid as ex gratia to the next of kin of the frontline warriors such as doctors, nurses, police personnel, sanitation workers and others who died in the line of duty,” the leaders demanded. Addressing the media later, former MLA Bonda Umamaheswara Rao accused the government of leaving the people to their fate in spite of the mounting threat of the pandemic. “It is a nightmare for the patients as there are no medicines and oxygen supply in the government hospitals,” he alleged. “The State stands first in rapid spread of the virus. Over 700 people succumbed to the virus so far. As far as the recovery rate is concerned, the State figures at the bottom,” he said. The protests were aimed at bringing pressure on the government to provide proper facilities at the quarantine centres, Mr. Rao said. ‘Serve clean food, water’ “Clean food and drinking water should be served to the patients. The promised Rs. 2,000 cash should be given to each patient on the day of their discharge. The bed strength should be increased in the hospitals and quarantine centres. Rice, dal and other essential commodities should be delivered at the doorsteps of the card-holders. Ration shop dealers should be provided health insurance,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-in-containing-the-spread/article32167747.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC questions sale of land under ‘Mission Build A.P.’||The High Court on Wednesday questioned the government’s right to sell its properties under ‘Mission Build Andhra Pradesh’ during its hearing on a PIL filed by Thota Suresh Babu of Guntur against the proposed sale of land in Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts. It posted the matter for July 23 (Thursday). A two-judge Bench of the court comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice B. Krishna Mohan commented that since the State is perpetual and the government is a temporary one that changes once in five years, the authority with which it mooted the auction of land needed to be examined. They also observed that the government was only a custodian of the said properties. ‘Policy decision’ In his counter-affidavit, Mission Director Pravin Kumar said auctioning government properties and utilising the funds for public purpose is purely a policy decision of the government. He also submitted that the constitutional courts have been maintaining restraint from interfering with policy decisions. In the present case, the government has evolved a transparent and fair method of selling land through e-auctioning to fetch the highest price and there is no allegation that the government’s action is mala fide. Mr. Pravin Kumar claimed that there is no statutory bar on the auctioning of government properties, which is regulated by executive instructions. He asserted that the PIL is liable to be dismissed. He informed the court that the Mission Build AP was undertaken to use unutilised and underutilised land parcels for infrastructure creation and a MoU was signed for it with NBCC (India) Limited. The petitioner’s advocate N. Srinivasa Rao had argued that selling government land to secure funds is tantamount to betraying public confidence and is contrary to law and against the provisions of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and the Directive Principles of State Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-questions-sale-of-land-under-mission-build-ap/article32167743.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||331 tonnes of sand seized, one arrested||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids and seized 331 tonnes of sand being smuggled from Krishna river. They arrested one K. Koteswara Rao, in this connection on Wednesday. Briefing newsmen at Avanigadda police station, SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal said the Avanigadda police intercepted the sand-laden lorries at Tekupalli village and during questioning the accused confessed to the crime. The accused booked 738 tonnes of sand on the name of a private construction company and used only 438 tonnes. He allegedly diverted the remaining stocks and was selling the same at higher prices violating the norms, Mr. Jindal said. Raids conducted “Based on the information given by the lorry drivers, police conducted raids at 11 points and seized the stocks. They also seized three lorries,” the Additional Superintendent of Police added. Case has been registered against the accused under various Sections of the AP WALTA Act and AP Mines and Minerals Concession Rules, Mr. Jindal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/331-tonnes-of-sand-seized-one-arrested/article32167273.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water to Chennai: KRMB to constitute panel||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has decided to constitute a six- member High Power Committee comprising representatives (irrigation officials) of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The proposed committee will discuss the Tamil Nadu's request to release water stored at Kandaleru to meet the drinking water requirements of Chennai. The five-member committee of the KRMB held a virtual meeting on Wednesday to discuss the supply and augmentation of drinking water to Chennai. Stating that delayed release of waters into the Telugu Ganga project was not benefiting Chennai, the Tamil Nadu engineers stressed on the need to release waters between June and October. As per Bachawat Award, Chennai is entitled to 15 tmcft. The water can be released accordingly, they said. A.P. officials, however, said that it was not possible to release waters before November. The flood waters reach the Krishna between the end of June and the first week of August. Hence, it was not possible to release water during the period as suggested by Tamil Nadu, they said. Telangana charge Meanwhile, Telangana officials contended that AP was violating the board orders. Telangana was utilising water even before it reached Srisailam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-to-chennai-krmb-to-constitute-panel/article32167204.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu hails Governor’s order on SEC||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has welcomed Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s directive to the government to reinstate N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) in line with the High Court’s order. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said, “The Governor has upheld the sanctity of the Constitution and the dignity of the courts of justice.” Underlining the significance of Article 243 K(2), which specifies the Governor’s role in determining the tenure of the SEC, Mr. Naidu said that Mr. Kumar had deferred the local body elections in view of the threat posed by COVID-19. Though he had taken the decision to prevent a major health risk to the voters, he was removed in violation of the Constitution, Mr. Naidu said. The government’s unlawful action could be halted with the intervention of the court, he added, and appealed to the government to desist from being “adamant” in implementing its “unilateral decisions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-hails-governors-order-on-sec/article32167739.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC orders notices to Yanamala, Chinarajappa||A Division Bench of the High Court comprising Justices A.V. Sesha Sai and K. Suresh Reddy ordered that notices be served to MLC Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and former Home Minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa among total nine respondents in a petition filed by Pilli Manju Priya, daughter- in- law of former MLA Pilli Anantha Lakshmi for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus for producing her husband Radha Krishna. Ms. Priya’s allegation is that her in-laws were trying to perform a second marriage to her husband with the support and connivance of the TDP leaders. Next hearing on July 27 Since the notices were not yet served on the unofficial respondents in terms of an earlier order, counsel for the petitioner was directed to serve notices on them and the matter was posted for further hearing on July 27. Ms. Priya approached the court complaining that her in-laws (Ms. Anantha Lakshmi and Mr. Satyanarayana) were trying to break her love marriage with Mr. Radha Krishna which took place in 2011, and get him married to someone else without taking divorce. She said this is because it was an inter-caste marriage which he in-laws did not like. The court will take a decision after the notices are served and the respondents file a counter-affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-orders-notices-to-yanamala-chinarajappa/article32167745.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t Dalits have a right to live in State, asks Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Wednesday pointed an accusing finger at the police for the death of a Dalit youth, Kiran, at Chirala in Prakasam district. “For not wearing a mask, the police attacked the youth, which lead to his death,” he alleged. In a tweet, Mr. Lokesh said, “Many doubts are being raised on the law and order situation. Instead of protecting the people, the police are indulging in atrocities at the behest of the YSRCP leaders.” Wondering whether Dalits had no right to live in A.P., he said, “In East Godavari, the police tonsured a Dalit youth. He was beaten for questioning the authorities about the rampant sand smuggling.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-dalits-have-a-right-to-live-in-state-asks-lokesh/article32167737.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP will respect Governor’s order on SEC, says Chief Whip||While stating that the YSRCP would respect the Governor’s order on the reinstatement of N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC), government Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy said on Wednesday that the “IAS officer’s conduct is questionable and that many questions remained unanswered.” Addressing the media, Mr. Reddy said the TDP was exaggerating the order. Asserting that the government’s decision was within the purview of the Supreme Court, Mr. Reddy said that there was nothing like one party winning and the other losing. He alleged that in spite of being the SEC, Mr. Kumar was seen lobbying with leaders of political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-will-respect-governors-order-on-sec-says-chief-whip/article32167746.ece
23 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MPs vow to fight for State’s due||Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, A. Ayodhya Rami Reddy and Mopidevi Venkataramana, who were sworn-in as members of the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, said they would press for implementation of the A.P. Reorganisation Act in letter and spirit. Speaking to mediapersons, the MPs said they would mount pressure on the Centre to fulfil all the assurances contained in the Act and observed it was the Centre’s responsibility to bridge the entire revenue deficit. Of the total revenue deficit of Rs. 16,000 crore, only about Rs. 5,000 crore was given by the Centre so far, they claimed, while thanking Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for sending them to the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Bose said he and Mr. Venkataramana belonged to the Backward Classes (BCs), which paved the way for their nomination to the Upper House as Mr. Jagan was committed to their (BCs) empowerment. Mr. Venkataramana said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was committed to delivering corruption-free governance. ‘Hand-hold State’ Mr. Rami Reddy said the Centre should give the promised hand-holding to Andhra Pradesh to mitigate the impact of bifurcation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mps-vow-to-fight-for-states-due/article32167744.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Murder case solved, two held||Gajuwaka police cracked the murder case by arresting both the accused, including a woman, here on Wednesday. The arrested were identified as Gurrula Jagarao (27), a resident of Gudiwada Appanna Colony, Gajuwaka, and Guntu Deena (21) of Malkapuram. Body of a man was foundin a dried up drain behind a shopping complex in Gudiwada Appanna Colony, Gajuwaka, on July 13. “The body was highly decomposed and we assessed that the man was murdered a few days ago and dumped here, as his hands and legs were tied with cloth,” said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. A special team was formed with DCP (Crime) V. Suresh Babu leading it. “After careful profiling, we established that the deceased was one Gurram Ganesh (38), a resident of Gudiwada Appanna Colony,” Mr. Meena said. The case was investigated and it was found that both the accused were involved in the killing. According to their confession, the deceased was harassing Deena who was in love with the prime accused Jagarao. Unable to bear the harassment, both of them planned to eliminate Ganesh. On July 5, they approached Ganesh and after making him drink liquor they allegedly hit him on the head with a stick and later strangulated him with a belt. They then tied his hand with a cloth and his legs with his shirt and dumped the body in the drain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/murder-case-solved-two-held/article32167770.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic, a hard lesson for private school teachers||With the closure of educational institutions in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, teachers and non-teaching staff of many private schools and colleges are living a hand-to-mouth existence as they have not been paid their salaries for the last four months. There are an estimated 1,000 small and medium budget schools in district. Apart from this, there would be around 50 big schools and several corporate educational institutions with multiple branches in the city. The teachers of the budget schools are the worst-affected of the closure of the institutions. Almost all the medium and small budget schools have stopped paying salaries to their teachers for more than three months. The small budget schools largely depend on the fee paid by the students to pay salaries to the teachers and non-teaching staff, apart from meeting the administrative and recurring expenses.   Appeal to CM Meanwhile, school and college teachers and non-teaching staff of many educational institutions, in a WhatsApp post, have appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy seeking financial support on the lines of that extended to other sections of people who have been deprived of their livelihood in view of the lockdown. “The small budget schools are not in a position to pay salaries to the teachers. Some schools are, however, paying half of the regular salaries to the permanent teachers. If the situation continues, this may also stop. The State government has to come to their rescue,” says Andhra Pradesh Private Schools’ Association (APPSA) chairman K.S.N. Murthy. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna wrote a letter to the Chief Minister nearly two weeks ago, seeking the provision of Rs. 10,000 as financial assistance to teachers for three months. He also sought permission for conduct of online classes by the private schools. ‘No response’ “There has been no response from the government to the representation. The Central and State governments should reach out to the real sufferers. A study should be conducted, and all the affected persons, irrespective of the sectors, should be paid at least 70 % of their regular salaries till the situation becomes normal,” says CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-a-hard-lesson-for-private-school-teachers/article32167752.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIDWA seeks better amenities at Araku hospital||The All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) has sought the appointment of a gynaecologist and an anaesthetist at the area hospital at Araku. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, AIDWA State president B. Prabhavathi and district secretary V.V. Jaya noted that the hospital serves the two lakh people of five mandals in the Agency area. It was upgraded into a 150-bed hospital from a 50-bed hospital, but the staff strength was not increased proportionately. The hospital gets between 800 and 1,000 OP cases a day but has only six doctors. It is also faces shortage of equipment and the non-availability of a gynaecologist and anaesthetist was causing untold hardship to pregnant women. It was sometimes leading to infant and maternal mortality with delivery cases being referred to the King George Hospital, more than 100-km away in the city. They also noted that lack of mobile signal in some of the tribal areas was coming in the way of 108 ambulances, reaching those villages. They sought allocation of sufficient doctors and health staff to meet the requirements of the upgraded hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aidwa-seeks-better-amenities-at-araku-hospital/article32167762.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fill vacancies in District Consumer Commission’||Members from the Forum of Legal Professionals on Wednesday demanded that the State government immediately fill up all the vacancies of member posts in the District Consumer Commission. More than 50 member posts are lying vacant in all the districts of the State and the State government must frame fresh regulations prescribing qualifications and eligibility requirements for the posts immediately, said K. Murlidhar from the District Legal Services Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fill-vacancies-in-district-consumer-commission/article32167763.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed trial run conducted on KK line||The Commissioner Railway Safety (CRS) of South East Circle conducted a speed trial run on the 20.70-km long newly laid second railway track from Charamulakusimi to Jeypore in Kottavalasa-Kirandul Line. The train run was successful. The track was laid as part of the doubling of Kottavalasa-Kirandul railway line. CRS A.K. Rai, accompanied by Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava , Chief Administrative Officer, ECoR B.K. Gupta, Chief Project Manager (Construction) K.D. Rao, Chief Electrical Engineer (Construction) Bhattacharjee, Senior Divisional Engineer (West) Satyanarayana and other officials, examined the track. Depending on the report to be submitted by the committee, train services will be operated in this newly-constructed double line. Speed trial is conducted to determine the maximum permissible speed at which trains could be allowed to run, if the section is found fit for carriage of passenger traffic. After this inspection, CRS would give certificate on the track and overall system. Then the track will be declared fit for passenger traffic. The newly-constructed double line between Gidam-Dantewara, Kumarsadara-Charamulakusimi in this section has already been commissioned. Similarly, the newly-constructed double line between Kottavalasa-Mallividu-S.Kota was also commissioned in 2019. Further CRS will inspect the newly-laid 13-km double line between Paliba-Macchakund on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-trial-run-conducted-on-kk-line/article32167766.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: bail pleas dismissed||Fourth Additional Metropolitan Magistrate M. Bhoopal Reddy on Wednesday dismissed the bail pleas of the 12 accused in the LG Polymers styrene vapour leak case. It may be recalled that the vapour leak on May 7 had claimed the lives of 12 person and hospitalised many. Their judicial remand was extended till August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-bail-pleas-dismissed/article32167748.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP: allot houses to beneficiaries||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised the State government for its failure to allot the houses, which were constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), to the beneficiaries. At a protest, organised at the party city office here on Wednesday, former MP K. Haribabu said that the Union government had sanctioned 20 lakh houses to the State. Party district leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-allot-houses-to-beneficiaries/article32167765.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagananna pacha thoranam’ launched||District Collector V. Vinay Chand directed the staff of the District Water Management Association to complete the planting of saplings under the ‘Jagananna pachhathoranam’ programme by July-end. He participated in the 71st Vana Mahotsavam programme at the weaker section housing layout at Gurrampalem panchayat on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-pacha-thoranam-launched/article32167767.ece
23 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI elects new body||The CREDAI-Visakhapatnam chapter, at its Annual General Body meeting, organised through video conference, unanimously elected a new executive body for the year 2020-2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-elects-new-body/article32167764.ece
23 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram under voluntary lockdown||A voluntary lockdown came into force from Wednesday in Vizianagaram, Saluru, Bobbili and Parvatipuram, in an effort to stem the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases in Vizianagaram district. The district has seen 1,500 cases till now. Trader associations including Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce agreed to abide by the voluntary lockdown till July 31, which may be extended further till August 10, officials said. Nearly 700 confirmed cases have been identified from Vizianagaram town alone, prompting traders to close their shops forfeiting brisk business during the auspicious Sravanam month. Ten traders had tested positive for COVID-19, which also spurred the traders associations into opting to take part in the lockdown. Masks mandatory Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari urged people not to come out of their homes unless there was a valid reason. Ms. Rajakumari, who monitored the situation at Clock Tower, PW Market and other areas, directed police to take stern action against people who failed to wear masks. “People should follow COVID-19 protocols when they are outside in public. Those failing to do so will be fined,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-under-voluntary-lockdown/article32167724.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Labour of love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/labour-of-love/article32167728.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police are real ‘corona warriors’, say HC judges||High Court judges A.V. Sesha Sai and K. Suresh Reddy appreciated the role of the police in the fight against coronavirus, during the hearing on Habeas Corpus petition on Wednesday. Dispensing with the appearance of all parties at the instance of the government pleader, they said that it would be difficult for the police to produce the person (one of the respondents in the case) before them amid the pandemic. They observed that the police were the real ‘corona warriors’ and it would be inappropriate to burden them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-are-real-corona-warriors-say-hc-judges/article32167758.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Busy hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/busy-hands/article32167760.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dead woman left unattended in COVID ward in Vijayawada’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu shared a video of a dead woman lying unattended on the floor of a COVID-19 treatment facility at the Government General Hospital on Wednesday. The video shared by an eight-month pregnant woman has gone viral on social media platforms and the same was shared by Mr. Naidu on Twitter. “An 8-month pregnant woman at COVID isolation centre in Vijayawada GGH shot this shocking video of a patient lying dead on floor for three hours. Scary and pathetic,” he said. According to officials, the district administration ordered an inquiry into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dead-woman-left-unattended-in-covid-ward-in-vijayawada/article32167732.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM wants agriculture dept. reorganised||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has called for reorganisation of the agriculture department to suit the changing agricultural operations and an overhaul of the horticulture department with focus on bringing specified crops under its ambit. He shared his views at an official meeting while proposing foodgrain and vegetable cultivation to meet the food habits of people in rural and urban areas. The agriculture department should expand by setting up separate wings headed by additional directors, he said. Mr. Rao expressed the government’s willingness to sanction some more posts of agriculture officers to strengthen the department organisationally as the State was heading to emerge as a leader in this sector. He asked the officers to gather micro details of crops sown by farmers in the ongoing agricultural season though they had abided by the government’s recommendations on sowing. A release later quoted him as asking the department to gear up its activities to make agriculture profitable to farmers. There was need for modifications in traditional methods of cultivation. The department should take the lead in demonstrating to farmers the strength in organising themselves rather than remaining unorganised. Telangana has become a lab for development of agriculture for the first time in post-Independence era. The government had waived land and water cess and outstanding dues of farmers. It had given them 24-hour free power supply, investment support under Rythu Bandhu and life insurance of Rs. 5 lakh. The entire production of farmers in the last season was procured by government recently in spite of a tight situation on account of coronavirus. He said the construction of farmers’s platform called ‘Rythu Vedika’ would be completed in three months. They will become awareness platforms for farmers which could be connected online with the Chief Minister or any higher-up in government. Modern methods of cultivation should replace tradition. It required adoption of best practices around the world, he said. Mr. Rao advised officials to adopt ‘single pick’ crops. The model should be studied and implemented to suit the local weather conditions. The government had already appointed Agriculture Extension Officers for every 5,000 acres. Their number could be increased depending on growth in cultivable area and needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-wants-agriculture-dept-reorganised/article32167559.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unattended bodies in casualty ward traumatise patients||A horrifying issue is challenging the efforts of doctors and healthcare staff in boosting the morale of critical COVID-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital. Thanks to the issue of insufficient staff, the bodies of victims remain in the midst of patients undergoing treatment in casualty ward for two to three hours until they are taken for cremation. This delay has a direct impact on the confidence of existing patients under treatment. What’s more, patients being rushed on wheelchair to the casualty ward (also known as Severe Acute Respiratory Infection or SARI ward) are forced to wait for long, until the beds are cleared of the bodies and sanitised. Root of the problem is inadequate number of Class-IV employees and ward boys at the hospital. Currently, there are 200 outsourced Class-IV employees, 110 patient care providers, and 150 ward boys on permanent basis who are assigned various tasks. Some among the Class-IV employees are given the task of shifting the bodies. Sources at the hospital said the delay in clearing corpses from SARI ward has been a recurring problem for the past several days. They stressed that more ward boys and patient care providers have to be appointed to resolve the issue at the hospital which is being identified as a ‘Centre of Excellence for COVID-19 Care’. Apart from 31 beds with oxygen facility in SARI ward, there are 20 more beds in another casualty ward. “The 31 beds with oxygen supply are always full. And there is constant flow of patients into the ward, even from other districts. Some of them will be on wheelchairs waiting for ventilator support which can be provided only if a patient vacates a bed. In such pressing situations, there is delay of three or more hours in clearing a body. The latest such incident was on Tuesday night. Two people were declared dead at around 6.30 p.m. and their bodies were not cleared from the ward till 11 p.m. Meanwhile, two others were brought dead at night. PG students took the issue to the notice of officials,” sources said. COVID protocol When a COVID patient dies, they are given a few medicines as last-ditch attempt to resuscitate them. Doctors wait for around 45 minutes to see if the drugs take affect. Thereafter, ECG is used to declare the death of the patient. This process of waiting for medicines to kick in and ECG takes around an hour. After death is declared, the body is taken to the mortuary for further process, including entering their details in register and taking photos of the deceased. “Though the deaths are declared, there is delay in clearing the corpses. This is observed from past many days. Patients undergoing treatment express fear seeing the bodies in the ward. We need more ward boys and patient care attendants at the earliest. This has to be addressed to justify the ‘Centre of Excellence’ tag,” sources said. Recruitment, however, has been a challenge given the stigma attached to COVID duty at Gandhi Hospital.  More appointments Nonetheless, there is hope of the disposal issue getting resolved in the coming days with officials of Health department saying that permission has been granted to recruit 224 more patient care providers at the hospital. “The process is under way,” senior officials said.  Hospital authorities also confirmed that the recruitment process is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unattended-bodies-in-casualty-ward-traumatise-patients/article32167541.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regulated farming on track||Regulated farming being promoted by the State government from the current Vaanakalam crop season appears to be on course for most of the suggested crops except for pulses and groundnut. Against the planned area of cultivation, over 1.25 crore acres, this season the farming community has already completed sowing/transplantation operations in over 62% of the area or nearly 77.7 lakh acres as on Tuesday. Although the government has advised the farming community against cultivation of maize, it has been sown in over 1.43 lakh acres so far. “Maize is regularly cultivated in about 12 lakh acres during the Vaanakalam (kharif) season and by now it would have been sown in about 6.34 lakh acres. However, it has been cultivated in 1.43 lakh acres so far and inquiries done by our Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) have indicated that most of the farmers who have sown the crop so far did it for green cob/sweet corn sale and seed production,” a senior agriculture official said. However, the cultivation of pulses — red gram, green gram and black gram — has been relatively lower compared to the planned pattern. The three pulses have been planned to be cultivated in over 13.27 lakh acres this season and they have been sown in over 9.1 lakh acres so far. By now, the three pulses were sown in 6.42 lakh acres last year. Cultivation of soyabean has also been lesser than last year as it was sown in nearly 3.95 lakh acres by now and this year it has been cultivated in about 3.87 lakh acres against a planned area of over 4.68 lakh acres. Normal area covered by the crop for the season is about 4.89 lakh acres. The agriculture authorities have stated that cultivation of cotton has been on course of the suggested extent of little over 60 lakh acres as it has already sown in over 51.76 lakh acres so far. Last year, the crop was sown in 33.79 lakh acres by now. Similarly, paddy has been transplanted in over 9.41 lakh acres so far and nurseries have already been raised for another 22.09 lakh acres. The crop is planned in nearly 41.77 lakh acres this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/regulated-farming-on-track/article32167554.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks RBI clarification||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday asked the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) if the latter’s circular to banks to declare certain loan accounts as ‘fraud accounts’ is against principles of natural justice. The clarification was sought by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy while hearing a batch of writ petitions filed by a businessman Rajesh Agarwal of BS Company. The petitioner questioned the actions of the State Bank of India (SBI) and other consortium banks announcing his accounts as fraud accounts. Earlier, the HC had passed an order directing the banks not to take any coercive action against the petitioner as he contended that he was denied of opportunity to explain his case. However, the SBI and the RBI eventually moved the HC by filing petitions to vacate the order. The SBI maintained that its consortium of banks had to bear the brunt of Rs. 1,500 crore losses allegedly due to diversion of funds by Agarwal’s company. Advocate General B.S. Prasad appearing for the SBI informed the bench that the consortium of banks led by the SBI had declared the account of BS Limited as fraud account on February 15, 2019. He claimed that investigations indicated certain discrepancies in the account. Forensic audit of transactions confirmed that the company had misused huge sums of money. The RBI, under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, had empowered the banks to declare such accounts as fraud accounts, the AG said. An account is declared as fraud account only when the borrower or the account holder fails or declines to explain the discrepancies in the transactions found in the audit, the AG explained. Hence, the argument that the petitioner was not given an opportunity to present his case did not hold water, the AG contended. The hearing was posted again after three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-seeks-rbi-clarification/article32167567.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR for release of convicts before I-Day||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered release of convicted prisoners with good conduct ahead of Independence Day celebrations next month. At an official meeting in the city on Wednesday, he examined the guidelines pertaining to commuting their sentence before issuing the order. The Chief Minister asked officials to come up with the list of prisoners who qualified for release. The meeting was attended by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy and Director General of Prisons Rajiv Trivedi. Inmates’ representation The Chief Minister’s decision on prisoners was the result of a representation made by inmates of Cherlapalli jail to Rajya Sabha member J. Santosh Kumar when he visited the jail for tree plantation as part of his Green India Challenge programme. The prisoners had requested him that they had spent a long time in jail and there was a positive change in them. Their family members and children were anxiously awaiting reunion, Mr. Kumar tweeted. He took up the matter with Mr. Rao and the latter responded with a human approach, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-for-release-of-convicts-before-i-day/article32167566.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC hears scribe’s plea over curbs on covering demolition||Justice Challa Kodandaram of Telangana High Court on Wednesday sought to know from the State government the reasons behind not permitting media to cover the demolition of Secretariat buildings. The judge was hearing a writ petition filed by G. Sampath, Chief of Bureau with V6 Telugu TV news channel, requesting the HC to instruct the government to permit journalists to cover the demolition of Secretariat buildings. He contended that not allowing the media to cover bringing down of Secretariat buildings is illegal and it prevents dissemination of information to people. During the hearing, the judge asked Advocate General B.S. Prasad as to why representatives of electronic and print media were not given consent to cover the process of pulling down structures in the Old Secretariat. “Members of the media and the press are allowed even in war zones subject to possession of valid identity cards by authorities concerned,” the judge observed. Information related to news should be passed on to the media in the form of video clips and photographs. This would be readily available with the State Public Information officials. The press represents the citizen and hence it should be given access to the information on time. Otherwise, the news becomes stale, the judge remarked. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that nearly 400 police personnel were deployed around the Secretariat. Entry was closed to everyone, including the journalists. This action of government scuttled the freedom of press guaranteed by the Constitution, the lawyer said. He argued that a citizen has right to know what is happening at the ground level when the government is pulling down the Secretariat buildings. The AG sought time to secure instructions on the matter. The judge adjourned the hearing to Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-hears-scribes-plea-over-curbs-on-covering-demolition/article32167569.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID claims child rights activist||City-based child rights activist P. Achyuta Rao breathed his last while undergoing treatment for complications arising out of COVID-19 at a corporate hospital in Malakpet here on Wednesday. He was 59 and is survived by wife Anuradha Rao and son Srikar Aditya. He was admitted to hospital a week ago, with respiratory problems following COVID-19 infection. Initially administered with oxygen, he was later put on ventilator for the past few days. Sources informed that he was put on dialysis on Tuesday night when his kidneys stopped functioning, but it was stopped as his blood pressure began fluctuating. It is learnt that the family faced difficulty in finding a place for cremation of Mr.Achyuta Rao, as several of the graveyards in city had shut their doors on them. Finally, he was cremated at the graveyard in Purana Pul. Mr.Achyuta Rao began his activism for children in 1985 as the in-charge of Bala Sangham, a child welfare arm of CPI. About 15 to 20 years ago, he separated from the party, and established Balala Hakkula Sangham to continue fighting for child rights. He was instrumental in rescue of several children from forced labour and child marriages, which earned him the membership of the first Andhra Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The commission continued after formation of Telangana too, in which he played a key role. He is also known for a number of petitions he filed in the State Human Rights Commission with regard to child and maternal rights. CPI General Secretary Suravaram Sudhakar Reddy and central committee member Narayana and SHRC chairman G. Chandraiah lamented his untimely death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-claims-child-rights-activist/article32167545.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to apprise Centre of ‘grave’ situation in TS||The Centre will be apprised of the ‘grave situation’ in Telangana, especially the twin cities, as the TRS government has become “completely helpless” in containing the coronavirus pandemic and lost public confidence due to its lackadaisical attitude towards the health crisis, said BJP State president Bandi Sanjay on Wednesday. “There is no commitment to the people’s welfare, and well meaning advice from various quarters is being disregarded. This government will be taught a lesson by the people themselves,” he said. Demanding the government to immediately release Rs. 5,000 crore to handle the medical emergency and help COVID-19 patients, he accused Ministers of touring various districts in the name of welfare programmes only to divert public attention from the pandemic. Addressing a digital press conference, the BJP chief claimed government-run hospitals don’t have enough doctors, paramedical staff and Class-IV employees even as hundreds of posts in medical and health department are lying vacant. Purchase and distribution of safety kits is a ‘scam’ with contracts being given to “close associates of TRS leaders”, he alleged. Health bulletins issued by government have “fake and concocted” figures to cheat people and the Centre, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-apprise-centre-of-grave-situation-in-ts/article32167543.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR to lay stone for elevated corridor||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao is set to lay the foundation for the elevated corridor between Nalgonda crossroads and Owaisi junction on July 23. This will be the second elevated corridor the Minister will be laying foundation for in the last fortnight, the first being the one between VST and Indira Park on July 11. The flyover being constructed under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) with an estimated cost of Rs. 523.37 crore, will pass via Saidabad and IS Sadan. The four-lane bidirectional corridor will be 3.382 km in length, of which 2.58 km will be of the flyover, and the remaining, of the ramp on both sides, a press note released in the name of GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar said. The flyover is targeted to be completed within 24 months. The flyover will be part steel and part concrete. It will have steel pier, steel pier cap, steel girders with RCC deck slab cast in situ. It is designed for a speed limit of 40 kmph. Its construction will require property acquisition in 17,823 square metres, comprising 221 premises, the note said. Besides facilitating conflict-free traffic movement between Nalgonda crossroads and Owaisi junction, the flyover will save time for commuters travelling towards Champapet and Chandrayangutta. It will reduce the pressure on the traffic junctions at IS Sadan, Chanchalguda junction, Saidabad junction and Dhobighat junction, by circumventing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-to-lay-stone-for-elevated-corridor/article32167548.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More buses for city favoured||The city needs at least 5,000 buses to provide safe services to citizens as against the current fleet of over 3,000 buses. This is essential as the city opens up again, and people resume work, said panellists at the Hyderabad City Dialogue, organised by SUM Net - Sustainable Urban Mobility, a civil society coalition, here on Tuesday. Hyderabad contributes huge revenue to State and Central governments, yet it is not able to provide a good public transport. “Hyderabad had among the best public bus services about 25 years ago but RTC has been neglected by successive governments. Bus-based public transport is critical to realise the basic requirement of ‘Roti-Kapada-Makan,” said former director of Central Institute of Road Transport Hanumantha Rao. Hyderabad Urban Labs Anant Maranganti spoke about the need for bus services to be responsive to the needs of different commuters, especially those in informal occupations like domestic workers, employees of malls, office-goers and students. Private modes will only increase cost of travel and worsen air pollution. C. Ramachandraiah of the Centre for Economic & Social Studies said spending money on flyovers favours private vehiclesinstead of investing in bus services that benefit everyone. Hyderabad should take the lockdown experience as an opportunity to bring city bus service back to the centre stage, said academician D. Narasimha Reddy, who chaired the discussion. SUM Net appealed to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to invest in public bus systems as it would help revive the economy. , a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-buses-for-city-favoured/article32167547.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alliance Air flights to Bengaluru, Ahmedabad||Alliance Air, a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India, is all set to connect more regional dots on the aviation map from July 24. The airline will operate flights from Hyderabad to Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Kochi via Kolhapur, Nasik and Mysuru respectively. It will also operate flights from Pune to Hyderabad via Nasik. The airline stated it was adhering to all government guidelines and is following all the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Required precautionary measures are being taken within the aircraft as well at the time of check-in, boarding and arrival at the destination. Aircraft were being rigorously disinfected after each flight to eliminate any risk of contagion, said an official spokesperson of Alliance Air.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alliance-air-flights-to-bengaluru-ahmedabad/article32167570.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. risking students’ lives, says BJP||The BJP on Wednesday told the TRS government “not to play with the lives of students” by taking up book distribution programmes in schools across the State. “It is unfortunate that the government has issued an order for organising programmes for distribution of NT books in every school by public representatives when people are afraid of getting infected with coronavirus if they go out. After ordering people to stay at home, how can they ask students to come to schools for collecting books,” wondered MLC and city president N. Ramchander Rao. Tabs should be distributed to students instead of books, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-risking-students-lives-says-bjp/article32167557.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI aid to OGH||State Bank of India has handed over 1,500 PPE kits and three ventilators, worth Rs. 10 lakh, to Osmania General Hospital. A release by SBI Hyderabad Circle on Tuesday said Debasish Mishra, DGM, handed over the PPE kits and medical equipment to Pandu Naik, Assistant Superintendent, Osmania General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-aid-to-ogh/article32167546.ece
23 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IT Tower in Karimnagar opened||A multi-storied facility to house IT companies in Karimnagar, developed as part of TS government’s emphasis on spreading the growth of the IT sector to Tier II cities, was formally opened on Tuesday. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who inaugurated the IT Tower, said it is another major step in promoting IT sector in Tier 2 cities of Telangana. “The facility has a total built up space of 83,000 sq ft. Allocation of space to companies has already begun,” he said in a tweet. The IT Tower is expected to boost job opportunities for the local youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-tower-in-karimnagar-opened/article32167556.ece
23 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Book distribution programme starts||Even as schools continue to remain shut due to the coronavirus threat, the School Education Department has started distribution of free textbooks for the new academic year 2020-2021 among students of government schools at the school points across the district. The process of distribution of textbooks to a little over 1.07 lakh students of 1,329 government and aided schools, besides the State-run residential educational institutions at school points at the village/mandal/district level, began on Wednesday. Specific instructions have been issued to the authorities concerned to strictly comply with the physical distancing norms during the textbooks’ distribution process, sources said. The move is expected to help students familiarise with the prescribed subject content for the new academic year and keep themselves engaged in learning pursuits while remaining indoors till the reopening of schools. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar formally launched the textbook drive at the government school in Indiranagar. Khammam Mayor G. Papalal, Collector R V Karnan, District Educational Officer Madanmohan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-distribution-programme-starts/article32167562.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,TELANGANA||‘Give report on Secretariat demolition precautions’||The National Green Tribunal, New Delhi, has directed a committee to submit a report on whether sufficient precautions are being taken by the authorities while carrying out demolition work of Telangana Secretariat building. The tribunal, however, refused to restrain the State Level Impact Assessment Authority from issuing Environmental Clearance for carrying out the demolition work, saying it is an expert body and no injunction restraining it from exercising the power conferred on it can be granted. If the parties are aggrieved by Environmental Clearance granted, they can challenge the same by filing an appeal against the same under the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010. The green panel formed a committee, which was asked to inspect the area in question and submit a factual report with suggestions as to whether the precautions are taken during demolition work and disposal of the debris collected. A bench headed by Justice K Ramakrishnan asked the committee what further precautions are being taken to avoid possible pollution and if any damage has been caused to the environment including Hussainsagar Lake situated near the disputed area. It has also been directed to assess the environmental compensation payable and submit a detailed report regarding the same to the tribunal within two months. The present status of COVID-19 infection cannot be taken as a ground for not conducting the inspection and necessary arrangements should be made for stay and other transport facilities for officers coming from outside the State to carry out the directions issued by this tribunal, the bench said. The committee is directed to submit a report by September 25 through e-mail. The official respondents are directed to submit their detailed response to the application regarding implementation of the Wet Land Rules in their State and sufficiency of the steps taken to abate pollution that is likely to cause while dealing with the disposal of demolition debris generated, the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy. . Where to hear KLIS case The Southern Zone Bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought to know from the Principal Bench of NGT whether a case pertaining to arguments on lack of environmental clearances to Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme (KLIS) may be heard in Chennai or at the Principal Bench at Delhi. To this extent, a communication was sent to the Principal Bench at Delhi. The case filed by three petitioners came up for hearing before NGT Southern Zone Bench judicial member Justice K. Ramakrishnan and the next hearing was posted for August 5. (With inputs from   R. Avadhani in   Sangareddy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-report-on-secretariat-demolition-precautions/article32167571.ece
23 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao will inaugurate the new revenue division of Andol-Jogipet on Thursday. The new tahasil office will be inaugurated at Chotakur, a newly-formed mandal. He will also visit Narinja Vagu, inaugurate Rythu Seva Kendram and attend a municipal meeting at Zaheerabad. Also, 25 Swachh autos will be launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32167561.ece
23 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Green wall’ comes up on either side of Rajiv Rahadari||The Siddipet district administration has achieved a rare feat in three years’ time. A ‘green wall’ was grown along the Rajiv Rahadari for 92 km on either side of the road. A total of 184 km was covered with saplings and about 400 saplings were planted in each kilometre. At some places 800 saplings were planted in two rows for one kilometre. The district officials claimed that Siddipet is the only district in the country to have planted around 75,000 saplings, since commencement of the Haritha Haram programme in 2016. The officials have started removing bushes and garbage on the roadside for the past one week and this will cover 184 km. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, while on his way to Siddipet, stopped at Mulugu for some time and interacted with the labourers working under NREGS. He asked them whether they were getting wages or had any other problems. He advised them to maintain physical distance and cover their faces with masks without fail. “We have established a special ward with 100 beds at Gajwel and Siddipet to treat coronavirus patients. Follow your traditional medicine systems and protect yourself by inhaling hot steam every day. Go to hospital and get tested if there are any symptoms,” said Mr. Harish Rao, stating that vaccine may be available in the next two or three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-wall-comes-up-on-either-side-of-rajiv-rahadari/article32167560.ece
23 July 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Registrations for Intinta Innovator, the State innovation cell’s initiative to encourage new ideas, problem-solving and entrepreneurship at household-level, have been extended till July 31. Students and individuals in micro and small industries and from various fields can send their entries — a three-minute video of the idea/working model, pictures and other details to the department’s WhatsApp number 9100678543.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32167553.ece
23 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||Ecstasy drug worth over Rs. 14 lakh seized||The customs department has seized 639 pills of party drug ecstasy worth Rs. 14.7 lakh from two parcels that arrived at Foreign Post Office in Ahmedabad, an official said on Wednesday. The psychotropic drug was concealed in boxes containing books that had arrived at the FPO in Shahibaug area recently, the Ahmedabad Customs said in a statement. Customs officials received a tip-off that the drug was being transported by post, following which the parcels were examined on Tuesday, it was stated.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ecstasy-drug-worth-over-rs-14-lakh-seized/article32167490.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||MVA, Oppn. lock horns over GR on meetings||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have locked horns over the State’s recent directions to district administration and officials saying it was not mandatory for them to attend meetings called by Leaders of Opposition in the State legislature. In a government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday, the State government stated, “Ministers in the government have the powers to supervise and call a meeting of concerned officials and issue them directions and orders. However, no such powers are given to non-government members such as Leader of Opposition of State Assembly or Council despite being given the status of a minister.” It categorically stated that, “Therefore it is not expected for the officials to attend the meetings or tours called by the non-government members, Members of Parliament or State Legislature members.” ‘Murder of democracy’ The Opposition BJP on Wednesday reacted strongly to this decision calling it “murder of democracy”. “Both Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar have been touring the entire State and exposing the reality of government administration through their visits to hospitals. While it was expected from the ministers to tour the State to know the reality, their work is being done by Opposition leaders. This seems to have scared the Uddhav Thackeray government and therefore such anti-democratic decision has been taken,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye. Unfounded, says Cong. The Congress, on the other hand, hit out at the BJP’s criticism calling it as “unfounded claims”. “It seems the BJP has not realised that they are no longer in power. It was the Devendra Fadnavis government, which on March 11, 2016 and August 29, 2018 had issued directions to officials to not attend the meetings called by Opposition parties. Was that decision not anti-democratic?” asked Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. The former Chief Minister, he added, should have known the directions issued by his own government. “Actually, a show-cause notice should be served to him to ask him how he violated rules framed by his own government,” Mr. Sawant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-oppn-lock-horns-over-gr-on-meetings/article32167488.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||Appoint govt. servants as gram panchayat administrator: HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday passed an interim order directing that a government servant or officer of the local authority be appointed as an administrator for nearly 15,000 gram panchayats where the terms of these officers have ended or would be ending. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Abhay Ahuja was hearing two petitions — one filed by Vilas D. Kunjir and others; the other by Pradeep Shivaram Hulawale and others — concerning the Maharashtra Village Panchayat (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, and the government resolutions (GRs) dated July 13 and 14 issued by the State Rural Development Department respectively. The GRs and ordinance were challenged on various grounds and relate to the appointment of private individuals as administrators of gram panchayats. Senior advocates Milind Sathe and Pralhad Paranjpe appearing for Mr. Hulawale and others, pleaded that no administrator, at least no private person, be appointed. Mr. Sathe argued that the appointments of private administrators is not warranted in law and will have a lasting adverse impact on the local governance. Advocate-General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni however, opposed any interim order and stated that administration of panchayats would be hampered if an administrator is not appointed. The court held, “because of the pandemic, elections are not being held and if administrator is not appointed, the working of the gram panchayat will be affected.” The court said, “We see no reason why government servants or officers from the local authorities should not be the first choice for the State. As an interim measure, the administrator to be appointed under the ordinance and resolutions, should be a government servant or an officer from the local authority.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/appoint-govt-servants-as-gram-panchayat-administrator-hc/article32167489.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||Sheena murder: Shyamvar Rai’s bail plea rejected||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected the interim medical bail plea filed by Shyamvar Rai, accused-turned-approver in the Sheena Bora murder case. Mr. Rai, lodged at Taloja Central Jail, has sought an interim medical bill for 45 days through email, citing that there is a risk to contract COVID-19. He was arrested by the Khar police under the Arms Act in August 2015, which led to discovery of a new element in the murder case wherein he had acted as an eyewitness to the crime. On May 11, 2016, Mr. Rai, main accused Indrani Mukerjea’s driver and co-accused in the case, had sought pardon from the court and pleaded to be made an approver in the case. He had in his statement first to the Khar police and later to the CBI revealed everything that transpired on April 24 and 25, 2012, when Sheena was murdered, and her body was dumped and burnt in Raigad, 120km south of Mumbai. He had told investigators that Ms. Mukerjea had conducted a reconnaissance to dump Sheena’s body in Raigad district on April 23, 2012, and had returned to book a room for her ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna, also an accused in the case, at Hotel Hilltop in Worli. Mr. Rai had recorded his confessional statements under Section 164 (recording of confessions and statements before a magistrate) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on November 16, 2016, which revealed how Ms. Mukerjea and he had done a Skype call to plan the killing of not only Sheena but also her brother Mekhail. His statements minutely described the day Sheena was murdered and what role Mr. Khanna did play in the end result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sheena-murder-shyamvar-rais-bail-plea-rejected/article32167496.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||Aortic valve replacement surgery saves farmer’s life||In a first-of-its-kind emergency transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedure conducted at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital, doctors have saved the life of a 62-year-old farmer from Navi Mumbai, who was brought with heart failure. The special type of TAVR, which is valve-in-valve procedure, was performed within four hours of the patient’s relatives and doctors agreed for the procedure, which is also a record in itself, hospital authorities said. TAVR is a planned/elective procedure and it takes a few days to organise this, which involves a battery of diagnostic tests, CT scans, planning by a team of doctors, and deciding on right size of the valve. The patient, identified as Vitthal Kadam, was brought in on June 20 evening while gasping for breath. “Initial assessment showed he had very low blood pressure, no urine output, and swelling all over the body, suggestive of severe heart failure. He was immediately put on multiple medicines to support his dropping blood pressure levels and dialysis,” a person familiar with the case said. “The medical team was sure that he needed an urgent valve replacement surgery as there was a severe leakage and narrowing of the artificial tissue valve which was put in his heart six years ago through an open heart surgery,” he said. However, the patient was considered to be extremely high risk for an re-do valve replacement surgery because of his critical condition and previous open heart surgery. Medical team then suggested the TAVR procedure as a better option. The planning of TAVR was a difficult task as the patient was critical and was not fit for a CT scan that was needed to find the exact size of the valve. “In this patient’s case, luckily he had undergone angiography a week before, which further helped them in judging the exact type and size of the previously implanted valve and place the request for the appropriate valve for him. The valve was delivered by the manufacturers within two hours,” hospital officials said. In the hour-long procedure, cardiologists implanted a new valve inside the previously implanted valve which had failed, through arteries of the groin and without opening the chest. The patient’s heart failure improved and all his parameters stabilised soon after the procedure. Mr. Kadam was discharged from the hospital on July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aortic-valve-replacement-surgery-saves-farmers-life/article32167494.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||93-year-old spiritual leader to deliver online lecture||Swami A. Parthasarathy, the 93-year-old spiritual leader, will deliver his first online discourse on July 26 in what would be a delayed Guru Purnima lecture to his followers. The live webcast about ‘Personal Rehabilitation – From Concern to Composure’, will be transmitted live across the globe. The one-hour session by the founder of Vedanta World will focus on helping individuals deal better with the pandemic. During his seven-decade journey as a spiritual devotee, Parthasarathy has authored 12 books. Devotees can register for the session online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/93-year-old-spiritual-leader-to-deliver-online-lecture/article32167491.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||Sahil Seth appointed as honorary adviser for BRICS CCI||Sahil Seth, Deputy Commissioner of Mumbai Customs, has been appointed as an honorary adviser to the steering committee for the BRICS Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) young leaders for the period 2020-2023. The role is on a voluntary basis, and no financials are involved, thus making it a no/zero remuneration appointment. “I am extremely happy to be appointed as an honorary advisor and to represent my country. BRICS CCI young leaders is a welcome step in motivating the youth across the country,” said Mr. Seth, a 2011 batch Indian Revenue Service officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sahil-seth-appointed-as-honorary-adviser-for-brics-cci/article32167492.ece
23 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two booked for setting guard on fire||The Khandeshwar police are on the lookout for two men who allegedly tried to kill a security guard at a car shed by setting him ablaze. An attempt to murder case was registered by the mother of the victim, Devidas Ugavle (30), on Tuesday evening. “According to the complainant, her son works with a private firm and was deployed by a contractor who is constructing a car shed for the Railways near Tembode village in Panvel taluka. The car shed is around two km from Tembode, adjacent to a vast field,” senior police inspector Shyam Shinde said. Around 10.30 p.m. on Monday, while Mr. Ugavle was stationed at the spot, two men with torch fires attempted to trespass to reach the field where they wanted to catch crabs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-booked-for-setting-guard-on-fire/article32167495.ece
23 July 2020||Panaji,||Antigen test must from today for people arriving in Goa||People arriving in Goa from Thursday will have to undergo rapid antigen tests, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said after a State Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Mr. Sawant said the fast diagnostic testing, which is suitable for point-of-care testing that directly detects the presence or absence of an antigen, began on Wednesday at Mangor Hill, which was declared a containment zone last month after a spike in COVID-19 cases. The Chief Minister said if a family tests positive, but its members are asymptomatic, they will be allowed to remain in home quarantine. So far, people arriving in Goa were subjected to swab testing and had to be in quarantine in State-run facilities till their reports arrived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/antigen-test-must-from-today-for-people-arriving-in-goa/article32167499.ece
23 July 2020||Pune,||Outfit demands life insurance cover for Pune’s waste pickers||In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the city-based Kagad Kach Kachra Panchayat (KKKP) — an outfit fighting for the rights of waste collectors — has demanded that the 7,500 waste pickers working within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits be provided with a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh each for death due to natural causes or accident. “Waste pickers who have died after April 1, and are not covered under such an insurance scheme should be covered directly from the PMC’s budget,” a KKKP activist said. The outfit further demanded that the Pune civic body’s funds left over from the discontinuation of the Centre’s Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana life insurance premium till January 2018, be utilised to compensate the kin of waste pickers who have died during the pandemic period. Pune city, whose total case tally has surged to 40,000, has over 15,000 active cases and has reported more than 1,000 fatalities till date. The KKKP said the PMC must compensate the waste collectors with Rs. 10 per property covered by them during the three months of the lockdown. “Waste pickers engaged in door-to-door collection depend on the citizens’ user fees and sale of scrap such as paper, plastic, metal, and glass for their income and sustenance. With the lockdown of all shops, markets, and commercial areas, they received no scrap or user fees from these, despite being at work every day. The recycling companies and scrap shops had shut down as well, reducing waste pickers’ incomes by more than 50% during this period. Yet, they have ensured that the door-to-door waste collection continues smoothly,” Poornima Chikarmane, co-founder, KKKP, said. As per the contract between the PMC and SWaCH (a cooperative of self-employed waste collectors), waste pickers servicing the declared slums of Pune are given a slum subsidy of Rs. 10 per property per month. The balance user fees are to be paid by the resident citizens. “However, as the lockdown caused many slum dwellers to lose their jobs, they in turn have been unable to meet these user fees payments to waste pickers. Given that the ongoing economic crisis will continue for a while, waste pickers servicing declared, undeclared slums and SRAs must be provided an incentive of Rs. 30 per household per month over a six-month period,” Ms. Chikarmane said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/outfit-demands-life-insurance-cover-for-punes-waste-pickers/article32167498.ece
23 July 2020||Pune,||Salt-loving bacteria turned Lonar lake pink: report||The colour of water in Lonar lake in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district turned pink due to a large presence of the salt-loving Haloarchaea microbes, according to a study by a Pune-based institute. “Haloarchaea or halophilic archaea is a bacteria culture, which produces pink pigment, and found in water saturated with salt,” Dr. Prashant Dhakephalkar, director of Agharkar Research Institute, said. Last month, the State forest department informed the Bombay High Court it had collected water samples and sent them for testing to Agharkar Research Institute and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute in Nagpur. Dr. Dhakephalkar said, “Initially, we thought it was because of the red-pigmented Dunaliella algae. But while studying the samples, we found a large Haloarchaea population in the lake. Since it [Haloarchaea] produces a pink pigment, it formed a pink colour mat on the water surface.” Dr. Dhakephalkar and other researchers have prepared a detailed report of their findings and sent it to to the forest department, which will submit it before the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court. Dr. Dhakephalkar said the absence of rain, less human interference and high temperature could have resulted in the evaporation of water, increasing salinity and pH levels in the lake. The report also concluded that the change in colour was not permanent. “We allowed the sample water to stand still for some time and found the biomass settle at the bottom. The water then became clear and transparent. So, it was the biomass of these microbes that turned the surface of the water red or pink,” Dr. Dhakephalkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/salt-loving-bacteria-turned-lonar-lake-pink-report/article32167502.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Matter of survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/matter-of-survival/article32167501.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India will have to deliver COVID-19 vaccine on a scale never seen before’||The remarkable progress on a COVID-19 vaccine made by Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator on its COVID-19 trials, and his team, holds out hope that an effective and safe vaccine might be available earlier than originally assumed, during 2021. In an interview, he shared insights into the COVID-19 endgame scenarios that might now be on the table. Edited excerpts:  Could you explain the vaccine development process of your group, including how the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine works, and what phase the trials are in? The way the vaccine works is rather similar to most of the other vaccines in development. What we are trying to do is induce immune responses to spike protein. The spike protein is the protein that decorates the surface of the coronavirus and the virus uses it in order to enter into the cells in our body to cause infection. In addition to that, the vaccine also induces a type of white blood cell called T-cells, which are able to destroy our cells if they get infected by the virus. This might halt the infection. The combination of those two is exactly what we hope to induce with the vaccine. We are now in the Phase 3 trials, with more than 10,000 people around the world getting vaccinated. On the question of efficacy of the vaccine, is it possible that mutations of the virus might render the vaccine less effective than what was seen in the trials? We do not know the answer to that yet. So far, we do not see evidence that the spike protein itself has mutated so that the vaccine would not work. But that is something that has to be monitored, because these viruses, as they pass on from person to person, they do make mistakes in their genetic code. That could allow these mutations to arise and for new forms of spike protein to develop. One of the reasons why this may not have happened so far, as far as we can see, is that if they have big mutations in the spike protein, they would not be able to infect our cells any more and it would be a dead end for the virus. How strong was the immune response that you observed in the vaccine trials, and is it something that would inspire hope? We do not know how strong an immune response is needed for protection. All we can say is that we are seeing immune responses that are better after a second dose. They are also not so bad after a first dose. We do not know if those are enough for protection, which is why we have to do these trials. How much protection will the vaccine offer? Will the effect be uniform across the population? It is likely that there will be differences in immunity between people. A particular hurdle is for older adults, especially those over 70 years of age, where we know that their immune systems just do not crank up as much when they are vaccinated. India is expected to have possibly the world’s largest number of COVID-19 cases by early 2021 — once the vaccine has been rolled out to scale, how long will it take to bring the pandemic to a halt? We need to have enough doses of the vaccine available, and then we need to be able to vaccinate enough people to stop the virus in its tracks. But that is quite a big deal. First of all, you have got to manufacture it at an enormous scale, for a country like India, to be able to vaccinate a large proportion of the population. Then you actually have to get out and deliver the vaccine on a scale that has never been seen before. That is also a big hurdle. Even if you have a vaccine and you have enough doses, the logistics of preventing infection in everyone is going to be a huge, mass vaccination programme. Many countries are thinking, initially, about how to protect those at greatest risk, like hospital workers, older individuals, and those with co-morbidities. That is probably the right way to start. From your perspective, given the science that has gone into vaccine development, what would a reasonable price for the vaccine be? I do not know what the price range would be. I did hear Adar Poonawalla of the Serum Institute of India speaking about some suggested prices but the important thing for most people in the world is that governments are likely to pay for this or have funding externally from international organisations to help them. So, hopefully for individuals being vaccinated, this will be of no cost to them, or a very low cost.  It is likely that there will be differences in immunity between people. A particular hurdle is older adults, especially those over 70 years of age||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-will-have-to-deliver-covid-19-vaccine-on-a-scale-never-seen-before/article32167186.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Imran Khan raises Kashmir issue in phone call with Sheikh Hasina||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday briefed Bangladesh leader Sheikh Hasina about the Kashmir issue, Pakistan’s official news agency has reported. During a telephonic conversation, Mr. Khan discussed the COVID-19 scenario and assured the Prime Minister of Bangladesh that his country wished to have bilateral ties with Dhaka based on sovereign equality. Safe region According to the Associated Press of Pakistan, Mr. Khan invited Ms. Hasina to visit Islamabad and drew attention to the situation in Kashmir and “stressed the importance of peaceful resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute for a safe and prosperous region”. Dhaka’s official news agencies have, however, maintained silence on the Kashmir issue. “The Pakistan Premier phoned Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina at around 1 p.m. and wanted to know from her about the coronavirus situation in Bangladesh and how her government is combating the deadly disease,” Bangladesh Prime Minister’s Press Secretary Ihsanul Karim told official news agency Bangladesh Sangbad Sanstha. This was the second phone call in a year from Mr. Khan, who had earlier discussed the regional situation with Ms. Hasina before she arrived on an official visit to Delhi in October 2019, two months after India ended the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir. Subsequently, to deal with public anger after India stopped export of onion, Bangladesh turned to Pakistan and other countries for supplies. Fight against virus During Tuesday’s discussion, Mr. Khan also expressed Pakistan’s condolences regarding the loss of lives in Bangladesh because of the pandemic and praised Ms. Hasina's initiatives to counter the spread of the disease. He also sought Dhaka’s support to maintain the spirit of regional cooperation under the umbrella of SAARC. The conversation was held weeks after Bangladesh Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen hosted Pakistan’s High Commissioner Imran Ahmed Siddiqui in the Foreign Ministry in Dhaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-khan-raises-kashmir-issue-in-phone-call-with-sheikh-hasina/article32167184.ece
23 July 2020||Washington,||Pandemic will get worse before it gets better, says Donald Trump||The COVID-19 death toll in the United States has spiked again with President Donald Trump conceding the pandemic crisis will get worse, as record infections in Australia underscored second-wave dilemmas globally. Nearly 15 million cases have been confirmed and 6,15,000 lives lost since the virus was first detected in China late last year. Almost a quarter of those deaths have been in the U.S., the worst-hit nation after a scattershot response from Mr. Trump that has been dominated by him repeatedly downplaying the severity of the crisis. With authorities reporting on Tuesday the highest daily nationwide death toll in weeks of nearly 1,000, Mr. Trump adopted a newly serious tone. “It will probably, unfortunately get worse before it gets better,” the President told reporters during his first formal pandemic briefing for nearly three months. Other nations, which had eased crippling lockdowns after the virus had appeared to fade, are struggling to combat second waves. Second wave fears Australia on Wednesday reported more than 500 infections in a day, posting a record high nearly four months after cases appeared to have peaked. In Melbourne, Australia’s second-biggest city where most of the new infections have occurred, wearing face masks will be mandatory from Thursday. Second wave fears were also growing in Japan’s capital, with hundreds of new cases reported each day over the past week, promoting authorities to urge people to stay home during an upcoming national holiday. France also said transmissions were increasing again over the summer holiday season, after the country suffered one of Europe’s worst outbreaks during the spring. Countries with fragile health systems have yet to enjoy even a brief reprieve from the virus, with Mexico on Tuesday passing 40,000 deaths — the pandemic’s fourth-highest national toll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandemic-will-get-worse-before-it-gets-better-says-donald-trump/article32167190.ece
23 July 2020||Singapore,||Indian-origin nurse in Singapore gets award||A 59-year-old Indian-origin nurse in Singapore has been conferred with the President’s Award for Nurses for serving on the frontline during the COVID-19 pandemic. Kala Narayanasamy was among the five nurses given the award, the Ministry of Health announced on Tuesday. Each recipient was awarded a trophy, a certificate signed by President Halimah Yacob and SGD 10,000 ($7,228). Ms. Narayanasamy, who is the Deputy Director of Nursing at Woodlands Health Campus, was awarded for using infection control practices she learned during the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak, in the current pandemic. She tapped on this experience to introduce workflows and standard operating procedures to convert wards at the Yishun Community Hospital to care for COVID-19 patients. She is currently involved in planning for the Woodlands Health Campus, scheduled to open in 2022, drawing on almost 40 years of experience to lead the development of nursing services for the division of medicine at the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indian-origin-nurse-in-singapore-gets-award/article32167183.ece
23 July 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. journalist freed hours after abduction||A top Pakistani court on Wednesday expressed alarm at the abduction of prominent journalist Matiullah Jan, who was later freed, noting that kidnappers wore police uniforms and wanted to “scare” other people too. The Islamabad High Court Chief Justice Athar Minallah heard the habeas corpus petition against Mr. Jan’s abduction filed by his family on Tuesday. The court took prompt action and ordered Secretary Interior, Commissioner, Islamabad and Inspector General, Islamabad to produce the journalist on Wednesday or personally appear before the court. Mr. Jan, who is highly critical of the government and the security institutions of the country, was freed on Tuesday, hours after he was abducted. Chief Justice Minallah noted that CCTV footage showed that some kidnappers were in police uniforms. “Someone has the nerve to do such a thing in police uniforms What impression will the public get that people are roaming around freely in police uniforms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-journalist-freed-hours-after-abduction/article32167187.ece
23 July 2020||London,||‘WHO’s handling of COVID-19 caused deaths in Britain’||The World Health Organization (WHO)’s actions during the COVID-19 pandemic led to “dead Britons”, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told lawmakers during a trip to London, British media reported on Wednesday. Mr. Pompeo told a private meeting of MPs on Tuesday that the WHO had become a “political” body, alleging that its decisions were influenced by a deal struck between chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and China that helped him become its head, according to quotes in The Times and Daily Telegraph . “When push came to shove, when it really mattered most”, people died “because of the deal that was made”, he said. Mr. Pompeo was in Britain for meetings with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab focused on China, and met some Conservative party MPs during a private morning event. The WHO said it rejected “ ad hominem attacks and unfounded allegations”. “WHO urges countries to remain focused on tackling the pandemic that is causing tragic loss of life and suffering,” a spokesperson for the organisation said on Tuesday, according to The Telegraph . The U.S. announced earlier this month that it would be withdrawing from the WHO, accusing it of being controlled by China. Ties between the U.S. and China have worsened sharply this year over a range of issues, from COVID-19 and telecoms gear maker Huawei to China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whos-handling-of-covid-19-caused-deaths-in-britain/article32167188.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India, U.S. should work together to face China’||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said countries like India and the U.S. should work together to face the ‘challenge’ of the Chinese Communist Party (CPC). Mr. Pompeo’s recorded comments, shared at the India Ideas Summit organised by the U.S. India Business Council (USIBC), came hours after news broke of the U.S. ordering the closure of the Chinese consulate in Houston. “It’s important that democracies like ours work together, especially as we see more clearly than ever the true scope of the challenge posed by the Chinese Communist Party,” Mr. Pompeo, currently travelling in Europe, said via a recorded video message. “Our infrastructure projects, our supply chains, our sovereignty, and our people’s health and safety are all at risk if we get it wrong. The recent clashes initiated by the PLA are just the latest examples of the CCP’s unacceptable behaviour. We were deeply saddened by the deaths of 20 Indian service members. I am confident that with our concerted efforts, we can protect our interests.” he said, commending India for banning 59 Chinese apps following the clashes in Ladakh. Mr. Pompeo also said India was key to U.S. President Donald Trump’s foreign policy. “India too, is an important partner and a key pillar of President Trump’s foreign policy: multi-lateralism that actually works,” he said The Secretary listed examples of India and the U.S. working together including the Quad and the World Intellectual Property Organisation elections earlier this year (in which a Singaporean candidate for director won against a Chinese candidate).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-us-should-work-together-to-face-china/article32167223.ece
23 July 2020||Chicago,||Chicago, July 22, 2020 (AFP) -||A shoot-out outside a funeral left 14 people wounded on Tuesday in Chicago, as President Donald Trump threatens to send federal agents to a handful of U.S. cities led by Democratic Mayors.The episode started when occupants of a vehicle began firing at attendees of a funeral.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chicago-july-22-2020-afp/article32167191.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Are people in J&K citizens or subjects?||The Internet is often spoken about as a great equaliser. Its evolution was meant to herald a more equal society. But the ravages wrought by COVID-19 have taught us that the web is also capable of creating new and more insidious barriers to basic goods. Across the world, despite the structural hurdles to access, the Internet has become indispensable to human freedom. School children take their lessons online, businesses cannot work without accessing the web, our courts have moved virtual, and even our leisure is inextricably bound by the system. What this has also meant is that those without access to the Internet have suffered more than others. The pandemic has shown us a smidgen of just how reprehensible the digital divide is. There was a report, for example, of a student taking her own life, because of a lack of access to online school. Therefore, a staunching of the gateways to the web invariably strikes at the dignity of individuals. A complete ban, and a challenge Yet, the government feels no compunction in doing precisely just this in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Since August 4 last year, people in the region have not had access to 4G Internet. The authorities see the restriction, which was placed in the lead-up to the dilution of Article 370 of the Constitution, as unassailable. But by all means — even by the Supreme Court’s own concession — a complete ban of this kind is disproportionate. It impinges on the liberty of an entire populace. Yet the Court has done little to enforce its writ, to do what the Constitution demands of it: act as an independent check on majoritarian power. To begin with, this move to restrict 4G Internet in the region was part of an array of measures limiting communications and movement. These moves were made ostensibly out of a concern for national security, with the aim of thwarting terrorism. The blockade though, imposed as it was indiscriminately on the whole region, was challenged in the Supreme Court, in Anuradha Bhasin v. Union of India (2020) .  The petitioner there made two primary arguments. First, she pointed out that the government had refused to make public its orders blocking the Internet. This, she said, violated a basic tenet of the rule of law: that people have a right to know why their freedoms have been constrained. Second — and more substantively — she argued that empirical evidence demonstrated that there was no link between shutting down the Internet and the state’s objective of protecting security. Indeed, available materials pointed the other way: that the Internet was a valuable tool that could be used to counter the spread of incendiary rumours and fake news. Moreover, the government had at its disposal less restrictive options, such as the blacklisting of specific websites and targeted surveillance measures. It is unclear if these alternatives were even considered. Thus, the petitioner claimed that there was no justification for a blanket Internet shutdown that impacted a territory of eight million people, a vast majority of whom had nothing to do with terrorism. It took the Supreme Court five months to rule on this petition. All the while, the blockade continued unabated. And when the decision did come, on January 10, 2020, it did little to mitigate the damage. The Court no doubt held that the ability to access the web had an instrumental bearing on a number of other fundamental rights, including the rights to free speech and freedom of business; and that therefore any limitation placed on the web must be necessary and proportionate to the goal that the State seeks to achieve. This meant that the government now had to produce the orders on the basis of which it was shutting down the Internet. But promising as this might have looked at first blush, the Court did not hold the government accountable. It simply didn’t test the blockade on the touchstone of the very constitutional principles that it said were applicable. Instead, it ordered a weekly review by a committee set up under the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services Rules, 2017. The aftermath of the judgment brought about some alleviative measures. The prohibitory orders were published, although a perusal of those showed that the reasons remained brief and cryptic (and sometimes contradictory). In time, a few websites, through a process of “whitelisting”, were made available for access. But the rest of the Internet was still out of bounds. Eventually, a few months after the verdict, 2G Internet alone was restored. But even the onset of the pandemic, which has shown us just how instrumental the Internet is in accessing critical services, didn’t lead to a lifting of the ban on 4G. In response, a second challenge was mounted in the Supreme Court, this time by the Foundation for Media Professionals. This petition pointed out that it had been eight months since the web was restricted in J&K, and now the combination of the pandemic and a lockdown had made Internet deprivation even more unconscionable. Specific evidence was placed before the Court to show how 4G Internet was indispensable for adequate access to education, medicine, and to the courts, and how — without it — the people of J&K were placed at a significant disadvantage compared to the rest of the country. The Supreme Court gave a ruling on May 11. Once again, it dodged the issue before it. Quite opposed to deciding on the validity of the government’s actions and its impact on rights, the Court wound up creating a new three-member special committee headed by the Union Home Secretary — an exercise wholly outside the legal framework — to take stock of things. The irony here speaks for itself. The executive that was responsible for restricting access to the Internet in the first place was now tasked with reviewing its own actions. But there’s more irony to come. More than two months have passed since the judgment, but, at least ostensibly, no committee has been formed. And 4G Internet remains banned. Early in June, the petitioner again moved the Court, this time seeking to hold the government in contempt. After more than a month, the petition finally came up for hearing. In it, the government claimed that it had, in fact, constituted a committee whose decision, it said, it was ready to deliver in a “sealed envelope” to the Court. But even assuming this exercise has indeed been carried out, it still runs in the teeth of the judgment in Anuradha Bhasin , which demands a publication of orders restricting Internet access. Transformation of basic rights By the time the case comes up for hearing again, the government is expected to file an affidavit explaining itself. But what the Court surely must now see is that the Internet restrictions in J&K are fast approaching their first anniversary. Not only has its intervention thus far been enervated, in that it has failed to answer the constitutional questions at stake, but even the few directions that it has issued have not been complied with. In the process, basic rights have been transformed into government largesse. The question that the Court must now ask itself is, therefore, this: are the people of J&K subjects to be ruled over, or are they citizens who possess rights against the State? Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer and Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/are-people-in-jk-citizens-or-subjects/article32167178.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Statues as deeply contested heritage||Across the globe, people in large numbers have been seen toppling statues that stood as icons of their past oppression and continuing humiliation. The most recent example is the tearing down in Bristol, U.K., of the statue of Edward Colston, a slave owner. Not long ago, statues of imperial rulers were removed in India too. Once considered heritage, symbols of a past to be celebrated, they are now viewed as best erased from public memory. Not surprising, because heritage is almost always contested. It is not naturally given but what humans imagine and construct. What we call ‘heritage’ is not everything we happen to inherit from our ancestors. It necessarily involves a selection of what we presently consider significant in this inheritance. Every society decides what is and isn’t heritage. Since every collective decision involves politics, the construction of heritage too is deeply political, a field of power not among ruling elites alone but all people whose concern it is. The past in the present Why care for heritage? Because it contributes to and enhances our collective self-understanding. Heritage affirms our collective identity, is a source of pride. It is important also because it is that part of history which is continuously brought to life by artefacts, integrated with our lived collective experience. It is a part of the past that we live and with which we live. And because it directly touches identity, it evokes strong feelings. Heritage construction involves ethics too. It is the valued past of societies: intangible, preserved say, in narratives, music or performances but also tangible, materially embodied in monuments and statues. Not a value-neutral term, ‘heritage’ is saturated with ethical evaluation, a judgment of what is worth remembering and preserving. Conversely, it pushes some features of our history into the background, fit for forgetting or dispassionate historical reflection. Integral to the construction of heritage then is an assessment of what must be remembered and forgotten, what calls for respect and celebration and what is a ‘stain’ remembered only to be prevented in future, an object of recurring regret that it happened at all, mourned publicly. Raj Ghat is not only a place where we remember Gandhi but also where we mourn his assassination by one of his own countrymen. Heritage is a way of addressing and rectifying past wrongs. The Holocaust memorial in Berlin and Washington’s Vietnam memorial are both gestures towards reparation, monuments of public apology. Reactions in diverse societies In complex, stratified, and diverse societies, the part of history that is self-affirming to some can be a source of self-denial to others. The same thing which provides recognition and pride to some ignites misrecognition and shame in others, be offensive, hurtful and disrespectful. Even when it does no such thing, it may simply not speak to them. Public display of the heritage of only a few is a source of profound estrangement and exclusion for others. Heritage is often linked to cultural domination that invites resistance. It follows that heritage is that which brings comfort or unease, to which people are either attracted or repulsed. Wherever symbolic power is unevenly distributed, artefacts that manifest this accumulated power provoke passionate disputation. Is it surprising then that a statue of a slave-owner or member of the imperial ruling elite provokes indignation among those who were formerly enslaved or colonised? Likewise, in societies where caste hierarchies abound, the continual denial of public recognition to Dalit symbols leads to demands of greater inclusion of their heritage. And when after struggles for recognition, Ambedkar’s statues finally make their way into public spaces, why would they, indeed we, not be outraged if an Ambedkar statue is vandalised? Inescapably public For the rest, I confine myself to inescapably public statues — not hidden away, or installed in special parks and museums with restricted access, but installed in public squares, at crossroads, unavoidably open for all to see. Who then decides what will be on such public display and why? As differences are inevitable, as indeed are attempts to influence and pressure key decision makers, how should such collective judgments be reached? How must differences be prevented from turning into interminable disputes, even violence? To see statues of oppressors being torn down is understandable but why reach that tipping point? Why not decide what to do with them after collective deliberation among all stakeholders? Why leave heritage, a matter of long-lasting importance, solely to elected governments that come and go? While politics around heritage is unavoidable, is it not best to have dialogue, consultation, deliberation among people at large, including with artists, philosophers, historians, architects and alert guardians of cultural memory? Didn’t public discussion yield a fine decision in the 1960s to remove George V from under the Imperial canopy near India Gate but leave it empty, a gentle reminder that monarchs and dictators have no place in our republic? The Mahatma and Mohandas Take the example of Gandhi’s statues on account of their obvious global significance, complexity and, since they are surrounded by controversy, their current relevance. Some strongly feel that the Mahatma must be off the pedestal because of his alleged collusion with the Empire, more so for his racism. Assume the worst. Shall we then allow the violent removal of his statues? Now, Gandhi was neither born a Mahatma nor became one overnight. He began life as a very ordinary man, a child of his social milieu with straightforward middle-class aspirations. It is easy to imagine him inheriting caste prejudices in his childhood and, after arrival in London to study law, imbibing the prejudices of his colonial masters, to see himself as close to educated British elites than to Indian peasants or the ‘untouchables’, and when in Johannesburg, to the oppressed black community. The real question worth addressing is whether he continued living this way, consolidating his racist and casteist views or struggled to jettison these prejudices. Not just superficially, but by confronting his deepest self, the kind of bad person he had been and then transforming it into something altogether different. By all accounts, Gandhi struggled with his demons all his life and eventually became the Mahatma that he was — a global figure of immense ethical significance, admired by his adversaries, inspiring great men like Martin Luther King, even Nelson Mandela. The statues erected globally honour and celebrate the struggle embodied by this self-reflective Mahatma and not Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the parochial, upper caste Gujarati or the barrister loyal to the British Empire. Those who want to demolish his statues are simply going by an early fragment of his life that he himself disowned with great effort. There can be nothing more absurd or tragic. Imagine a statue of Valmiki torn down because of his perceived criminal past! Imagine further the fate of statues of all great men of the past on the sole ground that they fail the ‘patriarchy test’. Who in the past would pass it? Not Marx, the revolutionary, not Ambedkar, our greatest Dalit leader, not Mandela or Martin Luther King, icons of Black struggles, nor I am afraid, all the male gods worshipped by many. The general lesson to be drawn is this: a decision to preserve or remove statues cannot be based on current stereotypes of historical figures or narrow standards of political correctness that highlight a general flaw characteristic of an entire era but must instead rely on complex, collective judgment of a person’s overall contribution to social, political and intellectual life. Gandhi, in my view, passes this test. Colston or Cecil Rhodes do not. We must carefully avoid anachronism in our judgments of the past. Bring some statues up At a time when statues are being brought down, why not talk of bringing some up? I am puzzled by our persistent obsession with political power, even when used for good purpose. Why is there no movement to erect statues of M.S. Subbulakshmi, Kumar Gandharva, or Begum Akhtar for their massive contribution to our cultural heritage? Won’t it be most appropriate to have a statue of Mohammad Rafi or Kishore Kumar in busy public squares near metro stations or bus terminals? Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/statues-as-deeply-contested-heritage/article32167167.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Set up a High Court for Puducherry||In 1962, when Puducherry was merged with India, the jurisdiction of the Madras High Court was extended to it. After several decades, in 2017, the Puducherry legislature unanimously resolved to have its own High Court, and the Madras High Court was informed on July 7, 2017. Prior to this, in April 2017, the Pondicherry Bar Association also passed a resolution seeking establishment of the High Court. In August 2019, while addressing a State-level conference on legal services and Motor Accident Mediation Cells, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said that “a Bench of the Madras High Court at Puducherry on the lines of the one set up in Madurai” was a felt need and sought the support of judges of the Supreme Court. Sound reasons So, why should there be the need for a High Court at Puducherry? The Puducherry government spends exorbitant sums of money towards expenses of the large High Court. With not much of a population, this amount can be reduced to less than a quarter of the amount spent with a much smaller High Court for Puducherry. In fact, according to the Constitution, when a common High Court is established for more than one State, administrative expenses have to be paid only from the consolidated fund of the ‘State’ in which the principal seat of the High Court is situated. However, this provision is breached with respect to Puducherry which shares the disproportionately exorbitant expenses with Tamil Nadu. On the other hand, administrative expenses of a High Court at the Union Territory shall be drawn from the ‘Consolidated fund of India’ under the Constitution.  A Puducherry High Court, with four to five judges, can ensure quick action on pendency of matters of the High Court matters, at least at Puducherry. In the All India Judges Association And Others vs Union Of India (Uoi) And Ors., the Supreme Court observed that the “time has now come for protecting one of the pillars of the Constitution, namely, the judicial system, by directing increase, in the first instance, in the Judge strength from the existing ratio of 10.5 or 13 per 10 lakhs people to 50 Judges for 10 lakh people”. This was also discussed in the Law Commission of India Report titled ‘Arrears and Backlog: Creating Additional Judicial (wo)manpower’, in 2014. However as of 2016, the ratio is only 12 judges for one million population. This ratio at Puducherry can be increased if a separate High Court with four to five judges is established.  A data comparison The number of cases filed and disposed of at Puducherry in 2010 is four times higher than the numbers at Sikkim, Manipur and Goa (with High Courts) put together. Therefore, the size of population and territory is irrelevant. Bigger States have more judges and staff, smaller States have lesser numbers of these. The data collected by this writer show that in terms of the number of cases filed in 2010, the figures are: Sikkim (1,117), Manipur (637), Goa (4,984) and Puducherry (24,159). In terms of the number of cases decided, the numbers are: Sikkim (1,174), Manipur (495), Goa (3,646) and Puducherry (24,336). Similarly, the memorandum provided by the All India Bar Association to the Chief Minister in 2017 shows that the number of cases disposed from Puducherry (28,631 cases) is three times more than the number of cases (9,031 cases) disposed by four High Courts (Tripura, Manipur, Meghalaya and Sikkim) put together in 2016.  The presence of the Constitutional Court in the capital city acts as a check on the executive and legislature. Even the exercise of safeguarding fundamental rights involves travel, time and expenses. Several people often cite that litigants from western districts travel the long distance to Chennai. It defies logic why litigants from Puducherry need not be benefitted merely because other litigants are not benefitted, especially when the Constitution permits Puducherry to have its own High Court under Article 241.  Aiding Statehood demand A High Court for Puducherry will also strengthen voices seeking Statehood. The Constitution enabled establishment of a legislature and Council of Ministers for certain Union Territories with the intent of providing them Statehood gradually. Out of the seven Union Territories originally placed under Article 239A, all except Puducherry were granted Statehood by 1989. Most Union Territories under 239A at least had Benches of High Courts when they attained Statehood. Tripura, Manipur, Meghalaya had Benches of the Gauhati High Court before they got their own High Courts. Interestingly, the Delhi High Court was established in 1966 before Delhi got its legislature in 1993. Even a Bench of the Madras High Court as against a separate High Court at Puducherry is unfavourable because: Puducherry will still have to share the expenses of such a large High Court; judges might not prefer shuttling between Benches at Chennai, Puducherry and Madurai frequently; the protests against the setting up of the Madurai Bench a decade ago should be borne in mind. In fact, the presidential order establishing the Bench was challenged before the Madras High Court in 2004, just before commissioning the work; demand for a Bench of the High Court has always been met with stiff resistance from the Bar practising in the Court having jurisdiction. For instance, on December 12, 2019, Meerut MP Rajendra Agarwal pointed out in the Lok Sabha that “the U.P. Government had recommended a bench in 1955 but it’s the HC lawyers who always exert pressure not to allow the bench in Western UP”. Unlike Meerut, the advantage that Puducherry enjoys is that the Constitution enables Parliament to establish separate High Courts in Union Territories. In March 2016, the Government of India had suggested to the writer that the establishment of a High Court will be taken up if the Puducherry government proposes the idea. However, the decision of the Puducherry legislature has still not been conveyed to the Central government. Interestingly, though the 2017 resolution of the legislature seeks a High Court, authorities have on multiple occasions spoken of establishing a Bench of the Madras High Court. There is a popular notion that the establishment of a Bench of High Court is easier and economical as against the reality pointed out in this article. Therefore, the territorial administration should have clarity on this point. The Puducherry government should now form a committee to prepare a comprehensive report and a draft Bill backing its proposal and forward it to the Central government. In this the nominated Lieutenant Governor and the elected Chief Minister must work in tandem. Nirmalkumar Mohandoss is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/set-up-a-high-court-for-puducherry/article32167169.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Puncturing a culture of silence||For a long time, a defining question of the Trump presidency was whether, and when, Republicans would speak up against President Donald Trump’s disregard for women, the constitution, the armed forces, racial justice, facts, and much else. Formed by a group of stalwart Republicans in December 2019, ‘The Lincoln Project’ is the most prominent of the cracks in the Republican Party so far. It seeks to “Defeat President Trump and Trumpism at the ballot box.” Its founders are opposed not just to Mr. Trump, but to his cult following: of people living in fear that if they speak, he might tweet against them and they might lose their Senate or House seat. The Lincoln Project’s founders also seek to challenge the larger culture of disregard for the constitution, of exclusion, of cruelty that has come with Mr. Trump. Through videos such as ‘Truth’, ‘Betrayed’, ‘Shrinking’ and ‘Making China Great Again’, The Lincoln Project has achieved a prized goal: getting under Mr. Trump’s skin. He has tweeted against them, as a result only contributing to their reach and fundraising. They now have 1.5 million followers on Twitter. The U.S.’s problems are different from India’s, the Republican Party’s flaws are not the same as those of the BJP, and Mr. Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are different figures. Yet, there are similarities: the majoritarianism, the misinformation, the weakening of institutions. India needs an analogous initiative: ‘The Gandhi Project’. Hope and reality In 2014 and 2019, many voters chose the BJP and Mr. Modi hoping for economic growth, strong national security and robust foreign policy. As it stands, the economy is on the downslide; unemployment is high; national security is imperilled amidst the clash with China, issues with Bangladesh, and cross-border terror from Pakistan; and foreign relations with some of India’s closest allies, such as Nepal, are in tatters. Many of these problems were evident before the pandemic, but the government’s blundering response to the pandemic made matters worse. A lot of BJP and Mr. Modi’s supporters remained steadfast behind the party and the leader for years. Gradually, some former supporters began to criticise him. Even so, while in the U.S. criticism of Mr. Trump’s many failed policies is robust, by way of the media and a strong Opposition, in India, Modi worship remains widespread. The Opposition is weak and much of the media is without a spine. Meanwhile, the BJP social media fake news factory is alive and well. And a widespread fear of even asking questions of the government, let alone criticising it, remains. The Lincoln Project’s key achievement has been to have punctured the Republican Party’s silence and servility around Mr. Trump. It showed that Republicans could, and should, critique Mr. Trump, as well as his blind political lackeys. Distinctly Indian If the need in the U.S. for something such as the Lincoln Project was great, the need in India is only greater. Such an initiative would need to be distinctly Indian. Through videos, advertisements and events, it should challenge the culture of silence and servility. It should infuse more facts and accountability in public debate: accountability, for instance, for the skirmish with China, for the failure to forecast the migrant workers’ challenge, for the Pulwama attack, for the misery caused by demonetisation. It should aim to break the pattern of liberals finding themselves largely only responding to the BJP, rather than setting the terms of the debate. It should draw in average Indians, operating in multiple languages. It should call out the misinformation, the Goebbelsian tactics, the “alternative truths”, the false narrative setting such as around the anti-CAA protests fostered by the BJP and its IT cell. It need not necessarily be an anti-BJP effort; but it must be pro-facts, pro-accountability, pro-inclusivity, pro-Constitution. It should aim to broaden the sphere of debate in India. Such an initiative must operate with the support of a broad base. The Gandhi Project should build on the path shown by the peaceful modes of anti-CAA protests. Some such efforts have emerged, but they need to be broadened and become more resourced, sophisticated, and scaled. The Gandhi Project might, for instance, bring together the Rashtra Manch founded by Yashwant Sinha, Baat Bihar Ki led by Prashant Kishor, Constitutional Conduct led by retired civil servants. Like Lincoln, Gandhi was not a perfect figure. But like Lincoln in the U.S., Gandhi remains a rallying symbol in India. The Lincoln Project has framed the option before Americans as one between America and Mr. Trump. The Gandhi Project can pose the choice before Indians as that between constitutionalism and anti-constitutionalism, between Gandhi and Godse. Atul K Thakur is a Delhi-based policy professional and columnist; Abhimanyu Chandra is a PhD student at the University of Chicago||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/puncturing-a-culture-of-silence/article32167174.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Transforming higher education||Much of the discourse on resuming higher education during the pandemic revolves around home-based learning — more specifically, the tools to deliver home-based learning. The merits and demerits of online learning and, in some measures, of broadcast-based learning, are being debated. There is a sense of heightened anxiousness and urgency to find solutions to tide over the pandemic-induced crisis. This is not to suggest that the anxiety and urgency are misplaced. But instead of getting bogged down by the challenges of identifying the best solutions to provide an inclusive and affordable home-based education, we can think of the enormous possibilities presented by the pandemic to the education sector. Ideal learning outcomes There are three ideal learning outcomes of higher education. The first is to provide knowledge in the relevant discipline to the students. Second, since higher education students are on the verge of joining the workforce, it is expected that their education will also impart them with the skills needed for their jobs/enterprises. Finally, students are expected to play a constructive role in shaping the society and the world at large using the values and ideals of a modern, progressive society; the teaching-learning process is expected to mould their character accordingly. We should reflect on how many of India’s higher learning institutions, and the students within them, are able to fulfil any or all of these ideal learning outcomes. The reality is that apart from a handful of institutions in the technology, management and liberal arts streams, and a small number of extremely self-motivated students, a vast majority of other students just meander through college and acquire a degree.  That there is a huge gulf between the curriculum taught in the colleges and actual job requirements is universally known. It is common to hear even the brightest of students mention that they learnt more on the job than through their curriculum in college. If this is indeed the universal reality, why should we bestow so much importance on a syllabus? Why is there such enormous pressure on the higher education system to complete every bit of that syllabus within a prescribed time? And why do we take such massive efforts to evaluate students’ knowledge of that syllabus through exams? Why not completely re-evaluate the syllabus every now and then? Why not have substantive industrial internships, while retaining only a very basic outline of essential concepts? The evaluation too can be a mix of regular assignments, performance in the internship as rated both by the industry and the college, and a light, home-based proctored exam. The time saved in attending regular classes in the institution can be compensated for by spending time on the development of skills and prosocial attitudes and values that will help the student lead an enriching life. This component can again be a guided teaching process using videos, films and books. A big opportunity India is uniquely positioned in the world today to benefit from its demographic dividend. Yet, in many contexts, it has been pointed out that this dividend can actually turn into a liability since those in the population bracket that are ready to join the workforce have practically no skills or knowledge that add to their employability. The higher education sector has multiple stakeholders (and multiple vested interests). In normal times, maintaining the status quo or implementing incremental and marginal reforms was all one could hope for. The pandemic has opened the doors for ushering in massive, bold and transformational reforms. As John Lewis said, “If not now, then when?” Jayesh Ranjan is an IAS officer in the Telangana government and the officiating Vice-Chancellor of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technology University, Hyderabad. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transforming-higher-education/article32167180.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Justice, slow but sure||It is not often that policemen involved in shooting people dead and seeking to cover up the incident as an armed encounter are convicted for murder. The verdict of the Sessions Court in Mathura sentencing 11 police personnel, including a DSP, to life for murdering Raja Man Singh, the head of the princely state of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and two of his associates, in 1985, is one such rare instance. While welcoming this rare blow for accountability and justice, it is inevitable that one must lament the tardiness of the criminal justice system. Even accounting for the usual or expected delay in prosecuting police personnel, the 35 years that it took for the case to complete the trial stage is further evidence that justice moves in slow motion in this country. There are several long-delayed trials that spanned generations. The trial of the men who assassinated Railway Minister L.N. Mishra in January 1975 ended in conviction in 2014, a good 39 years later. The Hashimpura case, in which nearly 40 Muslims were massacred in 1987, ended with an en masse acquittal in 2015, but the Delhi High Court restored some faith in the judicial process by slapping lifelong prison terms on 16 men three years later. While convictions in heinous crimes ought to be welcomed regardless of the long delay, those administering criminal law will have to explain how far finding old and infirm people guilty after letting them enjoy decades of impunity really serves the cause of justice. Fortunately, the delay did not affect the outcome in this case, but it does not mean there is no truth in the old axiom that delay amounts to denial of justice. The election-time murder of Raja Man Singh at Deeg on February 21, 1985, was initially sought to be passed off as an ‘encounter’. The previous day, the titular head, a seven-time independent legislator, had apparently felt insulted on hearing that his family flag had been damaged by Congress supporters. In a fit of rage, he drove his jeep into the stage put up for then Congress Chief Minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s rally, and went on to damage a helicopter used by the Chief Minister. The next day, as the Raja was on his way to surrender, his jeep was surrounded by a party led by the DSP and others. Eye-witnesses said they fired at the vehicle’s occupants, killing Man Singh and his two elderly associates. Later, top police officials admitted the former ruler was not armed. The then Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, asked Chief Minister Mathur to step down. The investigation was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Later, the Supreme Court shifted the trial to Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. It may not be known if Congress leaders conspired with the police, but the incident remains a blot on the party’s record in the 1980s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/justice-slow-but-sure/article32167161.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Another front||For the third time since early June, China on Tuesday repeated its claim that Bhutan’s eastern boundary was a “disputed” area with Bhutan. Its first claim was at a UNDP-led Global Environment Facility conference on June 2-3, when the Chinese representative tried to stop funding for the Sakteng forest reserve in Bhutan’s eastern district of Trashigang, which abuts Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang district. The claim was surprising for several reasons: China has not objected earlier to funding provided to the sanctuary at the GEF. Second, the Trashigang area does not share a boundary with China. Finally, whatever the origins of the claim, Chinese officials have not raised the eastern boundary in 24 rounds of talks with Bhutan, that began in 1984. Thus far, talks have been only about the Pasamlung and Jakarlung valleys in Bhutan’s north, and Doklam and other pasturelands to the west, that come up to the trijunction point with India. On Wednesday, China referred to a “package solution” for the dispute, that is believed to refer to an offer made in the 1990s to swap the northern and western areas, something Bhutan rejected given India’s concerns. Bhutan’s response at the start was to reject China’s claim at the GEF, and it was able to secure the funding. Subsequently the Bhutanese Embassy in Delhi served a démarche to the Chinese Embassy (Bhutan does not have diplomatic relations with China), but the Chinese MFA repeated the claim in early July, and then again this week. Bhutan has now appeared to take a sober view of China’s claims by saying that all disputes would be taken up in the next round of China-Bhutan talks. Talks — the last round was in 2016 — have been put off due to the Doklam stand-off in 2017, elections in 2018, and the pandemic this year. Despite Beijing’s repeated statements on the boundary issue, both Thimphu and New Delhi have chosen not to react in a rash manner. For Bhutan, the Chinese claim may be seen as a pressure tactic: an attempt to hurry the scheduling of the next meeting, or to gain leverage in the boundary talks. For India, that is already dealing with Chinese aggression across the Line of Actual Control, the Sakteng claim could be a diversionary tactic, or one aimed at driving a wedge between India and Bhutan. More significantly, by claiming Bhutan’s eastern boundary, China is attempting to double down on its claims over Arunachal Pradesh, neither of which it has lien on or control of. The repetition of its “package” offer is worrying as it implies that Beijing is not giving up its push for the Doklam plateau, where it has consolidated its military infrastructure and would like to inch towards India’s Chumbi valley, a strategically sensitive location. No matter what Beijing’s designs are behind its new claims in Bhutan, New Delhi and Thimphu must stay the course, with the close cooperation and complete understanding they have shared for decades, in order to respond to them purposively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/another-front/article32167162.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Mr. Gandhi’s movement (From an editorial)||In his address as President of the Bellary District Conference, Mr. V.P. Madhava Row, C.I.R., whose reputation as a successful administrator and shrewd observer of men and matters lends considerable weight to his views, pictures, with becoming sense of responsibility and gravity, the serious crisis which has been developed in the country by the bankruptcy of British statesmanship and the failure of British justice. The whittling down of the Reform Scheme, shadowy as it was even at the inception, the betrayal of the Punjab, the mishandling of the Khilafat question, and the threat of repression — all these are factors in the situation which leave us nothing but despair. Mr. Montagu’s statement in the Commons regarding Mr. Gandhi’s movement practically holds out to us the threat of repression in case non-co-operation is adopted. But, unfortunately, much as the public would like not to resort to it if they could help it, there is no other remedy open to the country to make its opinion effectively felt; and Government cannot ignore this aspect of the question when they think of blindly resorting to repression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mr-gandhis-movement-from-an-editorial/article32167170.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Better houses in the villages (From an editorial)||The vast majority of people in the rural areas live in huts of mud and thatch, though in villages near the bigger cities, houses of brick and mortar have made their appearance. The traditional materials have certain advantages, being cool in summer and warm in the cold season, and even the prosperous farmer prefers to invest his money in land or farm machinery rather than in buildings. Mud houses cannot, however, be easily electrified or provided with modern household appliances or good furniture. They enforce the simple life on the occupant. As education grows, the demand for pucca houses increases and hence the need to promote the building of modern houses in the villages. In 1957, the Government announced that cheap loans for building or reconstructing houses in the villages would be provided upto a maximum of Rs. 3,000. The Union Minister for Housing, Mr. K. K. Shah, has pointed out at the conference of the State Ministers at Jaipur that, during the past twelve years, only 43,500 houses had come up with the help of these loans. This is a very poor performance in view of the enormous backlog which runs into millions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/better-houses-in-the-villages-from-an-editorial/article32167171.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear BCCI appeal after two weeks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to hear after two weeks a bunch of petitions, including one filed by the BCCI for an amendment in its constitution which may decide the tenures of its president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah. The BCCI has urged the court to revise a rule in its new constitution which mandates that administrators have to serve a three-year cooling-off period after six successive years in the BCCI or State association. The cooling-off period was a major recommendation by the Lodha committee to reform cricket administration in the country. A Bench of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde and L. Nageswara Rao said the court cannot hear the applications next week as it would be busy with the Maratha reservations case. The BCCI application was not listed for hearing, but was mentioned. The CJI said the separate applications by the cricket associations of Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh would also be heard after a fortnight. TNCA’s petition pertains to release of funds withheld by the BCCI during the tenure of the Committee of Administrators (CoA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sc-to-hear-bcci-appeal-after-two-weeks/article32167293.ece
23 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KSSC reduces trainees in sports hostels||Cash crunch and COVID-19 safety norms have forced the Kerala State Sports Council (KSSC) to reduce the number of trainees in sports hostels for this academic year. The plan fund for KSSC was cut from Rs. 33 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh this year by the State government. With the pandemic causing havoc on the State government’s finances, it is unlikely that the KSSC will get more funds. The selection trials for sports hostels were held in February at various centres and was attended by hundreds of sportspersons. Criteria changed Though the eligibility criteria were a sixth-place finish in national and State meets for individual events and a podium-finish in team events, the KSSC, while drafting the final list, decided only to consider gold-medal winners in national events for selection. There are around 182 sports hostels in the State but KSSC selected only 191 sportspersons for this academic year. This number is significantly less when compared to last year when more than 400 trainees were inducted across the State. “We reduced the number of trainees in order to run the sports hostel in a more professional way. We have around 2500 trainees in 182 sports hostels. However, some hostels lacked basic facilities and some didn’t even have enough coaches. We will have to take a decision on reducing the number of hostels this year. Moreover, the pandemic has forced us to rethink about the living conditions of the trainees. “We should ensure their safety and maintain social distancing norms in training for some time. The sum allocated this year will not be enough to run the hostels if we had taken a large number of trainees. So we decided to select a smaller number of quality sportspersons this year. For team games like football and volleyball, the selection was need based,” said a top KSSC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kssc-reduces-trainees-in-sports-hostels/article32167572.ece
23 July 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala Blasters signs Nishu Kumar||Kerala Blasters FC (KBFC) has signed India defender Nishu Kumar on a four-year contract for the Indian Super League (ISL). The 22-year-old from Uttar Pradesh, who has played for the country in the senior, under-23 and u-19 categories, was with Bengaluru FC (BFC) when it won its maiden ISL title in March 2019. After signing for BFC in 2015, the fullback had made over 70 appearances for the club. New challenge “In this footballing journey, I am all set to embrace a new challenge being a part of Kerala Blasters,” said Nishu. “Nishu is an ambitious youngster looking to achieve greater heights for himself and the club. I am looking forward to guiding him in realising his ambition and in his position, become a preferred choice in the National team. “I’m proud and very happy to have him in our team,” said Karolis Skinkys, KBFC’s sporting director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-blasters-signs-nishu-kumar/article32167574.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand defends well to hold Carlsen||Troubled in the middle-game, Viswanathan Anand defended accurately to split the point in the first game against Magnus Carlsen in the second round of chess24 Legends of Chess on Wednesday. After surrendering the first round to Peter Svidler 1.5-2.5, following a one-move blunder in the fourth game, Anand was under pressure between moves 21 and 34, when Carlsen’s rook and bishop-pair threatened to prove superior to Anand’s rook, knight and bishop. But the Indian managed to trade his knight for a bishop on the 35th move and thereafter, Carlsen could not exert any pressure. Nine moves later, draw was agreed following repetition of moves. World No. 3 Ding Liren, stunned by Boris Gelfand in the first round, lost to Ian Nepomniachtchi in the only decisive game of the round before Vladimir Kramnik let Anish Giri off the hook.  Second-round results:   Game One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Viswanathan Anand; Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr) drew with Boris Gelfand (Isr); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Ding Liren (Chn); Peter Svidler (Rus) drew with Peter Leko (Hun); Vladimir Kramnik (Rus) drew with Anish Giri (Ned).   First round: Svidler bt Anand 2.5-1.5; Carlsen bt Giri 3-1; Gelfand bt Liren 3-1; Nepomniachtchi bt Kramnik 3-2; Leko bt Ivanchuk 3-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-defends-well-to-hold-carlsen/article32167280.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||We are among the favourites: Vidit||Seventh seed India will join the action in the inaugural FIDE Online Olympiad between August 21 and 23, almost a month after its commencement. The first-of-its kind team event, with 161 participating countries, started on Wednesday and will culminate on August 30. Unclear on format Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, the Indian team captain Vidit Gujrathi admitted he was still unclear about the format once India finishes with its engagements in the 25-team top division. “When I checked on Tuesday, there were 40 teams in the Top division, divided into four groups of 10 each. Now I discover the number of countries stands reduced to 25. As per the email from FIDE, the timings of the final phase of matches will be decided after ascertaining the time zones of the qualified teams.” Getting to lead the Indian team that includes seniors like Viswanathan Anand, P. Harikrishna, Koneru Humpy and D. Harika, Vidit saw it as an honour, and an opportunity to return with a medal. “Without doubt, we are among the favourites. Our juniors are most talented and grossly under-rated (as per rapid ratings). The average rating of the team (2419) does not reflect our true playing strength. With Anand around, it will be a big plus for India. “Since this is the first tournament of its kind (with each six-member team including men, women and juniors), still a lot of clarity is needed for every team before starting its campaign. All I know is, the time-control is 15 minutes on the clock for each player and five-second increment per move. “With Anand busy playing in the Legends of Chess, Hari away in Biel, and Humpy and Harika involved in speed chess, I am in touch with the junior members of the team.” About R. Vaishali, elevated as a reserve for Humpy and Harika after initially being considered as a junior playing-member, Vidit said, “she is among the strongest junior girls in the game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-among-the-favourites-vidit/article32167282.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No regrets but it could have ended better’||Former skipper Anil Kumble does not regret his time as head coach of the Indian team, but feels the end of his tenure could have been better. The 49-year-old stepped down after the Champions Trophy in 2017 following a rift with skipper Virat Kohli. “We did really well in that one-year period. I was really happy that there were some contributions made, and there are no regrets. I was happy moving on from there as well,” Kumble told former Zimbabwe player Mpumelelo Mbangwa in an online session. Significant role “I know the end could have been better, but then that’s fine. As a coach, you realise, when it’s time to move on, it’s the coach who needs to move on. I was really happy I played a significant role in that one year,” he added. Kumble had a successful one-year stint as India coach, with the team reaching the Champions Trophy final in 2017 and also becoming a dominant Test side, losing just one out of 17 Tests during his tenure. “I was very happy that I took up the role (India coach). It was great, the one year I spent with the Indian team was really fantastic,” said Kumble. “Having been with great performers and being a part of the Indian dressing room again was a great feeling,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-regrets-but-it-could-have-ended-better/article32167291.ece
23 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Juggling between leagues not a burden, says Sathiyan||Normally, paddlers do not sign for two international clubs in a single season as it would be taxing. But G. Sathiyan, one of India’s best players, recently signed to play for a top-division Polish club, Sokolaw SA Jaroslaw, in the 2020-21 Polish Superliga after having inked a deal in February this year to represent Okayam Rivets in the Japanese T-League. The 27-year-old, ranked 32 in the world, said signing for Polish league was done after a lot of deliberation. “It was a well thought-out decision. I got the Polish offer 3-4 months back. I wanted to play only in one league, but with COVID-19 negating all preparations, I thought otherwise. Polish league starts in September while Japanese league starts in October and I can juggle both,” he said. Flexible schedule “Their schedule is very good. I will play three matches in a week and I can choose my matches. It is very flexible,” he said. European paddlers have had a head start as they have started practicing whereas Indians haven’t trained much. “I have not played any match after COVID-19. I came to the decision that I need more matches. In Japan, I will get to play a minimum of 12 matches, which is good. And in Poland, I get to play quality matches in a short period of time,” he said. In fact, this is not the first time that Sathiyan is playing for a Polish club. In the 2017-18 season, he played for Lotto Zooleszcz Gwiazda Bydgoszcz. The two-time Pro-tour singles champion said competing In Poland is always beneficial, especially before a big event. “I played for Lotto before the 2018 CWG and will be doing it this time before the 2021 Olympics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juggling-between-leagues-not-a-burden-says-sathiyan/article32167359.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Will be a real test for West Indies: Lloyd||Former England player and coach David Lloyd feels the West Indies faces an uphill task in the deciding Test that starts on Friday at Old Trafford. “It will be a real test for the West Indies,” Lloyd said. “England will come through strongly because lads like Shannon Gabriel were suffering. He is a fast bowler and you can’t do that in three back-to-back matches, whereas England rested Anderson and Archer will come back. “England’s coach said they were going to play the strongest [team] and I surmise that as Anderson, Broad, Archer and Woakes. I would play the left-arm spinner Jack Leach because the West Indies has [like] 10 right-handed batsmen,” Lloyd said on the Sony Ten Pit Stop Facebook chat. On the constant comparison of how all-rounder Ben Stokes stacks up against former England great Ian Botham, Lloyd said, “All the talk now is ‘is he better than Botham’. Well, it doesn’t matter. What matters is that he changes the game. Fitter and better “Let’s not forget the lad had an off-field problem that ended up in court. But he has gone away and redressed the situation and come back better, fitter and more determined.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-be-a-real-test-for-west-indies-lloyd/article32167295.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Coaching chess online has its own challenge, says coach Raju||It is a different kind of challenge for the coaches too with the chess players now getting used to more online competitions. And, this, according to N.V.S. Rama Raju, first coach of GM D. Harika, also means they have to put in a lot more effort and come up with different kinds of novelties to help the players devise the right moves in double quick time. “Compared to the classical format, online competition time is too short. Effectively, the player has to have a very good repertoire to play a tricky game and deviate from bookish moves,” said 45-year-old Raju, who has been coaching for more than two decades. What is the biggest challenge? “I look at this in a different way. If you train a group of 10 young players, only four of them will stay focussed and it is not easy for me to control the others online,” he said. “And when it comes to higher level players like GMs Harika, Harsha Bharat Koti they come up with some problems and seek solutions. Then, I have to work a lot and suggest some moves”, Raju said. “Essentially, training across the board is far easier than online training because of time factor.” “For this, the coaches have to be ready with all the details of the previous games of players against whom their trainees will be facing. The major issue here is we have to keep changing the strategies unlike in a Classical format where you have a chance to predict some moves. “In a way, this online training combines greater speed in thought process with the skills to outwit an opponent sometimes with an unorthodox approach too,” the seasoned coach said. “So, we have to be ready with depth and critical analysis of the moves of our players in previous games. With the players keen to finish off quickly, the coaches have to be equally good according to their strengths and weaknesses,” Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coaching-chess-online-has-its-own-challenge-says-coach-raju/article32167531.ece
23 July 2020||KOLKATA,||NDTL’s suspension extended for six months||The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has suspended the accreditation of the country’s National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL) for another six months. The NDTL was originally suspended in August last year for six months due to non-conformities with the International Standard for Laboratories (ISL), including in relation to the laboratory’s isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC/C/IRMS) analytical method. “In February 2020, when the six-month suspension period elapsed and some outstanding non-conformities had not been addressed successfully, WADA’s Laboratory Expert Group (LabEG) recommended the initiation of further disciplinary proceedings against the laboratory. These disciplinary proceedings were carried out by an independent Disciplinary Committee... while the laboratory remained suspended. The disciplinary process is now complete and the second six-month suspension began on July 17, 2020,” said a WADA statement. The NDTL can move the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) against the decision within 21 days of receipt of the notice. “During the period of suspension, if the laboratory satisfies the LabEG in meeting the requirements, it may apply for reinstatement prior to the expiry of the six-month suspension period. Should the laboratory not address the non-conformities by the end of the six-month suspension period, WADA may extend the suspension of the laboratory’s accreditation for up to an additional six months,” said WADA. Following the suspension of NDTL, the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) has been sending the samples abroad for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ndtls-suspension-extended-for-six-months/article32167296.ece
23 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||My journey mirrored ancient paths of chess: Anand||Chess has actually grown in popularity during the coronavirus crisis. Recently, some of the legends of chess and representatives from the UN exchanged ideas online on the occasion of the International Chess Day (July 20). Anand, who had logged in from his home in Chennai, was asked to trace the history of chess, which was fitting given that it had originated in India. “When I won in Iran, my journey mirrored the ancient paths of chess,” he said. “I was living in Spain at that time. The two venues of the championship were New Delhi and Teheran. These were the first three countries where chess seems to have been played first.” He said he was happy that so many people had discovered chess during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/my-journey-mirrored-ancient-paths-of-chess-anand/article32167277.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Stokes, best all-rounder I have played with: Anderson||James Anderson has hailed teammate Ben Stokes as the best all-rounder he has ever played with, after the 29-year-old’s match haul of 254 runs and three wickets helped England level the three-match Test series in Manchester on Monday. “It is hard to say how good he [Stokes] is because it is difficult to find the words... Joe Root said the other day that ‘we are in the presence of greatness’ and he is spot on,” said Anderson. “The fact that he could get into any team as a batsman... and with that his bowling and fielding speak volumes about the kind of player he is. Doing everything “After a week where he has done everything — chasing balls off his own bowling, batting and getting wickets as well — it [the workload] can take its toll. “We got to look after him and make sure we can keep getting the best out of him for as long as possible because he is becoming the best all-rounder England has ever had and there is no reason why he can’t go on to be even better.”  The third Test between England and West Indies will be live on Sony Six channels from July 24, 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-the-best-allrounder-i-have-played-with-anderson/article32167279.ece
23 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ramesh impressed with para athletes’ zeal||Noted SAI athletics coach and Dronacharya, N. Ramesh, shared his thoughts and training methods with about 120 athletes in the 3-Pathashala para athletics online interaction, organised by Sports Authority of India (Gandhinagar Centre), on Wednesday. “I was asked to give a demo on sprint exercises and I tried my best to educate them on how they can improve speed,” said Ramesh. “With Arjuna Awardees (para) from other disciplines having already conducted awareness classesthese athletes have shown impressive grasping power and did repeat some of the exercises with a lot of zeal,” he said. “The effort is to see they get the right dose of inspiration to dream big and chase their goals,” added Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramesh-impressed-with-para-athletes-zeal/article32167532.ece
23 July 2020||Patna,||Madhubani artist turns ‘mask man’ of Bihar||When the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic hit India in March, noted Madhubani artist Remant Kumar Mishra, 37, decided to turn adversity into an opportunity. Now going by a new sobriquet of Bihar’s “mask man”, Mr. Mishra despatches masks with hand-painted Madhubani motifs all over India. Hailing from the Jitwarpur village under the Rahika block of Madhubani district in north Bihar, on March 9, Mr. Mishra distributed 650 masks with Madhubani (also known as Mithila painting) motifs among district officials and his acquaintances, seeking their feedback. “They appreciated my effort as the masks are not only comfortable to wear but also look ethnic and trendy,” Mr. Mishra, who has been a Madhubani artist from the age of 10, told The Hindu. His grandmother, mother, wife and other family members also paint in the Madhubani style. “In every household here, you can find a Mithila painting artist,” he said. Ranti under the Rajnagar block is another hub for this craft tradition. Mythological characters, and aspects of nature are central motifs in this style of painting, originally rendered only with fingers and natural colours. “But now we use brushes, nib-pens and synthetic colours as well to paint Mithila art,” said Mr. Mishra. Mr. Mishra’s phone has been ringing constantly with orders after photos of his masks went viral on social media. “I heard that social activist and writer Advaita Kala tweeted about my masks, which helped other people all over the country find out about them. I am thankful to her,” he said, adding that he now engages nearly 300 villagers, including 15 tailors from his locality, in painting masks. He has been receiving orders from all over the country and in the past three months, has sent over 14,000 masks in sanitised packages on a first come-first served basis. He charges Rs. 50 apiece for his three-layered cotton masks featuring Madhubani motifs. “We also have masks with catchy slogans like ‘go corona’ and ‘ namaste karna hai, haath nahi milana hai ’ (greet greet each other with folded hands, don’t shake hands),” he said. He orders his cotton fabric from Warangal in Telangana. “I am quite particular about choosing the right fabric. My first priority is the safety and satisfaction of my customers,” the artist said. He can be contacted at 8789183527 or 9899429912.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/madhubani-artist-turns-mask-man-of-bihar/article32167276.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 07:42 IST,||Sudoku - July 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-23-2020/article32168034.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Grains of hope||We have had the wettest June in 12 years, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Statistics released by the IMD show that India recorded 118% of the Long Period Average rainfall in June 2020, which is considered excess. These copious showers brought cheer to the farming community, despite several regions facing intrinsic challenges such as shortage of labour in the wake of COVID-19 and disruption in supply chains due to intermittent lockdowns. In many states, both Government and private-owned seed banks ensured that farmers had sufficient seeds to sow. Farmers following sustainable practices noticed an increase in demand for chemical-free produce and native vegetables, fruits and grains, spurred by the need to eat healthy and boost immunity levels in some pockets. In Hyderabad and other districts of Telangana, where scorching heat prevailed till late June in the last few years, the pre-monsoon showers towards the end of May and monsoon in the first week of June encouraged farmers to prepare their land to sow rain-fed crops. Going local At Zaheerabad-based Aranya Agricultural Alternatives, which has become the go-to centre for Permaculture, its CEO Padma Koppula has noticed the increased sowing of sorghum, pigeon pea and cotton in nearby areas. She also witnessed a small but steadily growing demand for foxtail millet and a sizeable demand for seeds and saplings of native fruits and vegetables (see box). “It is good to see more focus on food crops this time; nearly 80 farmers in this region are trying out 30 varieties of fruit saplings,” explains Padma. Paddy cultivation has already begun in Domadugu, Guntapally and other villages near Hyderabad, as well as the cultivation of green and black gram, toor dal , and native vegetables. A few years ago, organic farmer Praveen Abhishetty had begun growing small quantities of fragrant chitti muthyalu , red and black rice varieties. He intends to do so this year as well. Direct selling Bengaluru-based Prabhakar Rao, the founder of Hariyalee Seeds, works with farmers across India and affirms planting has begun fairly early owing to the monsoon. “Leading up to the sowing season, the sale of seeds peaked to 300% of our usual volumes,” he states. Prabhakar also noticed a tangible increase in the demand for chemical-free, safe food following the pandemic outbreak: “Those with diabetes, which is considered a co-morbidity for COVID-19, wanted to start including millets in their diet. Farmers living close to urban areas have been able to sell their produce at apartment complexes and gated communities without middlemen. We don’t know how long this urge to have healthy food will sustain. Right now, people are willing to spend more for good produce since there is no expenditure on eating out, malls and other entertainment. Retail chains are also keen to source native grains and pulses,” he explains. The golden pearl Among the grains and pulses finding more takers, Prabhakar lists amaranth, chickpea and cowpea. He has also been at the forefront of reintroducing heritage wheat varieties such as the 2,000-year-old Sona Moti. “This year, farmers in Punjab harvested 60 tonnes of Sona Moti which were pre-sold at Rs. 75/kilogram,” says Prabhakar. A few other farm communities are treading cautiously. Visalakshi Padmanabhan who founded the Buffalo Back Collective and works from a farm in the vicinity of Bannerghatta in Bengaluru, says the early arrival of monsoon has been a boon. “Since this is a rain-shadow region, farmers here usually prepare for drought. This year, everyone is busy doing their best to harvest the available water. With the help of forest officials, ponds and streams along the elephant corridor were cleaned up; new ponds have also been created. This prevents elephants from venturing into human settlements for water.” With weekly organic farmers markets in Bengaluru shut due to COVID-19, she says how farmers had to look for alternative ways to reach their consumers. Rice is nice In Chennai, organic farmer VM Parthasarathy says while farmers in this belt are happy with the early monsoon, they are concerned about forecasts that suggest the possibility of a flood-like situation in November-December 2020. Memories of 2015 floods still remain fresh. “No one wants to delay planting so that they can harvest before the floods. The lockdown has been tough since we couldn’t exchange seeds within our organic farmer networks in different cities; we have had to find alternatives,” he says. Nirosha Kathiravan of The Villagers in Vandavasi, near Chennai, has sowed seeraga samba rice for the first time. “We cultivate groundnut, sesame, moong and urad dals too. The monsoon has helped us plant more grass varieties and maize as fodder for our indigenous cattle [milk and milk products are the mainstays of this farm]. The big challenge in this belt is to find labour, which has become tougher due to spread of the pandemic beyond Chennai limits,” she says. The monsoon has brought new hope and the farming communities look forward to tiding over logistical setbacks and reap good harvests.  A good harvest   Aranya Agricultural Alternatives, Telangana:Demand for seeds and saplings of mangoes, jackfruit, wild species of phalsa, neem, cashew nut, soursop, custard apple, ginger, turmeric, tree spinach and moringa. Farmers are also growing small bitter gourd, tapioca, vetiver, lemongrass and air potatoes.  Buffalo Back Collective, Karnataka:Ragi, avarakai (broad beans), groundnut and sesame are among the popular native crops here.  Farms near Chennai: Seeraga samba , thanga samba , Thanjavur ponni and thooya malli rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/grains-of-hope/article32167159.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||JUST DUVET||In the village of Nattarasankottai, Tamil Nadu, students gather skeins of colourful thread and excitedly sit to work. This is their chance to showcase their creation to the world. With the India International Quilt Festival going virtual this time, it opens a world-wide viewer base for its participants. The upcoming edition will take place between January 23 and 25, 2021. “It is a beautiful time in Chennai and we want this festival to become part of Margazhi festivities,” says Varsha Sundararajan, who started the event in 2019 with Tina Katwal and Deepa Vasudevan. IIQF is a bi-annual event that showcases quilts from all over the world. There are seven different categories and the best in each are awarded cash prizes, vouchers and the much coveted ribbon. In the 2019 edition — their first — the event received 290 quilts and 161 participants from 11 countries. “For this edition, we announced the categories two months ago,” says Tina. There are three new categories this time: Indian Quilts (works that reflect the rich textile tradition of the country and its various quilting styles), Miniature (maximum size: 18 inch on any side) and Generation Next (for those under the age of 18). The idea to incorporate a category for children came about after the organisers noticed entries from the under-18 age group last time. “Last year, a quilt made by 10-year-old Ritu Sudarshan won a prize in the novice category that had entries from all age groups,” says Deepa. Geography and age have hardly been a deterrent for enthusiasts of this art form: one of the oldest winners was 77-year-old Sunita Santaram. “The perfection in the work of these senior quilters has to be seen to be believed. Their fingers are still so nimble,” adds Deepa. Through this festival, the founders intend to revive quilting, promote it as an art form and commercially viable pursuit. They hope to provide an opportunity for quilters to be represented in the international arena. “If young people don’t get engaged, the sector dies,” says Varsha. Spreading the word Last year, the team took 18 award-winning quilts to five cities around India. The travelling exhibition, called Threads That Bind, was showcased at DakshinaChitra in Chennai, and in Jaipur, Delhi, Kolkata and Coimbatore. “This was done because we wanted people to know that we have an ancient tradition of quilting and there is an international competionfor the same,” says Tina, who is pleased to see an increase in the interest in this skill, with queries especially from students of design and fine arts. She is currently conducting online classes on quilting. In its online avatar, the IIQF will have trunk shows, workshops, sale of artisanal crafts, and a celebratory webinar to announce winners. Their catalogue, too, will be available online.  Registrations open on September 1, 2020. For details, log on to www.indiaquiltfestival.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/just-duvet/article32167151.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||IT is funny||Quick, what’s your password? Chances are that it might contain some references to an old flame that you once harboured feelings for. This secret detail of your life might just lead to a giant explosion, if revealed in a public place. Like it has for the character Lokesh in a video by Certified Rascals, a YouTube channel that has consistently raked in views for its whimsical take on IT professionals and the current work-from-home scenario. The brains behind these comic sets, which you might have chanced upon on social media, are actual IT professionals. The channel’s writer-editor Aravindh Chandrasekaran is a Singapore-based manager in an IT firm, while one of its acting leads, Sudhir R, is also a manager in the same company based out of Chennai. That the two have been working professionals for more than 15 years helps when they script a video. “The pandemic and lockdown had made most of us get into a mundane lifestyle. We wanted to do something exciting and creative,” says 40-year-old Aravindh, who has earlier helmed short films such as 12 AM , 2 and Aadhi . Their first Dubsmash video, which borrowed a dialogue that comedian Santhanam delivers in Kalakalappu, released a month ago. “We had zero expectations, but overnight, we got more than a thousand subscribers. That was an encouraging sign.” Since then, the team of “certified rascals”, as they call themselves, have been putting out videos on a regular basis. Taking on topics such as ‘onboarding’ and ‘escalations’, subjects that most IT employees would relate to, their videos have consistently garnered over a lakh views on YouTube, got over 65, 000 subscribers to their channel and have been widely shared in office WhatsApp groups. The star of most of these videos is 39-year-old Sudhir R, who plays the manager. “Sometimes, I’ve to change according to the needs of the script. In some, I’m strict and in some others, I’m a ‘comedy piece’,” he says. Sudhir’s interactions with his team and the subsequent reactions have become the talking points among viewers. So much that he has already been approached by a couple of production houses for prospective film offers. “I am a serious guy. My friends and family have been quite surprised seeing this side of me, though they were aware that I was keen on films and direction,” says Sudhir. The team of Certified Rascals intends to keep it going despite the challenges of the pandemic. They hope to branch out from their usual comedic stuff, to take up serious issues. “We are currently working on short films, exploring the myriad emotions of IT professionals,” adds Aravindh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/it-is-funny/article32167122.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Biryani with a French twist||Danish Sait is a busy man. Correction. Busier than usual. The comedian and actor, has seen a surge in popularity during lockdown, thanks to his videos featuring characters such as Jaya and Rammurthy avare and an ever-evolving series of props doubling as phones (LPG cylinders and chairs have joined the fray). In the last few days, he has been fielding calls and giving interviews as he prepares for the release of his Kannada film French Biryani, co-starring Sal Yusuf, on Amazon Prime Video tomorrow. The film is produced by Ashwini Puneeth Rajkumar and Gurudath A Talwar of PRK Productions. Danish says, “ French Biryani is a funny film. It is about a bunch of characters who have come together in a strange world where a bag is lost, and a passenger is stuck with an auto driver from Bengaluru. Basically, it is their journey in finding that bag. So, it is not a thing that you watch and go ( switches to his slightly rich friends voice ) ‘Oh my God, what a marvellous piece of art this is’. You are not going to look at it and go, ‘That particular scene made me ponder about life and think about what I’m doing with my own existence at the moment’.” He adds, “With the times we live in right now, we could do with something like this because it is grey, it is blue, and here we are with a rainbow for you.” As for his role of playing Asghar, an autorickshaw driver from Shivajinagar, Danish says, “Public transport is so important because it is literally one of the first and consistent faces that people meet when they go to a big city. Be it New York, where taxis are popular or Dubai where it is the metros and the taxis or Thailand’s tuk-tuks. Playing an auto driver was to play such an important part of our society. I played it with observations I’ve made over the years. The funny bone in me doesn’t let me say, ‘I am going to do this and stick to black and white’. I’ve thrown in my own little flavour into it and I hope that when people watch it, they see their own observations that meet mine.” So, did this mean that the director, Pannaga Bharana, allowed room for improvisation? “A lot of stuff is improvised, especially when you have me on set. This has been a different process for me as compared to Humble Politician Nograj which I co-wrote. In French Biryani , the script was someone else’s as were the lines . I just had to play my part as an actor.”  French Biryani is moving to an OTT release as theatres remain closed, but Danish is not worried about audiences missing out on the theatre experience. “I have a slightly more self-aware answer to this. I know I don’t have the star power to pull an audience into the theatre amidst a pandemic. So, no matter how funny I am and how many people like my stuff, I don’t think I have it in me to pull them out of the house in the midst of the pandemic and say, ‘Hey guys, I made a film. Come to the theatre!’ Having said that, I feel when you have smaller films, accountability comes into focus. For producers who invest in films, at least their investments are secure. Today I’m sitting down a few days before the release of my film feeling absolutely fine. But an investment in a film is a lot of money, right? And I don’t think I’d be able to sleep in peace if I knew that a producer’s investment in a film is at harm because of me in any way. Theatrical releases are a little nerve-wracking in that sense.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/biryani-with-a-french-twist/article32167125.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||I can show you the world||The past week has been an online whirlwind for Sonali Ranjit and Vaishnav Balasubramanian. The couple has not slept for about four nights, they say over a phone call from their home in Singapore, because of the excitement and content influx to WindowSwap, their lockdown passion project. They had been staring out of the same window, observing the same view everyday for the past three months — which naturally became irksome. While browsing through social media one day, they caught sight of a friend’s window view in Barcelona, and that marked the genesis of WindowSwap. Vaishnav (Vai) and Sonali crafted a website, which launched on June 5, and asked their friends to send in 10-minute videos of their respective window views. Through these videos, visitors would be able to ‘live vicariously’ taking in sights and sounds from other cities. When lockdowns first took effect globally, most were drawn to picturesque 4K films of travel destinations to satiate their wanderlust. Some people took to YouTube to play out ‘restaurant noises’ or ‘ambient library sounds’ to mentally place themselves in a different space. Not all WindowSwap scenes are sweeping shots of mountains or skylines — some are of a quiet neighbourhood, or of a garden in the backyard. Vai and Sonali agree that people sharing even the mundane realities made the site more impactful. Part of WindowSwap’s appeal is the randomised click-through of sceneries. There is no menu from which to select; you just do not know what you will see. Going viral As with the Internet’s ‘rules of contagion’, WindowSwap’s simple yet wholesome appeal was picked up by Reddit, Twitter and Facebook. Their email inboxes brimmed with video files of people’s window views. Vai, in fact, remembers how the start of one particular day saw three or four videos in their email, and, by the end of the day, there were 200 — proof that people all over the world are looking for the same thing: a literal change of scenery. Each morning, as they log into their emails, they are in awe of the diversity of places from which videos are landing: Iceland, small villages in Germany, Belarus, Ghana, Cape Town, Chennai, the French Caribbean, New Zealand, Italy... “We have videos from about 80-odd countries,” Vai affirms. “People are also telling us how they feel using WindowSwap. One user is in lockdown in the US and was feeling homesick. She came across a window of her home city in India; and told us she was overjoyed.” Naturally, the site’s analytics are monitored. On Sunday, they noticed South Korea and Japan were watched the longest, while Monday marked Egypt and other parts of Africa. Vai and Sonali point out that they manually scan through the videos to check, not just for quality, but for profanity and nudity. The site has even reached 2,75,000 visitors on one day. “You could say we are binge-watching as part of our screening process,” Vai laughs. The project so far has been a source of gratitude. “We really appreciate that people are taking the time to film a 10-minute HD video. We have elderly people who take shaky videos for 10 minutes and have their relatives send it to us. We even had a seven-year-old shoot one and her mom sent it to us,” Vai recalls. With the amount of traffic, can one expect them to monetise the site? After all, they have been asked by site visitors to create an app. “It makes no sense to,” Sonali says, “because we have our day jobs, and right now, we are on overdrive. But more importantly, the minute we monetise or commercialise the site, WindowSwap loses its magic and that would just kill the idea.” They explain that once the lockdowns lift and people can travel, they do not know what will come of this project — but they know they want to continue it purely for the love of it, and for the connections they’ve created.  Check out WindowSwap at https://www.window-swap.com and on Instagram at @windowswap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-can-show-you-the-world/article32167137.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Blame it on the weatherman||When Pradeep John refers to ‘Red Thakkali’, it has nothing to do with a recipe or a grocery list. It means intense thunderstorm. The Chennai-based weather blogger — better known as Tamil Nadu Weatherman, thanks to his popular Facebook page with 6,67,000 members — has popularised weather forecasting as a hobby. And, in a country in the grip of a pandemic, a growing tribe of amateur forecasters are using their spare time to make predictions about this monsoon. It helps that Pradeep has simplified and made the study of natural phenomena fun, with catchy terms like damal dumeel (loud thunder) and pichu pedal eduthufying (heavy rains). He believes the spike in cloud watchers, especially in Tamil Nadu, is because rain gets a lot of attention in the State, not just among people but in the media too. Especially after Chennai’s floods in 2015. Now, on Facebook alone there are a bunch of groups — such as Chennai Weather Reports and Cyclone Forms, Kongunadu Weather Trackers, Weather of India and Weatherman Kerala Followers — with a formidable following. They tirelessly discuss all things weather, between perusing maps and images covered in colour-coded arrows. Over the last five years, Pradeep has noticed a surge in interest in this field. The reason he believes is because “In Tamil Nadu especially, rain is a matter of concern. Without rain there is the fear of drought and with rain there are floods. It is diversified and unique when you compare it to other parts of India,” he explains. For Pradeep, (an employee at Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services), the joy of watching rain got him interested in weather. “ The Hindu newspaper used to carry rainfall statistics for the season, MSLV chart... There was no Google then. I started collecting these images from the newspaper. This was way back in 1994 and I was in Class VII,” he recalls. By 2009, Pradeep discovered a few other enthusiasts online, some interested in clouds, some in rainfall. They got together and learned mutually. “In 2008 I had my own blog, Tamil Nadu Weatherman, but I also used to blog on websites like KEA Weather and Vagaries of the Weather. It was Rajesh Kapadia of Vagaries of the Weather who taught me how to start and go about things,” says Pradeep, who set up his Facebook page in 2014. (It rocketed to popularity during the 2015 floods.) Weather forecasting is an interest that does not need any equipment or investment. “There are so many weathermen pages on social media now,” he says. One such, is Chengalpattu weather man started by 18-year-old Samuel Jayaraj in December 2019. In 2012, when Cyclone Nilam made landfall near Mamallapuram, Samuel, watched wide-eyed as powerful winds swept across the land. “When I was a little older, I started my personal Facebook page to follow Pradeep John’s page and I started reading blogs about forecasting weather. I also used to follow SR Ramanan’s (former Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Regional Meteorological Department) weather updates,” says Samuel. Every night between 10 pm to 1 am, Samuel sits at his computer learning about the weather system. He looks at satellite images, toggles between different web pages, while making notes in his diary. “I am trying to understand how it has been tracked in the last three decades,” says the first year student of Computer Engineering from SRM college. Currently, his fledging Facebook page has nearly 500 followers. “Around 70% of the time, what I predict is accurate. Well, more than predicting, it’s just me inferring from various charts and models,” says Samuel. He relies on satellite images and portals like WeatherBug and Skymetweather. Is there pressure to be correct all the time? After a nervous laugh, he answers, “Sometimes a few people ask why isn’t it raining, you said it would. But I am only a beginner.” Eyes on the sky Mumbai-based Rajesh Kapadia, one of India’s earliest weather bloggers, says that over the last three months he has received more queries, and viewership on his page — Vagaries of the Weather started in 2007 — has gone up by 40%. “With a lot of people working from home, time is not a factor now. While the older lot just wants to know what the weather is going to be like, people in the age group of 25-35 are keen to learn more,” says Rajesh. “They ask me why a low pressure is not forming or what are the basic things that prevent it, and I answer on my website, which has received more than three million hits.” Rajesh has been an enthusiast ever since he was 12 and took trips to the IMD in Mumbai to look at the maps and charts. It is a lot easier now, he adds, with wind charts, weather charts and satellite images available at a click. This could be another reason why interest is picking up. Or it could be the challenges that excite people. For example, Rajesh says that there are 16 parameters to look at for the South-West monsoon and eight to 10 for the North-East monsoon. In his late 60s now, Rajesh, a retired industrialist, continues to keep himself updated. “Over the last few months, I took a few online courses from Harvard on Meteorology, Cyclone and Fronts,” he says. Pradeep too is of the opinion that it is important to stay updated constantly. He adds, “And experience helps too.”   New to weather watching? These portals should help  IMD website  Windy   Tropical Tidbits  Weather.us And if you feel like it, get a rain gauge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blame-it-on-the-weatherman/article32167147.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Noodling for dinner||An alluring tangle of scents envelops my kitchen. Strips of bacon caramelise noisily in earthy, sweet miso and a generous splash of truffle oil. I toss in a trembling bowl of delicate noodles and handful of fresh, chopped scallions. Also, a creamy wedge of cheese. Serving it into a bowl, I add a perfectly boiled egg — the yolk still bright — and top it with dark, fragrant Thai basil oil. The result is a moreish, comforting and hearty meal. More importantly, it is still steamy from the heat of the pan, just like it would be in a restaurant. Full disclosure: I could never make noodles this good. And I wouldn’t have dared to blend cheese, miso, bacon and truffle oil — an unexpected, unpredictable clash of culinary cultures. This is out of a paper bag. Noodl is another reassuring reminder that contemporary cloud kitchens are getting better everyday, proving that there is light at the end of the tunnel for the hospitality sector despite the darkness of the pandemic.   Launched a few weeks ago by Mathangi Kumar, chef and partner at the temporarily closed Summer House Eatery, Noodl runs out of her home kitchen. Confessing to a noodle addiction, “right from sevai to udon,” she says the brand is “a celebration of anything stringy”. Since Mathangi is cooking herself, Noodl offers just one item every week. However, unhampered by set menus, Mathangi fuses unexpected ingredients with seductive results. “The noodles could be rice, egg, udon, soba, fettuccine...,” she says. I try Thai-inspired Mazemen (Rs. 450), which offers juicy Shiitake mushrooms to replace bacon for vegetarians. Last week, she made Sichuan Mala noodles with a rich, peanut sauce topped with spicy chorizo (Rs. 350). The packs come with precise instructions on how to heat and serve the dish. Don’t worry, it isn’t really DIY and, once dinner is ready, you will have just one pan to wash.  Call Mathangi on 9840299932 or follow Noodl.madras on Instagram to order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/noodling-for-dinner/article32167129.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A homecoming for Sivasankari||“I am amazed at how we have adapted to the new normal within a short span of time,” says Tamil writer and activist Sivasankari Chandrasekaran. “Events, seminars, classes and even social interactions are today happening on the virtual world. I gave a 45-minute talk to members of the Singapore Writers Association this past week. Adapting to a changing world is crucial, and staying emotionally stable is the need of the hour.” The 77-year-old released her two-part memoir titled Suryavamsam , last year, to much cheer from her readers across the globe. She has not been actively writing fiction for the past 28 years, but now during lockdown, has penned four short stories. “The lockdown has not affected me much as I have been home-bound for over two years since I experienced two heart attacks within a span of a year. But what did impact me was the continuous stream of COVID-19-related news from across the world. I was moved especially by the condition of migrant workers. I did not want to continue being in such a melancholic mood and turned my attention to being more productive,” Sivasankari says. A full life Sivasankari’s literary project, Knit India Through Literature, took 16 years to complete and involved translation of interviews in 18 Indian languages. “It was a massive project and during those years, my work included research, field work, interviews with authors from other languages, writing and editing. I was also travelling across the country to network with writers and as a result, was left with absolutely no time to pursue my fiction writing,” she explains. The project, which she expected to wrap-up in five years took much longer than expected; it was finally completed in 2010 and published both in English and Tamil in four volumes each. The writer says she later developed a sense of complacency as a result of fatigue from all the physical work for the project. “I also had by this time developed a sense of fulfilment as a writer. But I was active in the literary field, speaking at various events within and outside the country,” says the author who has written 38 novels, 49 short stories, 16 travelogues, 12 anthologies, three biographies and numerous articles on diverse themes since 1968. In 2018, when she was recovering after a heart attack, she decided to publish her memoir, which, she states, was the result of a “restlessness within”. “But during the COVID-19 crisis, I have been going through a myriad of emotions. This was also when I had the creative urge to get it out of me,” she says. Looking back Sivasankari goes on to add, “Fifty-two years ago, my début short story titled Avargal Pesattum , and my first novel Yedharkagha (1970), were a result of personal agony, pain and tragedy. For me, my creative urge is similar to labour pain. I feel restless and uneasy until I get it out of my system through words.” During lockdown, Sivasankari says some older ideas also resurfaced. “Getting back to writing after almost three decades was a fulfilling experience for me and it also turned out to be a satisfying one,” she says. “It all fell in place naturally. It was like getting back to my groove, a familiar terrain, a homecoming.”    I was active in the literary field, busy speaking at various events within and outside the country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-homecoming-for-sivasankari/article32167139.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A bond with brothers in arms||At Khetikhan, a quiet village in Uttarakhand, women from artisan NGO Himalayan Blooms braid threads to make rakhi s. With every overlap of the skein, they metaphorically bind tighter the bonds of sibling love. Across the geographical superlatives of the Kumaon Himalayas that surround the village are men of the Indian Army who guard these frontiers, and who may this Rakshabandhan (August 3) wear some of these rakhis.  The NGO is part of a network of 10 others from across India — three in Kutch, two in Tamil Nadu, one more in Uttarakhand, one each in Jharkhand and Bengaluru, and a collective that straddles Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — that are part of Habba, an initiative of Bengaluru-based Rang De, which believes in ‘honest pricing’. Ramakrishna NK, 45, co-founder of Rang De, says over phone from Bengaluru, “This is our first connect with the Army. We conceived this initiative three weeks ago when one of the Uttarakhand NGOs reached out asking us to help them sell 10,000 rakhis . We wanted to express our gratitude to the soldiers and also help these artisans who have been struggling because of the pandemic. The tradition ofrakshabandhaninvolves acknowledging bonds with one or two brothers. Here, citizens are invited to buy any number of rakhis at Rs. 100 a piece and honour our brothers in arms. We now have 1,00,000 rakhis , the sale of which will benefit 1,000 artisans. Each of the 10 NGOs has contributed varying numbers. Each artisan will receive Rs. 50 a piece and the remaining will go towards shipping, design, material and training.” With the timeline being short, the rakhis are on sale online before those sold are despatched to four Army bases across the country. “The campaign ends this weekend,” says Ramakrishna, “as we need time to sanitise and ship therakhis. Buyers can also send a note of gratitude, but will not be able to choose the rakhi , although they will receive an email saying it has reached a soldier.” The rakhis are a reflection of the diversity of Indian handloom and hand-craft. Made with locally sourced material, they showcase the rich colours of Kutch, the simplicity of Himalayan flowers and the complex geometry of tribal embroidery. In Kil Paachar Thanda village, 30 kilometres from Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu, a young couple spearheads Buriya, an NGO that works with Lambadi women. Named for the nose-ring worn by these women, Buriya’s focus is the embroidery tradition of the tribe. Babu Naik, who holds a Master’s in Computer Science and his wife, Priyanka, set up the NGO in 2018. “We work with Lambadi women from two villages. We are making 2,000 rakhis. They take approximately 30 minutes to make one. We stick to the colours that mirror our heritage — red, yellow, cream, green and light blue. The samples are distributed to the women who create these at home. The colours are their choice,” says Naik. The campaign page has messages such as “A thread that carries the prayers of all Indians from my side...” and also the numbers that show a lot more has to be sold to help these artisans kickstart their livelihood and honour the soldier this Rakshabandhan.  For details, https://habba.org/rakhi, call 080-41650037 or mail support@habba.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-bond-with-brothers-in-arms/article32167154.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Grains of hope||We have had the wettest June in 12 years, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Statistics released by the IMD show that India recorded 118% of the Long Period Average rainfall in June 2020, which is considered excess. These copious showers brought cheer to the farming community, despite several regions facing intrinsic challenges such as shortage of labour in the wake of COVID-19 and disruption in supply chains due to intermittent lockdowns. In many states, both Government and private-owned seed banks ensured that farmers had sufficient seeds to sow. Farmers following sustainable practices noticed an increase in demand for chemical-free produce and native vegetables, fruits and grains, spurred by the need to eat healthy and boost immunity levels in some pockets. In Hyderabad and other districts of Telangana, where scorching heat prevailed till late June in the last few years, the pre-monsoon showers towards the end of May and monsoon in the first week of June encouraged farmers to prepare their land to sow rain-fed crops. Going local At Zaheerabad-based Aranya Agricultural Alternatives, which has become the go-to centre for Permaculture, its CEO Padma Koppula has noticed the increased sowing of sorghum, pigeon pea and cotton in nearby areas. She also witnessed a small but steadily growing demand for foxtail millet and a sizeable demand for seeds and saplings of native fruits and vegetables (see box). “It is good to see more focus on food crops this time; nearly 80 farmers in this region are trying out 30 varieties of fruit saplings,” explains Padma. Paddy cultivation has already begun in Domadugu, Guntapally and other villages near Hyderabad, as well as the cultivation of green and black gram, toor dal , and native vegetables. A few years ago, organic farmer Praveen Abhishetty had begun growing small quantities of fragrant chitti muthyalu , red and black rice varieties. He intends to do so this year as well. Direct selling Bengaluru-based Prabhakar Rao, the founder of Hariyalee Seeds, works with farmers across India and affirms planting has begun fairly early owing to the monsoon. “Leading up to the sowing season, the sale of seeds peaked to 300% of our usual volumes,” he states. Prabhakar also noticed a tangible increase in the demand for chemical-free, safe food following the pandemic outbreak: “Those with diabetes, which is considered a co-morbidity for COVID-19, wanted to start including millets in their diet. Farmers living close to urban areas have been able to sell their produce at apartment complexes and gated communities without middlemen. We don’t know how long this urge to have healthy food will sustain. Right now, people are willing to spend more for good produce since there is no expenditure on eating out, malls and other entertainment. Retail chains are also keen to source native grains and pulses,” he explains. The golden pearl Among the grains and pulses finding more takers, Prabhakar lists amaranth, chickpea and cowpea. He has also been at the forefront of reintroducing heritage wheat varieties such as the 2,000-year-old Sona Moti. “This year, farmers in Punjab harvested 60 tonnes of Sona Moti which were pre-sold at Rs. 75/kilogram,” says Prabhakar. A few other farm communities are treading cautiously. Visalakshi Padmanabhan who founded the Buffalo Back Collective and works from a farm in the vicinity of Bannerghatta in Bengaluru, says the early arrival of monsoon has been a boon. “Since this is a rain-shadow region, farmers here usually prepare for drought. This year, everyone is busy doing their best to harvest the available water. With the help of forest officials, ponds and streams along the elephant corridor were cleaned up; new ponds have also been created. This prevents elephants from venturing into human settlements for water.” With weekly organic farmers markets in Bengaluru shut due to COVID-19, she says how farmers had to look for alternative ways to reach their consumers. Rice is nice In Chennai, organic farmer VM Parthasarathy says while farmers in this belt are happy with the early monsoon, they are concerned about forecasts that suggest the possibility of a flood-like situation in November-December 2020. Memories of 2015 floods still remain fresh. “No one wants to delay planting so that they can harvest before the floods. The lockdown has been tough since we couldn’t exchange seeds within our organic farmer networks in different cities; we have had to find alternatives,” he says. Nirosha Kathiravan of The Villagers in Vandavasi, near Chennai, has sowed seeraga samba rice for the first time. “We cultivate groundnut, sesame, moong and urad dals too. The monsoon has helped us plant more grass varieties and maize as fodder for our indigenous cattle [milk and milk products are the mainstays of this farm]. The big challenge in this belt is to find labour, which has become tougher due to spread of the pandemic beyond Chennai limits,” she says. The monsoon has brought new hope and the farming communities look forward to tiding over logistical setbacks and reap good harvests.  A good harvest   Aranya Agricultural Alternatives, Telangana:Demand for seeds and saplings of mangoes, jackfruit, wild species of phalsa, neem, cashew nut, soursop, custard apple, ginger, turmeric, tree spinach and moringa. Farmers are also growing small bitter gourd, tapioca, vetiver, lemongrass and air potatoes.  Buffalo Back Collective, Karnataka:Ragi, avarakai (broad beans), groundnut and sesame are among the popular native crops here.  Farms near Chennai: Seeraga samba , thanga samba , Thanjavur ponni and thooya malli rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/grains-of-hope/article32167444.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||JUST DUVET||In the village of Nattarasankottai, Tamil Nadu, students gather skeins of colourful thread and excitedly sit to work. This is their chance to showcase their creation to the world. With the India International Quilt Festival going virtual this time, it opens a world-wide viewer base for its participants. The upcoming edition will take place between January 23 and 25, 2021. “It is a beautiful time in Chennai and we want this festival to become part of Margazhi festivities,” says Varsha Sundararajan, who started the event in 2019 with Tina Katwal and Deepa Vasudevan. IIQF is a bi-annual event that showcases quilts from all over the world. There are seven different categories and the best in each are awarded cash prizes, vouchers and the much coveted ribbon. In the 2019 edition — their first — the event received 290 quilts and 161 participants from 11 countries. “For this edition, we announced the categories two months ago,” says Tina. There are three new categories this time: Indian Quilts (works that reflect the rich textile tradition of the country and its various quilting styles), Miniature (maximum size: 18 inch on any side) and Generation Next (for those under the age of 18). The idea to incorporate a category for children came about after the organisers noticed entries from the under-18 age group last time. “Last year, a quilt made by 10-year-old Ritu Sudarshan won a prize in the novice category that had entries from all age groups,” says Deepa. Geography and age have hardly been a deterrent for enthusiasts of this art form: one of the oldest winners was 77-year-old Sunita Santaram. “The perfection in the work of these senior quilters has to be seen to be believed. Their fingers are still so nimble,” adds Deepa. Through this festival, the founders intend to revive quilting, promote it as an art form and commercially viable pursuit. They hope to provide an opportunity for quilters to be represented in the international arena. “If young people don’t get engaged, the sector dies,” says Varsha. Spreading the word Last year, the team took 18 award-winning quilts to five cities around India. The travelling exhibition, called Threads That Bind, was showcased at DakshinaChitra in Chennai, and in Jaipur, Delhi, Kolkata and Coimbatore. “This was done because we wanted people to know that we have an ancient tradition of quilting and there is an international competionfor the same,” says Tina, who is pleased to see an increase in the interest in this skill, with queries especially from students of design and fine arts. She is currently conducting online classes on quilting. In its online avatar, the IIQF will have trunk shows, workshops, sale of artisanal crafts, and a celebratory webinar to announce winners. Their catalogue, too, will be available online.  Registrations open on September 1, 2020. For details, log on to www.indiaquiltfestival.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/just-duvet/article32167442.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A bond with brothers in arms||At Khetikhan, a quiet village in Uttarakhand, women from artisan NGO Himalayan Blooms braid threads to make rakhi s. With every overlap of the skein, they metaphorically bind tighter the bonds of sibling love. Across the geographical superlatives of the Kumaon Himalayas that surround the village are men of the Indian Army who guard these frontiers, and who may this Rakshabandhan (August 3) wear some of these rakhis.  The NGO is part of a network of 10 others from across India — three in Kutch, two in Tamil Nadu, one more in Uttarakhand, one each in Jharkhand and Bengaluru, and a collective that straddles Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — that are part of Habba, an initiative of Bengaluru-based Rang De, which believes in ‘honest pricing’. Ramakrishna NK, 45, co-founder of Rang De, says over phone from Bengaluru, “This is our first connect with the Army. We conceived this initiative three weeks ago when one of the Uttarakhand NGOs reached out asking us to help them sell 10,000 rakhis . We wanted to express our gratitude to the soldiers and also help these artisans who have been struggling because of the pandemic. The tradition ofrakshabandhaninvolves acknowledging bonds with one or two brothers. Here, citizens are invited to buy any number of rakhis at Rs. 100 a piece and honour our brothers in arms. We now have 1,00,000 rakhis , the sale of which will benefit 1,000 artisans. Each of the 10 NGOs has contributed varying numbers. Each artisan will receive Rs. 50 a piece and the remaining will go towards shipping, design, material and training.” With the timeline being short, the rakhis are on sale online before those sold are despatched to four Army bases across the country. “The campaign ends this weekend,” says Ramakrishna, “as we need time to sanitise and ship therakhis. Buyers can also send a note of gratitude, but will not be able to choose the rakhi , although they will receive an email saying it has reached a soldier.” The rakhis are a reflection of the diversity of Indian handloom and hand-craft. Made with locally sourced material, they showcase the rich colours of Kutch, the simplicity of Himalayan flowers and the complex geometry of tribal embroidery. In Kil Paachar Thanda village, 30 kilometres from Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu, a young couple spearheads Buriya, an NGO that works with Lambadi women. Named for the nose-ring worn by these women, Buriya’s focus is the embroidery tradition of the tribe. Babu Naik, who holds a Master’s in Computer Science and his wife, Priyanka, set up the NGO in 2018. “We work with Lambadi women from two villages. We are making 2,000 rakhis. They take approximately 30 minutes to make one. We stick to the colours that mirror our heritage — red, yellow, cream, green and light blue. The samples are distributed to the women who create these at home. The colours are their choice,” says Naik. The campaign page has messages such as “A thread that carries the prayers of all Indians from my side...” and also the numbers that show a lot more has to be sold to help these artisans kickstart their livelihood and honour the soldier this Rakshabandhan.  For details, https://habba.org/rakhi, call 080-41650037 or mail support@habba.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-bond-with-brothers-in-arms/article32167443.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Sushant and I used to talk about the authors we love’||Actor Sanjana Sanghi’s Twitter bio reads: “cinema and academia are beautiful things”. A topper in journalism at Delhi University and invested in grassroots education and development in the Capital, the 23-year-old chanced upon acting in films in school. Casting director Mukesh Chhabra had spotted her in a school play and asked her to audition for a supporting role in Rockstar (2011). Then 14, Sanghi quickly realised that the camera does not intimidate her, but the profession was not the end-goal in itself. As an actor, she wishes to channel fame into enhancing her work in the education sector. “I want to make the country a better place for our youth,” she says, over a phone conversation. Her interest in academia is what enabled her to instantly connect with her co-actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, who died by suicide in June. The two play terminally-ill characters, Kizie and Manny, in the coming-of-age drama, Dil Bechara , an Indian adaptation of the commercially successful novel and film,The Fault in Our Stars. Rajput’s last film is set for a posthumous release. “We used to talk about the authors we love. He used to find it exciting that if he mentioned John Berger, I would sayWays of Seeing, or Yuval Noah Harari and I used to say 21 Lessons for the 21st Century , so he really loved that I actually loved those books… It was rare for him to find that [with fellow actors] and I hate that it is rare,” she reminisces. Teenage favourite  The Fault in Our Stars was among the books Sanghi fawned over as a teenager in high school. “I was that 16-year-old who was obsessed with the novel and bunked school to watch the film,” she recalls. When Chhabra approached her to audition for Dil Bechara , she was excited yet apprehensive of doing justice to a story that has already been told in two mediums. “But the writers have done a good job at culturally adapting it to Jamshedpur,” she informs. The actor’s interpretation of Kizie, a character battling thyroid cancer, involved going beyond her illness. “Initially, when a person is facing a debilitating disease, that disease defines them,” she observes. “When we did several readings of the script, we realised that the disease cannot define them because there is so much more that they grew up with.” Sanghi arrived at this understanding after spending time with young survivors at the Indian Cancer Society in Mumbai. “I chatted with them and understood their emotional reality, how they go to school with a cylinder and come back and do five blood tests,” she recalls. “Initially, it was debilitating but two years on, you adapt and as humans, we adapt.” Hurdles and accusations The actor came onboard the project freshly out of college at 21, and two years on, the film is ready to release on Disney+Hotstar on July 24. Although shot for the big screen, the pandemic compelled the producers to opt for a direct OTT release. Even before the pandemic, the film faced several hurdles and delays. In 2018, Chhabra, who makes his directorial debut with this film, was accused of sexual misconduct as part of the #MeToo movement. He was suspended as the director but was reinstated reportedly after conducting an inquiry. Allegations of sexual harassment were also made against Rajput, which was dismissed by Sanghi as “baseless”. “That really breaks my heart when I look back at it,” she confides. “The journalism I learnt is one of honesty and objectivity. When I saw things that are so far from reality being written, it affected me… I was so young and inexperienced that it used to really bother me but then I knew our reality.” The biggest learning for Sanghi with Dil Bechara has been that filmmaking has several variables that can derail a project. “The pandemic and Sushant not being with us in post-production, these are not in my control and I’m struggling to come to terms with [it] but I have to adapt,” she shares. The actor is in no hurry to sign any new films and prefers “to be choosy” and be known for “quality over quantity” in the long-run. Based in Delhi and invested in the theatre, art, culture and educational landscape of the city, Sanghi says that “stardom doesn’t excite her”, but it’s merely a tool for her to create visibility for the causes she believes in.  The journalism I learnt is one of honesty and objectivity. When I saw things that are so far from reality being written, it affected me||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushant-and-i-used-to-talk-about-the-authors-we-love/article32167632.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi to hold sero-survey every month, next one from August 1||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the government will conduct a serological survey every month to know the percentage of people in the city who have developed antibodies against COVID-19. The next survey will be conducted between August 1 and 5. Mr. Jain, while addressing a press conference, also commented on the results of a similar serological survey, which was released on Tuesday by the Central government. “Yesterday, the result of the sero-survey came out, and according to it, about 24% people, that is a quarter of Delhi's total population, have antibodies. That means a quarter of Delhi’s population was infected and has recovered. Most of these people didn’t know that they were infected,” he said. “Now the government has decided that the sero-survey will be conducted every month. From 1st to 5th (August) and sample will be taken again for the survey,” he added. In a serological survey, blood samples of random people across different age groups and areas of the city are collected from their houses and later tested in labs using antibody testing kits. A positive result means that the person has developed antibodies against the novel coronavirus. Mr. Jain said more samples than the previous survey will be collected for the next one. He said the Delhi government is working on making a detailed protocol of the survey, which will be conducted in both containment and non-containment zones. He also said that the city is yet to attain herd immunity. “Experts have different views on this. They say herd immunity is developed when 40%-70% of the population has recovered from COVID-19. We have received the results for 24% of the population, and therefore we cannot say that in Delhi herd immunity has developed within the population,” the Minister said. He also reiterated that it is up to the Central government to declare if there is community transmission of the virus in the city. “There has been a spread (of the virus) in the community. I have been saying this for the last two months. Community spread is a technical term and NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) or Central government will have to take a decision whether it is community spread or not,” Mr. Jain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-to-hold-sero-survey-every-month-next-one-from-august-1/article32167469.ece
23 July 2020||Srinagar,||Six-day lockdown in Kashmir Valley to stem COVID-19 spread||As Jammu and Kashmir’s COVID-19 cases crossed the 15,000 mark, the administration on Wednesday decided to reimpose a strict lockdown across the Valley up to July 27. A government spokesperson announced “a complete lockdown in all the red districts, excluding Bandipora, of the Kashmir division from today [Wednesday] evening till 6 a.m. of July 27”. He added that activities related to agriculture, horticulture and construction will continue in accordance with the DMRR guidelines. “The movement of goods carriers, LPG and oil tankers [are] to continue unhindered,” he added.  According to the Union Health Ministry figures on Wednesday, the number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 15,711, up from 7,497 on June 30. The Valley has 5,263 active cases of the 6,540 in the UT. The highest single day spike was on Monday when 751 cases were recorded. “Ten persons, who were COVID-19 positive, have died over the past 24 hours in Jammu and Kashmir,” the officials said, adding all the deaths took place in the Valley. The death toll of coronavirus-infected persons in the Union Territory has now risen to 273 — 253 in the Valley and 20 in the Jammu region, the officials said. 453 new cases The Union Territory recorded 453 new COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours, they said. The cases detected on Wednesday included 33 persons who had returned to the UT recently, they said. The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 165 new cases, followed by 62 in Kulgam district.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-day-lockdown-in-kashmir-valley-to-stem-covid-19-spread/article32167485.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Punjab’s law plays ‘minimal role’ in spiking Delhi’s pollution: study||Delhi’s meteorology and the quantity of chaff burnt play a greater role in worsening air quality than the time chosen by farmers in Punjab to start crop burning, a study argues. Crop burning, a traditional practice in Punjab and Haryana of razing fields off rice chaff to prepare it for winter sowing, begins around October and peaks in November, coinciding with the withdrawal of southwest monsoon. Subsidiesand assured procurement of rice has led to a rise in the rice acreage in these States. Coupled with increased farm mechanisation, large quantities of rice stubble have increased over the years. However, it has been pointed out that a change in Punjab’s water policy in 2009, mandated farmers to delay sowing to late June (to discourage groundwater extraction), led to sowing being delayed by an average of 10 days compared to 2002-2008. This, consequently, delayed harvesting and rice chaff burning. As a result, the pollutants and the particulate matter from chaff, along with other sources of pollution in Delhi, which stuck in the lower atmosphere of the Indo-Gangetic plain, exacerbated winter pollution. The study, which largely relies on mathematical modelling and to be published in the peer-reviewed Environment Research Letters, finds that crop burning contributed nearly 40% of the near-surface PM2.5 in Delhi in 2016 — a year that saw one of Delhi’s severest pollution episodes. However, when data on the number of crop burning episodes (gleaned from satellite images) and levels of particulate matter were plugged into a mathematical model, it emerged that crop residue contribution to particulate matter over Delhi, in 2016, increased only marginally (1%) when compared to a hypothetical scenario of crops being burned 10 days earlier. Moreover, early burning while reducing particulate matter burning by 20g/m3, didn’t reduce the number of days of significant PM exposure in Delhi, which hovered around 55 days. But the model showed that delaying rice burning 10 days beyond what is currently practised could be detrimental and could lead to an increase in peak particulate matter emissions as well as increase the number of pollution days, the paper notes. “[The role of] legislation appears to be minimal, and indeed can sometimes decrease as well increase air quality problems depending on the meteorological conditions of the time,” the authors note. They consist of scientists from the IIT-Kanpur; The University of Leicester, The Energy Resources Institute, Panjab University and Post Graduate Institute for Medical Research, Chandigarh. “Ultimately, the halting of crop residue burning would greatly aid the newly established National Clean Air Programme [NCAP], which aims to reduce emissions from various sectors including agricultural residue burning,” the authors note. The NCAP proposes to reduce pollution by 20-30% in annual PM concentration by 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjabs-law-plays-minimal-role-in-spiking-delhis-pollution-study/article32167441.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active cases fall below 15,000||As many as 1,227 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,26,323, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 29 more deaths were reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,719. Of the total cases, 1,07,650 people have recovered and there are now 14,954 active cases. Active cases have been decreasing since July 1. On June 23, new cases had almost touched 4,000 – the highest so far. Since then the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 1,500 for the past six days. The number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has also been decreasing for the past 20 days — from 5,892 on July 1 to 3,342 on Wednesday. The number of COVID-19 patients in home isolation has decreased from 16,703 on July 1 to 7,966. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 6.1%. The number of containment zones has increased to 693, compared to 461 on June 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-cases-fall-below-15000/article32167466.ece
23 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. approves project for water supply to two cities||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved a US $285.71 million project for canal-based water supply for Amritsar and Ludhiana cities under World Bank financing. “The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) would finance $200 million (70%) and Punjab government $85.71 million (30%) as per the proposal mooted by the local government department,” said an official statement, adding that the decision to this effect was taken in the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh held through videoconferencing. The project components include strengthening urban water supply service management with a total cost of $11.61 million, improving water supply infrastructure at $240.38 million, besides land acquisition and rehabilitation at a cost of $15.62 million, COVID crisis response to the tune of $10 million and project management at $7.6 million, it added. The Punjab government had, in June 2018, through the Government of India’s Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), requested the World Bank to support Punjab for implementing 24X7 canal-based water supply projects in Amritsar and Ludhiana. Land pooling policy The statement said to make the land pooling policy more attractive for those giving up their property voluntarily for development projects, the government has decided to give additional land as compensation to such persons, while coming out with a similar new policy for the industrial sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-approves-project-for-water-supply-to-two-cities/article32167481.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Eyewitness in Delhi riots case gets threatening phone call||The son of the owner of DRP Convent School, which was burnt down during the north-east Delhi riots in February, has lodged a complaint stating that he has been threatened to take back his case, the police said on Wednesday. The complaint was lodged on July 4 at Dayalpur police station. In his complaint, the son mentioned that on February 24 and 25, the school was ransacked and later burnt by rioters, following which a case was registered by his father. On July 4 at 10.48 a.m., the son received a call from an unknown number. The person threatened him to take his case back and said that if he did not do so, “then Faisal bhai would see him, his father and family members... and would destroy his business”. A senior police officer said that a case was registered on the basis of the complaint, and an investigation is under way. On June 3, Delhi Police had filed a chargesheet before a court here in relation to the riots in which the building of DRP Convent School was burnt down. Faisal Farooq, owner of Rajdhani School in Shiv Vihar locality, was among the 18 arrested, for his alleged involvement in burning and damaging DRP Convent School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/eyewitness-in-delhi-riots-case-gets-threatening-phone-call/article32167436.ece
23 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Residents take to social media as Gurugram is left inundated||Heavy rain led to waterlogging across the Millennium City on Wednesday, prompting residents to take to social networking sites to express their ire and seek help from the authorities. Several areas, including Golf Course Road, IFFCO Chowk, South City-II, Kanhai Chowk, Hanuman Chowk, Sector 46, Sector 15 Part-II, Rajiv Nagar, Jwala Mill Road and Palam Vihar were left flooded. Also, Narsinghpur, the perennial waterlogging point on NH-48, and Rampura flyover exit on the highway were inundated. Vatika Chowk on Sohna Road and MDI Chowk near Sector 14 also reported waterlogging. In a series of tweets, Gurugram Traffic Police cautioned the motorists to avoid those roads and use alternate roads. The city bus service, currently plying on six routes with a fleet of 68 buses, was also hit.  Demand action People took to Twitter to seek help. A resident posted pictures of his house with the streets completely inundated. He said that they felt like being in a “jail” and demanded immediate action from the municipal corporation. “Every time it rains, the roads are flooded. All claims of the administration saying that they are prepared for the rain falls flat every year,” said Vivek Sharma, a resident of Sector 46. As per the district rainfall report, it rained 22 mm in Gurugram and 25 mm in neighbouring Manesar till 5 p.m. However, Farrukh Nagar block received the maximum 38 mm rainfall in the district and Pataudi the minimum at 15 mm. Sohna received rainfall at par with Manesar. Municipal Corporation of Gurugram Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said vehicular movement on most of the major roads was smooth with only few instances of slow-moving traffic. “A few residential areas witnessed some waterlogging and issues are being tackled by staff from the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and municipal corporation,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/residents-take-to-social-media-as-gurugram-is-left-inundated/article32167435.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAP gave candidates Rs. 3.14 cr. for Delhi Assembly polls||The Aam Aadmi Party, which swept the Delhi Assembly elections in February with 62 out of 70 seats, gave its candidates a total of Rs. 3.14 crore for poll expenditure. Poll expenditure This amounted from Rs. 7,100 for Madipur candidate Girish Soni to Rs. 27.63 lakh for Minister Gopal Rai for Babarpur constituency, according to an election expenditure statement submitted to the Election Commission. In its part election expenditure statement, which was published on the EC website on Wednesday, the party declared that it made payments of Rs. 3,14,43,764 to candidates for the 70 seats between January 1 and February 11. This statement does not include the amount spent by the party itself, but covers the lump sum payments made to candidates through cash, cheque, demand draft or fund transfer. Among the payments made by the party were Rs. 21.22 lakh for Delhi Assembly Speaker and then-Shahdara candidate Ram Niwas Goel, Rs. 20 lakh each for Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia for Patparganj constituency and winning candidate from Kalkaji Atishi and Rs. 15 lakh for Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for his New Delhi constituency. The party gave Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan Rs. 38,720 for the campaign. Meanwhile, the Congress, which failed to secure a single seat in the Delhi Assembly for a second consecutive term, declared that it gave 64 of its candidates Rs. 12.25 crore in total. Per candidate The amounts ranged from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh per candidate, according to the part election expenditure statement published on Tuesday. The party had contested 66 seats, with the remaining four being contested by the Rashtriya Janata Dal in alliance with the Congress. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) declared in its statement that was also published on Tuesday that it gave its three candidates for Wazirpur, Badarpur and Karawal Nagar seats a total of Rs. 1.69 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-gave-candidates-rs-314-cr-for-delhi-assembly-polls/article32167432.ece
23 July 2020||Mumbai,||A musical tribute||Composer A.R. Rahman, who is the music director of the upcoming film Dil Bechara , on Wednesday released a musical tribute — a montage of all his songs for the movie — to the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Almost a virtual audio launch of sorts in the wake of the pandemic, Rahman and several of his singers from the soundtrack of the album, such as Sunidhi Chauhan, Shreya Ghoshal, Mohit Chauhan, Hriday Gattani, feature in the video. “The music of Dil Bechara will always remain special to me. The nine tracks I’ve composed for the film have a whole new meaning and life now. May the almighty give us hope and strength to brave these times. Dil Bechara is dedicated to the loving memory of Sushant Singh Rajput,” said Rahman at the beginning of the video, that is interspersed with clips from the film and the singers performing the tracks in their respective homes. Rahman also performed the title song in his studio in Chennai, accompanied by daughter Raheema Rahman, son A.R, Ameen and upcoming talent Hiral Viradia for the track. Sunidhi Chauhan then joined from Mumbai and followed it up with the track Maskhari along with Gattani. “I think this song connects Sushant of reel and real life. Perhaps this is a small glimpse of his off-screen playful and mischievous self,” Sunidhi said. Next up was Mohit Chauhan, who crooned the ballad Tare Ginn with Ghoshal. “Sushant was fascinated with space, stars, astronomy. He had even bought a plot on the moon! He had a telescope and would often look out for stars and the moon through that. So this song is dedicated to his passion,” Mohit said. Singer Shashaa Tirupati joined the tribute video from Vancouver and performed the track Khulke Jeene Ka . Later, Jonita Gandhi, along with Gattani, sang the slow-paced Main Tumhara , which many have called the theme song of the film. “Though Sushant isn’t with us physically, he shall forever be with us, through his memories, through his promises. I’m so glad to be a part of a soundtrack that will help us all remember Sushant forever,” Gandhi said from Toronto. The tributes came to an end with a slate, reading ‘Sushant Singh Rajput 21/01/1986 - Forever’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-musical-tribute/article32167634.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||New data show fewer Delhiites tested for virus||The actual number of Delhiites tested daily for COVID-19 using RT-PCR test is lesser than the city government’s official daily bulletin data by about 3,000 tests a day, at least in the first 10 days of July, a new set of data accessed by The Hindu shows. When asked about the discrepancy, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said: “There is an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website from where we take the data. They reconciled their data and we changed it accordingly.” The data on testing in the daily bulletin till July 12 was under the heading ‘RTPCR tests conducted today’. But it was actually the total number of tests done by government and private labs in Delhi, which had samples of people from outside the city as well. This was never disclosed in the bulletin. The new set of data for July 1-10, which gives the number of Delhiites tested using RT-PCR, is less by an average of 3,000 every day compared to the official daily bulletin data for the same period. On July 13, the daily bulletin released by the Delhi government reduced the total number of tests done till date from 7,89,853 to 6,92,845 — a dip of 97,008. This is despite the fact that over 12,000 tests were done as per the bulletin on July 13. The only explanation given was: “As per the reconciled data of ICMR for Delhi”. But official sources told The Hindu that it was due to switching to the new set of data. Also, all the 97,008 tests were RT-PCR tests. “Earlier, the data given [in official bulletin] was of tests done by labs in Delhi. The new data is of people of Delhi tested. Last week, after requests by the Delhi government, the ICMR opened a new dashboard and started providing the new data which was not available before. The earlier data was also from ICMR,” an official source said. The ICMR dashboard is not accessible to the public. The official added that after weeding out results from other States, it was found that the total number of tests in Delhi was 6.92 lakh. From July 13, the Delhi government started providing the new set of data in its daily bulletin, which is the total number of Delhiites tested, under the heading ‘RTPCR/CBNAAT/True NAAT Tests conducted today’. No mention of switch The government never officially mentioned the switch in data. Though in the earlier set of data the number of tests included people from others States, the number of positive results mentioned in the bulletin were only for people of Delhi. This means that the positivity (positive results divided by total tests) calculated using the earlier set of data was less than the actual positivity rate. So, more people were testing positive per 100 tests done than thought before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-data-show-fewer-delhiites-tested-for-virus/article32167471.ece
23 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||NGT questions Ministry, OIL on drilling in national park||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Environment Ministry, Oil India Limited (OIL) and two other entities to explain how the proposed drilling of seven oil wells in an eastern Assam national park was permitted. The other two respondents are the Assam State Pollution Control Board and the Assam State Biodiversity Board. The NGT has given the Environment Ministry, OIL and the others 30 days’ time from the date when the order was issued. The NGT directive on July 20 was based on a petition by Assam-based conservationists Bimal Gogoi and Mridu Paban Phukan against the environment clearance to OIL on May 11 for drilling in the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in violation of a Supreme Court order of September 2017. The NGT’s Eastern Zone Bench, comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nada, also took note of the petitioners’ contention that OIL did not carry out a biodiversity assessment study for the seven-well exploratory drilling project besides not conducting a public hearing as mandated by the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification of 2006. The petitioners contented that the EIA report grossly undermined the risk by stating that the threat due to “blowout” was “negligible”. The NGT noted that the report “only considered the blowout risk applicable to the U.S. and did not give data from India in general”. Baghjan accident The petitioners also said OIL suppressed the recent blowout of Baghjan Well No. 5 that resulted in massive irreparable injury to the environment and the people of the surrounding villages. had clarified that its exploratory drilling project was “under” and not “in” the 765 sq km Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. “OIL had obtained permission for the seven wells in 2016 on the basis of the sophisticated ERD [extended reach drilling] technology that will enable us to explore hydrocarbon deposits horizontally, from beyond the national park,” an OIL spokesperson said. The ERD was extensively used to intersect hydrocarbon targets far from the surface or areas of the reservoir that otherwise were difficult to access. This technology enabled drilling of wells up to a depth of approximately 4 km from an existing well plinth without entering the protected area, OIL officials said. “Drilling will take place at an average of more than 1.5 km outside the demarcated area of the national park where OIL already is carrying out hydrocarbon exploration since the last 15 years,” the spokesperson said. On July 20, the NGT ordered the formation of a committee to probe allegations of large-scale illegal coal mining by the North Eastern Coalfields inside Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in Assam’s Tinsukia district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-questions-ministry-oil-on-drilling-in-national-park/article32167486.ece
23 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram school blocks students from online classes over dues||Several students of Pathways World School in Aravali were on Wednesday blocked from attending online classes by the school authorities for not clearing their dues. However, district administration intervened to order restoration of classes till the issue is resolved. The issue pertained to the payment of school fee during the lockdown period, and the parents, in a Facebook post on ‘Pathways Aravali Parents’ page, claimed that the school was seeking fee till December and demanding hidden charges. The Facebook page also showed a purported communication between the school principal, teachers and the systems staff saying that certain students, with list attached, were not allowed to join classes and should not be allowed to join from other means as well. One of the parents, Siddhartha Ghosh, said his daughter, a Class 11 student, was among those banned. He said that she came to know about her being blocked when she tried to log in on Tuesday evening to check the schedule for next morning. He claimed that around 400 students were blocked. “It is a matter of principles. We want the school to not to charge for the services, such as transport and sports activities, that cannot be accessed during the lockdown and also provide us the break-up. As per government rules, parents are only supposed to pay the tuition fee during the lockdown,” said Mr. Ghosh. The parents’ association president Akshay Tripathi said they had decided to move court. The overcharging of fees in violation of the State government orders has been the bone of contention between several private schools and the parents in the city. Many schools, including prominent ones, have clubbed tuition fee and other charges to create a new head, “composite fee”, and are not willing to share the break-up. Gurugram Divisional Commissioner, Ashok Sangwan, has directed the District Education Officer to look into the matter and ensure that no coercive action was taken against the students. Tripti Singh, administrator of “Gurgaon Parents for Better Education”, a Facebook forum, said: “If parents are willing to pay tuition fees as mandated and seek clarification on the other fee heads, they should be able to access the information.” The Pathways World School administration did not respond despite repeated attempts.  As per government rules, parents are only supposed to pay the tuition fee during the lockdown  Siddhartha Ghosh  Parent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-school-blocks-students-from-online-classes-over-dues/article32167430.ece
23 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Furore over arrest of Assam anti-CAA activist||Students’ organisations in Assam have slammed the arrest of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) activist and Gauhati University student Dipjyoti Gogoi for posting on social media a fake flood-related fund raising appeal in the name of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. But anti-CAA groups claimed he was caught for allegedly reciting an anti-government poem on social media. The poem had references to peasant leader and anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi. Friends and members of Mr. Gogoi’s family in eastern Assam’s Demow said he was whisked away in a white vehicle around 8 p.m. on July 20. The way he went “missing” for some time was likened to the case of Aligarh Muslim University Sharjeel Usmani in Uttar Pradesh.  ‘Fake information’ “The Assam police apprehended Dipjyoti Gogoi for creating fake information. A case has been registered under the Crime Branch police station,” a statement from the State government said on July 21. It added that he had been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. Gauhati University organisations and Students’ Federation of India slammed Mr. Gogoi’s arrest and said the BJP-led State government was indulging in witch-hunting against all those who have taken part in the anti-CAA movement on one pretext or the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/furore-over-arrest-of-assam-anti-caa-activist/article32167479.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal gives Rs. 1 crore to kin of ‘corona warrior’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met the next of kin of 59-year-old Charan Singh, an employee of Lok Nayak Hospital who succumbed to COVID-19 in May. Mr. Kejriwal presented a cheque of Rs. 1 crore to the family of the technical supervisor who contracted the virus and passed away on the heels of his retirement. “Met the family of Late Sh. Charan Singh ji, who passed away in the course of his Covid duty. He was a Technical Supervisor at our LNJP Hospital. Delhi govt has provided financial assistance of Rs. 1 cr to his family. It is the least we can do for our Corona warriors [sic],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. In a related development, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Javed Ali, who worked at a Delhi government hospital and died after contracting COVID-19, would be granted similar compensation soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-gives-rs-1-crore-to-kin-of-corona-warrior/article32167463.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Councillors seek subsidy at hospitals||Councillors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and their dependants ought to be allowed to pay subsidised rates for services at labs and hospitals empanelled under the civic body, a House meeting resolved on Wednesday. Since municipal councillors and their wards are given no medical benefits via the corporation, they are forced to pay arbitrary rates for healthcare, the resolution read. In the case of municipal staff and officials, they are charged rates set by the Central Government Health Scheme or the Directorate General Health Services at certain empanelled hospitals labs, where their bills are later reimbursed by the civic body, the resolution states. It proposed that councillors be charged similar rates at such labs and hospitals. This way the corporation will not have to bear any additional cost in the form of medical reimbursement as in the case of municipal staff and officials, it added. Officials were instructed to draft and implement procedures regarding the same at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/councillors-seek-subsidy-at-hospitals/article32167472.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Uncle, accomplice arrested for trying to kidnap 4-year-old girl at Shakarpur||A man, who tried to kidnap his niece, was arrested along with his accomplice on Wednesday from east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar, the police said. They are trying to arrest the other accused who are absconding. The arrested accused were identified as Dheeraj (26), a resident of Jagatpuri, and Upender, a resident of Krishana Nagar, they said. Upender, the girl’s uncle, planned to kidnap her in order to extort Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 35 lakh from his brother. However, his plan was foiled by the girl’s mother, a senior police officer said. The police received a tip-off regarding an attempt of abduction of a four-year-old girl at Shakarpur on Tuesday. After reaching the spot, they found a bike and a bag containing a countrymade pistol with four live cartridges that were left behind by the accused. The police said that the accused first came to the girl’s house around 4 p.m. and asked for some water. When the girl’s mother went inside to bring water, they tried to abduct the minor. However, she saw it and managed to foil the bid and saved her daughter. The victims had been conducting recee of the area since last week. They have been spotted in a CCTV footage , they said. The entire incident was also captured on CCTV cameras installed near the spot and the clip went viral on social media. In the video, the woman is seen trying to free her daughter. She pushes the bike rider, following which the bike falls on the ground and the pillion rider starts running. Later, the rider speeds away with his two-wheeler. A neighbour is also seen chasing the accused. Another neighbour parks his scooter to intercept the accused, but they manage to escape. During investigation, the police found that the bike was bearing a fake number plate. The owner was identified as Dheeraj through the chassis and engine numbers. “Dheeraj was arrested from Jagatpuri,” DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh said. During interrogation, Dheeraj said Upender had hatched the plan. Upender had promised Dheeraj Rs. 1 lakh. At his instance, Upender was arrested, the DCP said. Upender told the police that he is in debt and that his brother is quite well-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uncle-accomplice-arrested-for-trying-to-kidnap-4-year-old-girl-at-shakarpur/article32167474.ece
23 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Remains of mother and daughter found in house||The mortal remains of a mother and her daughter were recovered from the Meerut residence of her live-in partner almost four months after they mysteriously disappeared, police said. The accused Shamshad alias Dilshad who allegedly killed and buried them is absconding. The case came to light because of the relentless pursuit of deceased Priya’s friend Chanchal. Originally from Ghaziabad, Priya and her daughter lived as a tenant in the house of Chanchal’s father in Modinagar after her divorce and since then they were in touch. In the FIR, Chanchal said that she was in touch with Priya over phone till March 28. “After that she was unreachable. I called up Shamshad many times but he didn’t give any credible answer. So I lodged a complaint with the Meerut police on April 15 but no action was taken.” She said it was only after the intervention of a local Bajrang Dal leader that the police registered an FIR and Shamshad was detained. In the FIR, Chanchal alleged that Shamshad lured Priya on a social media site with the fictitious name of Amit Gurjar and she shifted to Kanshi Ram Colony in Meerut with him. Superintendent of Police (City) Akhilesh Kumar Singh said, “On Tuesday, investigation revealed that Shamshad had possibly buried Priya and her daughter in one of the rooms at his residence. We dug out the bodies and their DNA test would be done.” “The accused will be arrested soon,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/remains-of-mother-and-daughter-found-in-house/article32167475.ece
23 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Five held for murder of jawan’s father in U.P.||Five persons accused of hacking to death an Army jawan’s father in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi were arrested on Wednesday, police said. The arrests were made after a video of jawan Surya Prakash Mishra, seen crying next to a stretcher bearing his dead father, was widely shared on social media. On July 21 evening, the accused persons barged into the residence of the Mishras in Shukulpur Thengah village in Sangrampur and allegedly assaulted Surya Prakash’s father Rajendra Prasad and also damaged a motorcycle and water pipes lying there, police said. Rajendra died on the way to hospital, they added. Surya Prakash, who was not at home then, said his father was hit with sharp weapons and that the accused men, who were from his neighbourhood, also assaulted the women in the house. DSP Piyoosh Kant Rai said five out of the six named accused were arrested and the weapons used in the crime, three lathis and one iron rod, were recovered.  ‘No major dispute’ Mr. Rai said there was no major dispute between the two sides. They had a dispute over spattering of water when a wall in Mishra house was undergoing plaster work, said the officer. However, Surya Prakash said that the police had failed to take action when informed during previous disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-held-for-murder-of-jawans-father-in-up/article32167478.ece
23 July 2020||Bhopal,||No public events to mark I-Day in M.P. this year||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday decided against organising any public celebrations to mark the Independence Day this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting, said Home Minister Narottam Mishra. “Celebrations will be held at one location in Bhopal where the Chief Minister and the Council of Ministers will take part,” Mr. Mishra said. “Flag hoisting will be conducted only by government officials at district and tehsil level. No public celebrations, including school functions and parades, will be organised,” he said. Insurance increased Further, Mr. Mishra informed that the insurance for safai karamcharis had been increased. “In case of natural death, it has been increased to Rs. 1 lakh from Rs. 50,000. And in case of death owing to accidents the amount has been increased to Rs. 2 lakh from Rs. 1 lakh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-public-events-to-mark-i-day-in-mp-this-year/article32167483.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Be responsible citizens, Kejriwal tells students||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday told students that taxpayers’ money is being utilised to fund government schools and making education free and accessible to all. Hence, it is the responsibility of students to pay back to their nation when they grow up. The Chief Minister, along with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, was interacting with students who had done well in their Class 12 CBSE Board examinations and had been invited to the Chief Minister’s residence with their parents and teachers. Mr. Kejriwal said, “Each one of you have faced a difficult situation but you did not give up. By sheer determination you achieved such a good result. The results are proof of your undeterred efforts and dedication towards studies.” The Chief Minister added that a perception had been created that low-income families don’t want their children to study, instead want them to work and earn money. “The reality is that it was the government’s failure in not ensuring quality education to children that made low-income families to think that sending them to school would be a waste of time,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He said that now that the government schools’ condition has improved in Delhi, the poor man wants his child to study. Several students narrated the hardships they faced in school and how they overcame it to achieve good results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/be-responsible-citizens-kejriwal-tells-students/article32167439.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘AAP blocked talks on waterlogging’||Aam Aadmi Party councillors blocked a discussion on desilting of drains in Delhi and consequent waterlogging at a House meeting of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday, the BJP and Congress have alleged. Discussions were to be held over waterlogging and the COVID-19 situation, but none could take place as a result of a ruckus created by members of AAP, said Mayor Jai Prakash. He added that the responsibility to stop waterlogging laid with the Irrigation and Flood Control Department, the Public Works Department, the DSIIDC, and the civic body. However, lack of desilting at most major drains falling under the Delhi government’s jurisdiction is why waterlogging is taking place, he said. Congress leader Mukesh Goel said that his request to allow discussion over desilting of drains and COVID-19 situation was accepted, but AAP “did not allow the subject to be raised” leading to a temporary suspension of the meeting, despite which discussions were blocked. Leader of Opposition Vikas Goel stated that AAP was not opposed to discussions on the issues. He added that AAP councillors had protested when a matter brought up by him was not taken up for discussion in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-blocked-talks-on-waterlogging/article32167456.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||No one listening to salary woes: Hindu Rao doctors||Doctors at Hindu Rao Hospital, who have not been paid salaries for the last three months, said on Wednesday that authorities were not paying heed despite multiple petitions. Last week, the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) wrote to the Lieutenant-Governor, seeking his intervention in the matter. It pointed out that it had “become a trend in North civic body hospitals that the salaries are not regularised and healthcare workers are invariably protesting and dissenting”. Earlier, salaries for March and April were credited after courts took cognisance of a threat of mass resignation by doctors, the letter added. Doctors have started to resign and others plan to not renew their contract, said president of the hospital’s RDA, Abhimanyu Sardana. The non-payment of salaries is a violation of Medical Council of India norms and a contempt of court, the RDA said. It requested that the issue be resolved and a “prompt and efficient” solution be provided. Mr. Sardana said no response was received a week after the letter was sent. Sources in the Raj Niwas, however, said that the matter has been referred to the authority concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-one-listening-to-salary-woes-hindu-rao-doctors/article32167461.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||AAP demands Tripura CM’s resignation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Deb for calling Punjabis “less brainy” and Jats “less intelligent”. AAP Minister Kailash Gahlot said: “As a representative of the Jat community, I want to make it clear that we condemn such a regressive statement. Before the elections, the BJP goes to every house and asks for votes from both Punjabi Sikhs and Jats. But after the elections they make such regressive statements.” “On behalf of AAP, I demand immediate resignation of Mr. Deb. I also want to ask the BJP whether they have sent any notice to him or taken any action,” he added. AAP MLA Jarnail Singh said that Sikh and Jat organisations across the country are protesting against the statement and AAP would protest against such mindset of the BJP at every level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-demands-tripura-cms-resignation/article32167464.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||AAP seeks probe against EDMC Mayor||The AAP on Wednesday wrote to L-G Anil Baijal and the Central Vigilance Commission to initiate a probe against East Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Nirmal Jain and other officials of the BJP-led civic body for awarding an extension of licence to Allena Pvt. Ltd. to operate slaughterhouses in Ghazipur. Alleging corruption in the process, AAP Political Affairs Committee member Durgesh Pathak said Mr. Jain had taken a “dangerous decision”. “In 2009, the East MCD gave tender to Allena to run slaughterhouses. The tender was for 10 years, which ended on August 3, 2019. Within one year, the civic body first extended the tender for six months, then another three months,” an official statement read. Mr. Pathak said the Mayor had claimed that the EDMC followed due process in tendering and extension as there were no applicants other than Allena. “AAP has, however, exposed Mr. Jain’s lie and submitted that three other companies along with Allena had applied for the tender,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-seeks-probe-against-edmc-mayor/article32167467.ece
23 July 2020||July 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/monsoon-blues/article32167477.ece
23 July 2020||Agartala,||Tripura BJP vice-chief tests positive||The headquarters of the Tripura BJP was sanitised on Wednesday after its State vice-president Ram Pada Jamatia tested positive for COVID-19. Party’s State general secretary Tinku Roy said that whoever came in contact with Mr. Jamatia recently would undergo a swab test. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb confirmed that the 63-year-old leader had tested positive for the virus. Mr. Jamatia’s wife and two personal security guards were also infected, Mr. Deb informed in a tweet. All of them were lodged at a COVID-19 Care Centre in Agartala. Ram Pada Jamatia has been the first politician of the State to contract COVID-19. He was elected from Bagma (ST) constituency in Gomati district in the 2018 Assembly election. The COVID-19 tally in the State has soared to 3,349 with 254 new cases detected on Tuesday. Health department officials said infection figures were rising as they have increased the number of daily tests, including antigen tests, across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tripura-bjp-vice-chief-tests-positive/article32167482.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea by police||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rejected a fresh plea by the police seeking cancellation of bail granted to Faisal Farooq, principal of Rajdhani Public School, in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case. The court noted that the one petition filed on behalf of the State, challenging the bail granted to Mr. Farooq, is already pending before the court, the fresh petition is not maintainable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-plea-by-police/article32167429.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Can final-year exams be held in MCQ format, HC asks UGC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to explain if final-year examinations by universities can be conducted based on Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ), open choices, assignments and presentations, instead of long form exams. Justice Prathiba M. Singh asked the UGC to explain the import of its guidelines issued in April, which mentioned the type of examinations that can be held by a college, for conducting final-year exams. The HC’s query came while hearing a plea challenging Delhi University’s decision to hold open book examination for final-year UG courses which will be in long form exams. The counsel appearing for the petitioner pointed out that many universities have opted for a creative mode of examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/can-final-year-exams-be-held-in-mcq-format-hc-asks-ugc/article32167431.ece
23 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. hiding actual COVID-19 figures: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that the results of the serological survey, which show that almost 23% of the city’s population has developed antibodies against COVID-19, comes as no surprise as the government was not conducting enough tests from the beginning. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the serology data and actual COVID-19 data are different as the Delhi government is hiding the actual figures by “fudging data”. Mr. Kumar said the survey conducted by the Delhi government and the Centre was not fully representative of the spread of the virus in the Capital, and therefore the result of the study was not an actual representation of the pandemic’s surge. Blood samples of people in densely populated areas and many containment zones in the Capital were not taken, he added. ‘50 lakh affected’ “If this sample survey is expanded on the assumption that one among four has been affected by the virus, then effectively nearly 50 lakh people in Delhi have been affected by the disease,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that if the Kejriwal-led government had adopted the test-trace-treat strategy from the very beginning and improved the infrastructure and facilities in hospitals, the Capital would not have witnessed over 3,600 deaths and a huge surge in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-hiding-actual-covid-19-figures-cong/article32167460.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Act against units operating in violation of Master Plan: NGT||Following a plea seeking action against stainless steel pickling units operating in residential areas leading to pollution, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi government and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to take appropriate action against such industries that are operational in Wazirpur in violation of the Master Plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/act-against-units-operating-in-violation-of-master-plan-ngt/article32167437.ece
23 July 2020||New Delhi,||Parties should meet to find solution to waterlogging: Tiwari||The BJP on Wednesday demanded an all-party meeting to find a solution to the Capital’s waterlogging problem. North-East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari, citing the Centre’s intervention in COVID-19 situation in the city, said the time had come for similar action to tackle waterlogging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parties-should-meet-to-find-solution-to-waterlogging-tiwari/article32167457.ece
