24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 3 million cases, COVID-19 unlikely to abate soon: experts||India crossed three million cases on Sunday after adding nearly 69,239 cases the previous day — the fourth straight day that it added over 69,000 cases. India continued to be placed behind Brazil and the United States in the overall case load and, at 56,706 deaths, had only half as many as Brazil and less than a third as that of the U.S. India on Saturday reported having tested a million samples — the first time it surpassed this milestone. It has been conducting an average 8,89,935 tests in the last five days and had tested 34.4 million samples till August 21. Only about 23% of the confirmed cases, or about 7,00,000, are active cases requiring treatment and the case fatality ratio — or the confirmed deaths per ratified cases — has dipped to less than 2%. Spread inevitable Experts said the relentless spread of the virus and infectiousness was inevitable and evident from several epidemiological projections from March. “India is politically and culturally one country but epidemiologically it is many countries rolled into one,” said Dr. Jacob John, retired professor of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “This is a respiratory virus and it was always a mistake to think that a single strategy — a national lockdown, for instance — would be effective for the whole country,” he said in a phone conversation. Herd immunity, the idea that once a large fraction of the population was infected, would signal the end of the pandemic was also a misnomer as that would only mean that the virus would have fewer hosts to infect, and was a sign that it had at best become endemic (capable of causing sporadic outbreaks). “Only a vaccine can prevent infections and help bring out herd immunity. A critical mistake in strategy during February and March was not doing enough to ramp up testing as well as restricting it to the sole laboratory at National Institute of Virology, Pune. We repeated mistakes that were made during the swine flu epidemic of 2009,” he added. Maharasthra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are the top three contributors to the overall case load with a little over a million or about a third of India’s case load. India’s doubling time was nearly 30 days with most States with over 50,000 cases recording a doubling time of 30-40 days. Delhi, is an exception with a current doubling time of over 70 days. An official associated with the national COVID taskforce said the spurt in cases was likely “until September or even October” given that testing and spread had concomitantly risen. “The strategy now is to ensure deaths low and that is by detecting cases and contacts early. In March and April, we lacked enough infrastructure to ramp up testing. We learned from experience of Europe and therefore don’t have the fatality rates of Italy and France.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-3-million-cases-covid-19-unlikely-to-abate-soon-experts/article32425102.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Find a new party chief, Sonia Gandhi tells Cong.||Faced with an unprecedented situation of senior leaders questioning the party’s top leadership in a letter, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have asked her colleagues to find a new party chief as she was not keen to continue as interim head. Ms. Gandhi is believed to have conveyed this to a senior party leader, who handles organisational matters, soon after completing a year as the party’s interim chief on August 10. However, the party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, denied that “Ms. Gandhi has spoken to anyone or written any letter”. However, ahead of the crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday, several senior leaders, including Chief Ministers Amarinder Singh, V. Narayanasamy, Bhupesh Baghel and Ashok Gehlot, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, former Law Ministers Ashwani Kumar and Salman Khurshid, were among those who openly came out in support of the Gandhis on Sunday. Opposing the bid by some leaders to challenge the Gandhi family’s leadership, Capt. Singh said the move by these leaders demanding a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to the party’s interests and that of the nation.  Ms. Gandhi’s response follows a letter from a group of senior leaders including Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, former Union Minister Veerappa Moily, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/find-a-new-party-chief-sonia-gandhi-tells-cong/article32425312.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Find a new chief, Sonia tells Cong.||Faced with an unprecedented situation of senior leaders questioning the party’s top leadership in a letter, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have asked her colleagues to find a new party chief as she was not keen to continue as interim head. Ms. Gandhi is believed to have conveyed this to a senior party leader who handles organisational matters soon after completing a year as the party’s interim chief on August 10. However, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala denied that ‘Ms. Gandhi has spoken to anyone or written any letter’. However, ahead of the crucial meeting ahead of the crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday, several senior leaders including Chief Ministers Amarinder Singh, V. Narayanasamy, Bhupesh Baghel and Ashok Gehlot, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, former Law Ministers Ashwani Kumar and Salman Khurshid were among leaders who openly came out in support of the Gandhis on Sunday. Opposing the bid by some leaders to challenge the Gandhi family’s leadership, Capt. Singh said the move by these leaders demanding a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to the party’s interests and the interests of the nation. Ms. Gandhi’s response follows a letter from a group of senior leaders including Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, former union minister Veerappa Moily, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda among others. In their letter, written about two weeks ago, the group questioned the Congress party’s style of functioning and suggested sweeping reforms. Multiple sources told this reporter that nearly 300 party functionaries across different State units have endorsed the contents of the letter,which are likely to be made public depending on the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday. The group has called for a “full time and effective leadership who are active in the field, a mechanism for collective leadership and elections to the CWC”. The letter was leaked to a prominent newspaper after the party announced the dates for the CWC meeting as Mr Surjewala had earlier denied the existence of it. The group is also said to be opposed to attempts being made to  hand the reins back to Mr Gandhi and would rather push for decision-making through a Parliamentary Board. Congress dissenters who wrote to Sonia Gandhi met late on Sunday ahead of CWC meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/find-a-new-chief-sonia-tells-cong/article32425104.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||No people, no show for folk artistes||The pandemic has forced Shamshad Beharupiya to play a different part these days. Every morning, he fills his cart with footwear and heads to villages near Bandikui town in Dausa district of Rajasthan to make ends meet. At times, villagers taunt him as ask if he is the same Shamshad who dressed up as Ram at the invitation of the Yogi Adityanath government last year for the Deepotsav in Ayodhya or as Krishna, his favourite act, during the Haryana government’s 2019 Surajkund Mela where he was the face of the festival. “They say ‘ Yeh kya Bhagwan theli par !’ (What is this, God pulling a cart!),” says Shamshad. With a lump in his throat, he explains that hunger will not wait. “It fills me with shame. But then some of them buy an extra pair just because they have been our yajmans (patrons),” he adds. “This disease has dried up all art-related work,” says Shamshad. “Between the festivals, we used to go to our yajmans , who would pay us in cash or kind for putting up a show on the occasion of a birth, birthday or wedding. All that has become a thing of the past during the last four months.” Family of performers Shamshad comes from a family of beharupiyas — folk artistes who don various costumes to play figures from mythology, folklore and traditional stories — that once used to serve Maharaja Sawai Madho Singh of the erstwhile Jaipur kingdom. They are also said to have helped freedom fighters during the struggle for Independence. Shamshad’s father Shivraj Beharupiya, known for playing Lord Shiva, was selected by the Ministry of Culture to travel to different festivals in India and abroad. When the rajas (kings) gave way to rajnetas (politicians), Shamshad says, his father travelled to Uttar Pradesh and other States with his acts. He and his five brothers carried forward the tradition, playing different characters from Hindu mythology and Mughal history. “For us, Ram, Krishna, Akbar, Majnu are iconic characters of our shared past. We play them with all sincerity but don’t take them home... like actors in films. And most of our benefactors respect it,” he explains. But the lockdown since March this year has robbed the performers of a crucial tool — mobility.  Shivram Nat, another street performer known for his aerial rope acts, first turned park keeper in the residential areas of Jaipur for survival but is now working as a labourer in a private construction company on the Jaipur-Udaipur road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-people-no-show-for-folk-artistes/article32425100.ece
24 August 2020||Kolkata,||Amid pandemic, parties step up membership drive in Bengal||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday said thousands of youth joined the party as part of a drive to bring more young people into its fold. While the COVID-19 outbreak has hit economic activities in West Bengal, the State is simultaneously witnessing a surge in membership drive launched by the ruling party and the Opposition parties. “The Trinamool Congress is committed to nurturing next-generation leaders and believes this will provide a platform to new faces, who registered through Youth in Politics [YIP], a first-of-its-kind, pan-India platform for youth between 18 and 35 years of age who want to join active electoral politics ,” a party statement said. The membership drive launched in 14 districts was facilitated by I-PAC and party leaders Mahua Moitra and Laxmi Ratan Shukla. Trinamool Congress youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee on August 12 said, “about six lakh Jubo Joddhas [youth warriors] have selflessly dedicated their time to provide assistance and reach out to distressed during this dual crisis of COVID-19 and Amphan.” The Trinamool Congress under the leadership of Mr. Banerjee is trying to rope in new faces before the 2021 Assembly poll. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership too launched a membership drive. The initiative “Amar Poribar, BJP Poribar [My Family, BJP Family],” was launched by State party president Dilip Ghosh. The State leadership also launched toll-free mobile numbers for new members. The BJP leadership, including party president J.P. Nadda, through a number of virtual rallies, has repeatedly targeted the ruling party in the State. While there is a cap on large political gatherings, political activities have not come to a halt in West Bengal. With elections scheduled for next year, these membership drives are only preparations before the final electoral contest scheduled next year.  Six lakh youth warriors selflessly dedicated their time to provide assistance... during this dual crisis Abhishek Banerjee President, Trinamool Congress youth wing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-pandemic-parties-step-up-membership-drive-in-bengal/article32425465.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 1,908 new cases||Kerala reported 1,908 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 58,262. With 37,645 persons having recovered from their disease, the number of active cases or the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals now is 20,330. The cumulative death toll rose to 223 with the Health Department confirming five more deaths as due to COVID-19. Two of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Kozhikode, Kollam and Alappuzha. Locally-acquired infections constituted 1,768 cases out of the 1,908 new cases reported on Sunday. This includes cases reported amongst 50 health-care workers. In 160 cases, no epidemiological linkages could be established. Thiruvananthapuram district reported 397 cases, of which 384 cases, including that of 17 health-care workers, were locally-acquired infections. Alappuzha reported 241 cases, Ernakulam 200, Malappuram 186, Kannur 143, Kollam 133, Kozhikode 119, Thrissur 116, Kottayam 106, Pathanamthitta 104, Kasaragod 85, Palakkad 39, Idukki 29 and Wayanad 10 cases. The State has tested 36,353 samples in the last 24 hours using various diagnostic modalities. The number of persons currently quarantined is 1,82,525, of whom, 16,529 are isolated in hospitals. The areas designated as hotspots has gone up to 622.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-1908-new-cases/article32425414.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 tally crosses the 3.5 lakh-mark in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 3.5 lakh-mark with the registering of 7,895 cases and 93 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. On Saturday, 10,276 cases and 97 deaths were reported. As per the Health Department’s bulletin, the tally reached 3,53,111 and the toll mounted to 3,282, putting the death rate at 0.93%. The number of recoveries continues to rise. In the 24-hour period, 7,449 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,60,87. Tests per million With this, the recovery rate further increased to 73.66%. At present, there are 89,742 active patients in the State. Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio has crossed the 60,000-mark to reach 60,637. A total of 32,38,038 samples had been tested so far, including the 46,712 samples in the last one day. The positivity rate of the tests is put at 10.91%. Nellore reported 16 new deaths. It was followed by West Godavari (13), Chittoor (11), Kurnool (10), Prakasam (9), Kadapa (8), Srikakulam (6), Visakhapatnam (5), East Godavari (4), Anantapur, Guntur and Krishna (3 each) and Vizianagaram (2). East Godavari reported 1,256 new cases, the highest. It was followed by Nellore (985), Chittoor (934), Prakasam (923), Kurnool (685), West Godavari (671), Guntur (507), Anantapur (466), Visakhapatnam (451), Kadapa (448), Srikakulam (227), Vizianagaram (200) and Krishna (142). The tally of East Godavari is inching closer to the 50,000-mark, while the figure of Guntur has crossed the 30,000-mark. West Godavari, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam tallies are closer to the 30,000-mark. The tallies of other districts are as follows: East Godavari (49,245), Kurnool (38,835), Anantapur (34,793), Guntur (30,392), West Godavari (29,860), Chittoor (29,830), Visakhapatnam (29,804), Nellore (22,361), Kadapa (20,523), Srikakulam (18,449), Prakasam (16,581), Vizianagaram (15,668), and Krishna (13,875).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-tally-crosses-the-35-lakh-mark-in-state/article32425107.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai/Puducherry,||Tamil Nadu sticks with e-passes; Puducherry abolishes system||A day after Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories, asking them not to impose restrictions on inter- and intra-State movement, Puducherry removed all travel restrictions on Sunday. However, Tamil Nadu continued to enforce the e-pass system. In Coimbatore, State Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the Centre’s decision would pose a challenge to COVID-19 management work. He, however, added, “At the same time [if the e-pass system is abolished], people should abide by the instructions issued by the State government and the Health Department to control the spread of the disease.” DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin said Tamil Nadu should take a cue from Puducherry and “resurrect urban and rural livelihoods” lost during the pandemic. A top official of the State government told The Hindu that the matter would be discussed with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami when he returns to the State capital. On Saturday, the official had said that by introducing a liberalised e-pass system, the government was facilitating the free movement of people within the State. ‘Only regulation’ He said the e-pass system was being enforced for the purpose of keeping a record. There was “no restriction”, but only ‘regulation’. Besides, there was “absolutely no problem” with regard to the movement of goods, he said. “If contact tracing is to be performed effectively, the e-pass system becomes imperative as this will provide the basis [for carrying it out],” he said.  As long as there were “inter-regional variations” in the spread of the disease across the country, there existed a need for restrictions on the inter-State movement of people, he argued. Otherwise, the country may witness a “uniform peak” in the disease spread, which would “only cause much more stress” on health infrastructure than the current situation does. The official added that contact tracing had to be ‘abandoned’ if there was “no regulation or restriction” of the movement of people. Meanwhile, Puducherry suspended the e-pass portal. “In pursuance with [sic] government directives, this website is being discontinued with immediate effect. There is no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” a notice on the now-closed portal said. Following the disbanding of the e-pass system, police presence was skeletal or non-existent at several border points. A senior officer said the police presence had not been completely withdrawn from all border points. “We are awaiting an SOP from the administration. On Sunday, police patrols were still conducting random checks”, C. Maran, SP (East), said. Though the removal of the restrictions comes at a particularly difficult time, when the graph of COVID-19 cases in Puducherry is showing an upward trend, the official view is that allowing free entry/exit of people would not have any bearing on the pandemic situation. “We are following the considered view of the Centre that, at this point, the economic cost of continuing with restrictions is greater than any likely benefit,” Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. Medical teams will continue to be posted at major check-points, Health Secretary and District Collector T. Arun said. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy will convene a meeting on Monday to frame an SOP for travellers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-sticks-with-e-passes-puducherry-abolishes-system/article32425198.ece
24 August 2020||K Shiva Shanker,||COVID cases in TS cross one lakh||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed one lakh on Friday. With 2,474 new cases on August 21, the total stood at 1,01,865. The first case in the State was detected on March 2. While the first 10,000 cases were recorded in 115 days (March 2-June 24), 90,000 more cases were recorded in 58 days. The last set of 10,000 cases leading to one lakh mark were recorded in seven days (August 15-21). While it took 115 days to record the first 10,000 cases, it took less than 10 days to detect each of the next nine sets of 10,000 cases till one lakh. Of the one lakh cases, 22,908 are active cases, 80,586 have recovered, and 755 have died. The State ranks ninth in terms of total cases across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-in-ts-cross-one-lakh/article32425353.ece
24 August 2020||Mumbai,||Cong. MLA claims 11 party legislators upset over partisan fund allocation||A fresh trouble seems to be brewing for the Maha Vikas Aghadi government as a Congress MLA has warned of ‘action’ if his grievances about partisan allocation of funds from the Urban Development Department, held by the Shiv Sena, are not addressed. “I have been seeking funds from the Urban Development Department for the last eight months for various development works in my constituency. But I am not even being noticed, and instead the department is allocating funds to the Sena leader whom I had defeated in the Assembly election, and the party’s office-bearers,” Kailash Gorantyal, Congress MLA from Jalna district in Marathwada, said. The miffed MLA has threatened that if his problems are not solved then he will be forced to go on a fast or any other action if possible. According to Mr. Gorantyal, he had held six meetings with Urban Development Minister and Sena leader Eknath Shinde. “Being an MLA, I am answerable to the people in my constituency. On the contrary, over Rs. 11 crore had been sanctioned for civil works on Sena leaders’ requests, but I was neglected,” he claimed. The Congress MLA said that he had spoken to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan about his problems, but there had been no solution yet. “I am not alone. There are 11 Congress MLAs, who had defeated Sena candidates in Marathwada, Vidarbha and western Maharashtra, and are facing the same problems,” he claimed. When asked about their names, Mr. Gorantyal said that he could not disclose them as it could be seen as pressure tactics. Despite attempts to contact Mr. Shinde’s office, no reply was made available at the time of writing this report. A senior official from the department said the claims of release of funds need to be checked as the State government is facing a fund crunch and the problem is not limited to a particular Assembly constituency. Mr. Gorantyal was also in the news during the distribution of State Cabinet portfolios. He had even threatened to resign if he was not given a Cabinet berth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-mla-claims-11-party-legislators-upset-over-partisan-fund-allocation/article32425503.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Another step in the creation of new districts||The government decided to establish a Secretariat, four sub-committees, and District-Level Committees (DLCs) to assist the State-Level Committee (SLC) in studying the restructuring of the districts, said G.O. Rt. No. 2207 issued on Saturday. The government had constituted the SLC under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary to study various aspects related to the creation of (25/26) districts. The creation of new districts is a substantive exercise involving the assessment and analysis of geographical boundaries and spatial data, GSDP and other economic indicators, redeployment of human resources, and assets and physical infrastructure. The exercise envisages close coordination with multiple Secretariat departments, HoDs and district-level offices for data collection, analysis, documentation and presentation. It has, therefore, been resolved to set up a Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-step-in-the-creation-of-new-districts/article32425109.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||India could get vaccine by year-end||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said if everything goes well, India will get a vaccine against the novel coronavirus by the end of this year. Three COVID-19 vaccine candidates, including two indigenous ones, are in different phases of development. The phase I human clinical trials of the two vaccines — one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR, and the other by Zydus Cadila Ltd — have been completed and the trials have moved to phase II, ICMR Director General Dr. Balram Bhargava said recently. In a tweet, Dr. Vardhan said, “...if everything goes well, India will get a vaccine by end of this year.” The Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine developed by the University of Oxford, has been permitted to conduct its phase two and three human clinical trials in India. It is likely to start the trials next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-could-get-vaccine-by-year-end/article32425313.ece
24 August 2020||MANGALURU,||49 kg of cannabis hidden in bamboo logs on a lorry seized, two arrested||A team of sleuths from the Udupi District Crime Investigation Bureau on Saturday arrested two persons on the charge of illegally transporting about 49 kg of cannabis on a lorry in Udupi district. The cannabis was hidden in bamboo logs being transported in the vehicle. The police gave the names of the accused as Kurutapandy (40) of Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu and Vanu Haldar (30) from New Cooch Behar district of West Bengal. According to a press note, the team, led by Police Inspector Manjappa D.R., stopped the lorry near the Brahmavar Krishi Vignana Kendra in Herur village at around noon. The lorry registered in Uttar Pradesh was heading from Udupi to Brahmavar. The sleuths checked and found several packets of cannabis in six big bamboo logs. The police recovered 49.150 kg of cannabis from the lorry. They seized two mobile phones and the lorry. The police said that investigation so far has shown that the load was coming from West Bengal and it was bound for Kerala. Udupi was among the points mid-way that the accused had planned to deliver cannabis. A case has been registered with the Cyber Crime Economics Offences and Narcotic Police Station for offences under Sections 8 (C) and 20 (B)(ii)(C) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985. A search is on for the other accused involved in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/49-kg-of-cannabis-hidden-in-bamboo-logs-on-a-lorry-seized-two-arrested/article32425340.ece
24 August 2020||MYSURU/BENGALURU,||Doctors call off strike||The State government breathed a sigh of relief on Sunday with the government medical officers withdrawing their call for striking work from Monday over the death of Nanjangud in-charge Taluk Health Officer S.R. Nagendra. The doctors in Mysuru district also called off their four-day strike. Assurance This was in response to the State government’s assurance towards the implementation of their demands. The State government on Saturday also transferred Mysuru Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra, who had come under criticism after the death of Dr. Nagendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-call-off-strike/article32425146.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||India could get vaccine by year-end||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said if everything goes well, India will get a vaccine against the novel coronavirus by the end of this year. Three COVID-19 vaccine candidates, including two indigenous ones, are in different phases of development. The phase I human clinical trials of the two vaccines — one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR, and the other by Zydus Cadila Ltd — have been completed and the trials have moved to phase II, ICMR Director General Dr. Balram Bhargava said recently. In a tweet, Dr. Vardhan said, “...if everything goes well, India will get a vaccine by end of this year.” The Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine developed by the University of Oxford has been permitted to conduct its phase two and three human clinical trials in India. It is likely to start the trials next week. The apex health research body, ICMR, is in the process of developing an online vaccine portal which will provide information related to vaccine development in India and abroad, with the majority of the updates in several regional languages in addition to English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-could-get-vaccine-by-year-end/article32425098.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Flood of woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-of-woes/article32425111.ece
24 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal near 1.4 lakh||West Bengal on Sunday recorded 3,274 cases of new COVID-19, taking the total tally to 1,38,870. The State also recorded 57 deaths, taking the toll to 2,794. Of these, Kolkata recorded eight deaths and 563 new cases, while North 24 Parganas had 18 deaths and 696 deaths. Meanwhile, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation has started door-to-door testing. The State tested 37,149 samples in the past 24 hours, making total samples tested to 15.64 lakhs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-near-14-lakh/article32425464.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Launch of ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana’ on September 1||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana’ and the ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus’ schemes on September 1, Commissioner (I&PR) T. Vijaya Kumar has said. The schemes envisage supply of nutritious food to children, and pregnant and lactating women to address the issues of malnutrition and underweight complication in children. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Vijaya Kumar said that while the TDP government, in its five-year term, had spent Rs. 2,761.23 crore for implementation of the scheme (Rs. 500 crore in a year), the YSRCP had allocated Rs. 1,076.23 crore last year and increased the amount this year to Rs. 1,863.11 crore. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government would be spending Rs. 2,939.34 crore for implementation of the scheme in its first two years in power, he said. Under the YSR Sampoorna Poshana, 26.36 lakh beneficiaries in the jurisdiction of 47,287 anganwadi centres would be supplied nutritious food worth Rs. 1,555.56 crore and under YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus, 3.8 lakh beneficiaries would get nutritious food worth Rs. 307.55 crore in 77 Girijan mandals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/launch-of-ysr-sampoorna-poshana-on-september-1/article32425108.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Experts question efficacy of study||Public health experts have called into question why sentinel surveillance study, which should provide early warning signals and trends about the course of COVID-19, has failed to give any advantage so far in combating the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-question-efficacy-of-study/article32425417.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. lays down norms for plasma therapy||People who have recovered from COVID-19 and wish to donate their plasma should be in the 18 to 60 age group. All donors must weigh over 50 kg. These are some of the eligibility criteria laid down by the government for convalescent plasma therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-lays-down-norms-for-plasma-therapy/article32425149.ece
24 August 2020||Hassan,||Aged Amrit Mahal cows to go to private goshalas||The State government has decided to bring down the number of cattle at Amrit Mahal Kaval breeding centres in the State by handing over the aged ones to private cow-shelters (goshalas).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aged-amrit-mahal-cows-to-go-to-private-goshalas/article32425150.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Green Line stretch to open in November||Commercial operations on the 6-km extended Green Line — with five stations at Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli, Talaghattapura, and Anjanapura — are slated to begin in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-line-stretch-to-open-in-november/article32425148.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital reports highest 24-hour spike in a month||The Capital recorded 1,450 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 1,61,466; while 16 more deaths were reported, taking the tally to 4,300. The last time the number of new cases was above Sunday’s figure was on July 18, when 1,475 new cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-reports-highest-24-hour-spike-in-a-month/article32425311.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||A-G declines plea against actor Swara Bhaskar||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal has refused consent to a plea to initiate criminal contempt action against actor Swara Bhaskar for “scandalising” the Supreme Court, regarding the Ramjanmabhoomi title dispute verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-g-declines-plea-against-actor-swara-bhaskar/article32425309.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. asks Centre to allow metro service||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said his government has requested the Centre to allow Delhi Metro to resume operations in a phased manner on a trial basis. He was interacting with traders to discuss measures to boost Delhi’s economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-asks-centre-to-allow-metro-service/article32425310.ece
24 August 2020||Mumbai,||’Maha to soon decide on inter-state, intra-state travel’||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has said that a decision on removal of restrictions on inter-State and intra-State movement of people and goods will be taken soon. He announced this in a tweet. “We have taken note of the recent guidelines announced by the centre removing all restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of goods and people. Appropriate decision will be taken regarding the same after discussion with chief minister and deputy chief minister,” it said. In a separate statement, the minister said that currently, e-passes are required for travel and so far, 7,74,203 e-passes have been issued.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maha-to-soon-decide-on-inter-state-intra-state-travel/article32425502.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai,||T.N. records 5,975 fresh infections, 97 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,975 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of active patients in the State to 53,541. With this, the case tally in the State has climbed to 3,79,385. The State also recorded 97 deaths due to the infection on Sunday. At the same time, 6,047 persons were discharged from various facilities. In Chennai, 1,298 more persons tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-5975-fresh-infections-97-deaths/article32425200.ece
24 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||203 new cases in Kalaburagi district||With 203 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, the total number of such cases in Kalaburagi district went up to 10,142, including 19 deaths and 8,128 discharged patients. There are 1,824 active cases now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/203-new-cases-in-kalaburagi-district/article32425339.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||A-G declines plea against Swara||Attorney-General (A-G) K.K. Venugopal has refused consent to a plea to initiate criminal contempt action against actor Swara Bhaskar for “scandalising” the Supreme Court, saying her comment regarding the Ramjanmabhoomi title dispute verdict “appears to be a factual one” and her “perception”. The prior consent of the Attorney-General is required for the Supreme Court to initiate criminal contempt action in a case. The contempt plea was filed by a Karnataka resident, Usha Shetty. She has now sought the consent of Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta. She wrote to him on Sunday, saying she “respectfully differs” with Mr. Venugopal. The contempt plea refers to a public address made by Ms. Bhaskar in a meeting organised by Mumbai Collective following the top court’s judgment in the Ramjanmabhoomi title dispute case in November last year. The petition quoted Ms. Bhaskar saying “We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.” Mr. Venugopal, in a two-page note dated August 21, said, “The statement in the first part appears to be a factual one, and is a perception of the speaker.” “The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalise or tend to scandalise, or lower or tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, this statement does not constitute criminal contempt,” the A-G wrote. The top law officer and constitutional authority then proceeded to the second statement allegedly made by Ms. Bhaskar: “We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not...” ‘Vague statement’ Mr. Venugopal said this was a vague statement not related to any particular court. “I do not think that this is a case where the offence of scandalising the court or lowering the authority of the court would arise. I therefore decline consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Ms. Swara Bhaskar,” he concluded. Ms. Shetty said in her petition that Ms. Bhaskar’s statements were not only a “cheap publicity stunt to get a brief applause” but also an attempt to turn the masses to resist and revolt against the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-declines-plea-against-swara/article32425071.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not possible to fully block Chinese firms: officials||Despite the uproar against the use of Chinese products amid the border stand-off in eastern Ladakh and the government’s decision to ban several apps, government officials say it is not possible to fully decouple the trend due to the substantial investments by Chinese companies in India. Intelligence assessments have cautioned on the direct and indirect links many companies have with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). “While some measures can be taken, several Chinese investments are quite substantive. It is not possible to fully block them. A worrisome factor is that these Chinese companies have linkages of some sort with the Chinese military,” one government official said on condition of anonymity. In June 2017, China passed a national intelligence law, which gave Beijing powers over Chinese companies’ overseas investments as well. As per the Annual report of the U.S. Secretary of Defence to the Congress on the “Military and Security Developments involving the People’s Republic of China 2019”, this law requires Chinese companies, such as Huawei, ZTE and TikTok to support, provide assistance, and cooperate in China’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate. Article 7 of the law states, “Any organisation or citizen shall support, assist and cooperate with the state intelligence work in accordance with the law... The state protects individuals and organisations that support, assist and cooperate with national intelligence work.” It has direct security implications for all overseas Foreign Direct Investment from China, a second official said. Intelligence assessments have flagged some large Chinese companies with major presence in India having direct or indirect links with the PLA. They include Xindia Steels Limited, China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC), Huawei, Alibaba and Tencent. For instance, Xindia Steels Limited is considered one of the largest joint ventures between India and China and has commissioned a 0.8 mtpa iron ore pelletisation facility in Koppal district of Karnataka at a cost of over Rs. 250 crore. Its main investor is Xinxing Cathay International Group Co. Ltd. which, as per its website, is “reorganized, reconstructed and unhooked from previous production department and subordinate enterprises and institutions of the General Logistics Department of the PLA”. Huawei, which has generated global concern over its 5G services, was founded by Ren Zhengfei, a former deputy director of the PLA’s engineering corps in 1987. A government decision on its bid for 5G services in India is expected shortly. Multi-million funding CETC in 2018 announced $46 million investment in a 200 MW photo-voltaic manufacturing unit in Andhra Pradesh. Officials pointed out that CETC is China’s leading military electronics manufacturer, and also makes Hikvision CCTV cameras. It has been implicated by the U.S. Department of Justice in at least three cases of illegal exports and many employees have been convicted for military espionage, the second official stated. CETC also provides technology used for human rights abuses in Xinjiang, where around one million are held in re-education camps, assessments noted. Another aspect that raised red flags is Chinese investments in Indian technology start-ups. The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a U.S. Congressional commission, said in its 2019 report, “The Chinese government’s military-civil fusion policy aims to spur innovation and economic growth through an array of policies and other government-supported mechanisms, including Venture Capital VC) funds, while leveraging the fruits of civilian innovation for China’s defence sector.” This raises a question mark on Chinese VC investments in India, including big names like Alibaba and Tencent, the second official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-possible-to-fully-block-chinese-firms-officials/article32425089.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,||5,938 cases push up tally to 2.77 lakh in Karnataka||Kerala reported 1,908 new cases on Sunday, its cumulative cases going up to 58,262. Active cases stood at 20,330. The death toll rose to 223, with the Health department confirming five more fatalities: Two from Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Kozhikode, Kollam and Alapuzha. Locally acquired infections constituted 1,768 cases out of 1,908 on Sunday. This included 50 health care workers. On Sunday, Thiruvananthapuram reported 397 cases, of which 384 cases, including those of 17 health care workers, were locally acquired infections. Alapuzha reported 241 cases, Ernakulam 200, Malappuram 186, Kannur 143, Kollam 133, Kozhikode 119, Thrissur 116, Kottayam 106, Pathanamthitta 104, Kasaragod 85, Palakkad 39, Idukki 29 and Wayanad 10 cases. The COVID-19 tally exceeded 3.5 lakhs in Andhra Pradesh, with 7,895 cases and 93 deaths added on Sunday. On Saturday, 10,276 cases and 97 deaths were reported. The Health Department said the tally touched 3,53,111 and the toll was 3,282. There were 89,742 active patients in the State. Nellore reported 16 new deaths, West Godavari (13), Chittoor (11), Kurnool (10), Prakasam (9), Kadapa (8), Srikakulam (6), Visakhapatnam (5), East Godavari (4), Anantapur, Guntur and Krishna (3 each) and Vizianagaram (2). East Godavari reported 1,256 new cases, the highest. In Karnataka, 5,938 new cases were detected on Sunday, taking the total to 2.77 lakh. The Health and Family Welfare department said 4,996 patients were discharged. With this, the numbers of discharges is 1.89 lakh. The recovery rate in the State is now 68.23%. Also, 68 new fatalities were reported, the number of deaths linked to COVID-19 rising to 4,683. Mysuru, with no positive cases for two days due to a strike by doctors, on Sunday reported 92 new cases. The Tamil Nadu Health Department recorded 5,975 fresh cases of COVID -19 on Sunday, and put active patients in Tamil Nadu at 53,541. Till date, 3,79,385 persons had tested positive in the State. At the same time 6,047 persons were discharged from various facilities following treatment taking the overall tally of those discharged as on date to 3,19,327. The northern districts continued to register higher case numbers. Chennai led with 1,298 more persons testing positive. In the city 1,040 were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of those under treatment as on date to 13,223. Total cases in the city till date were 1,25,389. Ten people whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had no co-morbidities, the daily bulletin of the Department of Public Health stated.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/andhra-pradesh-case-tally-crosses-35-lakh-mark/article32425065.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heat inside power house delays damage estimation||High heat in the Srisailam Left Bank underground hydel station of the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco), even two days after the fire is put off completely, has been hampering even the primary assessment of the extent of damage. A team of Directors of the power utility camping at Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district, the nearest location to the power station, have made a vain bid to go beyond certain extent in the underground generation station. The Genco team has come to a primary conclusion that the first two units of the 6x150 megawatt hydel station, which are located towards the entrance side of the tunnel, are in good condition. When contacted, Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao told The Hindu that efforts would be made to resume power generation over the next couple of weeks in the first two units since they are found to be in good condition. “We may come to some understanding about the extent of damage only after going further inside the power plant. We can also assess the primary cause for the accident only after visiting the plant completely. We will make one more attempt to go further inside on Monday,” the CMD said. Mr. Rao, who reached the Left Bank hydel station around 3 a.m. on Friday along with Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy, camped there till Saturday night overseeing the rescue and fire fighting operations. “Everyone was in panic when we reached there. Smoke that engulfed the tunnel and lack of oxygen killed the seven brave engineers and two employees of a private company although we wished to see them alive till their bodies were brought out by CISF and NDRF teams,” he explained. Stating that they were yet to arrive at a conclusion as what led to the mishap in the state-of-the art hydel generation plant the Genco CMD said all the six units, which were engaged in power generation at the time of the accident did not trip and they had to be isolated from outside by disconnecting the power supply. “Fire and smoke on one side and darkness due to disconnected power supply on the other side made exit from the escape tunnel difficult for the people stuck inside. Four of them had tried their best to reach the escape tunnel but inhalation of smoke made them unconscious two minutes before they could reach the point of exit,” the CMD stated. Meanwhile, the Genco has constituted a four-member senior engineers committee to ascertain the cause of the accident and the circumstance on the night of August 20. The government has also directed the Genco CMD to submit a detailed report along with recommendation on the measures to be taken to prevent such incidents in future.  Failsafe systems  The underground hydel station has reversible pumping mode operation system too Srisailam Left Bank and Nagarjunasagar hydel stations in pumping mode played a key role in maintaining the grid frequency during the lights switch-off event on April 5 The six units of Srisailam Left Bank hydel stations were commissioned during April 2001 and September 2003  Cost of the project was about Rs. 2,620 crore In a recent mishap in a power plant, 14 workers were killed in boiler blast in one of the units of Nyveli thermal power station on July 1 and injured nine more In a similar blast in the same power station two months earlier five workers were killed and three were injured  In the worst-ever accidents in a power station, 38 persons killed and over 90 were injured in the boiler explosion at Unchahar NTPC plant on November 1, 2017 in Uttar Pradesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heat-inside-power-house-delays-damage-estimation/article32425053.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘SC overreacted in Bhushan case’||Former Attorney-General (A-G) and jurist Soli Sorabjee has said the Supreme Court “overreacted” by taking suo motu contempt proceedings against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets. “The court may at the most give a lecture to Prashant now. Warn him, but not punish him ... It is rather a delicate balance to keep,” Mr. Sorabjee told The Hindu during an interview on Saturday. The court has reserved its decision on punishment in the suo motu contempt case. It has given Mr. Bhushan time till August 24 to reconsider his statement refusing to apologise to the court for his tweet about Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on a motorbike, and another on the role of the Supreme Court in the past six years. Mr. Sorabjee said the court could have ignored the first tweet and the second tweet was merely an opinion. “People have different beliefs, do you punish people for having some beliefs which are not to the liking of the Supreme Court,” Mr. Sorabjee asked. He said truth was an absolute defence against contempt and a person should be given an opportunity to prove his allegations. “If Mr. Bhushan is ready to establish the facts of his allegations, then how can you prevent him ... He should not be intimidated into silence. Of course, if his allegations are baseless, frivolous, then punish him. But don’t punish him for just saying it,” Mr. Sorabjee said. ‘Pre-conceived notions’ The authority and dignity of the Supreme Court as an institution will be enhanced if it addresses the allegations rather than to slap contempt on the person who made them on the basis of facts, he said. The court should not function on pre-conceived notions. Punishment should come only after the allegation was found false, he added. He also questioned the way the court has hurried through the case, hearing it via videoconferencing.  “Would it have all fallen down, crumbled if they had waited a little time?” Mr. Sorabjee asked. He also disagreed with the court’s view that the Attorney-General’s prior consent was not necessary before initiating suo motu contempt. “The Attorney General is the first law officer ... They cannot ignore him. Inherent powers of the court to initiate contempt [under Article 129 of the Constitution] is subject to certain limitations ... This is a misuse of the inherent power,” Mr. Sorabjee said. On whether ‘scandalising the court’ should continue to survive as a ground for contempt, Mr. Sorabjee said judiciary was an important institution and its dignity could not be undermined. “However, the question here is that of principle. Can you or can you not criticise the judiciary based on certain facts, that is, definite facts? And if you do this, do you commit contempt of court? On the contrary, I believe you enhance the authority of the court,” he said.  Warn him, but not punish him... It is rather a delicate balance to keep Soli Sorabjee Former Attorney-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-overreacted-in-bhushan-case/article32425069.ece
24 August 2020||Srinagar,||BJP critical of joint front of six J&K parties||The coming together of J&K’s six main political parties on the restoration of Article 370 and 35(A) is reshaping the polity of the Union Territory (UT), over a year after the special status of J&K was ended. The BJP, however, reiterated that the August 5, 2019 decisions “can’t be reversed”. “Restoration of Article 370 and 35 (A) is next to impossible. These Articles only resulted in a wall of hatred and poor growth and development of J&K,” said J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina. Party spokesperson Darakshan Andari described the new grouping as “a conglomerate of mafia who are trying to re-open their closed business”. J&K’s six political parties — the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Congress, the J&K Peoples Conference (PC), the CPI(M) and the Awani National Conference (ANC) — on Saturday decided to fight jointly for the restoration of Article 370 and 35 (A) under the Gupkar Declaration, a document signed by these parties on August 4, 2019. Two more regional parties, the J&K Peoples Movement (J&KPM) and the Peoples Democratic Front (PDF), supported it. “Whosoever will work for bringing Article 370 and 35(A) back will get my support unconditionally. I have been called up by a few signatories to join the collective fight. I will soon come up with the final decision,” PDF chairman Hakeem Mohammad Yasin said. ‘A good step’ PDP patron Muzaffar Hussain Beg termed the declaration “a good step”. “I feel glad to see the political parties assembling on a single platform for the larger benefit of people of J&K.” CPI(M) leader M.Y Tarigami said he expected more people from all the regions and the communities “to join this process so that the dignity of J&K is restored”. Senior Congress leader and former Home Minister P. Chidambaram has appreciated the mainstream parties for joining hands. “Salute the unity and courage of the six mainstream Opposition parties who came together yesterday [Saturday] to fight the repeal of Article 370. I appeal to them to stand resolutely behind their demand. Ignore the uninformed criticism of self-styled nationalists who do not read history but try to rewrite history,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-critical-of-joint-front-of-six-jk-parties/article32425073.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan denies Dawood’s presence in its territory||Pakistan denied that two Special Regulatory Orders (SROs) issued by its Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), which included Dawood Ibrahim and other designated terrorists believed to be in Pakistan, amounted to an ‘admission’ that Dawood Ibrahim lives there. The listings published on August 18 included three residential addresses and five Pakistani passports issued to the former underworld don and directed Pakistani authorities to ensure that Ibrahim and hundreds of others named in the UNSC ISIL and al-Qaeda sanctions committee list of designated terrorists would be denied access to funds, arms and transit travel through Pakistan. “The assertions made by some sections of the Indian media, as to Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory, based on the information contained in the SRO, are baseless and misleading,” said a Foreign Ministry statement, also denying that the measures were ‘new’. Pakistan also said the SROs were issued “periodically as a routine matter” and the same list has been issued in the past, including last in 2019. Government sources, however, said Dawood Ibrahim and LeT operations chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi had not been included in past lists issued by Pakistan, though they appear on SROs from 2015 and 2019 on the MFA website now. They suggested those had been ‘backdated’ to comply with stipulations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), where Pakistan’s actions are being scrutinised. In October, the FATF plenary session is expected to take a decision on whether Pakistan would be cleared from the ‘greylist’ it is on or be downgraded to a ‘blacklist’ as a ‘high-risk jurisdiction’ and face stringent financial sanctions. Pakistan has thus far cleared 14 of a 27-point action plan handed down by the FATF, directing it to bring its laws in line with international terror conventions and take firmer action to counter terror financing and money laundering. International list The SRO is one step towards bringing the international terrorist list issued by the Security Council committee in line with Pakistan’s own list under its Anti-Terrorism Act and displayed as Schedule IV list of Proscribed Persons by the National Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA). Significantly, neither Dawood Ibrahim nor Lakhvi is included in the NACTA list yet, though LeT chief Hafiz Saeed and even Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar, who was put on the UNSC list most recently, are both included. Pakistan has repeatedly said it has no knowledge of their present whereabouts. Officials said that to complete its FATF commitment, Pakistan will have to add both Ibrahim and Lakhvi to their own watchlist, which would be the first time it will acknowledge Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar, wanted in India for masterminding the Mumbai blasts of 1993 in which 250 people were killed, as a terrorist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-denies-dawoods-presence-in-its-territory/article32425078.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police raid terror suspect’s house||The Delhi police recovered a large quantity of explosives and an Islamic State flag from the house of Mohammad Mustakim Khan in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur a day after he was arrested in the national capital, a senior police officer said on Sunday. An alleged IS operative, Khan, armed with two pressure cooker IEDs, was arrested in central Delhi’s Ridge Road area on Friday night following a brief exchange of fire. Khan was sent to eight-day police custody by a Delhi court on Saturday. Packed jackets A Delhi police Special Cell team took him to his Badhiyaa Bhaisaahi village in Balrampur district. A brown jacket containing three explosives packets and a blue-check jacket containing four explosives packets were recovered from his house, a senior officer said. “Each explosives packet, removed from the jackets, was wrapped with transparent tape which contained explosives and cardboard sheet pasted with ball bearings, and electric wires were coming out from it,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P.S. Kushwah said in Delhi. The police on Sunday conducted raids at several places. Two bicycle shop owners were among those questioned in Uttar Pradesh, possibly over the origin of the ball bearings found by the police. Khan’s father Kafeel Ahmed and wife Ayesha were also questioned, an official said. Mustakim Khan had planned to carry out a “lone wolf” strike at a heavy footfall area in the national capital, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-raid-terror-suspects-house/article32425091.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighi cases become diplomatic headache||Five months after the government ordered a crackdown on all members of the Tablighi Jamaat present at their headquarters or ‘Markaz’ in New Delhi when a number of coronavirus cases were detected, the matter is becoming a diplomatic headache for the government. The action ordered by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in March included 2,550 foreigners from about 45 countries who belonged to the ultra orthodox Islamic sect; and several countries have expressed their concern to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) over the continued custody of their nationals in India, diplomats and officials told The Hindu . The MEA has been left to coordinate the various cases with “real time coordination” with the MHA and the Bureau of Immigration, even as they deal with the diplomatic missives, say officials. Earlier this week, Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen said he had raised the issue of about 173 Bangladeshis still being held in India when he met Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla in Dhaka on Wednesday, asking him to expedite their return. According to diplomatic sources privy to the meeting, the Bangladesh government is particularly worried as many of them have run out of money, and may not be able to pay the fines of Rs. 5,000-Rs. 10,000 in order for them to leave. “The Bangladesh Foreign Secretary during his meeting with the Forign Secretary acknowledged that most of their nationals have returned home, and we will continue to work with the relevant authorities to ensure that for others who remain, their return will be facilitated,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava in response to a question from The Hindu , adding that about 550 foreigners charged in the Tablighi cases had been able to leave thus far, while 1,030 have been allowed to leave by courts. Indonesian and Malaysian officials, whose nationals make up the majority of cases, have also raised the issue of their nationals not being able to return both through their embassies and even at a recent India-ASEAN meeting of senior officials, where such bilateral and consular matters are rarely raised. The U.S. Embassy said it had been in contact with the Government of India on the arrests of about six U.S. nationals. “The safety and security of American citizens is the Department of State’s highest priority. We are in contact with multiple U.S. citizens who were arrested by the Indian authorities in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat case,” a U.S. Embassy spokesperson said.   (With inputs from   Kallol Bhattacherjee   and Vijaita Singh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tablighi-cases-become-diplomatic-headache/article32425086.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana Congress backs the Gandhi family||After a letter from senior Congress leaders to the party president Sonia Gandhi preferring a ‘continuous and visible leadership’ stirred a hornet’s nest, the Telangana Congress leaders fully backed the Gandhi family questioning the leakage of the letter to the media. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said he was surprised by the senior leaders leaking the letter despite knowing the existence of several platforms open for discussion of their grievances. He said party cadre understands that the Gandhi family holds the party together and without them at the helm of affairs party will not stay together in several States. Arguing that Mr. Rahul Gandhi should immediately take over, he said there was no alternative now, more so, at a time when the country needs the party to fight the divisive forces. Expressing his anguish at the seniors, CLP leader BhattiVikramarka reminded that it is Rahul Gandhi who is leading the tirade against the Modi government when all these seniors laid low despite enjoying high positions when the party was in power. Mr. Vikramarka reminded that it was under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi that the party rode to power in 2004 and 2009 elections. In fact, the leaders now calling for sweeping changes were part of those governments and enjoyed big positions in the government. “Their behaviour is irresponsible,” he said and favoured Mr. Rahul Gandhi to lead the party. Former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah too argued in favour of the Gandhi family and said it was unfortunate that the party seniors chose to leak the letter to the media when there was every opportunity for them to discuss the issues internally. Their good intentions on strengthening the party are negated by the media leak, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-congress-backs-the-gandhi-family/article32425356.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,||Citing SC verdict, Madras HC orders enhanced pension||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, citing the Supreme Court verdict in the landmark R.C. Gupta case (2016), has ordered enhancement of pension payable to a litigant found eligible for the revision of pension on higher wages. The petitioner, B. Dhanasekaran, had joined the Agricultural Cooperative Credit Society in Paramakudi as secretary in 1978 and retired in 2012. He contended that from 1992, he had been remitting the provident fund contribution on the entire salary and not based on the wage ceiling limit. Under Clause 11(3) of the Employees Pension Scheme, 1995, on the determination of pensionable salary, the maximum pensionable salary was limited to Rs. 6,500 per month. However, if at the option of the employer and the employee, the contribution paid on the salary exceeding Rs. 6,500 per month from the date of commencement of this scheme or from the date the salary exceeded Rs. 6,500, whichever is later, and the 8.33% share of the employer is remitted into the pension fund, the pensionable salary will be based on such higher salary. In 2014, under the Employees Pension (Amendment) Scheme, the maximum pensionable salary was revised to Rs. 15,000. No cut-off date The Supreme Court ruled in the R.C. Gupta case that there was no cut-off date to determine the eligibility of the employer-employee to indicate their option under Clause 11(3) of the Pension Scheme. A beneficial scheme ought not to be allowed to be defeated by reference to a cut-off date. Further, the Supreme Court held that in the situation where the deposit of the employer’s share was on actual salary and not the ceiling amount, all that the Provident Commissioner was required to do was adjustment of accounts. He/she could seek the return of all such accounts that employees concerned may have taken or withdrawn from their Provident Account Fund before granting the benefit of Clause 11(3) of the Pension Scheme. Relying on this, the petitioner sought enhancement of pension. His earlier petition in 2018 was disposed of with a direction to the authorities concerned to consider his representation based on the SC ruling. As his representation was not considered, he filed a fresh petition before the court. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took cognisance of the communication sent to the petitioner by The Provident Fund Commissioner, where it was admitted the petitioner was eligible for revision of pension on higher wages. It directed the Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner (Pension) and the Provident Fund Commissioner to undertake the exercise as per the Supreme Court ruling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citing-sc-verdict-madras-hc-orders-enhanced-pension/article32425050.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. CMs, 10 State units back Sonia||The chorus to retain Sonia Gandhi as the Congress president started hours after a news report about a letter written by senior Congress leaders demanding clarity on the leadership question. All the four Congress Chief Ministers — Ashok Gehlot, Captain Amarinder Singh, Bhupesh Baghel and V. Narayansamy — along with more than ten State units have come out in her support. The outpouring came a day before the Congress Working Committee is to meet, making the outcome a foregone conclusion. The CWC has three options: one, Sonia Gandhi can be pressed to continue as a full time president foregoing the “interim” tag; second, Rahul Gandhi who was elected for a term till 2022, is persuaded to return to the post; and third to place a dummy candidate, who can sit-in for the Gandhi family. The current CWC is heavily tilted in favour of the Gandhi family. However, among the members, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada had endorsed the letter to Ms. Gandhi asking her to settle the leadership question. Another CWC member Deependra Hooda’s father Bhupinder Hooda is also one of the signatories of that letter. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in a series of tweets said at this “crucial juncture” in the fight to save the ethos of democracy, Ms. Gandhi should continue to lead the party. “But if she has made up her mind, I believe@RahulGandhishould come ahead and be the Congress president as the country faces the biggest challenge,” Mr. Gehlot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-cms-10-state-units-back-sonia/article32425075.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Police probe ‘links’ in Chinese hawala scam||After the recent arrest of a Chinese businessman by the Income Tax (I-T) authorities for money laundering, the Himachal Pradesh police said they are conducting investigations as “possible links” have emerged in the State. The businessman, identified as Charlie Peng, 43, alias Luo Sang, was arrested by the Delhi police in 2018 for cheating and living here on a forged Indian passport. Peng crossed over to India from Nepal in 2013. Security agencies suspect that Peng was allegedly bribing some Tibetan monks in Delhi to get information on the Dalai Lama. Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh is the headquarters of the Dalai Lama’s office. On August 11, the I-T department said in a press statement a “few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities”. Only Peng has been arrested so far. Few detained “We are investigating as possible links of hawala transactions have emerged here also,” said Himachal’s DGP, Sanjay Kundu. Another police official said a few monks have been detained and are being questioned but language is a barrier. The crackdown against the Chinese hawala racket comes in the wake of the border tensions along the LAC. In 2015, the Modi government came out with a new policy for Tibetan refugees and sanctioned a scheme of providing grant-in-aid of Rs. 40 crore to the Dalai Lama’s Central Tibetan Relief Committee (CTRC) for five years.  A senior government official said Peng was communicating with the monks on We Chat, a secure Chinese messaging platform that was banned recently. Peng’s office staff have reportedly admitted to delivering money to some monks at Majnu Ka Tila in Delhi, a Tibetan settlement.  “Thanks to the strong security measures adopted by the Central and State government, till now these Chinese spies have not been able to get close to His Holiness the Dalai Lama,” the statement by T.G Arya, the Dalai Lama’s Information Secretary said. He said the I-T Department had zeroed in on a Delhi-based chartered accountant who was running over 40 bank accounts to help Peng and his associates in hawala transactions, and that transactions of over Rs. 300 crore done on behalf of the Chinese companies have been tracked so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-probe-links-in-chinese-hawala-scam/article32425079.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,||MHA had warned of plot to trigger blasts||Against the backdrop of the Delhi police recovering large quantity of explosives from the house of a suspected IS operative in Uttar Pradesh, it has come to light that the Ministry of Home Affairs had warned of terror modules of religious fundamentalists, backed by Pakistan intelligence, triggering blasts in an Indian city. Acting on intelligence inputs, the MHA issued an alert to all States two days before Independence Day that members of some banned outfits had planned to cause IED blasts in Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal and some other places in the northeast along the Indo-Myanmar and Indo-Bangladesh border, police sources told The Hindu on Sunday. The MHA also relied on interception of a conversation between two foreign agents who quoted a Pakistan-based source as saying that “something big is being planned in one the cities in India”, the sources said. The alert said Pakistan’s ISI and handlers stationed in other places had tasked some absconding gangsters to vitiate the communal atmosphere in Punjab, while another input detailed a plan of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen, Bangladesh, to trigger low-intensity blasts in West Bengal. JMB chief Salahuddin Salehin was reported to have visited a number of places in West Bengal and Jharkhand in March-April. Another banned organisation, Sahadat-e-al-Hikma, was also reported to have been involved in imparting training to radicalised youth in Mushirabad, Uttar Dinajpur and Burdwan in West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-had-warned-of-plot-to-trigger-blasts/article32425093.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Job for doctor’s wife||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has given his assent to give a gazetted job to wife of Dr Naresh Kumar, said State Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Sunday. A decision was taken to announce ex-gratia. The 35-year-old government doctor who contracted COVID-19 died on August 7. He was Deputy District Medical and Health Officer in Bhadradri Kothagudem and headed quarantine centre at Manuguru. He succumbed to the disease after battling it for over a week at hospitals. Doctors and staff recalled selfless service by Dr. Naresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/job-for-doctors-wife/article32425355.ece
24 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Oppn. targets Adityanath for remark against MP||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has requested Parliament to take decisive action against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his oblique remarks allegedly referring to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh as a ‘namoona’. The word in Hindi roughly translates into ‘specimen’ or ‘sample’ but when used colloquially may have a derogatory connotation. While speaking in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Saturday, Mr. Adityanath, without taking names, said: “A ‘namoona’ from Delhi comes to Uttar Pradesh and says there is no strategy in place against COVID-19 in U.P.” He added: “Those who ruined Delhi, those who mistreated citizens of U.P. and Bihar and forcibly chased them out of Delhi, they come here wearing a cloak of shamelessness on their face and talk boisterously.” Mr. Adityanath’s reference was to Mr. Singh who has of late visited Uttar Pradesh and targeted the State government on various issues, including the alleged favouring of Thakurs and victimisation of Brahmins. Reacting to Mr. Adityanath’s remarks, Mr. Yadav said the use of an offensive word by the Chief Minister against a Rajya Sabha MP while speaking on the floor of the Assembly amounted to “gross contempt of Parliament”. Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party president and former Cabinet Minister Om Prakash Rajbhar also condemned Mr. Adityanath for his remark. He said the CM used the derogatory word as he did not like anyone speaking about the right to equality of the State’s Backward class, Dalit, minorities and neglected sections of society. Mr. Singh countered Mr. Adityanath by saying that he was free to dub the common people as “namoona” and abuse them but would have to explain why Brahmins were facing atrocities under his rule. “You only work for Thakurs, carry on. But where will the remaining 94% [of the population] go,” asked Mr. Singh on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-targets-adityanath-for-remark-against-mp/article32425315.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Floodwaters continue to flow into reservoirs despite let-up in rain||In spite of some let-up in rains, heavy flood continues to reach all major reservoirs in the Krishna Basin in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh with the help of flood being discharged from Almatti-Narayanpur and Tungabhadra dams in Karnataka. Sizeable inflows are expected to continue further into many of the major dams across Krishna and its tributaries in Karnataka and Maharashtra following good rainfall recorded in the catchment areas. According to a Central Water Commission bulletin, 8.6 cm rain was recorded in Agumbe, 6.8 cm in Mahabaleshwar and 5.3 cm in Koyna during the 24-hour period up to 8.30 a.m. on Sunday and it would help continuation of inflows in Almatti and Tungabhadra dams. As of Sunday evening, Almatti was getting a flood of about 2.04 lakh cusecs and releasing 1 lakh cusecs. Narayanpur in the downstream was getting 1 lakh cusecs and discharging about 77,000 cusecs flood. Further downstream, Jurala was getting 2.53 lakh cusecs and discharging about 2.28 lakh cusecs flood. Similarly, Tungabhadra was getting over 45,000 cusecs flood and releasing about 35,000 cusecs into the river. Meanwhile, Srisailam was getting about 3.19 lakh cusecs flood as of 9 p.m. on Sunday and discharging 2.2 lakh cusecs from the eight spillway gates lifted for 10 feet height each. Similarly, Nagarjunasagar was getting inflows of about 2.49 lakh cusecs and discharging about 2.1 lakh cusecs from the 10 spillway gates lifted for 15 feet height each. Further downstream, Pulichintala project was getting about 2.94 lakh cusecs flood and discharging about 2.29 lakh cusecs of it towards Prakasam Barrage. As of Sunday morning, over 72 tmcft of water has been discharged into the sea from Prakasam Barrage and over 1,520 tmcft from Dowlaiswaram Barrage across Godavari this year. In the Godavari Basin, Sriramsagar was getting over 23,000 cusecs of inflows with its storage across 77 tmcft on Sunday evening against its capacity of 90.3 tmcft. Similarly, Singur was getting over 1,100 cusecs of inflows with 2.81 tmc ft of storage and Nizamsagar getting 2,000 cusecs with storage reaching 1.7 tmc ft. With reduced inflows, the authorities are building up level in Mid Manair. Lower Manair and Kaddam dams and Yellampally Barrage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/floodwaters-continue-to-flow-into-reservoirs-despite-let-up-in-rain/article32425152.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India could get vaccine by year-end: Minister||The Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine developed by the University of Oxford has been permitted to conduct its phase two and three human clinical trials in India. It is likely to start the trials next week. In a tweet in Hindi, Dr. Vardhan said on Saturday, “I hope that if everything goes well, India will get a vaccine by the end of this year.” The apex health research body, ICMR, is in the process of developing an online vaccine portal which will provide information related to vaccine development in India and abroad, with the majority of the updates in several regional languages in addition to English. The aim of creating the website is to provide all information and updates related to development of the vaccine on one platform, said Samiran Panda, Head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the ICMR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-could-get-vaccine-by-year-end-minister/article32425045.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||No people, no show for folk artistes||When the rajas (kings) gave way to rajnetas (politicians), Shamshad says, his father travelled to Uttar Pradesh and other States with his acts. He and his five brothers carried forward the tradition, playing different characters from Hindu mythology and Mughal history. “For us, Ram, Krishna, Akbar, Majnu are iconic characters of our shared past. We play them with all sincerity but don’t take them home... like actors in films. And most of our benefactors respect it,” he explains. But the lockdown since March this year has robbed the performers of a crucial tool — mobility. Harsh reality Shivram Nat, another street performer known for his aerial rope acts, first turned park keeper in the residential areas of Jaipur for survival but is now working as a labourer in a private construction company on the Jaipur-Udaipur road. Well-known and even having featured in the television show Hindustan Ke Hunarbaaz , the lockdown made Shivram realise that despite the fame and popularity, he hasn’t risen much on the social ladder. “When my niece passed away, her body was taken down from the funeral pyre as the Thakurs and the village pradhan objected. We had to take her body to another village more than seven kilometres away.” It was only when the news went viral, says Shivram, that the district administration promised to allow the Nats to cremate their dead in the gram sabha cremation ground. Shailaja Kathuria, director of the Centre for New Perspectives (CNP), a non-profit working with street performers, says they need “creative dignity”. She feels the pandemic has proved harsher for street performers living in urban spaces as in rural areas the ties with patrons are still intact. The CNP has come up with a crowdfunding campaign to organise a virtual Tama Show wherein they are working with street performers to tell innovative picture book stories to children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-people-no-show-for-folk-artistes/article32425047.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 unlikely to abate soon: experts||India’s doubling time was nearly 30 days with most States with over 50,000 cases recording a doubling time of 30-40 days. Delhi, is an exception with a current doubling time of over 70 days. ‘Until September’ An official associated with the national COVID taskforce said the spurt in cases was likely “until September or even October” given that testing and the spread of the infection had concomitantly risen. “The strategy now is to ensure deaths remain low and that is by detecting cases and contacts early. In March and April, we lacked enough infrastructure to ramp up testing. We have learned from the experience of Europe and therefore don’t have the fatality rates of Italy and France.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-unlikely-to-abate-soon-experts/article32425048.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||CID teams gathering info on hydel plant blast||For the second consecutive day on Sunday, special teams of Telangana Crime Investigation Department (CID) examined the site of explosion in Srisailam hydel power project. Reasons behind the massive explosion, which left nine staff members of the project dead and injured several others three days ago, are yet to be ascertained. CID Additional DG Govind Singh and DIG B. Sumathi already visited the place, following the government ordering an investigation into the incident. Initial reports indicated that a short circuit in the panel boards of the power house could have triggered the explosion. However, this had to be corroborated and ascertained scientifically. The main task before the sleuths of CID now is to establish the source of fire, what ignited it and whether any human error or any other factor was behind the incident. Led by the two top officials, task-specific special teams were constituted. An action plan was prepared to probe different aspects of the ‘fire accident’. Camping near the site, the CID sleuths began gathering information from the eye-witnesses. One team collected information on how the electrical circuits, panel boards and switch systems at the blast site are operated. “Different factors result in electric short circuit. It could be due to quality of cables, not replacing old cables, inadequate trip systems,” a police officer supervising investigation from Hyderabad and unwilling to be named said. What were the safety systems available at the site and was there any element of failure of those systems at the hydel station were other angles the CID sleuths were examining. “Diagnosing electrical sources of ignition is a challenge in fire investigations. There could be one or more possible sources of ignition. This needs to be ascertained,” said the officer. Investigators are trying to speak with the injured persons as the latter would give first hand account of the incident. Already, they had spoken with some of the staff members working at the plant. In the inquiries conducted in the past 48 hours and examination of the explosion site, no material raising suspicions of foul play were stumbled upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cid-teams-gathering-info-on-hydel-plant-blast/article32425055.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,||TDP leaders in Tirupati, Kadapa back Amaravati stir||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has appealed to the people across the State, cutting across political lines, to extend their support to the cause of retaining Amaravati as the sole State capital. Dharna staged  Commemorating the 250th day of the agitation by Amaravati villagers, former MLA M. Sugunamma staged a dharna at her residence in Tirupati on Sunday, expressing solidarity to the cause. Revenue generator “It is not the problem of the 29 villages, but the identity of Andhra Pradesh is at risk,” she said. Amaravati would be a revenue generator for the entire state and not vice-versa, as being propagated by the ruling party and a section of the media, Ms. Sugunamma claimed. In Kadapa, TDP district president R. Sreenivasa Reddy said the government had not even once met the agitating farmers to convince them of their stand. At the combined State’s first Chief Minister Tanguturi Prakasam Panthulu’s birth anniversary event, TDP general secretary B. Hariprasad said the government could have completed Amaravati and Polavaram projects with the funds it had borrowed for disbursal towards the CM’s pet project ‘Navaratnalu’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tdp-leaders-in-tirupati-kadapa-back-amaravati-stir/article32425558.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Wounded Attappady elephant still critical||The condition of an elephant that suffered a grievous wound in its mouth at Attappady last week continued to be critical on Sunday. The elephant was found with an injury, apparently caused by an explosion about a week ago in the Veettikkundu Chavadiyur area of Attappady in Agali range of Mannarkkad forest division in Kerala. A team of veterinary doctors and forest officials, led by Forest Veterinary Officer Dr. Arun Zacharia and Agali Forest Range Officer K.T. Udayan, attended to the tuskless male elephant after tranquilising it on Saturday. The team administered antibiotics and analgesics to the wounded animal. Dr. Zacharia said the wound was deep, and the internal injury was extensive. He added that the doctors would observe the animal for another day before the next step. Dr. Zacharia and Mr. Udayan expressed concern that the elephant might choke while drinking or eating in such a condition. They said it was too early to comment about the healing of the wounds inside its pharyngeal region. There was cautious optimism when the elephant drank some water. However, it rejected much of the food given by the veterinarians and appeared weak due to lack of intake. It was suspected that the elephant suffered the injury after it chewed on an explosive. Forest officials suspect the injury took place while the animal was in the Tamil Nadu forest area. The full-grown elephant was known to have caused a lot of destruction in the Sholayur area over the last couple of years. However, it had not killed any human being. The animal was nicknamed ‘Bulldozer’ because it had reportedly destroyed around two dozen houses since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wounded-attappady-elephant-still-critical/article32425061.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Find a new chief, Sonia tells Congress||Ms. Gandhi’s response follows a letter from a group of senior leaders including Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, former union minister Veerappa Moily, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda among others. In their letter, written about two weeks ago, the group questioned the Congress party’s style of functioning and suggested sweeping reforms. Multiple sources told this reporter that nearly 300 party functionaries across different State units have endorsed the contents of the letter,which are likely to be made public depending on the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday. The group has called for a “full time and effective leadership who are active in the field, a mechanism for collective leadership and elections to the CWC”. The letter was leaked to a prominent newspaper after the party announced the dates for the CWC meeting as Mr Surjewala had earlier denied the existence of it. The group is also said to be opposed to attempts being made to  hand the reins back to Mr Gandhi and would rather push for decision-making through a Parliamentary Board. Congress dissenters who wrote to Sonia Gandhi met late on Sunday ahead of CWC meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/find-a-new-chief-sonia-tells-congress/article32425062.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||New publisher for book on Delhi riots, say authors||A day after Bloomsbury India withdrew a book on the Delhi riots, the authors on Sunday said the decision was in breach of contract and the publishers would “invite civil and criminal liability”. The book would be brought out by another publisher, they said.  The book, Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story, by advocate Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra, was set to be released next month. The authors organised a launch event in which BJP leader Kapil Mishra was the guest of honour, leading to a backlash on social media. Mr. Mishra had given a speech a day before the riots broke out, asking for the anti-CAA protesters to be removed from the area. The authors write about what they call “the urban Naxal and jihadi riot model”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-publisher-for-book-on-delhi-riots-say-authors/article32425087.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Centre releases SOP for resuming film shooting||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the resumption of production of films and television series. Announcing the decision on Doordarshan, Mr. Javadekar said the SOP was part of the decision to restart all economic activities. “Aspects such as scenes, sequences, set-ups, camera locations, positions of various crew members, seating arrangements, food and catering arrangements, staggered meal timings, etc. shall be planned while giving due consideration to physical distancing norms,” the advisory states. The Ministry has advised that a minimum number of cast and crew be involved, no visitors or audience are to be allowed, and in case of outdoor shootings coordination has to be done with the local police and the administration. “Staggered call and pack-up timings for different production units shall be ensured by studios having multiple sets,” the advisory states. Common locations such as sets, cafeteria, make-up rooms, edit rooms, vanity vans and washrooms have to be sanitised regularly. The Ministry has advised the industry to discontinue usage of lapel microphones. Costumes, hair wigs and make-up items for actors should not be shared. Make-up artists and hairstylists have been advised to use PPE. A designated COVID-19 supervisor shall be nominated from among the cast and the crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-releases-sop-for-resuming-film-shooting/article32425094.ece
24 August 2020||Pune,||False reports on vaccine availability: Serum Institute||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Sunday clarified that claims in the media regarding the availability of its COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, in 73 days are completely “false” and “conjectural”. There were reports in certain sections of the media claiming that the SII would be able to commercialise its vaccine, which is being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, in the next 73 days. “The SII would like to clarify that the current claims surrounding Covishield’s availability in the media are completely false and conjectural. Presently, the government has granted us permission to only manufacture the vaccine and stockpile it for future use,” read a statement issued by the company. It said Covishield would be commercialised once the trials were proven successful and all the requisite regulatory approvals were in place. “The phase-3 trials for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine are still under way. And only once the vaccine is proven immunogenic and efficacious, SII will confirm its availability, officially,” it said. Adar Poonawalla, CEO, SII, had earlier said at least 300 million doses would be ready by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/false-reports-on-vaccine-availability-serum-institute/article32425092.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Heed appeal of NEET, JEE candidates: Rahul to govt.||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi urged the government to consider the demands raised by students across the country on deferring the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and the Joint Entrance Examination scheduled for September. “GOI must listen to the #StudentsKeMannKiBaat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that since the COVID-19 situation was yet to normalise, it was only obvious that the government listen to the concerns raised by students and parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heed-appeal-of-neet-jee-candidates-rahul-to-govt/article32425316.ece
24 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||BJP dismisses ‘theory’ on ex-CJI as CM candidate||The BJP has dismissed speculation that former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi would be its chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assam election as a “mere theory”. Veteran Congress leader and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said on Saturday that the ex-CJI was on a list of names the BJP was considering for projecting as the next CM. “I am not surprised because the former CJI gradually entered politics by accepting the Rajya Sabha offer after the BJP was happy with his judgment in the Ayodhya Ram Mandir case,” the former CM said. State BJP spokesperson said he had no words for reacting to “anything that is like building castles in the air”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-dismisses-theory-on-ex-cji-as-cm-candidate/article32425318.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre sets up Council for transgenders||The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has constituted the National Council for Transgender Persons. An August 21 notification stated that the Social Justice Minister would be the Council’s chairperson and its members would include officials from some other Ministries. Five nominated members from the community — Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, Gopi Shankar Madurai, Meera Parida, Zainab Javid Patel and Kak Chingtabam Shyamcand Sharma — are also part of the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-sets-up-council-for-transgenders/article32425066.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC gives court a month for Babri verdict||The Supreme Court has given a court that is hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case against several accused persons, including prominent BJP leaders like L.K. Advani, Murali Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, time till September 30 to complete the trial and deliver its verdict. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman allowed a request made by Special Judge S.K. Yadav for more time. The deadline was August 31. The Bench noted that the trial was drawing to a close and a month more would be sufficient to complete the proceedings. The BJP and the Sangh Parivar leaders are accused of criminal conspiracy which led to the demolition of the 16th-century mosque  in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-gives-court-a-month-for-babri-verdict/article32425067.ece
24 August 2020||Patna,||‘BJP to contest Bihar poll with JD(U) and LJP’||Amid reports of growing dissent between ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners— the Janata Dal (U) and the Lok Janshakti Party in Bihar— BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday said his party would contest the upcoming Bihar Assembly poll with the JD(U) and the LJP. He lauded the Bihar government for doing “good work” in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and providing relief to families of lightning and flood victims.  “Jab-jab BJP-JD(U)-LJP ek saath Bihar mein chunav ladi hai, vijayi hue hain [whenever BJP-JD(U)-LJP have fought elections together in Bihar it has emerged victorious],” said Mr. Nadda while addressing the party’s two-day State executive committee’s meeting. “BJP workers will have to add value not only to the BJP, but also to our alliance partners ... Bihar BJP workers have to reach every section of society to convey the messages of PM Modi, Bharat and the works done by Nitish Kumar ji,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-contest-bihar-poll-with-jdu-and-ljp/article32425080.ece
24 August 2020||Guwahati,||Group gifts sanitary pads to Himanta||A group of women’s rights advocates has gifted sanitary pads to Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the Assam State Disaster Management Authority to draw the government’s attention to the plight of women living in flood relief shelters. “We delivered the gift boxes, each containing 300 pads and hygiene kits, toward including menstrual hygiene products in the list of essential materials provided at the shelters,” said Mayuri Bhattacharjee of the Dignity in Floods campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/group-gifts-sanitary-pads-to-himanta/article32425097.ece
24 August 2020||Guwahati,||Akhil Gogoi to be CM face for proposed party||Jailed anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activist Akhil Gogoi will be the chief ministerial candidate of a new regional political party, his peasant rights group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) said. The announcement followed an initiative by the Congress to form a “grand alliance” with the All India United Democratic Front and other “like-minded” parties to take on the BJP and its allies in the 2021 Assembly poll. “We have decided to form a political party and contest the next State election with Akhil Gogoi as our CM face,” KMSS president Bhasco De Saikia told journalists on Saturday evening. He added the party’s name would be decided after Mr. Gogoi is released from prison. The KMSS hopes Mr. Gogoi would be released within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhil-gogoi-to-be-cm-face-for-proposed-party/article32425317.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Apex Council meet postponed again||The second meeting of the Apex Council, which was scheduled to be held via video-conferencing on August 25, has been postponed again due to “unavoidable circumstances”. Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, respectively, were supposed to discuss issues related to the Godavari and Krishna River Management Boards (GRMB & KRMB), including the recent developments related to AP’s plans to divert Krishna water with the Rayalaseema lift scheme and by enhancing the water drawal capacity of the Pothireddypadu regulator. The council was initially planned to meet on August 5 but it was postponed after the Telangana Chief Minister expressed inability to attend the meeting even virtually on the date because of prior engagements and requested the MoJS to hold it any time after August 20. Accordingly, the MoJS fixed the meeting for August 25. After its constitution, the first and only Apex Council meeting was held on September 21, 2016, without arriving at any consensus on the projects being taken up by the two States. It was chaired by the then Union Water Resources Minister Uma Bharati and Chief Ministers of AP and Telangana N. Chandrababu Naidu (then) and K. Chandrasekhar Rao, respectively. Constituted under the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, the Apex Council is mandated to supervise the functioning of GRMB and KRMB, approve the proposals for construction of new projects, if any, based on Godavari or Krishna river water, after getting the proposals appraised and recommended by the River Management Boards and by the Central Water Commission (CWC), resolve any disputes amicably arising out of the sharing of river water through negotiations and mutual agreement between the two States and reference of any disputes not covered under Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal under the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, 1956. In a communication sent to the Chief Secretaries of the two States, the chairman of the CWC and the chairpersons of the two river boards, an official of the MoJS said the new date of the Apex Council meeting would be intimated soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apex-council-meet-postponed-again/article32425051.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Opposition seeks CBI probe into Life Mission deal||The political controversy surrounding the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal to provide housing for the poor continued to simmer on Sunday with Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala daring the government to release the details of the contract. Mr. Chennithala demanded a CBI inquiry into the receipt of Rs. 20 crore as aid from the UAE Red Crescent for the construction of 140 houses for landless and homeless families under the LIFE Mission scheme in Thrissur. ‘Kickback of Rs. 4.5 crore’ He hinged the demand on the ‘disclosure’ made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s media adviser John Brittas last week that a private builder had paid Rs. 4.5 crore as kickback to get the contract. He had alleged the builder had given the bribe to an accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case.  ‘Under a cloud’ The government’s ambitious project to provide housing to needy families had come under a cloud after Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, had stated in court recently that the Rs. 1 crore found by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in her bank locker was her percentage for channelling the foreign aid to the private builder contracted to execute the project. Last week, the ED, possibly prompted by Swapna’s statement, had written to Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta seeking ‘some details and clarifications’ regarding the deal. The State government has maintained that the international charity had channelled the aid to LIFE Mission via the UAE consulate here. The consulate had subcontracted the work to a builder of its choice. The government had no say in the award of the contract. The government had also sought the sanction of the Centre for the deal. ‘A front to get kickbacks’ BJP State president K. Surendran alleged on Saturday that gold smugglers and corrupt bureaucrats, who had a free rein in the office of Mr. Vijayan, had used LIFE Mission, among other government schemes, as a front to earn kickbacks. He said the CMO had not sought the sanction of the Centre ahead of receiving foreign aid. Mr. Surendran was on a one-day sit-in fast at the party headquarters here seeking the resignation of Mr Vijayan on the charge of harbouring anti-nationals.  The State government says the UAE consulate had subcontracted the work to a builder of its choice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-seeks-cbi-probe-into-life-mission-deal/article32425058.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Heed appeal of NEET, JEE candidates: Rahul urges govt.||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi urged the government to consider the demands raised by students across the country on deferring the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) scheduled for September. “GOI must listen to the #StudentsKeMannKiBaat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that since the COVID-19 situation was yet to normalise, it was only obvious that the government listen to the concerns raised by students and parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heed-appeal-of-neet-jee-candidates-rahul-urges-govt/article32425076.ece
24 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi to be CM face for proposed Assam party||Jailed anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activist Akhil Gogoi will be the chief ministerial candidate of a new regional political party, his peasant rights group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) said. The announcement followed an initiative by the Congress to form a “grand alliance” with the All India United Democratic Front and other “like-minded” parties to take on the BJP and its allies in the 2021 Assembly poll. KMSS president Bhasco De Saikia said the party’s name would be decided after Mr. Gogoi is released from prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-caa-activist-akhil-gogoi-to-be-cm-face-for-proposed-assam-party/article32425081.ece
24 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam BJP trashes ‘theory’ on ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi as its CM candidate||The BJP has dismissed speculations that former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi would be its chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assam election as a “mere theory”. Veteran Congress leader and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said on Saturday that the ex-CJI was on a list of names the BJP was considering for projecting as the next Chief Minister. State BJP spokesperson Dewan Dhrubajyoti Moral said he had no words for reacting to “anything that is like building castles in the air”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-bjp-trashes-theory-on-ex-cji-ranjan-gogoi-as-its-cm-candidate/article32425083.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fire at Koyambedu omnibus terminus; three buses gutted||Panic gripped the Koyambedu omnibus terminus as fire broke out from one of the stationary buses on Sunday and spread rapidly to other buses. Three buses were completely gutted but no one was injured. Over 50 buses owned by private operators have been parked in the terminus since the beginning of lockdown. Around Sunday noon, thick smoke billowed from one of the buses. The fire leapt quickly and spread to four more buses. On information, personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services Department rushed to the spot. They were pressed into service from fire stations in Koyambedu, Ashok Nagar, J.J. Nagar, Egmore and Ambattur. P. Chidambaram, fire officer of Kilpauk station, said, “Around 25 personnel from five stations were involved in putting out the fire. Two water lorries, two water tenders and foam equipment were deployed. Fighting for nearly one hour, we brought the fire under control.” The fire gutted the inside of three buses. Two more buses were damaged externally. The Koyambedu police have filed a case.  Over 50 buses owned by private operators have been parked in the terminus since the beginning of lockdown||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-koyambedu-omnibus-terminus-three-buses-gutted/article32425202.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 5,975 fresh infections, 97 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,975 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of active patients in the State to 53,541. The State’s tally climbed to 3,79,385. At the same time, 6,047 persons were discharged from various facilities following treatment, taking the total number of discharged persons to 3,19,327. The northern districts continued to register a higher number of cases. Chennai continued to lead, with 1,298 more persons testing positive. A total of 1,040 persons were discharged in the city on Sunday, taking the total number of those under treatment to 13,223. The city’s tally touched 1,25,389. While Chengalpattu recorded 352 fresh cases, Cuddalore saw 380. In Tiruvallur, 354 more persons tested positive, whereas in Kancheepuram 222 cases were identified, health officials said. Among the western districts, Coimbatore saw 392 cases. In Salem, 261 persons tested positive. The State recorded 97 deaths due to the infection. Of this, private hospitals accounted for 21 deaths and government ones 76. Among the deceased, 10 had no co-morbidities, the daily bulletin of the Department of Public Health stated. All the 10 were admitted as patients in government medical college hospitals. The number of infected persons aged over 60 rose to 48,497 on Sunday. Elderly impacted Four persons among those who died were aged over 90. Among them was a 91-year-old man who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital on August 16 and tested positive for the infection on Friday. He died on Saturday due to acute respiratory disorder caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. A 95-year-old man from Karur, who was admitted on August 11 to the government medical college hospital there, after testing positive for COVID-19, died on August 18 due to bronchial asthma, which exacerbated his condition. A 92-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on August 18 after testing positive for the infection a day before, died on August 20. He had a history of severe hypertension. A 92-year-old man from the city, who was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on August 20, after testing positive for COVID-19 two days earlier, died on August 21. He had coronary artery disease and was hypertensive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-5975-fresh-infections-97-fatalities/article32425237.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A coastal city’s tryst with sports||Sports and Chennai have a special bond which only seems to grow stronger with the passage of time. The city’s tryst with sports has been a lengthy one, fuelled by historical association and supported by a legion of fans, oft-referred to as the ‘knowledgeable Chennai crowd.’ Cricket began finding its feet after the Britishers set up the Madras Cricket Club for their recreation, but the sport owes its growth to the efforts of Buchi Babu Naidu, who went about setting up the Madras United Club (MUC), which would later lead to famous matches during the Pongal festival. The MUC also became a pioneer for sports promotion and football found its roots there as well, according to Ravikumar David, former general secretary, Tamil Nadu Football Association. Apart from cricket, hockey and football enjoyed a great fan following during the 1940’s. “Chennai has been home to all sports — cricket, football, volleyball, hockey, basketball, you name them, the city has them,” said V. Baskaran, former India Hockey team captain and national coach. “The football league here is the oldest league in India. We had very strong teams such as Wimco, SBI, Railways and ICF. Each team had their own fan following as well even in those days,” Mr. David said. Mr. Baskaran pointed out that hockey was quite famous in various pockets of the city, including Triplicane, Mylapore, Mir Sahib Pet, Nungambakkam lake area, and boasted a number of strong clubs such as the City Police, Binny Mills, Spencers and the Railways. A number of players from the city went on to play for the national team. A place of pride The city also holds a place of pride on the world chess map, boasting stalwarts such as Manuel Aaron, who became India’s first International Master, and five-time World Chess Champion Viswanathan Anand. A list of Grandmasters also populate Chennai’s vibrant chess scene, including Rameshbabu Praggnanandhaa, the fourth youngest to become a GM behind a Russian, a Uzbek and the city’s own D. Gukesh. If the Krishnans and Amritraj brothers took Indian tennis to the global stage, the Chennai Open brought the best of international tennis to the city. The crowds’ thunderous roar as players like Rafael Nadal, Boris Becker and Carlos Moya took the court punctuated the marquee sports event. While fans can only hold on to the nostalgia of the tournament, which has since been moved to Pune, tennis clubs around the city continue to thrive and hone talent. Chennai’s table tennis circuit, which has produced international players, has been seeing clubs mushrooming over the years. The city has also become the headquarters for squash in the country, while carrom flourishes in North Chennai, which is home to former two-time World Champion in carrom, A. Maria Irudayam. Motorsports, Golf and Horse Racing are also sought after by some. The city also has produced sportswomen of repute such as Chess GMs S. Vijayalakshmi and Aarthie Ramaswamy, world-class players ranked in the top 10 in squash like Dipika Pallikal and Joshna Chinappa, national champions in table tennis M.S. Mythili, N.R. Indu and K. Shamini and mid-fielder Indumathi Kathiresan, who represented India in football.  Spirit of sportsmanship From giving a standing ovation to a victorious Team Pakistan after a heartbreaking test match loss in 1999, to the loud cheers at the Chennai Open, and other tournaments, or the collective dejection of Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket and the subsequent wait for the Chennai Super Kings to take the field again, the spirit of sports continues to live on in the city’s traditions of sportsmanship. With the advent of professional leagues, Chennai has made sure it has a place in almost all the leagues — the IPL, ISL, Pro Kabbadi League, Ultimate Table Tennis — each having its own fan bases. While these leagues have grown and provided opportunities for youngsters to take up sports as a career, the growing trend of playgrounds in the city being lost to construction of buildings is a big cause for concern, Mr. Baskaran and Mr. David said.  (With inputs from K. Keerthivasan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-coastal-citys-tryst-with-sports/article32425223.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Honour for Tamil Nadu teachers||Innovative teaching, effective use of technology and holistic development of students are the guiding principles of the two teachers from Tamil Nadu who have been selected by the Ministry of Education, Department of School Education and Literacy, to receive the National Award to Teachers for 2020. For S. Dhilip, an English teacher from the Government Higher Secondary School, Sathyamangalam in Villupuram district, his teaching career has been one filled with effectively integrating innovative technology with classroom learning. “As a language teacher, it is important that I ascertain the learning levels and needs of each student in my class. For this, my teaching should not be limited to simply reading out what is given in the textbooks, but rather come up with innovative teaching methodologies that will ensure better communication skills,” said Mr Dhilip, who has been in the profession for over 20 years now. Emphasising the view that teaching a language should not be limited to writing exams or simply reading the material given, Mr. Dhilip said that he had brought in technology to make learning more fun for his students. “To help develop their reading skills, I came up with a digital banner with 44 phonetic sounds. ‘Gamified grammar’, another module developed by me, focussed on teaching grammar through games,” he said. For gamified grammar, the students are taken to the playground and are taught a grammar rule by playing a game there. In addition, they also learn through virtual tools. A learning module that Mr. Dhilip developedwas also adopted by other schools in his district. Holistic development Holistic development is the key to shaping up students, said R.C. Saraswathi, headmistress, Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar, who has been selected for the national award as well. A teacher for over 33 years, Ms.Saraswathi took over as the headmistress of the school in 2014. “My predecessors had worked a lot for the quality of education. Children are very knowledgeable and it is our responsibility to make learning interesting for them,” said Ms. Saraswathi, who is also a chemistry teacher. “We have an Atal Tinkering lab and a Maths lab on the school campus and ICT tools are used in classrooms to make learning interesting. I firmly believe that teachers need to innovate and engage with students and not limit themselves to the textbooks,” she said. Students are encouraged to sign up for several co-curricular activities including music. They also sign up for the National Cadet Corps, Guides, the Red Ribbon club and several other volunteering initiatives, she said. “When children pass out of our school, we want them to be moulded into socially responsible citizens. This is possible thanks to the efforts of our team of teachers, parents, parent-teacher association and support from the school education department,” she said. Mr. Dhilip and Ms. Saraswathi are among the 47 teachers who have been selected from across the country for the national awards. They will be receiving a citation and a cash award. The date for the awards distribution will be announced soon by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honour-for-tn-teachers/article32425251.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases are on the rise in all southern zones of city||The Greater Chennai Corporation has, over the past week, registered a rise in fresh cases of COVID-19 in 10 of the 15 zones of the city, including all five southern zones. The growth rate of cases in the southern zones was higher than the city's average growth rate of 1.4% last week. The southernmost zone, Sholinganallur, registered a 5.2% growth in cases over the past seven days. Valasaravakkam (4.8%), Perungudi (3%), Adyar (2.9%) and Alandur (1.7%) also registered a higher growth in cases when compared to the city's average figure. Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, in the northern part of the city, registered a growth rate of 10.1%. The Ambattur zone, which saw several fresh infections over the past few weeks, now has a negative case growth rate. City Health Officer Jagadeesan said over 60% of the fresh cases were caused by “family contacts”. The civic body is planning to intensify containment measures to prevent a spike in cases. “We may revert to stringent measures again. The relaxation of norms has led to a rise in cases in some areas. We are monitoring the situation,” an official said. Civic officials said a huge number of guest workers and professionals from other regions had reached the city. They were not being monitored. “At least 10% of the guest workers who had arrived here without an e-pass have tested positive for COVID-19,” an official said. The number of containment zones in the city has increased to 23, and is set to grow further in some zones. The case fatality rate is 2.07%. The total number of residents who have tested positive has crossed 1.25 lakh. The number of active cases accounts for 10% of the total cases. As of Sunday, there were over 13,000 active cases in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-are-on-the-rise-in-all-southern-zones-of-city/article32425208.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Over 60,000 jobs created in June in formal sector||As many as 61,225 jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in June, and it has been the best month in the first quarter of 2020-21 (April-June period). However, the numbers for May have now been revised to a negative 9,675, from the previously-disclosed positive figure of 17,207 jobs, that had raised eyebrows among experts. Job creation is measured in the number of new net enrolments made with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The numbers for April have been revised to negative 25,137, from negative 14,098, mentioned in the July data release. “The EPFO data indicates that the economy is improving, but at a slow pace, from what it was in April, thereby triggering improvement in hiring. However, June numbers will still be low in comparison to pre-COVID-19 levels,” Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder, TeamLease Services, a staffing firm, said. She also pointed out that it was very hard to infer why there was a huge revision in May numbers. “The easiest conclusion is that there was an error in computation. However, that is mere speculation,” she said. “The August 20 report clearly points to the increased job market growth in June, as compared to April and May. However, there is a huge revision of data for April and May, between the report furnished in July and now,” K.E. Raghunathan, convener of the Consortium of Indian Associations, said. He pointed out that an upward revision was understandable, as some establishments would have filed their PF returns late due to COVID-19, but a downward, and that too a negative revision, called for more understanding of the methodology. A continuous process A footnote by EPFO said the data was provisional, as updation of employees’ records was a continuous process, getting updated in subsequent months, and estimates may include temporary employees, whose contributions may not be continuous the entire year. Aditya Narayan Mishra, CEO of CIEL HR Services, said the revision indicated the volatile nature of the operating environment and the job market. “Layoffs may have taken place in May but could be getting reflected now,” he said. Saundarya Rajesh, founder-president of diversity and inclusion consulting firm Avtar Group, said there were three categories of jobs — self-employed, employees on payroll of organisations and those in consulting roles in organisations. The EPFO data captures only the trends with regards to employees on payroll, while self-employed and those on consulting roles don’t have to comply with statutory requirements like provident fund or gratuity, she said. Ms. Rajesh said the job category of those on payroll and consulting roles saw a combined dip of 35% in the March-June period, but things recovered in July, and the drop came down to 18%. She said the IT/ITES industry, banking and financial services industry as well as manufacturing industries saw a setback in April and May, but recovered in June and July, but the hospitality industry had taken a big hit and was yet to recover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-60000-jobs-created-in-june-in-formal-sector/article32425228.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When trams moved around Triplicane||An outing that 80-year-old C. Aravindavalli continues to cherish is a tram trip from Triplicane to Mylapore when she was in her teens. “We would look out of the window and every time there was a stop, a bell would ring,” she recalled. Born and raised in Triplicane, she has witnessed how a rather traffic-free residential area transformed into the bustling locality it is now, all the while quietly holding onto its own quirky charm. “Bharathiyar lived close to our residence. While unfortunately, I had never met him, my father did and I heard so many stories about the poet. Our house used to be a thatched house before we rebuilt it to what it is today. Everyone in the area knew each other well and it was almost like a very large extended family. Now, everything is different,” Ms. Aravindavalli noted. Old routine A walk to the beach with the whole family and shopping at Pycroft’s Road would be the routine for the residents back then, she said. “There would be just a few buses and a lot of cycle rickshaws but most of us would just walk. The beach would be clean, calm and somewhere around we would hear cinema songs through the radio. It was blissful,” she recalled. Through these eight decades, Triplicane has heard the sweet strains of her veena and three years ago, she managed to get her doctorate too, undeterred by the exhaustion that comes with her age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-trams-moved-around-triplicane/article32425216.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Property buyers may have to spend more on stamp duty||Property buyers may have to spend more on stamp duty this year as the Public Works Department has raised the schedule of plinth area rates for building valuation. The common schedule of plinth area rates has been raised by 7.3% and this would lead to an increase in the value of buildings and indirectly a hike in the payment of stamp duty, officials said. Every year, the PWD releases the common schedule of plinth area rates for the valuation of various types of buildings, based on which stamp duty is collected by the Registration Department and rental value of a structure is arrived at. This year, the new plinth rates would be effective from August 16 for a year. While the average increase is 7.3% across the State, the rise in plinth area rates varied from 8.03% to 8.76% depending on the cities and towns. Officials of the PWD said the plinth area rates are calculated based on the type and quantity of construction materials in a building, labour charges and the type of structures, including those built with brickwork, cement concrete structure or ones with thatched or tiled roof. There would be an overall 0.7% increase in the stamp duty to be paid as the building value has been revised this year. For instance, if a building was worth Rs. 1 crore last year, its value would be Rs. 1.07 crore this year, for which the buyer would have to pay the stamp duty, officials said. However, officials noted that the revised building valuation was less compared to last year when the average annual increase was nearly 10%. Various factors, including the dip in demand for construction materials, had influenced the plinth area rates. This common schedule is also used to calculate rental rates by the government and private owners. “We also assess the value of buildings in disproportionate assets cases of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, based on this plinth area rates,” the official added. However, builders and real estate developers noted that the rise would only discourage consumers from buying property. Though the hike may be cited as marginal, consumers would have to pay a stamp duty of 7.7%. Suresh Krishn, president-elect, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India — Tamil Nadu (Credai), said the purchasing power of consumers had already dipped during the pandemic. Any increase in building valuation or stamp duty would only disappoint buyers. This had been done without consulting real estate developers. The State government must take steps to encourage home buyers and decrease stamp duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/property-buyers-may-have-to-spend-more-on-stamp-duty/article32425252.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka idols immersed in sea||Despite the lockdown, many residents who live close to the Marina and other beaches brought Vinayaka idols from their homes and immersed them in the sea. The Madras High Court had upheld the order of the State government prohibiting installation of idols at public places. However, it directed authorities to permit individuals to place idols in front of their houses and drop them outside temples or immerse them in water bodies and the sea. On Sunday, many residents immersed clay idols. People immersed idols behind the Light House on the Marina, off the Palavakkam beach, Kasimedu and Ramakrishna Nagar. The city police booked three different cases against persons, including 25 BJP functionaries, for installing idols in Velachery and taking out a procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinayaka-idols-immersed-in-sea/article32425204.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. accepts IAS officer’s plea for voluntary retirement||The Tamil Nadu government has accepted the application for voluntary retirement from service (VRS) of IAS officer Santhosh Babu with effect from Saturday afternoon. Mr. Babu had applied for VRS in January. To join coaching centre A top official told The Hindu   a Government Order relieving him had been issued. Mr. Babu, who is set to join a private civil service coaching centre in Chennai, was not available for comment. Mr. Babu, a Principal Secretary-ranked officer, belongs to the 1995 batch of the Tamil Nadu cadre, and was until recently the Chairman and Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation.  He had applied for VRS when he was the Secretary of the Information Technology Department and heading the Tamil Nadu FiberNet Corporation (TANFINET), which was involved in the tender process for the multi-crore BharatNet project for providing broadband internet services to rural areas. TANFINET row An informed source confirmed to The Hindu   that the officer had rejected attempts to revise the eligibility conditions for bidders, and soon sought VRS. Political leaders, including DMK president M.K. Stalin, had then sought a response on the issue from the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-accepts-ias-officers-plea-for-voluntary-retirement/article32425206.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parties slam AYUSH secretary’s behaviour||Political parties have demanded action against AYUSH Ministry Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha for asking non-Hindi speaking delegates to leave a virtual training programme, with DMK president M.K. Stalin terming his action as arising out of “linguistic arrogance”. In a statement, Mr. Stalin accused the Central government of attempting to impose Hindi. “The Centre’s first agenda seems to be Hindi imposition. It is working to destroy all languages of all the States and is bent on destroying Tamil, instead of giving the classical language its due respect,” he said. Referring to the incident at the airport where DMK MP and his sister Kanimozhi was questioned about her being an Indian citizen since she did not speak Hindi, he said if the government had taken action against the officer at that time itself, the AYUSH issue would not have happened. He asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take strict action against Mr. Kotecha and ensure such incidents are not repeated in future. Ms. Kanimozhi and Congress MP S. Jothimani wrote to Shripad Naik, Minister of State, Ministry of AYUSH, seeking action against the official. “I would like to remind you about the promise made by the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru on August 7, 1959, on the floor of the Lok Sabha that as long as the non-Hindi speaking States require English as an associate language, it will continue,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. Pointing out that Hindi and English were official languages of the Union and there were 22 languages listed as official lanaguages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, she demanded an inquiry into the incident and action against officials. Ms. Jothimani, in her letter terming Mr. Kotecha’s actions as “callous attitude towards handling the pandemic”, said his action was disappointing, and demanded action against him. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the action of the Secretary went against the provisions of the Constitution and recalled Mr. Nehru’s statement on the language policy. He demanded that the PM immediately order that all such training programmes would be held in Hindi and English. MDMK general secretary Vaiko, Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani and PMK founder S. Ramadoss also condemned the AYUSH Secretary’s action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-parties-slam-ayush-secretarys-behaviour-seek-action-against-him/article32425241.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film-makers try to navigate restrictions||As the pandemic drags on, film-makers and producers are finding ways to “get back on sets” and make films again. But what does it take to get back on the sets, even as Tamil Nadu continues to clock over 5,000 cases a day? The Centre’s Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Sunday released an SOP for resuming television and movie shoots, stressing minimal contact and adherence to distancing norms. While shoots for television serials have been allowed in Tamil Nadu since May, the film industry is currently in talks with the State government for resuming film shoots. Meticulous planning in the pre-production stage, online meetings for script readings and discussions and strict adherence to safety protocol on sets — this is how producer Sujatha Narayanan, whose company Dreamcatchers is producing an anthology by Aha, a Telugu OTT platform, shot three of the four episodes over the last three weeks. Stating that it helped that scripts of the episodes were written after the imposition of the lockdown, she said, “The episodes themselves are not about the lockdown or COVID-19, but the stories were written in such a way that they could be shot during a lockdown. The first diktat of our producers was ‘safety first’. Most of our crew were screened. We had pulse oximeters and we ensured the proper disposal of garbage. A nurse too was on the sets.” She said the “rules” and special permissions meant that timekeeping had to be precise. “The key to a good production lies in the pre-production stage. I had taken advice from Kamal Haasan sir about aspects of the shoot. It is important to have a team that understands the constraints,” she said. Are these measures enough to shoot a full-length feature film? Film Employees’ Federation of South India president R.K. Selvamani said discussions were on to restart feature film productions soon. “We are confident that permissions for film productions will be granted by next month,” said Mr. Selvamani. He added that around 45-60 workers would be employed on set. “Around 39 tele-serial productions are already under way. FEFSI has formed teams that visit the sets to check whether protective measures are being taken,” he said. Film-maker Barath Neelakantan, who also has experience of shooting during the lockdown, said: “Since there is no end date for the pandemic, I think we will have to consider writing scripts that can be made with restrictions in place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-makers-try-to-navigate-restrictions/article32425231.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prevalence of novel subsets of type-2 diabetes found||A study has found two novel subgroups of type-2 diabetes — Insulin Resistant Obese Diabetes (IROD) and Combined Insulin Resistant and Deficient Diabetes (CIRDD) — in the Asian Indian population. Researchers of INSPIRED (Indian-Scotland Partnership for Precision Medicine in Diabetes) study, a collaborative project between Madras Diabetes Research Foundation and University of Dundee, UK, found the two “new and unique” clusters of type-2 diabetes in Indians and their risks for microvascular complications involving the eyes (retinopathy) and kidneys (nephropathy and chronic kidney disease). Published online in BMJ Open Diabetes Research and Care recently, the researchers noted that it had important implications for prognosis and management of diabetes in Indians. One of the authors of the study, R.M. Anjana, managing director of Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, told reporters on Friday that already, distinct clusters of individuals with type-2 diabetes were identified in a Scandinavian population — severe autoimmune diabetes (SAID), severe insulin deficient diabetes (SIDD), severe insulin resistant diabetes (SIRD), mild obesity-related diabetes (MOD) and mild age related diabetes (MARD). The study looked at the clinical data of 19,084 individuals with type-2 diabetes at their network of 50 clinics in nine Indian States, primarily in the south. “We looked at individuals with new onset diabetes. We used eight clinically relevant variables including age at diagnosis, BMI, waist circumference, HbA1c and C peptide fasting. We found four subtypes of which two were similar to the Caucasian population and two absolutely new clusters,” she said. Ends of the spectrum On one end of the spectrum was SIDD cluster that constituted 26.2% of the study population and was characterised by early onset diabetes, low BMI and waist circumference, and low C-peptide level, while MARD was on the other end of the spectrum representing the most frequent cluster (35.8 % of study population), comprising older patients. The two novel clusters — IROD and CIRDD — constituted 25.9% and 12.1% of the study population respectively. “IROD is characterised by high BMI and waist circumference, high C-peptide level. The most important group and the least frequent among all types is CIRDD. It is an intermediate group between SIDD and IROD, lethal and fast progressive.” she explained. These findings were also validated in the national epidemiological dataset of ICMR-INDIAB study done across 15 Indian States. “Considering the clinical relevance of clustering, we looked at the risk for microvascular complications. SIDD was found to have the highest risk of developing eye complications followed by CIRDD for renal complications,” Dr. Anjana added. V. Mohan, chairman, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said, “We can look at the role of genetics, learn when to start insulin and screen for complications.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevalence-of-novel-subsets-of-type-2-diabetes-found/article32425212.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Malayalam web portal for the marginalised launched||Filmmaker Pa. Ranjith, who is known for making films with a sharp focus on politics from an Ambedkarite perspective, launched a Malayalam portal named ‘Neelamroots.com’ on Sunday. Mr. Ranjith posted on social media that the portal was an offering from ‘Neelam Panpaatu Maiyam’ (Neelam Cultural Centre), an anti-caste organisation that works to promote a counter-narrative in culture and politics from the perspective of the marginalised. Syam Lal, a team member, said the portal seeks to present the work of the marginalised in Malayalam. “It is a platform for a lot of marginalised writers, artistes, academics and researchers to present their point of view,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/malayalam-web-portal-for-the-marginalised-launched/article32425225.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former DGP L.N. Venkatesan passes away||Former DGP L.N. Venkatesan passed away in his house in Kottivakkam on Sunday at 12.20 p.m. He was 82. His wife Rani Venkatesan was a former Congress MLA. Beela Rajesh, secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration, Tamil Nadu government, is his daughter. Mr. Venkatesan joined service in 1962 and retired in 1996 in the rank of a DGP. “During his prime years in service, he worked for the CBI. He was also Inspector General (IG), Crime,” said Rajesh Das, ADGP, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Tamil Nadu police and Mr. Venkatesan’s son-in-law. Mylapore MLA R. Nataraj and former DGP recalled working under him. “He was the DIG, Chengalpattu range and I was the Kancheepuram SP. He had a very large jurisdiction to cover. He was a sharp person and had good command over the English language. He was good at writing reports,” he said. Mr. Venkatesan is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-dgp-ln-venkatesan-passes-away/article32425247.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kin refuse to accept body of gangster||The family of Shankar, a 48-year-old history-sheeter who was gunned down by the police, refused to accept his body. His sister Renuka and mother Govindammal, holding the police responsible for his death, said on Friday they would not accept the body. A post-mortem was conducted at the Government Kilpauk Hospital in the presence of a judicial magistrate and was videographed. When police tried to reach them, they were not available in their house. A senior police officer said: “The process is on to hand over the body.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-refuse-to-accept-body-of-gangster/article32425205.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||18 kg of ganja seized in city||The Virugambakkam police have seized 18 kg of ganja following a raid at a lodge in Virugambakkam. Five persons have been secured in this connection. Police sources said following information, a special police team found some youth in possession of the contraband. They were trying to sell it from the lodge located on Ponniamman Koil Street. Further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-kg-of-ganja-seized-in-city/article32425209.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker visits Kalaivanar Arangam||Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal on Saturday visited the Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Road in Chennai, as it is being considered as an option for holding the next Assembly session.  The Hindu, on Friday, had reported that the multi-purpose hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam was being actively considered for holding the Assembly session due next month, since it provided scope to ensure adherence to distancing norms among the legislators. Speaking to reporters after his visit, Mr. Dhanapal said that Kalaivanar Arangam was being considered as an option for the Assembly session. “No decision has been taken yet,” he told reporters. When asked whether any other place was being considered, Mr. Dhanapal said the decision would be made public later. The Speaker was accompanied by Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-visits-kalaivanar-arangam/article32425226.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow libraries to reopen, urge magazine publishers||The Tamil Nadu Magazine Publishers’ Association has appealed to the Chief Minister and the School Education Secretary to allow public libraries to reopen. The association said that readers were approaching them, wanting to know when the libraries would reopen. “Rural students depend on libraries for information. Many go to the libraries to read newspapers. When Tasmac shops have been allowed to reopen, why not public libraries,” asked Arasu Alagappan, association general secretary. Association president R. Sakthivel said the 4,650 public libraries in the State had remained shut for five months. “The libraries have around 20 lakh members. There are around 10,000 workers and the libraries account for over two crore books, languishing without maintenance,” he said. In the petition, the association said that local bodies should pay the amount due to the libraries. Local bodies must give away 10% from the revenue tax it collects for the upkeep of libraries, it said. The association also said the government should increase the fund allocation for book purchase to 20%, from 6.5%. “Libraries can ensure adherence to physical distancing by reducing the number of chairs. An attendant can also keep a check on the number of people inside,” said K. Nithyanandam, president of the Madras Library Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-libraries-to-reopen-urge-magazine-publishers/article32425232.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin wants white paper||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday urged the State government to come out with a White Paper on investments made through Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed in the Global Investors Meet (GIM-2), during the Chief Minister’s foreign tour and the COVID-19 pandemic, and the employment opportunities generated by the MoUs. In a statement in Chennai, he said that unemployment had increased to 49.9%, and it was double the national average of 23.5%. “Since December 2019, unemployment has increased by 10 times and dashed the hopes of the youth,” he charged. Citing a survey report of the Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS) and the Department of Economics and Statistics that 53% of households in Tamil Nadu had witnessed at least one job loss during the pandemic, Mr. Stalin said the situation was the same in both urban and rural areas. He alleged that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami depended on empty announcements and ostentatious advertisements and gave priority to “tenders released with the aim of collecting commission”. According to him, the economy and industrial growth of the State had hit rock-bottom and the government had disappointed and betrayed the youth of the State. Mr. Stalin said 83.4% of unorganised workers had lost their jobs. “But the government has not paid heed to the demand of the DMK that Rs. 5,000 should be given to every family,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-wants-white-paper-on-job-opportunities/article32425244.ece
24 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Camera traps installed to monitor wild elephants||The Forest Department has installed camera traps in Coimbatore Forest Division to monitor wild elephants. Officials with the Department said that cameras were installed within the limits of Coimbatore forest range of the division, which has been witnessing increased movement of wild elephants. Sixty cameras that were given by the authorities of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) were installed at various locations in the forest range on August 20 and 21. Officials with the Forest Department said that the monitoring exercise will be done for 30 days. “Visuals from the cameras will be used to create a profiling of elephants in the range. Human-animal conflict The data generated can be used to study about individual elephants and herds. The data can also be used for management of human-elephant conflict,” said an official. Installation of camera traps was initiated as part of various measures taken by the Department to monitor wild elephants, their displacement in forest and their health after Coimbatore Forest Division witnessed 18 elephant deaths so far this year. The Department had recently introduced aerial surveillance of elephants in forests using drones. Field staff from ATR assisted the team in Coimbatore forest range in installing camera traps. The cameras were mainly used for tiger monitoring in ATR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camera-traps-installed-to-monitor-wild-elephants/article32425278.ece
24 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Candidates selected for agri business incubation||As many as 14 beneficiaries have been selected for agri business orientation / incubation at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) here under the Central Government’s Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana – Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sectors Rejuvenation scheme. According to S.D. Sivakumar, Director (Agri Business Development), the scheme has two components: Agripreneurship Orientation Programme (AOP) and Startup Agribusiness Incubation Programme (SAIP). It aims at strengthening infrastructure in agriculture and allied sectors to promote agripreneurship and agribusiness . The TNAU, which has a technology business incubator, was identified for the scheme last financial year. The orientation programme is open to anyone who has an idea and wants to develop it into a prototype in the agriculture sector. The incubation programme is for companies that are in the seed funding stage. About 20 applicants were selected for each from across the State in 2019-20 and they underwent two month training separately. They also received Rs. 10,000 as monthly stipend during the training period. They prepared proposals and made presentations to a committee in March. As many as six were selected for the orientation programme and eight for the incubation programme. They will be incubated at the incubation facility at the TNAU for one year. Those selected for AOP will get Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 2.5 lakh each as grant in two tranches.  Those selected for SAIP will get Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 23 lakh each as grant amount in three tranches. The selected ventures are in different areas, including agricultural inputs, food processing and value addition, banana fibre extraction, leaf propagation methods, information technology, organic farming and products, farm mechanisation and innovations and waste to wealth. The selected candidates had an interaction session with N. Kumar, Vice – Chancellor of TNAU, recently and the first instalment of the grant was released to them. For the 2020-21, those short-listed for the AOP are undergoing online training and applications will be received for SAIP till the end of this month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidates-selected-for-agri-business-incubation/article32425288.ece
24 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Payment of unemployment aid will help SME workers’||Workers in small and medium enterprises (SMEs) would benefit from the relaxation of norms under the Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana (ABVKY) to enable the provision of unemployment aid to labourers, according to industries in the manufacturing hubs of Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. R. Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association, said industrial units had struggled to pay workers a portion of their wages during April and May. Many of them had even paid advance amounts to the workers so that they don’t suffer during the lockdown. Against this backdrop, the relaxations under ABVKY came as a relief. However, there was a need for better awareness among the industries so that they could ask their workers to apply for benefits for the lockdown period. The South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association said it had asked the government to treat the lockdown as a period of special leave on medical grounds for the workers, and pay them 50% of their wages from the ESI amount.  Raja. M. Shanmugham, president of the Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation’s (ESIC) decision to pay employees 50% of their average wages for a maximum period of 90 days’ unemployment would help workers overcome the difficulties encountered during unemployment. Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A. Sakthivel said the extension of the scheme for another year, till June 30, 2021, the relaxation of the eligibility criteria and the enhancement of the relief amount for workers who lost their jobs during the pandemic would help them sail through the crisis. But, industry sources said more than 95% of workers in the micro sector and 20%- 30% in the small-scale sector were not covered under the ESI scheme. “The micro units do not have the resources to pay for ESI benefits for its workers, and the labourers frequently switch jobs. So, a majority of the workers are not covered under the ESI scheme. They will not get the unemployment benefit. The government should come out with an alternative scheme for them,” said J. James, president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/payment-of-unemployment-aid-will-help-sme-workers/article32425239.ece
24 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District administration urged to repair causeway across River Noyyal||The need for constructing a causeway across River Noyyal on Singanallur-Vellalore Road has risen once again, this time after the River saw good flow. Singanallur MLA and DMK Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik recently wrote to the District Collector to draw his attention to the causeway condition, which he said was so bad that it would not last long. The causeway was at least 30 years old. The then Singanallur Municipality had constructed to provide people connectivity to Vellalore. But over the years, with the increase in population and vehicle movement, the causeway had become an important link to reach to the southern part of the district. J. Daniel, a Vellalore resident and civic activist, said people from north of River Noyyal used Singanallur-Vellalore Road and drove on the causeway to reach not only Vellalore but Chettipalayam, Podanur and even Palakkad. Likewise, people from the south of the River used it to reach the eastern periphery of the city and farther. But of late, whenever the River saw good flow, the causeway was left with slush, just as it had happened last year. And, whenever the water flowed over the causeway it became difficult to drive from one end to another. Mr. Daniel also said that even otherwise it was difficult to drive over the causeway because – one, it was too narrow to accommodate two lorries or a lorry and bus passing through at the same time; and, two, the causeway was full of potholes. In the mornings, it was not uncommon to see vehicles lined one after another on both sides to cross to the other side. Mr. Karthik said he had since 2016 raised the issue with the Corporation but got only assurances in return. The Highways Department too had not taken seriously the issue. And, therefore, he drew the Collector’s attention. If there were to be no action to either construct a new causeway or a bridge within a reasonable time, the DMK would stage a protest, he warned. Sources in the administration, it would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-urged-to-repair-causeway-across-river-noyyal/article32425281.ece
24 August 2020||coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka Chathurthi: 28 cases registered for violating govt. order||The police registered 28 cases against people who celebrated Vinayaka Chathurthi with public gatherings in violation of Government instructions and the direction of the Madras High Court regarding the celebrations. While Coimbatore city police registered 25 cases, Coimbatore district (rural) police registered three cases under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act against persons who formed public gatherings and attempted to take out processions In city limits, cases were registered against members of Hindu Munnani, Hindu Makkal Katchi, Bharat Sena, Akila Bharata Hanuman Sena, Swami Vivekanandar Peravai and Vishva Hindu Parishad. In Coimbatore rural, members of Hindu Munnani were booked by the Sulur and the Periyanaickenpalayam police for unlawful assembly. At some places in the district, members of Hindu organisations installed idols by violating instructions by the Government. Idol immersion The police did not allow people to take out procession for the immersion of idols. They aided immersion of Ganesha idols by individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinayaka-chathurthi-28-cases-registered-for-violating-govt-order/article32425276.ece
24 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Admit students after getting NOC, deemed universities told||The State government has directed deemed universities offering agriculture or allied courses to get its no-objection certificate and then admit students. In an order issued around a fortnight ago, the government said the move was made keeping in mind the interest of students who had enrolled in agriculture or allied courses and the validity of the degree of those who had obtained degree in those subjects from such institutes. Other than the 28 private colleges that were affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, there were eight deemed universities in the State that offered agriculture or allied courses – horticulture, agricultural engineering, forestry, food technology, biotechnology and sericulture. Those deemed universities could apply to the Indian Council for Agricultural Research for accreditation only after the first batch of students had graduated. This meant that the institutes would apply in the fourth year. And, considering that the accreditation process took eight to 12 months, the institutes could get accredited only in the fifth year. Thereafter, they would have to apply to the State government for no-objection certificate, as mentioned in Government Order 171 of 2018. The order said, “By the time they [deemed universities] apply for No Objection Certificate to State government after five years of starting agriculture and allied courses, further student batches will be admitted and with this, considerable number of students would undergo the agriculture and allied degree programmes with uncertainty of outcome of accreditation proposal submitted to the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.” Therefore, in the students’ interest, the government said all deemed to be universities intending to offer agriculture or allied programmes should first obtain no-objection certificate before offering the courses. And, then they would have to get accredited as well as per the Council norms. Those deemed universities that offered the courses, should furnish proof of having obtained its approval for offering the courses. If they have not, they should do so within six months and admit students after complying with the University Grants Commission’s 2016 regulations. The order also asked the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University registrar to follow up on its order with the eight deemed universities that offered agriculture or allied courses – SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology, Kalasalingam University, Karunya University, Prist University, Bharath University, Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya Institute of Agri. and Rural Development, Amirtha Vishwa Vidyapeetham and Saveetha University. The University registrar was not available for his comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admit-students-after-getting-noc-deemed-universities-told/article32425266.ece
24 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teacher to bear education expenses of former student’s son||A senior teacher from Government Higher Secondary School, Velliangadu, has said that he will bear the higher education expenses of the son of a former student. R. Arulsiva, a Tamil teacher who has been teaching in the government school for nearly three decades, said on that his former student K. Nagarajan came to the school to admit his son N. Arulsiva to Class VI admission. Having been touched by the gesture of his former student naming his son after him, Mr. Arulsiva said he volunteered to bear the expenses of his school and higher education of the 11-year-old boy. “I will take [the boy] one step ahead of what I am,” the teacher told The Hindu. He was also taken by surprise as he had not seen Mr. Nagarajan for over 20 years since he passed out from the school. “I always liked the way he taught us. He was always considerate,” said Mr. Nagarajan when he asked why he named his son after his former teacher. Pass percentage He finished Class X in 1998 and recalled that the school registered a pass percentage of 96.8% in the Class X examinations the year he passed out. The boy studied till Class V in a government primary school at Adimadayanur near Velliangadu. A daily wage worker, Mr. Nagarajan said that his son will now study in his alma mater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-to-bear-education-expenses-of-former-students-son/article32425275.ece
24 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for alleged casteist slur against woman panchayat chief||The Negamam police in Coimbatore booked a man on Sunday for alleged casteist slur against a Dalit woman panchayat president. K. Saritha (34), president of J. Krishnapuram village panchayat, complained to the Coimbatore District Superintendent of Police that the man, who according to her belongs to another Dravidian party, has been harassing her for a very long time, often calling her by her caste name. According to her, the man came to her office recently and said that she was not fit to sit on the chair of panchayat president because she hailed from a lower caste. Based on her complaint, the Negamam police registered a case against the man identified as Usilaimani alias Balasubramaniam under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Sunday. “He has been making casteist remarks on me at public places. He came to my office on August 19 and questioned why I did not stand up with respect after seeing him. He also issued a death threat stating that I should not sit on the chair of president,” she alleged. Taking up the issue, DMK president M.K. Stalin tweeted on Sunday seeking protection for Ms. Saritha and action against those who are threatening her. “Is there no safety for anyone in this government's regime?” asked Mr. Stalin. Ms. Saritha said that the post of the panchayat president was earlier held by an AIADMK functionary. The police said that they will conduct a detailed investigation to check the woman’s allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-alleged-casteist-slur-against-woman-panchayat-chief/article32425260.ece
24 August 2020||DindiguL,TAMIL NADU||Forest offences have come down, says DFO||Forest offences have come down in the forest ranges here since 2016, said District Forest Officer C. Vidhya here on Saturday. Responding to a news item published on August 21, she said the government had recruited personnel to various positions through the TN Forest Uniform Services Recruitment Committee that the vigil was tight since the last four years. In fact, sandalwood tree felling had come to nil in the range, she said. Against a total strength of 157 posts including forest range officer, forester, guard and watcher posts, there were only 34 vacancies. When Forest Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan was taking keen interest and extra efforts for forest protection, it was incorrect to mention that poaching was on the rise. The wildlife offences have come down steadily due to intensified vigil. During COVID-19 times, to prevent any kind of poaching or other illegal offences, the DFO said that they have 14 anti-poaching watchers. As and when they received information from the officers concerned, action was taken, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-offences-have-come-down-says-dfo/article32425500.ece
24 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Coir pith FPO unit formed||A Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) involved in coir pith block making unit was inaugurated at Chennimalai. Supported by NABARD, the Manvasam FPO will be involved in making coir pith, which is the by-product obtained while extracting fibre from husk. C.R. Abuvarajan, AGM, District Development, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, inaugurated the FPO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coir-pith-fpo-unit-formed/article32425254.ece
24 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Minister takes holy dip at Bhavani Kooduthurai||Despite total lockdown on Sunday, Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji took a holy dip at Bhavani Kooduthurai here. The Minister arrived at Kooduthurai at 8.30 a.m. and took a dip at the confluence of Rivers Cauvery, Bhavani and Agaya Gangai. Later, he left for Erode. The Bhavani temple remains closed to public since the COVID-19 lockdown announcement in March. The Minister told mediapersons that for the consecration of his ancestral temple at Moolipatti village in Sivakasi on August 28, he had already collected holy water from Kanyakumari, Papanasam and Tiruchendur. “The ancient Bhavani temple has a long history and taking a holy dip and collecting water for the consecration is special,” the Minister said. Temple authorities were unavailable for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-takes-holy-dip-at-bhavani-kooduthurai/article32425289.ece
24 August 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Copra procurement: Krishnagiri targets 1,450 tonne this year||Copra procurement has commenced in the state with a targeted procurement of 40,000 tonne this year. According to the administration,Tamil Nadu has 4,35,621 ha under coconut production and 47,064 lakh coconuts are being procured from farmers in a bid to provide them support price for ball copra and milling copra. In Krishnagiri, 1,450 tonne is targeted for procurement this year. According to the administration, Rs. 103 per kg. is being provided as support price for ball copra and Rs. 99.60 per kg for milling copra. In the State, a targeted procurement of 500 tonne of ball copra and 39,500 tonnes of milling copra is proposed to be procured from the farmers through the copra procurement centres Each year, when the price of copra falls, the government procures copra from farmers through procurement centres across the State. Procurement centre for copra procurement have been set up in Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Dindigal, Sivagangai, Krishnagiri, Ramanathapuram, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tiruvanur, Nagapattinam, Vellore, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, Tiruppur, Erode, Theni, Dharmapuri, Virudunagar, and Kanniyakumari. Across the State 40 regulated copra procurement centre have commenced operations. According to the administration, regulated procurement centres have been set up in Krishnagiri and Pochampalli. Farmers will be provided the support price within three days of procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/copra-procurement-krishnagiri-targets-1450-tonne-this-year/article32425274.ece
24 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positivity rate comes down||After seeing a high COVID-19 positivity rate of 7.41 in July, the district’s positivity rate has dropped to 2.92 since August 1. As per data obtained from the district administration, 73,544 test samples were taken between August 1 and 20, with at least 3,000 samples taken every day. As many as 2,151 tested positive and the lowest number of cases recorded was 40, on August 4, and the highest was 174, on August 2. Deputy Director of Public Health Priya Raj said though there was no set target on number of tests to be taken in a day, a high number of samples were taken consistently so as to be better prepared. “With only about 100 persons testing positive each day, one could argue that it is enough to test only around 1,000 samples. However, we need to ensure that we exercise caution and be on alert,” she said. “We continue testing those having influenza like illness (ILI) symptoms, travel history and contacts of positive patients. We have also intensified sample testing at toll plazas on the entries to the district. It is better to pick out the positive case in advance to contain the spread,” she said. Collector T. G. Vinay had earlier told The Hindu that they intend to keep the positivity rate at its current status to reduce the burden of tracing contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positivity-rate-comes-down/article32425493.ece
24 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tailoring unit inaugurated in Madurai||A tailoring unit, which aims to provide livelihood opportunities for women and transgender women who have suffered economic losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was inaugurated in Shenoy Nagar here recently. Priya Babu, a trangender activist, said Madurai City Ladies Circle 60 sponsored five tailoring machines and SELCO India, a rural energy service provider, donated solar panels. Ms. Babu, who is also the head of Transgender Resource Centre in Madurai, said the pandemic had left many women and transwomen from underprivileged families in deep financial crisis. “With the help of some sponsors, the TRC supplied essential commodities to those who reached out to us during the lockdown. But it was felt that they needed a regular source of income. So the unit was started,” she said. Initially eight persons would be employed - five as tailors and three others for other work - at the unit. “On a positive note, the unit has received orders to stitch 13,000 face masks and 100 cloth bags. Many others have promised to give orders to the unit,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tailoring-unit-inaugurated-in-madurai/article32425488.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||From lift operator to Dhyan Chand awardee||It was in 1998 when life drastically changed for J. Ranjith Kumar, a differently-abled person hailing from Madurai who was then working as a lift operator. Mr. Kumar, then aged 24, entered the field of sports to become a para-athlete. In the next 15 years, he won several national and international medals in shot put, discus and javelin throw. Today, this 46-year-old champion is the District Para-Athletic Coach with the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu and has trained several para-athletes. In recognition of his contribution, the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has selected Mr. Kumar for the Dhyan Chand Award. He will receive the national sports award through a virtual function scheduled for August 29. Mr. Kumar says he dropped out of school after clearing Class 10 and took up odd jobs such as selling bus tickets, working in a telephone booth and as a lift operator, to make his ends meet. “It was at a meeting organised by the Differently-Abled Welfare Association that I met R. Parasuraman, a P.T. teacher in a private school. He encouraged me to become a para-athlete and also became my coach,” he says. In his 15-year-long sports career, Mr. Kumar has won 38 gold medals in national-level events. He has participated in 26 international-level events and has won 10 gold, six silver and six bronze medals. He says that his most important victory was the bronze medal that he won for discus throw in the 18th Commonwealth Games. The silver medal won for discus throw in the FESPIC Games that was held in South Korea in 2002, was his other important victory, he adds. Mr. Kumar says that despite winning several awards, he had to endure a long struggle to finally receive the Dhyan Chand Award this year. He had been nominated to receive the award since 2015 and had even moved the court saying that he was qualified to receive the award. “There have been times when I used to feel disheartened. But, receiving the award now makes me realise that sincere efforts will always reap benefits,” he says. He has been working as the District Para-Athletic coach since 2007 on contract basis and he currently earns a monthly salary of Rs. 22,000. He says that many of his students have won several awards in the national and international events. “Despite working hard for 13 years as a coach, my job has not been regularised yet. If this demand is fulfilled, I can continue working with a peaceful mind,” he adds. Mr. Kumar says that there are many para-athletes from rural areas and underprivileged families with immense talent and potential to win international events. “All they need is some financial support from sponsors. There is also a need to improve the sports infrastructure for differently-abled athletes in the country,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-lift-operator-to-dhyan-chand-awardee/article32425285.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lowest for Virudhunagar in two months||A total of 96 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday and 105 on Sunday. The tally rose to 13,433. On Sunday, 102 of the 105 cases were indigenous and three were imported, according to the State Health bulletin. All of the 96 cases on Saturday were indigenous. With 220 persons being discharged from the district's COVID-19 treatment facilities over the weekend, the total number of discharged rose to 12,123. The total number of active cases on Sunday was 975. Three persons succumbed to the virus on Sunday and one person on Saturday, taking the death toll to 335. The death toll in Virudhunagar district went up to 170 after five more deaths – two on Saturday and three on Sunday. Virudhunagar recorded the lowest number of positive cases – 10 – in the last two months. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 11,895. However, with 106 patients getting discharged on Sunday (11,220 discharged till date), the number of active patients has come down to 505. On Saturday, the district reported 39 new cases and 50 patients got discharged.   Theni saw 314 new cases and the tally stood at 11,445. As many as 488 patients have been discharged in the last two days. Dindigul recorded 305 cases in the last two days with which the tally moved to 5,737. The number of patients discharged stood at 172, and number of discharged at 4,621. Ramanathapuram recorded 78 cases with which the total number of cases stood at 4,385. There were 121 discharges. Sivaganga reported 104 new cases in the last two days and the total number of cases stood at 3,734. There were 101 discharges. Southern districts Tirunelveli saw 289 cases, with which the tally moved to 8,487. There were 297 discharges. In Thoothukudi, 213 fresh cases were recorded and the total number of cases moved to 10,635. There were 259 discharges. Kanniyakumari had 290 cases which took the tally to 8,538. There were 338 discharges. Tenkasi saw 278 cases and the total tally moved to 4,751. The hospitals discharged 338 patients.  * As there was no publication on Sunday (August 23), data for two days have been clubbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lowest-for-virudhunagar-in-two-months/article32425491.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC defers eviction of shops||In a special sitting on Sunday, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court deferred eviction of shops belonging to Kovilpatti Poovanantha Swamy Temple after an objection was raised over an order passed by the Thoothukudi Collector. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Collector to defer the eviction and adjourned the case to September 7. The court was hearing the petition filed by shopkeepers and the temple authorities who contended that the Collector had no jurisdiction to pass the eviction order scheduled for August 24. Senior Counsel M. Ajmal Khan representing the shopkeepers’ association and advocate V.R. Shanmuganathan representing the temple authorities argued that power was vested with the Commissioner of Land Administration and not the Collector. The court directed the petitioners to raise their objection on the issue of jurisdiction on August 24 and the same shall be considered by the Collector as expeditiously as possible within two weeks. The temple shall file a report with photographs pertaining to the list of licensees and tenants, the purpose for which the licences were given and whether the shops in question were encroaching upon any public road. The shopkeepers’ association must give details of its members and the licence fee paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-defers-eviction-of-shops/article32425494.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pushed into selling tea, youth turns a good samaritan||A fortnight ago, Chennai-based volunteer N. Venkatesan, working for Udhavum Kailgal , a group formed to support the underprivileged affected by the COVID-19 lockdown, received a call for help from a single mother in Sholinganallur. The woman, who was working as a domestic help, had lost her job during the lockdown. She requested him for a sewing machine so that she could stitch clothes and earn a living to feed her two children. When Mr. Venkatesan passed on the message on WhatsApp, seeking sponsors, a person from Madurai came forward and donated the machine, worth around Rs. 18,000. The sponsor also arranged a month’s groceries for the family. When Mr. Venkatesan connected with the sponsor through video call to convey the woman’s gratitude, he was taken aback. “I expected the sponsor to be a businessman aged around 40. But it was A. Tamilarasan, a 23-year-old B.Sc. Computer Science graduate. He sells tea. He proved that money or age is no deterrent when it comes to helping others,” said Mr. Venkatesan. Stories of this ilk, however, are not new for Mr. Tamilarasan, who has been feeding abandoned elderly persons during the lockdown, using his earnings from selling tea. Mr. Tamilarasan, whose parents died when he was a-year-and-half old, grew up in an orphanage in Aruppukottai. After graduation, he moved to Chennai in search of a job, but only in vain. “Marina beach became my home in Chennai, as I had no money or place to stay. One day, my belongings were stolen and I started seeking alms to survive. I would sometimes go rag-picking,” he said. Two years later, in 2019, he decided to come to Madurai. He continued to seek alms at the Madurai railway junction and at bus stands. But he suffered when the lockdown was put in place. “It was then that I decided to start selling tea in and around Alanganallur. I was able to earn a decent profit as the demand for tea was good due to the closure of shops,” he said. Mr. Tamilarasan also supplied tea and food to abandoned persons on streets. “The sight of them reminded me of my earlier condition. So I fed around 40 people a day with the money I earned,” he said. After he gained attention on social media and other platforms, help started pouring in. He plans to open a tea shop with the money he received. “I gave a part of the money for the sewing machine. My ultimate aim is to feed the homeless, because I do understand the meaning of hunger,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pushed-into-selling-tea-youth-turns-a-good-samaritan/article32425234.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||Madurai City police seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 11.54 lakh. A team of police from S.S. Colony found some persons loading plastic bags into two autorickshaws on Bharathiyar Street on Friday. On enquiry, they gave contradictory statements. Interrogation revealed that they were trying to sell tobacco products, including gutka.The police seized 56 bags of tobacco products stocked there. They had bought the tobacco products from Bengaluru and were selling them at a premium to traders in Madurai, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Sivaganga districts. The police identified the accused as B. Karthik Deepak, 31, of Bharatiyar Nagar; A. Ashok Muthiah, 31, of Kodimangalam; K. Ghouse Basha, 47, of Ansari Nagar; K. Kannan, 40, of Chittalatchi Nagar; M. Tamilselvam, 35, of Arapalayam; A Senthil, 34, of Pykara; and K. Karthik Pandi, 24, of P.P. Chavadi. The police seized the two vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-worth-rs-1154-lakh-seized/article32425279.ece
24 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dispose of applications for pattas: High Court||Taking a serious view of the fact that a large number of applicants were being made to run from pillar-to-post to get pattas, even in cases where there were no disputes, the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) has directed the State government to take effective steps in disposing of pending applications and file a report to the court on queries raised. The court was hearing a batch of petitions seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to dispose of the pending applications pertaining to the transfer of pattas. The petitioners complained that the authorities had not considered their applications pending for several months and in some cases several years. Justice D. Krishnakumar directed the State to file a report on a series of queries. The court observed that with respect to 1,46,907 pending applications in non-involving sub-division, the Commissioner of Land Administration shall issue proper instructions to all District Collectors to dispose of the applications on merits and submit a report to the court. With regard to the pendency of 6,39,930 applications in involving sub-division, the Commissioner of Land Administration shall spell out the time frame for the disposal of the applications pending in taluk levels, as the Director of Survey and Settlement has stated staff shortage as the reason for delay in disposing of the applications. The court took cognisance of the submission that after completing the training programme to the newly recruited staff, the process to dispose of the applications would be expedited. Taking into account that some of the applicants were illiterate, the court sought to know if there can be a provision to also include the mobile number of the applicant’s family member to receive communication. The court sought to know if a Zonal Deputy Tahsildar or Special Tahsildar of each taluk concerned can be assigned exclusively to deal with patta cases. The court also sought a report with regard to the re-assessment of the UDR scheme which was evaluated in the year 1983, thereafter no assessment was made by the Revenue Department. The case was adjourned to September 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dispose-of-applications-for-pattas-high-court/article32425501.ece
24 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac employees attacked||Unidentified men attacked a Tasmac staff and robbed them of day’s collection of Rs. 3.40 lakh near Vellagoundampatti here during the late hours of Saturday. According to police, the miscreants attacked Ramalingam, a supervisor of the outlet at Vellagoundampatti and two other salesmen Sivakumar and Rajendran while they were returning home after the day’s sales. According to police, the men sprayed chilli powder on the employees and robbed them of the cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-employees-attacked/article32425270.ece
24 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. launches facility for patients in home isolation||The government on Sunday launched an interactive technology platform for operating a remote Home Isolation Monitoring and Counselling System, given the rapid rise of COVID 19 cases in the Union Territory. The facility offered free help to safely manage mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic patients in home isolation, which would ease the burden of public hospitals and optimise the healthcare workforce. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, who launched the facility at the COVID war room in the State Emergency Operation Centre, appealed to those in home isolation to use the services and extend their maximum cooperation. T. Arun, Secretary, Health and Revenue-cum-Collector, S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, Ramesh, Nodal Officer-COVID 19 and other officials were present during the launch. In a note, Mr. Arun said the government had partnered with non-profit organisations, Project StepOne and COVID Response, to develop a core of volunteer counsellors who are enrolled to help in the remote monitoring of home-isolated patients. The government has asked counsellors to volunteer for the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-launches-facility-for-patients-in-home-isolation/article32425245.ece
24 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records eight deaths and 412 new cases||Puducherry recorded eight more COVID-19 deaths taking the toll to 159 even while the cumulative tally of cases crossed the 10,500 mark with 412 admissions on Sunday. All deaths were recorded in Puducherry. The patients, including a 55-year-old woman, were in the age bracket of 35-76 years. The number of deaths in Puducherry stood at 135. The new cases were detected during the testing of 1,282 samples. The active cases aggregated to 3,706, including 2,097 patients under home isolation. The tally stood at 159 deaths, 3,706 active cases and a cumulative total of 10,522 cases with 6,657 patients discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-eight-deaths-and-412-new-cases/article32425248.ece
24 August 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Dugong washed ashore||The carcass of a female adult dugong (sea cow) was found on the Pudumadam sea shore in Mandapam range on Sunday afternoon.  Forest Ranger G. Venkatesh said the carcass was found by the Marine Police and foresters on patrol. “The dugong weighed between 500 and 600 kg. It was bleeding from its mouth and had scratches, likely from bashing against rocks,” he said. The carcass was buried on the beach after autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dugong-washed-ashore/article32425287.ece
24 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Central Prison sets up nursery||The Salem Central Prison as part of its prisoners’ rehabilitation activities has set up a nursery under the Prison Bazaar. Except for a few varieties, majority of saplings were readied using seedlings from the farm run by the prison. The prison authorities have set up the nursery on the premises of Muniappan temple near the Central Prison. According to authorities, the aim of the programme was to create awareness among the public about planting saplings and also make them available for the public at lower rates. Jail Superintendent Tamilselvan said, “we have been planning to set up a nursery for long. It has been set up on the premises of Muniappan Temple as it could be easily accessed by the public.” Mr. Tamilselvan said that varieties such a native Jamun, mangoes, crotons were readied by the Prison itself and saplings of different varieties of roses, coconut, pomegranate were sourced from other districts for sale. Mr. Tamilselvan said, “we are planning to source more seeds for setting up saplings and we are also working on setting up vermicompost pits so that manure could also be made available for the public for low rates.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-central-prison-sets-up-nursery/article32425269.ece
24 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam water level drops to 98.5 feet||The water level at Mettur dam reduced to 98.5ft from 99.15ft on Sunday morning. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam on Sunday was 98.5ft against total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 62,915mcft. The inflow of water to the dam was 9,160 cusecs and outflow to Cauvery river was maintained at 18,000 cusecs and 500 cusecs of water was released through East-West canal. 68.4 mm of rainfall was recorded in the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-water-level-drops-to-985-feet/article32425267.ece
24 August 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||SI transferred||A sub-inspector of police from Ponnamaravathi sub-division in Sivaganga district was transferred from the law and order wing after former High Court judge Justice A. Selvam, complained about inaction over a petition for over 20 days. Following a complaint from a resident of Pulankurichi that anti-social elements were misusing temples and open spaces for consuming liquor, the SI Sethuraja of Pulankurichi station had not taken any action. The former HC judge, a resident of Pulankurichi, who was informed about the issue by the villagers, accompanied them to the police station. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Selvam said that as there appeared to be no action, he took it up with the Collector, who had taken it up with the Superintendent of Police. When The Hindu contacted the SP Rohith Nathan, he said that after an inquiry, the SI was moved out of the station. An Inspector of Police had been vested with the task of investigating into the complaint. Action as per the laws will be taken, he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-transferred/article32425499.ece
24 August 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Be loyal to party than to individuals: OPS||Days after the simmering differences in the AIADMK over the 2021 Chief Ministerial candidate became public, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday appealed to party cadre to remain loyal to the party than to individuals. The Deputy Chief Minister, who arrived in Theni two days ago, met about 50 AIADMK functionaries at his farmhouse on Sunday. His elder son and Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar and MLA S.T.K. Jakkaiyan were among those present at the interaction. According to a reliable source, addressing the party functionaries, he said that they should all devise strategies from now on so that the AIADMK emerged victorious in the 2021 Assembly election. He felt that since the government had fulfilled its promises as charted by the late leader Jayalalithaa, the party could win hands down. “If the wishes of our Amma must continue, we have to forget and forgive whatever happened to us [individually] in the past and come together to make the party continue to rule the State,” he said. Bastion of ‘Two Leaves’ He also said that the district (Theni) had been very close to the AIADMK founder M. G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, so much so, that it had been described as the bastion of ‘Two Leaves’. Hence, the party cadre and functionaries should make every district across Tamil Nadu like Theni in the ensuing election. Without mentioning any names, Mr. Panneerselvam said that only those loyal to the party would get tickets. Hence, every worker should be loyal to the party and not to any individual, including himself, he underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-loyal-to-party-than-to-individuals-ops/article32425243.ece
24 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Stern action against derogatory posts on social media, says SP||Strict action would be taken against those posting derogatory posts on social media, said Superintendent of Police Jayakumar here on Sunday. Speaking to the media after checking whether total lockdown norms were followed in the town, he said since provocative social media posts would have serious ramifications, people should not share or post messages that would disturb tranquillity in the society. He said three teams had been formed to look into narcotics smuggling cases. Recently the police had registered 28 cases, arrested 34 people and seized 27 kg of ganja and 25 kg of charas. On the incident of a sickle being placed on the body of history-sheeter Duraikannu, he said the police would investigate the matter and take action. He said 7,981 cases had been booked so far in Thoothukudi district against violators during the COVID-19 pandemic period. As many as 9,436 people were arrested, 3,529 vehicles seized and 3,459 returned to the owners. For effective control, driving licence, Registration Certificate and insurance documents were checked in 200 places in the district, including 26 points in the town. Those who were moving about on total lockdown on Sunday were questioned and only if they give a valied reason would they were allowed to proceed. If their reply was not convincing, they would be sent back, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stern-action-against-derogatory-posts-on-social-media-says-sp/article32425489.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||561 new cases, 13 deaths in central region||The central districts on Sunday recorded 561 new cases for COVID-19, depicting a considerable drop from 633 patients who tested positive on Saturday for the viral infection. But there were 13 deaths on Sunday, compared to nine the previous day. The 12 casualties accounted for four patients from Thanjavur, and three each from Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. The rest comprised one patient each from Karur, Nagapattinam and Perambalur districts. In Thanjavur, a 55-year-old man who was recovering from a Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Surgery died of respiratory failure caused by the viral infection, and a 48-year-old man died with comorbidities including coronary kidney disease. A 65-year-old woman also succumbed to the infection with comorbidities including hypertension and diabetes. A 56-year-old Sub Inspector of Police attached to Thogur Police Station in Thanjavur also succumbed to the viral infection. He had been in home quarantine but was shifted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after he suffered respiratory distress, official sources said. In Tiruvarur, men aged 81, 80 and 68 died with comorbidities including diabetes. In Tiruchi, a 53-year-old man suffered respiratory failure, and a 76-year-old man who suffered acute kidney injury succumbed to the infection. A 95-year-old man from Karur, a 74-year-old man from Nagapattinam and a 67-year-old man from Perambalur succumbed to the viral infection with comorbidities including diabetes and hypertension. Meanwhile, Pudukottai recorded the highest number of cases in the central region, with 155 cases. Among the patients who tested positive were ante-natal mothers, primary contacts of those who tested positive, and local cases whose contact and travel history will be traced. In Thanjavur, an electrician at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital, a staff nurse at a private hospital, a staff nurse at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, a government school teacher, two district reporters of two different Tamil dailies were among the 116 who tested positive in the district. Tiruchi recorded 96 cases, many of who hailed from existing containment zones, some frontline workers and primary contacts. The patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment. In Ariyalur, 64 patients- 34 from Ariyalur town, 11 from Thirumanur, five each from T. Palur and Andimadam, and seven from Jayankondam tested positive for the viral infection on Sunday, while in Karur, 49 patients tested positive. Perambalur recorded 30 new COVID-19 cases- 13 from Perambalur town, nine from Veppanthattai, seven from Veppur and one from Alathur blocks. The total number of cases in the district is now 1153. In Thanjavur, 29 patients tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In Nagapattinam, 22 patients, including one healthcare worker at the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, 10 primary contacts and four patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses tested positive for the viral infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/561-new-cases-13-deaths-in-central-region/article32425540.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lukewarm response for plan to replace Travellers Bungalow with shopping complex||The move by Tiruchi Corporation to construct a shopping complex replacing the Travellers Bungalow (TB) on Bharathidasan Road in Cantonment under Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode has not been received well by the people. Under the initiative, the civic body plans to build a shopping complex by dismantling the existing Travellers Bungalow situated opposite to the District Court. The TB, which has four suites, is mainly used to accommodate officials, MLAs, MPs and other important dignitaries. Since it is more than four decades old, it has lost its charm and requires a complete makeover. Moreover, officials, MLAs and MPs hardly choose to stay there. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, the building has been kept closed. It is to make full use of the facility that the Corporation unveiled its plan to build a shopping complex in its budget in 2017. It called upon an Expression of Interest (EoI) a few weeks ago, inviting individuals or firms to submit their proposals. As per the plan, the Corporation will provide land for building a shopping complex. Interested persons will have to invest money for building the complex. The Corporation will bear the expenditure on building proposal. Besides constructing the building, the successful bidders will have to pay a monthly rent to the Corporation. Though the land is in a prime location, no individual or firm has come forward to submit an Expression of Interest, sources said. The Corporation received just one enquiry for the proposed PPP project. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hinduthat no one had shown interest for the project. It could be due to the impact of COVID-19. There were apprehensions among traders and businessmen that it would take some time for total revival of business and trade. If needed, businessmen and traders would be given one more opportunity for submitting their proposals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lukewarm-response-for-plan-to-replace-travellers-bungalow-with-shopping-complex/article32425534.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pachyderms enjoy kozhukattai||An air of festivity permeated the sprawling premises of Forest Department’s Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R. Palayam near here during Vinayaka Chathurthi on Saturday. Pujas were performed to seven captive elephants. The programme was organised by the department officials. The elephants enjoyed an extended bathing session in the afternoon lasting for nearly two hours, said a senior department official. Thereafter, they were all lined up at a particular spot and adorned with garlands. An elderly villager performed special pujas and deeparadhana for the seven elephants, Malachi, Indhu, Sandhya, Jayanthi, Gomathi, Jameela and Deivanai, and were fed with sakkarai pongal kozhukattai , sugarcane, papaya and watermelon, much to the delight of the pachyderms. The celebrations lasted nearly an hour in the evening with District Forest Officer, Tiruchi, D. Sujatha, department officials and mahouts taking part. “The elephants were all in a very joyful mood during the entire celebrations,” Ms. Sujatha said. After the conclusion of the celebrations, the elephants were taken back to their shelter. The animals were being taken care of by a team of mahouts and Forest Department officials at the centre situated along Tiruchi-Chennai national highway. A proper dietary schedule was being followed for the captive elephants under periodic monitoring by a veterinarian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/captive-elephants-enjoy-kozhukattai/article32425283.ece
24 August 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||Woman overpowers perpetrator in Tiruvannamalai||The police have arrested a 38-year-old man posing like a mendicant, who attempted to rape a 30-year-old American woman in Tiruvannamalai on Sunday. Since the woman knew martial arts, she overpowered him and handed him over to the police. According to the police, the woman came to Tiruvannamalai in March. She was stranded here due to the lockdown. So she extended her visa and rented a house along the Girivalam Path recently. On Sunday, a man attempted to rape her. “However, he did not know that she was trained in martial arts. She overpowered him and raised an alarm. Neighbours rushed to her help, nabbed the man and informed the police,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-foils-rape-bid-gets-man-arrested/article32425240.ece
24 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||A community in Ooty saves a school||When R. Karthik, Block Education Officer (Coonoor), enrolled his eldest daughter to continue her education at the Nanjanad Panchayat Union Primary School near Udhagamandalam, it represented a huge turnaround in fortunes for the school. From having a student strength of just 16 children just a few years ago, the initiatives taken by the local villagers to modernise the school and improve the infrastructure has led to a steady increase in student numbers. As of 2019, 142 students were getting their education at the school, with the student strength expected to increase once again this year. Mr. Karthik, speaking to The Hindu, said that he, along with other residents of Nanjanad, who had studied at the school, had been saddened by the drop in student strength. “Many of us feared that the school might be closed down and decided to intervene and save it,” said Mr. Karthik. A door-to-door campaign to enrol eligible students was launched, and parents were asked about what measures would need to be taken to convince them to send their children to the local government school. As most parents wanted their children to study in schools where the medium of instruction was in English, the group spearheading the revitalisation of the school decided to employ teachers who could speak, write and teach the lessons in English. “We now have seven teachers who are paid for by the parents of the children who go to the school,” said Mr. Karthik. An educational trust has been formed by the parents to cover the expenses of hiring the teachers, and to pay for transporting the kids to and from school and for also purchasing additional produce for the children’s noon meals. The cost of these additional facilities comes to around Rs. 1 lakh each month, and so the parents of each child enrolled at the school pay the school Rs. 1,000 a month, said local residents. “The government is doing the most it can to make affordable education possible. However, getting local communities involved in keeping the schools thriving and relevant will ensure that our village schools will keep functioning and there won’t be a need to send our children to private schools,” said Mr. Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-community-in-ooty-saves-a-school/article32425272.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CMCH to start plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) is all set to begin convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients with the opening of a plasma bank at the tertiary care facility on Sunday. Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani and Minister for Health and Family Welfare C. Vijayabaskar inaugurated the plasma bank set up at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. A photojournalist, a house surgeon of CMCH, and two army men were the first four persons to donate plasma at the facility on Sunday. The donors had recovered from COVID-19 recently. According to Dr. Vijayabaskar, antibodies in the plasma neutralise the virus, reduce the viral load in patients and their dependence on oxygen support. The CMCH medical team has identified patients who will receive the plasma transfusion in the coming days. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that plasma bank uses Apheresis method to collect plasma from voluntary donors. This method involves collection of plasma alone from the donor while other blood components are re-introduced into the bloodstream of the donor. A. Mangayarkarasi, medical officer of the blood bank at CMCH, said that 400ml of plasma was collected from donors on Sunday though upto 500 ml can be collected. “Voluntary donors are screened for various diseases before collecting plasma. Their blood sample is also checked to assess the level of IgG antibodies against COVID-19. 200 ml of plasma will be transfused to the receiver on two consecutive days,” she said. Ten more donors have registered for donation. Persons aged between 18 and 65 who recovered from COVID-19 are eligible to donate plasma, 14 days after they test negative for the disease. People with hypertension, diabetes, heart and kidney diseases, cancer and those who have undergone organ transplantation are not eligible to donate plasma. An eligible donor can donate plasma twice in 28 days and the plasma stored at -40 degrees Celsius can be kept for a year. The two Ministers conducted a review meeting which was attended by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, District Collector K. Rajamani, City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K.S. Narenthiran Nair, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath, Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar, City Health Officer S. Raja and senior officials from various departments. After the meeting, Dr. Vijayabaskar said that the Health Department conducted 6,312 fever camps in which 1,902 persons were diagnosed with COVID-19. Coimbatore district's recovery rate stood at 78% as of Saturday, he said. He said that aggressive testing as done in Chennai will be conducted in Coimbatore. He added that efforts were being taken to send COVID-19 test results through SMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-to-start-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients/article32425262.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 392 cases||Coimbatore district saw 392 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 11,751. As many as 3,098 patients were under treatment at various hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in the district. The media bulletin issued by the Health Department said that two patients died of the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday and Saturday. With this, the official death toll of the district increased to 237. With more patients getting admitted to hospitals and CCCs, the district administration was taking efforts to increase the bed strength of the district. It also plans to include one more hall at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex to treat patients. As of Sunday, the district had 5,800 beds in various hospitals and CCCs that are dedicated for COVID-19 patients. As many as 261 cases were reported in Salem. Health officials said 250 cases were indigenous, including 91 in corporation limits. 10 patients have travelled to other districts. Recording the largest single-day rise in COVID-19 cases, 87 people tested positive in the Nilgiris. The district also recorded the single highest increase in the number of declared deaths with three persons succumbing to the disease. Twenty-seven persons who tested positive are from Kookalthorai and Uyilatty. The affected persons are alleged to have picked up infection after they attended a funeral. With 75 fresh cases, Tiruppur district saw its overall tally touch 2,020. A 33-year-old Grade-I police constable at Avinashi Police station was among the new cases, Health Department sources said. A total of 54 patients were discharged from various hospitals. In Namakkal, 47 cases were reported. Of this, 15 have travelled to other districts. One patient has returned from Telangana. Erode district reported 45 new cases taking the tally to 2,071. A total of 73 persons were discharged on Sunday while 887 persons continue to be under treatment. Two men, aged 64 and 69, who were under treatment died at the hospital taking the total number of deaths in the district to 32. In Krishnagiri, 19 cases were reported. According to officials, all patients are indigenous. Dharmapuri saw 12 new cases. The affected include a hospital worker of the Government Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital and a staff at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-392-cases/article32425265.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sticks with e-passes||As long as there were "inter-regional variations" in the spread of the disease across the country, there existed a need for restrictions on the inter-State movement of people, he argued. Otherwise, the country may witness a "uniform peak" in the disease spread, which would "only cause more stress" on health infrastructure than the current situation does. The official added that contact tracing had to be ‘abandoned’ if there was "no regulation or restriction" of the movement of people. Meanwhile, Puducherry suspended the e-pass portal. "In pursuance with [sic] government directives, this website is being discontinued with immediate effect. There is no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order," a notice on the now-closed portal said. Following the disbanding of the e-pass system, police presence was skeletal or non-existent at several border points. A senior officer said police presence had not been completely withdrawn from all border points. “We are awaiting an SOP from the administration. On Sunday, police patrols were still conducting random checks”, C. Maran, SP (East), said. Though the removal of the restrictions comes at a particularly difficult time, when the graph of COVID-19 cases in Puducherry is showing an upward trend, the official view is that allowing free entry/exit of people would not have any bearing on the pandemic situation. “We are following the considered view of the Centre that, at this point, the economic cost of continuing with restrictions is greater than any likely benefit,” Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. Medical teams will continue to be posted at major check-points, Health Secretary and District Collector T. Arun said. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy will convene a meeting on Monday to frame an SOP for travellers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sticks-with-e-passes/article32425229.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras Memories||Madras had the privilege of getting the longest flyover at the Gemini intersection, named Anna Flyover, in July 1973. Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had announced, according to The Hindu , “The government has decided to name the important landmarks and roads in Madras (now bearing the names of Britishers) after celebrated Indians in gradual stages.” The legendary auctioneer of Madras — Murray and Co, set up in the early 1920s — presided over the disposal and hand-over of several properties. The sale of the Express Estate, then known as Madras Club, the Khaleeli (Agurchand) Mansions and the Brodie Castle were notable deals. A more recent incident was the sale of the property of the Royal family of Cochin to Apollo Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-memories/article32425217.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-a-living/article32425259.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sugar mill agrees to settle farmers’ dues by Sept. 30||Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers Association has said that the private sugar mill at Appakudal has agreed to settle Rs. 64 crore dues to farmers in three instalments by September 30. A.M. Munusamy, district secretary, said that the mill refused to settle dues to the farmers for the supply of cane made from February 1 to August 15. Though crushing season is in progress, the mill failed to settle the dues to the farmers. As per the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966, farmers should be settled their dues within 14 days after receiving the cane. Though the company is earning profit, farmers who are suffering due to COVID-19 lockdown, were not paid, forcing us to commence an indefinite protest in front of the mill from August 19. A tripartite meeting was held in which Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional Officer Jayaraman, Tahsildar Periyasamy, agricultural officers, Deputy Superintendent of Police Karthikeyan, company managers and association members attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugar-mill-agrees-to-settle-farmers-dues-by-sept-30/article32425253.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Comet sighted in Madras||‘Markos 1957’ the comet spotted in Czechoslovakia on August 23, was observed in Madras and suburban areas tonight between 7.30 p.m. and 8.15 p.m. It was sighted on the western sky about 15 degrees above the horizon. The comet had a fairly long tail and was pointing towards the north. Reports have been received about its appearance in the city during the last three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comet-sighted-in-madras/article32425224.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||During the 74th Independence Day celebration in Chennai, it was disappointing that the Chief Minister gave a speech on financial aspects of the State instead of highlighting how we got freedom and how freedom of speech should be exercised in our country. It is sad that a senior lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, is facing two contempt of court cases in the Supreme Court in our independent India. Arun Shourie, a senior journalist, faced a contempt case over an article. Similarly, a cases have been filed against social activists. This should have been highlighted. G. Stanley Jeyasingh,  Nagercoil   Some years back, Ramanathapuram municipality provided computerised assessment numbers for drinking water tap connections. However, the old door numbers of buildings are retained in receipts issued though new door numbers had been given many years back. These dual door numbers lead to confusion among the tax-payers. I appeal to the district administration to set this right by providing the present door numbers in receipts. Asmabagh Anvardeen,      This is with reference to the news, ‘Online classes out of reach for many college students’ ( August 17). Apart from teaching, schools often conduct slip tests, monthly tests, quarterly and half-yearly examinations. Papers are evaluated and students get progress of their performance. This develops a competitive spirit among them. Further, science subjects are taught with experiments in the lab. Though both the government and private institutions have been taking several initiatives to conduct online classes for students, the children are unable to concentrate on studies due to distractions like TV, mobiles and gaming. Classes held through TV broadcasting have no interaction with learners. Children in rural areas don’t have a learning atmosphere at home. Reducing syllabus and homework may not give any desirable results. Instead, the standard of education will be further diluted. Hence, online classes are not effective in the process of teaching or learning and is a poor substitute for classrooms. Until vaccination is invented and administered to all for COVID-19, reopening of schools and colleges is impossible. Hence, this academic year 2020-21 should be skipped. To compensate for this gap, the maximum age for getting an appointment in the government sector should be revised accordingly. R. Chandrasekaran, Madurai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32425492.ece
24 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Patient denied admission in four Belagavi hospitals||A patient suffered inconvenience as he was denied admission in the district civil hospital and three private hospitals in Belagavi on Sunday. Duradundeppa Hugar, a farmer and a small businessman from Nidasosi village near Hukkeri, had consumed poison as he was unable to repay Rs. 2 lakh loan. His wife, Akkamma, brought him to Belagavi for treatment. Doctors in the district civil hospital did not admit the patient saying that the beds were full. However, they gave him some first aid. The doctors administered him an intra-venous fluid and asked his wife to take him elsewhere. Then, the woman took her husband to three private hospitals which, however, refused to admit the patient. She went around with the patient and holding the bottle containing the intra-venous fluid in her hand. And, at a prestigious private hospital, a casualty doctor told her to deposit a huge sum of money before admission. But she could not afford it. She waited for some time for the doctors to reconsider. When she realised that she could not get admission for a lower fee, she decided to go back to her village. But, police officers, who traced her, said that the patient was admitted in a private hospital in Sankeshwar town and that he was out of danger now. The picture of the woman standing by her husband while he was resting on a park bench outside a private hospital was widely shared on social media.  The doctors also said that the beds were fully occupied by COVID-19 patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-denied-admission-in-four-belagavi-hospitals/article32425344.ece
24 August 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||As rainfall subsides, water level in rivers reduces||Water level in the Krishna and other rivers subsided owing to the abatement of rain and reduced release of water from the reservoirs in Maharashtra on Sunday. Irrigation officers reduced the outflow from Almatti dam to two lakh cusecs from 2.5 lakh cusecs. This is the first time in two weeks the levels are being reduced. Water level in the Lal Bahadur Shastri dam on the Krishna in Almatti is now just one metre less than the gross level of 519 metres. The dam has 105.12 tmcft of water against the capacity of 123 tmcft. The inflow into the dam remains over 2.6 lakh cusecs. Water release from Maharashtra, recorded at the Rajapur dam, was 1.42 lakh cusecs. This includes the discharge of 28,000 cusecs from the Koyna dam. Officers estimate that the total release from Maharashtra has been over 15 lakh cusecs, or around 130 tmcft of water. This is far less than the over 600 tmcft of water released from Maharashra last year. In order to avoid the threat of floods, officials kept the outflow higher than the inflow in most reservoirs in the district. Release from the Naviluteertha dam on the Malaprabha was pegged at 11,464 cusecs against the inflow of 8,339 cusecs. This is half of the release on Thursday. The dam now has 34.34 tmcft of water against 37.73 tmcft. Outflow from the Raja Lakhamagouda dam on the Ghataprabha in Hidkal was 20,800 cusecs against the inflow of 20,055 cusecs. The district has suffered from excess rainfall this year. Officials say that the the district received the whole year’s quota of rainfall in the first eight months. Initial estimates indicate that crops in over 43,300 hectares have been damaged in Belagavi district. As per the initial estimates in Bagalkot, crops in over 12,000 hectares have been affected. A joint survey by agriculture, horticulture, and revenue officials will be conducted this week , to arrive a the exact extent of crop damage. The Dharwad district administration has counted 250 damaged houses. The Belagavi district administration has set up 11 flood relief centres in Belagavi district where evacuated families are being given food and shelter. Nayak Student Federation, a Gokak-based NGO, has set up 10 relief centres. The Bagalkot district administration has set up 20 relief centres. Till now, three persons have died of flooding or house collapse across north Karnataka. Traffic has resumed over nine of the 16 bridges that had submerged in floodwaters in Belagavi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-rainfall-subsides-water-level-in-rivers-reduces/article32425180.ece
24 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sero survey from tomorrow||The State government will launch a Sero survey in Belagavi on Tuesday. A team of Health Department officers and zilla panchayat personnel is putting in place a plan of action to conduct the survey. Similar surveys will be launched in other districts too. This will be a random sample survey to assess the presence of antigens and antibodies present in a target population. This is expected to provide data to assess if there is community transmission and if the trend towards herd immunity has begun. A letter from Giridhar Babu, a member of the State-level COVID-19 technical advisory committee, has asked the district administration to conduct the survey. Samples would be pooled from among the general population and vulnerable sections such as corona warriors, including Accredited Social Health Activists and anganwadi workers, doctors, nurses and other field staff. If the sero prevalence is low, then the peak in the number of cases is yet to come. But if the levels are more than 30 %, then, it indicates that the cases will reduce in the future, said a Health Department officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sero-survey-from-tomorrow/article32425345.ece
24 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||136 new COVID-19 positive cases||As many as 136 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were detected in Belagavi district, while 134 patients were discharged on Sunday. The new cases take the total number of active cases to 3,936. So far, 5,851 patients have recovered and 156 have died, including the two deaths on Sunday. As many as 1,558 test results are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/136-new-covid-19-positive-cases/article32425342.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP State Executive meeting on August 30||In the midst of the BJP government facing heat over the COVID-19 management in the State, the party’s State Executive is scheduled to meet on August 30, during which it will take stock of the current political situation and work out modalities for strengthening the party. The day-long executive meeting, to be held online owing to the pandemic and social distancing norms, will discuss party organisation issues, and two resolutions will be passed by the end of the day. The agenda for the executive will be crystalised in a day or two, party sources said. Besides the State President Nalin Kumar Kateel and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, two Central leaders, Bhupendra Yadav and Dharmendra Pradhan, will be part of the meeting. This will be the first meeting of the State Executive after it was recast recently. BJP State General Secretary N. Ravikumar, who met the BJP National Organising General Secretary B.L. Santhosh on Sunday, said that Mr. Santhosh discussed modalities for strengthening the party with four general secretaries, Mahesh Tenginakayi, Siddaraju, and Ashwath Narayan besides Mr. Ravikumar. While Mr. Santhosh has directed the general secretaries to continously tour the State, he has asked for identifiying the party’s strengths and weaknesses in each Assembly constituency to prepare a plan. “As part of the discussion, it was resolved to strengthen booth-level committees, shakti kendras, WhatsApp groups and taluk and district-level party organisations among others,” Mr. Ravikumar said. According to him, it was also decided to take the popular schemes of the BJP government to the people. Party sources also said that Mr. Santhosh also met the heads of various morchas in the State unit besides the social media section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-state-executive-meeting-on-august-30/article32425171.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro stations on extended lines to have better infrastructure||Ever since they were thrown open for commercial operations, Namma Metro stations built under Phase I have come under criticism for lack of infrastructure such as adequate access points to enter the stations, non-availability of bus bays, and congestion owing to lack of space for autorickshaws. Having learned from its past mistakes, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has included these features in the stations under Phase II. Stations in the extended Green Line on Kanakapura Road (Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura), which is likely to open for commercial operations in November, will have “features that were missing in Phase I”, said officials. Pedestrian friendly BMRCL officials said they have also taken into consideration the needs of pedestrians who may want to cross the road but do not have tickets. “In Phase I, entry points to the station were provided at main lanes. Under Phase II, stations have been designed in such a way that entry points have been built by extending the road. This way, pedestrians can use metro stations to cross the road without entering the paid area,” said Mr. Chavan. Washroom facilities will be made available in the concourse level and can be used by non-metro users too.    Chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan said that while designing the metro stations, provisions have been made for bus bays and autorickshaw and taxi pick-up points. Entry points to the station have been provided on service roads instead of the main road, while lifts for the elderly and differently abled people will be available on either side of the road. Congestion outside metro stations has also proven to be a problem for bus drivers. A Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) official expressed hope that this problem would be addressed. “Most of the existing metro stations are located on busy roads. Barring a few stations such S.V. Road and Mysuru Road, there are no bus bays in others. A designated place for buses to stop will help passengers to reach the stations safely,” said an official. Commuters find it difficult to access many metro stations owing to the lack of pavements, subways, and footbridges. More often than not, if there are pavements, they are badly maintained. For example, on Tumakuru Road, stations are located at one end of the road and proposals to build subways to connect the stations still remain on paper. BMRCL officials said such problems have been addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-stations-on-extended-lines-to-have-better-infrastructure/article32425159.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Movement of vehicles inside Cubbon Park resumes from today||Vehicular movement will be allowed inside Cubbon Park from Monday, much to the dismay of citizen activists and regular walkers who have been pushing for a complete ban. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the city, entry of people and vehicular movement in all the parks in the city were prohibited.After the lockdown restrictions were lifted, people were allowed inside Cubbon Park and other parks as long as they wore masks and maintained social distance from one another. Vehicular movement was still not allowed. On August 21, however, the Department of Horticulture issued a circular allowing movement of vehicles in Cubbon Park. Confirming this, Rajender Kataria, Secretary of the departments of Horticulture, Agriculture, and Sericulture, told The Hindu that the department had decided to allowvehicular movement inside the park following requests from the Bengaluru Traffic Police. “There is no order on banning traffic inside the park. We are only restoring what was being followed before COVID-19 restrictions,” he said. Regular visitors to the park said there has been a noticeable improvement in the air quality since March 24 when vehicles were banned. Mr. Kataria, too, said Cubbon Park was thriving and that the air quality had also seen a marked improvement.“The department is in favour of completely restricting vehicular movement inside the park. A decision on the same is likely to be taken by this month-end and the proposal is before Horticulture Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda,” he said. The traffic police, however, maintain that with no alternative roads, the department had recommended allowing vehicular movement inside the park again. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Narayan said the traffic police had also urged the Horticulture Department to not allow parking inside the park. The decision to allow vehicles inside the park again has not gone down well with citizens’ groups. Priya Chetty Rajagopal from Heritage Beku said though the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council had passed a resolution against vehicular traffic inside the park, the government had decided on the contrary. “As part of #CubbonParkUlisi, we got opinions from 15 experts, including the Directorate of Urban Land Transport. All of them favoured a complete ban on vehicular movement inside the park,” she said and pointed out that traffic was banned inside Lalbagh nearly two decades ago.The move does not augur well for the park, she said and added that citizens would strongly oppose and protest it.  There is no order on banning traffic inside the park. We are only restoring what was being followed before COVID-19 restrictions. Rajender Kataria, Secretary, Departments of Horticulture, Agriculture, and Sericulture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movement-of-vehicles-inside-cubbon-park-resumes-from-today/article32425160.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records recovery rate of 68.23%||A total of 5,938 new COVID-19 positive cases were detected in the State on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 2.77 lakh. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, as many as 4,996 patients have been discharged. With this, the numbers of discharges is 1.89 lakh. The recovery rate in the State is now 68.23%. Meanwhile, as many as 68 new COVID-19 deaths were reported in the State on Sunday, taking the total number of COVID-19 related deaths to 4,683. Besides this, there are 16 deaths of COVID-19 positive patients who died due to non COVID-19 reasons. Of the total 83,551 active cases in the State, 787 are admitted in intensive care units across different hospitals. Meanwhile, as many as 40,848 tests were done in the State on Sunday. In Bengaluru Urban, as many as 2,126 new COVID-19 positive cases and five deaths were reported on Sunday. The number of discharges in Bengaluru Urban is twice the number of active cases in the city. While the number of discharges as of Sunday stands at 71,329, the number of active cases stands at 34,877. The recovery rate in the State capital stands at 66.12 % Mysuru, which had not reported any positive cases for two consecutive days due to the strike by doctors, on Sunday reported 92 new COVID-19 cases. However, no discharges were recorded in the department’s media bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-recovery-rate-of-6823/article32425165.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students urge KSLU to postpone or cancel exams for intermediate semesters||A section of students are up in arms over the Karnataka State Law University’s (KSLU) decision to conduct examinations even for intermediate semesters. According to a notification by the varsity, exams for final semesters will commence from September 21 while those for intermediate semesters are scheduled to commence from October 5. Students said the decision to go ahead with examinations for intermediate semesters goes against the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines. Many students are demanding the examinations be postponed. However, P. Ishwara Bhat, Vice Chancellor, KSLU, told The Hindu the university also comes under the Bar Council of India (BCI) whose orders were ‘abiding’ for KSLU. “BCI is a statutory body. They have asked us to conduct exams for intermediate semesters also. Based on their directions, we are getting ready to conduct exams for intermediate semesters,” he said. Incomplete lessons A student studying in a KSLU-affiliated college in Bengaluru said that the varsity should reconsider its decision as they have not completed their portions. “I returned to my hometown once the lockdown began. Ours is a professional course and it is impossible to study without a proper library. They have to conduct exams a month or two after the classes begin so that we have access to the library and also time to prepare,” the student said. Students are worried about whether they will have time to prepare “With colleges closed for around five months and no online classes, how they can expect to appear for the exam. This is impractical as well as an injustice to students,” said another student. Mr. Bhat added that exams for the intermediate semester are scheduled to commence from the first week of October and that the timetable would be released in a day or two. “However, it will be a tentative schedule.,” he added. Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the KSLU to withdraw the exam notification ‘in the interest of students’ in a series of tweets. “Karnataka State Law University has notified examination dates for all the semesters. This is inspite of guidelines issued by State govt. & UGC to not conduct intermediate sem exams due to pandemic,” he tweeted. He cited students’ concerns about completing the syllabus owing to the suspension of classes. “Many colleges & students have no adequate digital infra to conduct online classes. KSLU should be considerate enough to the problems of students instead of overburdening them with exams as well,” Mr. Siddaramaiah’s tweets read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-urge-kslu-to-postpone-or-cancel-exams-for-intermediate-semesters/article32425161.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State government lays down guidelines for plasma therapy||Plasma therapy may have helped save lives, but not everyone is eligible to donate to banks. People who have recovered from COVID-19 and wish to donate their plasma should be in the 18 to 60 age group. Besides this, donors should either be male or women who have not given birth. All donors must weigh over 50 kg. This is to mitigate the risk of transfusion related to acute lung injury. These are some of the eligibility criteria laid down by the State government in the guidelines specified for convalescent plasma therapy. The guidelines also state that a recovered COVID-19 patient should have preferably had symptoms such as fever, cough and cold as there is a greater possibility of the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies compared to an asymptomatic patient. That said, plasma from asymptomatic donors can be accepted if the antibodies are present. ‘Limited evidence’ While laying down the guidelines, the government in its circular dated August 22 however said that the therapy is based on ‘limited available evidence’. “As the situation evolves, and when more data becomes available, the evidence will accordingly be incorporated and recommendation upgraded,” the circular issued by Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, stated. Donors have also been advised not to donate more than twice a month. The maximum number of times a person can donate is 24 times a year. Written consent needs to be obtained from the donor. Meanwhile, if the donor has complete resolution of symptoms at least 14 days prior to the donation, they are ‘preferably’ asked to produce an RT PCR negative report for SARS CoV 2 infection. If the donation is done after complete resolution of symptoms 28 days prior or post-discharge, a negative report is not necessary. Counselling for patients To ensure that more people sign up for plasma donation, the State government has said that patients admitted at COVID-19 Care institutions or hospitals for treatment should be counselled about the procedure for plasma donation during their stay. All blood banks have been asked to identify potential donors from the list of COVID-19 recovered patients. Rs. 5,000 towards care The State government has also decided to provide the donor Rs. 5,000 for nutrition and care. The timing of when plasma therapy is given to a patient battling COVID-19 is also crucial. ‘Plasma transfusion should be done on patients with ‘moderate disease with increasing oxygen requirements,” read the circular. It needs to be done before the patient goes into multiple organ failure. One or two units should be administered to patients on two consecutive days. The plasma transfused should be preferably from two different donors. A senior doctor on COVID-19 duty in the State said that the medical fraternity has welcomed the guidelines. “A few States are using plasma therapy effectively to treat COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities. However, in Karnataka plasma therapy has not picked up pace and there are very few donors who have signed up. Hopefully now, the State government will give an impetus to this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-government-lays-down-guidelines-for-plasma-therapy/article32425169.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Green Line stretch to open in November||Commercial operations on the 6-km extended Green Line — with five stations at Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli,Talaghattapura, and Anjanapura — are slated to begin in the first week of November. The trial run on the line will start by August-end. It will be the first line to open underPhase II, which has a total length of 72 km. This line will have automatic fare collection boxes that will allow QR code-based tickets and common mobility cards. “Due to space constraints, parking facility will be made available for only two-wheelers and bicycles,” said chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-line-stretch-to-open-in-november/article32425157.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Real estate dealer shot at in K.R. Puram||A real estate dealer was shot at and attacked with weapons by unknown assailants outside his office at K.R. Puram on Saturday night. According to police sources, Babu, a resident of Channasandra, near Ramamurthynagar, sustained a bullet injury and cuts. He is being treated in a private hospital, said a police officer. Around 9.30 p.m. on Saturday, a group of people on two motorcylces allegedly stopped at Babu’s office and opened fire. “When he tried to escape, they attacked him with a machete and fled,” the officer said. The police are probing the motive for the attack, but suspect it is connected with a fight he got into with a group of people over parking problems. “He had asked a group of people not to park their bikes haphazardly and create nuisance. When they continued to do it, he took it up with them again. This led to a fight,” said the police officer. A case of attempt to murder has been booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/real-estate-dealer-shot-at-in-kr-puram/article32425156.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Row over Hindi: HDK slams AYUSH Secretary||The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday slammed Secretary of the Union Ministry of AYUSH Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, who had asked Tamil Nadu officials to leave a meeting after they informed him that they could not understand Hindi. In a series of tweets on Sunday, Mr. Kumaraswamy asked: “Is it not a violation of federal system to ask the participants to go out of the meeting for not knowing Hindi? The Secretary has informed that he does not know English. Is his move a request for not knowing English? or is it a shameless enthusiasm to impose Hindi?” In another tweet, he said: “The federal system under the constitution is the mantra of unity. Every language is part of the federal system. When such is the case, is it not against the federal system to ask participants to go out of the training programme? Is it not against the Constitution?” ‘Take action’ Mr. Kumaraswamy said: “Just because other language speaking people, including those speaking Kannada, do not know Hindi, how much more sacrifices are expected? The Union Government should take action against Mr. Kotecha for his Hindi supremacy though, and respect the federal system.”  Every language is part of the federal system. When such is the case, is it not against the federal system to ask participants to go out of the training programme? Is it not against the Constitution? H.D. Kumaraswamy, Former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-hindi-hdk-slams-ayush-secretary/article32425173.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State leaders rally behind Sonia||As speculations are rife over Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi stepping down ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting, senior Congress leaders in Karnataka have rallied behind her.  The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah in a tweet said: “It is unfortunate that the leadership of Gandhi family in Congress party is being questioned. At a time when the BJP-led Union Government is destroying the democracy in the country, our efforts should be to strengthen the Congress party and not weaken it.” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar, in a separate tweet, said: “Entire Congress party in Karnataka stands by the leadership of Ms. Sonia Gandhi and the Gandhi family. Ms. Gandhi has led the Congress during times of crisis and saved our party. Anything that has to be discussed must be done in the party forum and not in the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-leaders-rally-behind-sonia/article32425174.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet reshuffle after session?||Even as rumours are rife over a possible reshuffle of the State Cabinet, party sources said that it is unlikely before the Legislature session, which means that it could be after September. The Legislature session will start on September 21 and end on September 30. This comes amidst strong moves by some Ministers, who went to Delhi to meet national leaders, to ensure they remain in the Cabinet, while aspirants have been putting pressure on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to induct them. While the meeting of Ministers and legislators with BJP National Organising General Secretary B.L. Santhosh sparked off rumours, party sources and the Chief Minister’s Office claimed that discussion on the Cabinet had not taken place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-reshuffle-after-session/article32425177.ece
24 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Do not impose restrictions on movement, MHA tells States||The Union Home Secretary has written to all the States asking them to desist from imposing any restrictions on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons as well as goods and services. In a letter on August 22 to the Chief Secretaries of all the States, the Union Home Secretary has said that it had come to the notice of the Centre that local-level restrictions on such movements were being imposed by various States and districts. Such restrictions are creating problems in inter-State movement of goods and services and impacting the supply chain, resulting in disruption of economic activities and employment, he said. Such restrictions imposed either by the State government or district administration would amount to violation of the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-impose-restrictions-on-movement-mha-tells-states/article32425181.ece
24 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held on charge of stealing two-wheelers||The Peenya police have arrested Venkatesh, 32, a resident of Brindavananagar, who had allegedly stolen nine motorcycles worth Rs. 3.5 lakh over the last few months. The police have traced the owners of eight of the nine motorcycles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-on-charge-of-stealing-two-wheelers/article32425155.ece
24 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Aged Amrit Mahal cows to be given to pvt. goshalas||The State government has decided to bring down the number of cattle at Amrit Mahal Kaval breeding centres in the State by handing over the aged ones to private cow-shelters (goshalas). Limiting the number of cattle at each centre to 200, the animals are being handed over to private agencies that willing to take care of them. It is for the first time in the history of the centre that such a decision has been taken. As many as 36 head of cattle belonging to Basur centre has been handed over to a goshala run by a private organisation near Kadur. Similarly, many organisations have come forward to take care of the cattle. Amrit Mahal, a native breed of cattle, has enjoyed royal patronage since the times of the Vijayanagar Empire. Later, Mysore kings took special care of them. Tipu Sultan gave the name “Amrit Mahal” and brought in a system to take care of them. The Amrit Mahal Cattle Breeding Centre was set up at Ajjampura in Chikkamagaluru district in 1929 under the British rule. It has sub-centres in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Mandya, Davangere, and Chitradurga districts. Often, these centres have attracted criticism from the public for laxity in taking care of cattle. “For the first time, the government has decided handover cattle to private agencies. As per the order from the government, we are giving cattle to those who have sufficient facilities to take care of them,” said Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of the centre at Ajjampura. The animals aged above 12 with fewer breed characters would be given to the private agencies. The private firms have to give in writing that they would take care of them till their death and keep the centres and never give them to slaughterhouses. “We are giving them free of cost. There are 79 registered goshalas in the State. They get Rs. 17.5 per animal per day to take care of them,” said Ramesh Kumar. He said the objective of this move was to maintain the purity of the breed, by removing weak and aged cattle from the breeding centres. Of the total 2,500 cattle in Amrit Mahal Kaval centres, around 600 would be sent to private agencies, while the rest would be retained for breeding. The centre has 68,267 acres of grazing land, spread over six districts, for the breed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aged-amrit-mahal-cows-to-be-given-to-pvt-goshalas/article32425186.ece
24 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KVG Bank ties up with SBI||Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVG Bank), headquartered in Dharwad, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. for selling general insurance products through its branches. At a function in Dharwad recently, General Manager of KVG Bank B.C. Ravichandra and Head of Compliance Legal of SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. Mahendra Tripathi signed the MoU in the presence of KVG Bank chairman P. Gopi Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvg-bank-ties-up-with-sbi/article32425348.ece
24 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi teacher chosen for MHRD’s national award||A science teacher from the Government High School at Bandarwad village in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district has brought laurels to the district by bagging the national-level Best Teacher Award for this year. Surekha Jagannath Dengi has been selected for the prestigious award constituted by the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). Ms. Surekha, speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, said that a team of State Selection Committee and Organisation Selection Committee along with jury members shortlisted the teachers and held a videoconference on August 13. “The 10-minute interaction with the jury included a presentation of our contributions towards teaching methods besides publications, research papers, and teaching skills,” she added. Ms. Surekha was conferred the taluk-level best teacher award in 2016 and district-level best teacher award in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-teacher-chosen-for-mhrds-national-award/article32425184.ece
24 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dead patient’s relatives in shock after different body is sent to crematorium||The relatives of a 60-year-old COVID-19 patient who died in Udupi district were in shock when the authorities concerned sent the body of another deceased to the crematorium on Sunday. Enraged over the faux pas , they staged a snap protest at the crematorium in Kundapur. The 60-year-old man from Nerambally near Koteshwara had been admitted to a hospital in Kundapur following back pain. After he was found positive for COVID-19 on July 30, he was shifted to the district COVID-19 hospital in Udupi where he died on Sunday. After informing the family members about the death, Health Department personnel brought the body to the crematorium as suggested by the family members. Five family members, who wore PPE, were allowed to see the body. Then, the family members were shocked to see the body of a 25-year-old man. A team of officials, including Assistant Commissioner, Kundapur sub-division, Raju K. and Taluk Health Officer Nagabhushan Udupa, visited the crematorium soon after the video clip of the incident went viral on the social media. Later, the body of the 60-year-old man was brought to the crematorium and the last rites were performed. Admitting that there was a faux pas committed by those handling bodies, Udupi District Nodal Officer for COVID-19 Prashanth Bhat blamed it on the extreme stress the personnel were in due to the long working hours for the last couple of days. In a statement, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the incident happened due to a “mistake by a driver”. Instead of taking the body of the youth to Karkala, he had brought it to Kundapur. The district team in-charge of overseeing the last rites of COVID-19 patients should ensure that such incidents did not happen again, he said. Meanwhile, Udupi District Surgeon and also Superintendent of the Udupi district hospital Madhusudan Nayak said in a release that a departmental inquiry will be conducted. The release attributed the faux pas to a Group D employee sending the body to Kundapur without proper verification. It said that the hospital staff were stressed and disturbed as there was a day-long protest on the premises of the hospital on Saturday over the death of a woman. Hence, some of the doctors and staff are now preparing to resign. The morale of the staff is being boosted now. In response to the protest on Saturday, Mr. Jagadeesha said in a statement that he has ordered an inquiry into the death of the 26-year-old woman. A four-member committee headed by the District Health and Family Welfare Officer has been constituted to conduct the inquiry and it will submit a report within four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dead-patients-relatives-in-shock-after-different-body-is-sent-to-crematorium/article32425347.ece
24 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hospital begins extracting plasma for therapy||K.S. Hegde Hospital has begun extracting plasma at its blood bank for convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients. Though the therapy was under way in the hospital for the last four months, it had to send donors to Bengaluru for extraction of plasma and bring it back to the hospital for transfusion. “We harvested plasma from three donors in our blood bank and transfused it into three critical patients on Saturday,” Vikram Shetty, professor of Orthopaedics, K.S. Hegde Medical College Hospital and a member of the team which set up the facilities for harvesting and transfusion of plasma, told The Hindu . “Five donors are waiting to donate plasma,” he said and added that of the 90 COVID-19 patients in the hospital, 14 are being treated in the ICU. Superintendent of the hospital Shiva Kumar Hiremath said in a release that it installed Apheresis equipment and other testing facilities recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-begins-extracting-plasma-for-therapy/article32425166.ece
24 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Revoke ZP CEO’s transfer’||The Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) of Mysuru district have opposed the transfer of Mysuru ZP CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra and come out in support of him. Demanding the withdrawal of his transfer, the Mysuru district committee of Karnataka State PDOs’ Welfare Association has planned to hold a demonstration here on Monday. “We have sought police permission for the protest and a memorandum will be submitted to the office of Regional Commissioner, Mysuru,” an office-bearer said. The association stated that it too seeks justice for Nanjangud THO S.R. Nagendra but questioned the CEO’s transfer before the inquiry was complete and report submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revoke-zp-ceos-transfer/article32425167.ece
24 August 2020||MYSURU/BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru doctors call off strike||Doctors in Mysuru on Sunday called off their four-day strike while the Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) too decided to withdraw their call for striking work from Monday after the government conceded their demands over the alleged suicide of Nanjangud in-charge Taluk Health Officer (THO) S.R. Nagendra. As the striking doctors stuck to their demand and sought action against the Mysuru ZP CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra, the government on Saturday transferred him without a posting and Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar was given the additional charge of the CEO. In addition to this, Health Minister B. Sriramulu assured them of initiating further action after discussing the matter with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The decision has come as a major relief to the government since the strike had affected healthcare services, especially COVID-19 testing across Mysuru district, as the doctors and other staff of the Department of Health and Family Welfare struck work demanding justice for the 43-year-old doctor, who they claimed was under pressure over ‘unrealistic’ targets entrusted to him for collecting swab samples for COVID-19 testing in the taluk. Despite the CM’s assurance of an impartial probe, the doctors had continued their strike, bringing COVID-19 testing to a complete halt. With no testing, the number of cases from Mysuru showed ‘zero’ in the State bulletin since Friday. The KGMOA on Sunday said the strike had been withdrawn conditionally and services would resume from Monday with doctors wearing black armbands until the inquiry report was submitted. FIR against CEO Meanwhile, acting on a complaint from Dr. Nagendra’s father, Mr. Ramachandra, the Alanahalli Police have registered an FIR against the Mysuru ZP CEO on Thursday under Section 306 of the IPC (Abetment to suicide). In the complaint, Mr. Ramachandra said his son was under pressure to meet targets given to him over COVID-19 testing. His son had brought to the notice of higher officials, including the CEO and the DHO, the lack of facilities and manpower for discharging additional responsibilities vested on him. Dr. Nagendra, who was the health officer at Kudlapura PHC in Nanjangud taluk holding the additional charge of THO, had also requested that he be relieved of the additional charge. His request was not considered and he had been warned of being booked under the National Disaster Management Act if he failed to meet targets. His son, Mr. Ramachandra said, died by suicide owing to pressure and alleged persecution, and demanded action against the ZP CEO. Meanwhile, the KGOMA that had submitted a letter to the respective deputy commissioners that they would boycott all work except emergencies services from Monday, has decided to withdraw their protest. “None of the doctors in the State will boycott any duty,” said KGOMA Secretary G.A. Srinivas. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar in a tweet thanked the doctors for calling off the strike. He said that the State government was aware of the problems of the doctors in the light of the pandemic and said the government would resolve the same. Doctors as nodal officers KGMOA State Vice-President Devi Anand told The Hindu in Mysuru on Sunday that government doctors are being overworked since the COVID-19 outbreak and Dr. Nagendra had been staying alone out of fear of contracting the contagion and spreading it to his family. He said the KGMOA has demanded the appointment of medical officers as COVID-19 nodal officers for better management of the pandemic. “They (doctors) understand better than other officers,” he argued. Dr. Anand, who is the Mysuru district president of KGMOA, said COVID-19 testing will fully resume from Monday. Mysuru alone is facing 40% shortage of doctors and other healthcare staff. Doctors on COVID-19 duty are working continuously without a break for five months, he said, urging the government to expedite the appointment of doctors to ease work pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-doctors-call-off-strike/article32425163.ece
24 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||154 new cases in Yadgir and Raichur districts||As many as 154 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Sunday. Of the 154, 73 cases are in Yadgir and 81 in Raichur. The total number of active cases in Yadgir has gone up to 4,573, and in Raichur, it has reached 5,867. There were three deaths — one in Yadgir and two in Raichur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/154-new-cases-in-yadgir-and-raichur-districts/article32425346.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farewell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farewell/article32425154.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-on-track/article32425176.ece
24 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Spike in cases in Alappuzha||The single-day spike in COVID-19 cases crossed 200-mark again in the district with 241 people testing positive on Sunday. While 223 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, 14 who came from other States and four from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 223 contact cases, 47 were reported from Thumboli, 40 from Punnapra South, 26 from Punnapra North, 20 from Ambalappuzha and 18 from Purakkad. Rest of the locally transmitted cases were from Kareelakulangara (11), Chettikkad (8), Pattanakkad (7), Kanjikuzhy (6), Alappuzha (6), Pathiyoor (5), Mararikulam North (4), Cherthala South (3), Ezhupunna (3), Aroor (3), Chethi (2), Edathua (2) and one case each from Nooranad, Chennithala, Mulakuzha, Chengannur, Veliyanad, Kadakarappally, Cheppad, Puthuppally, Pallippad and Cherthala. Meanwhile, three councillors of the Alappuzha municipality were diagnosed with the disease, forcing the authorities to close the municipal office for seven days. Alappuzha municipal chairman Illikkal Kunjumon said that all councillors and officials of the civic body would undergo COVID-19 tests in the coming days. A total of 53 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative in the district. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,014. Ward 32 (partial) in Alappuzha municipality, ward 2 (partial) in Edathua, wards 7 and 9 in Punnapra North, wards 5 and 6 (partial) in Chunakkara grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-cases-in-alappuzha/article32425517.ece
24 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two held for stone-pelting||The Cherthala police on Sunday arrested two persons, Aneesh, 35 and Rajeesh, 31, in connection with the pelting of stones at the house of COVID-19 patients at Vayalar. The incident occurred on Friday. Four members of a family in ward 5 of the grama panchayat were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier in the day. They were waiting for an ambulance to shift them to MCH for treatment when the bike-borne persons pelted stones at the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-stone-pelting/article32425523.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Surge in infections continues as 200 more test positive||Two-hundred persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Sunday. Of them, 14 had come from abroad or other States. The remaining cases are accounted for by local spread. A communication from the district administration said a total of 171 persons were cured of the infection. Of them, 145 are from the district, four from other districts, and 22 from other States. A total of 1,112 people came under observation in the district, and 692 people completed their observation period on Sunday. At present, there are 16,132 people under observation. Of them, 13,787 are in their own homes and 197 in COVID-19 care centres. As many as 117 persons were admitted to hospitals or first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district on Sunday. At the same time, 161 people were discharged from hospitals or FLTCs. The total number of people under treatment in the district stands at 1,865. The district received 1,592 test results on the day. The number of samples collected from government facilities and private hospitals and laboratories totalled 1,823, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-infections-continues-as-200-more-test-positive/article32425428.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Street vendors find the going tough||A relatively new fleet of tourist vans and a car are idling at the residential compound of Shajahan Kabeer at Kathrikadavu. His fleet of 17 vans and a car, which used to operate package tours, was the mainstay of income for his family, which includes his wife, four children, and mother-in-law. Another 17 families — of drivers — too were dependent on income from these vehicles, till the pandemic threw a spanner in their life, with tourists cancelling their trips. Rendered without a source of income, Mr. Kabeer and five drivers rented a cargo autorickshaw and took to vending fish. With little knowledge of the trade, the fish that was sourced from wholesale sellers often turned out to be stale. He and his team now eke out a living by selling vegetables at Kathrikadavu, which has now become a hub for around 40 street vendors. The pandemic resulted in him leasing out his house to garner money and selling off a bulk of his wife’s jewellery to pay monthly instalments for his vehicles and to meet other expenses. “With the three-month moratorium on loans having expired, bank officials have threatened to take away my vehicles, most of which were purchased in 2017,” he says. Faced with street vendors often obstructing free and safe movement of pedestrians and motorists, civic agencies and the police often warn them and threaten to confiscate their vehicles and goods. “Traders alone are not to blame. Many people park their vehicles in front of our stalls to purchase things. This further disrupts traffic,” Mr. Kabeer says. Womenfolk whose income source was affected due to the pandemic crisis too have taken to vending produce on waysides. Among them is Raslin P.N., who worked in the operations wing of a travel firm. She was the latest to join vendors on Stadium Link Road, selling pickles, meat-stuffed bread/bun, Malabari dishes, and lemon tea. “I began the roadside food counter on Saturday and had to shift space many times due to pressure from those who had put up kiosks earlier,” she says. “Many vendors have taken over footpaths and roads in the city. Corporation officials must keep tabs on the quality of food items, while the police must prevent them from encroaching en masse on public spaces,” says K.V. Girijan, a resident of Palarivattom. Meanwhile, corporation works standing committee chairman P.M. Harris said vendors selling cooked food posed a public health risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/street-vendors-find-the-going-tough/article32425430.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Legal firm denies advising Adani group on airport||Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, the legal firm that advised the State government in its bid for Thiruvananthapuram airport, has come out with a clarification that it had not advised the Adani group in the bidding process for the airport. Responding to The Hindu, one of the partners of the  group said there was no question of conflict of interest involved in it offering legal advice to the State government in the airport bid. The clarification came in the wake of a controversy that there was a conflict of interest in the group offering legal service to the State government as the daughter of one of the partners of the firm was married to Karan Adani, the son of businessman Gautham Adani. 130 partners The firm won the bid for legal advice for the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) through one of its partners in Delhi. The firm never acted for the Adani group in the airport bid, he said. “There are 130 partners for the firm and each one can accept the brief of the clients unless there is no direct conflict of interest in it. While staffing persons for advising clients, care will be taken to put persons with no personal interests and conflict or interest in it,’’ he said. “Until the opening of the bid, no one knows who all are in the fray and what will be their quote. The Adani group is just another client and so is the KSIDC. We do not share the professional secrets of one client to another. The Adani group has its own panel of external and in-house lawyers. No company will generally approach a lawyer before winning the bid and Adani group has not approached us for the Thiruvananthapuram airport bid,” he said. The firm offered legal review of the bid document of the KSIDC regarding the airport and was not involved in the financial aspects of the KSIDC bid. As a law-abiding firm for over 100 years, the group followed the highest standards of governance and ethics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-firm-denies-advising-adani-group-on-airport/article32425439.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Malayalam film industry welcomes move to resume production||Malayalam film industry welcomed the Centre’s decision to resume film and television production work across the countryamidst concerns about the extent of outdoor shooting possible in view of the COVID-19 crisis. The Kerala Film Producers’ Association (KFPA) said the move would gradually pave way for the resumption of normalcy in the industry. The release of nearly 60 movies was pending after the industry came to a halt following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25. “The State government had already permitted indoor shooting with a maximum crew of 50. With the Centre allowing outdoor shooting, the shooting of films could resume by adhering to the protocol of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,” said KFPA president M. Renjith. However, Mr. Renjith pointed out that outdoor shooting of films that require several persons may be difficult to resume. “We need at least 60 to 70 persons on the location to shoot a movie. If one person gets infected, others may have to go on quarantine, resulting in the disruption of the schedule,” he said. B. Rakesh, treasurer of KFPA, said that films made in medium budget would be able to resume work. ‘Workers will benefit’ Jayaraj, filmmaker and chairman of the Malayalam Cine Technicians’ Association (MACTA), said the decision would help hundreds of workers in the industry. “We had submitted a video to the Union Finance Minister earlier requesting immediate re-opening of film production,” he said. A.K. Balan, Minister for Cinema, said he would hold talks with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to decide on whether relaxations could be given for outdoor shooting. “Many films may require more than 50 persons for outdoor shooting,” he said. M. C. Bobby, general secretary of Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala, said they hoped to get permission to open the cinemas by October or November. “Hopefully the pandemic situation may ease by November. ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayalam-film-industry-welcomes-move-to-resume-production/article32425449.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||West Kochi residents peeved at prolonged restrictions||Resentment is brewing among residents of West Kochi, as the region continues to be a containment zone, with the ensuing curbs on movement of people, and shops selling essential commodities being directed to down shutters by noon every day. The worst affected is Fort Kochi, the State’s heritage tourism hub, where even the famed walkway that overlooks the beach and Chinese nets has been out of bounds for visitors for over a month. The Fort Cochin Tourism and Heritage Preservation Council, an NGO, had recently written to Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, alleging that certain officials engaged in COVID-19 healthcare had been misleading national and international news media from June onwards, by depicting Fort Kochi as a region having numerous COVID-19 cases. “Misleading information provided by a section of healthcare officials is causing irreparable loss and damage to the tourist locale’s image. The whole of West Kochi has a total of 28 wards of the Kochi Corporation. Until recently, there was not a single COVID-19 positive case in Ward 1, which has a bulk of heritage tourist locales. There were just a couple of cases in wards 2 and 27, better known as Earaveli and Mullavallapu, in the vicinity. We were surprised when it was reported in newspapers and other media that the entire Fort Kochi is dangerously infected and hence declared a containment zone,” said K.P. Simpson, president of the council. This resulted in almost all streets starting from Thopumpady to different parts of Fort Kochi being blocked with barricades. This will further cripple the economy of entire West Kochi. Declaring micro containment zones is an effective alternative, Mr. Simpson suggested. Antony Kureethara, former councillor, said the proliferation of containment zones had resulted in even the few shops that open being forced to down shutters by 1 p.m. Santosh Tom, who owns a heritage homestay in Fort Kochi, said the Kerala Homestay and Tourism Society (HATS) had written to the Kerala Tourism, denouncing the frequent references to the locale as a containment zone. Meanwhile, the district administration has said that the police and health personnel are analysing the situation in containment zones, so that the affected areas can be declared as micro containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/west-kochi-residents-peeved-at-prolonged-restrictions/article32425432.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree to bail out micro enterprises||The District Kudumbashree Mission has kick-started a campaign, ‘Karuthal’, to bail out its 4,000-odd micro enterprises hit hard by the pandemic and the prolonged lockdown. Under the project, Kudumbashree plans to distribute kits worth Rs. 500 of essential commodities produced by micro enterprises to more than three lakh members spread over 26,000 Neighbourhood Groups (NHGs) in 101 Community Development Societies (CDSs) in the district this Onam. The beneficiaries need not pay for the kits upfront and only out of the collective thrift fund of NHGs over a period of 20 weeks. “The project is viewed as a win-win situation both for micro enterprises and NHG members. While it will generate a market for micro enterprises, which were almost on shutdown mode during the lockdown, Kudumbashree members will get essential items to celebrate the festival without incurring any burden. We are targeting sales worth around Rs. 3 crore through the project,” said Rajeena T.M, assistant district mission coordinator. Some CDSs have already launched the project. CDSs have been given discretionary powers to decide the contents of the kits. However, explicit direction has been given that no single product in the kit should be priced more than Rs. 50, to avoid a situation where the kits are made up of too few items. “Even members who were not into micro enterprises can avail of assistance from the collective loan of Rs. 5 lakh made available to all CDSs to launch production and thus benefit from the project during this festive season,” said Ms. Rajeena. Micro enterprises are also expected to benefit from the Kudumbashree’s decision to focus on own products in Onam markets to be run for three days leading up to the festival in every 101 CDS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-bail-out-micro-enterprises/article32425436.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) holds protests in houses, party offices||The CPI(M) organised protests at the houses of party workers and its party offices in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, demanding foodgrains and economic relief for those who are facing the impacts of the economic crisis. The other demands raised by the organisation include revised wages for those employed under the rural employment scheme, rolling back of the anti-labour legislation and the proposed amendments to the Environment Impact Assessment notification. The protest demonstrations were held from 4 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. Party leaders C.N. Mohanan and C.M. Dinesh Mani participated in the protest organised at Lenin Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-holds-protests-in-houses-party-offices/article32425434.ece
24 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Champakkara market to reopen today||The district administration has accorded permission for the Champakkara market to reopen on Monday. There will be no retail sales at the market, as only a limited number of people will be allowed inside. A communication from the district administration said here on Sunday that the market was closed in the wake of a serious spread of COVID-19, on July 4. It will now operate in accordance with anti-pandemic protocol. It said token system would be implemented to regulate vehicles and people visiting the market. There will be only one entry and exit. Wearing of masks and use of hand sanitizers will be compulsory, and physical distancing norms will have to be strictly followed. The market will not function beyond 7 a.m. under any circumstances, the administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/champakkara-market-to-reopen-today/article32425435.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Admission to kindergarten||Applications for admission to LKG at Rajagiri Kindergarten, Kalamassery will be available on the website from September 7 to 11 September, a press release said. Log in to www.rajagiri.ac.in for further details or contact 0484-2911250, 0484-2911251.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-kindergarten/article32425433.ece
24 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||133 new cases in Kollam||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 904 on Sunday with 133 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. It includes 122 contact cases, three health workers, four persons from abroad and four others who had travelled from different Indian States. The Health Department has also confirmed that the death of a 75-year-old Anchal resident is due to COVID-19. The health workers who tested positive include two Veliyam residents aged 21 and 34 who have been working at Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam and a 32-year-old Kundara resident who was working at Medical College, Vellore. Kollam district currently has 9,385 people under observation. The district also reported 22 recoveries on Sunday. Since residents of a children's home were tested positive, the district administration has imposed a ban on visitors to all shelter homes in Kollam. Only permanent employees or temporary staff who can continue working for a longer period will be allowed. After the conductor of KL26-A8535 bus operating in Kottarakara-Sasthamcotta route tested positive, the Health Department has instructed all those who travelled in the bus from August 12 to 19 to get in touch with the department. Meanwhile, Fisheries Minister J.Mercykutty Amma has said that steps will be taken to reopen all the harbours in the district that were closed as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. The decision to close the harbours was taken after fishers, vendors and headload workers tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/133-new-cases-in-kollam/article32425518.ece
24 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani sticks to his stance||Unperturbed by the pressure mounted by the United Democratic Front, the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani has asked all party legislators, including the three in the rival group, to abide by its whip on abstaining from the Rajya Sabha election as well the no-confidence motion against the LDF government. Mr. Mani reiterated here on Sunday that the move was in line with an earlier decision by the party steering committee to adopt an independent political stance. Dismissing the warning signals by the UDF against rejecting its whip, he pointed out that Schedule 10 of the Constitution of India had entrusted the authority to issue whips to individuals appointed by political parties and not coalitions. ‘Can’t be expelled twice’ “A party that has already been expelled from a coalition being expelled again is unheard of in Kerala politics... Those who ousted the KC(M) have never bothered to explain their action. When it is said that action will be taken in case of violating the general decision of the UDF, the question arises as to whether our expulsion earlier was not a general decision of the coalition,” said Mr. Mani, in an apparent response to UDF convener Benny Behanan. The three-line whip, issued by Roshy Augustine, MLA, directed the KC(M) legislators to stay away from the presentation and discussion of a no-confidence motion against the government by V.D. Satheesan, MLA, under rule 63 of the Kerala Legislative Assembly. The other whip The Joseph faction too had issued a whip to all five KC(M) legislators to vote for the UDF candidate in the election and for the no-confidence motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-sticks-to-his-stance/article32425440.ece
24 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||106 in Kottayam||106 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of this, 103 persons including three health workers at the Government medical college in Kottayam contracted the virus through local contact Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases with 24 fresh cases while the Arpookkara panchayat reported seven cases. Thiruvarppu and Thrikkodithanam reported six cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/106-in-kottayam/article32425521.ece
24 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||In two days, caseload up by 351 in Kozhikode||A total of 351 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Saturday and Sunday. There are 1,462 active cases in the district at present. The number of cases reported on Sunday was 119, of which 93 were through local transmission of the infection, said a release. Eight persons had returned from abroad and six from other States. The source of infection of 12 others is not known. The number of local transmission cases within Kozhikode Corporation limits is 41 and in Naduvannur is nine. There are 13 healthcare workers among the infected persons. Meanwhile, the highest single-day spike in cases was recorded on Saturday when 232 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 189 people got the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of 24 others was not known. One death was reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday. The deceased was a 65-year-old from Tirurangadi in Malappuram. Ward 66 in Vellayil area has been declared a critical containment zone. In Malappuram As many as 186 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Sunday. It was the lowest number in the district in the last 10 days. An 85-year-old man from Thootha died of COVID-19. As many as 178 of the 186 people got the infection through local contacts. The source of infection in 21 cases, including seven health workers, could not be traced. While five persons came from other States, three came from abroad. There were 100 recoveries in Malappuram on Sunday. As many as 2,046 are currently under treatment in the district. In Kannur In Kannur, 143 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. As many as 111 people contracted the disease through contact. Seven of the infected are health workers. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases reported so far in the district has reached 2,718. Of the infected, 1,841 have recovered. In Kasaragod As many as 85 people were reported to be infected in Kasaragod on Sunday. Of them, 83 contracted the virus through contact, while one came from abroad and one from another State. Fifty-one people tested negative for the virus and was discharged from hospitals. In Thrissur As many as 116 cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur on Sunday. Seventy persons have recovered, and the number of active cases stands at 955 in the district. In all, 41 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in other districts. Of the people tested positive on Sunday, 110 have been infected through contact. The source of infection in 18 cases is not known. A total of 9,225 people are under observation. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 39 people tested positive and 250 infected persons recovered on Sunday. It was the biggest number of recoveries on a single day in the district. While 17 of the new patients got the infection through local transmission, eight came from other States and two came from abroad. The source of infection in 12 cases could not be identified. In Wayanad The district reported 10 COVID-19 cases and 39 recoveries on Sunday. The fresh cases include three persons who contracted the disease through local transmission. One person who returned from abroad and six from other States have also tested positive.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-two-days-caseload-up-by-351-in-kozhikode/article32425422.ece
24 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Focus on reverse quarantine measures||Recognising the importance of reverse quarantine in fighting COVID-19, local bodies in Kozhikode district have started identifying vulnerable groups, including ailing senior citizens and those suffering from serious ailments, within their limits for providing better care. The data on such persons will be updated on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal for effective monitoring and field-level support. Rapid response teams (RRTs) functioning within the limits of various panchayats, municipalities and the Kozhikode Corporation will play the lead role in regularly updating the health records. Based on their recommendations, the local bodies will be permitted to purchase emergency testing devices such as pulse oximeters. Apart from ward-level monitoring, such persons will be offered telemedicine support with the help of a panel of doctors from the National Health Mission. A district-level control room is functional now at the Collectorate to connect the needy instantly with the telemedicine team. According to the heads of some grama panchayats in Kozhikode, arrangements will be made to ensure a healthy diet for all such persons included in the reverse quarantine list. They said several charity organisations and youth forums were ready to contribute for the purpose. For the flawless implementation of reverse quarantine, shops and commercial establishments will continue to restrict the entry of senior citizens and children. Instead, they will be assured door delivery service at convenient times. Many hospitals in the city now have video consultation applications to avoid the hospital visit of persons in reverse quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-reverse-quarantine-measures/article32425423.ece
24 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Project launched to help Plus Two students clear exam||The Higher Secondary Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell of the Education Department is launching “UYARE” (Unlock Your Aspirations to Rebuild and Empower), a project to help Plus Two students clear the Save-A-Year (SAY) exam scheduled for September 22, in Kozhikode. P.K. Shaji, district coordinator of the cell, said that 5,264 of the 38,188 students who wrote the Plus Two exam this year in Kozhikode had failed to pass. At the State-level, 55,873 of the 3,75,655 had failed. UYARE would run special crash courses for these students from 150 aided and government higher secondary schools in science, commerce, and humanities streams in Kozhikode district. “Some of them may have failed because of trivial reasons. Some may have failed only in one subject. There could be domestic reasons as well,” Mr. Shaji said. They would be brought together through Telegram groups first. Later, subject-specific groups would be formed to ensure individual attention and there would be one mentor for 10 students. The project would be launched on August 25, Mr. Shaji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-launched-to-help-plus-two-students-clear-exam/article32425425.ece
24 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Rural police begin crackdown on ganja peddlers||Noticing the growing rivalry between ganja peddling gangs and instances of street scuffles, the Kozhikode Rural police have come up with stronger measures to track offenders on the run. A prime suspect in a recent incident in which three persons sustained stab injuries has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody. According to the police, more persons suspected to have links with drug trafficking gangs will be arrested soon as part of the ongoing investigation. Flash raids and surprise checks are under way by deploying more plainclothesmen. Attacks on informants Attacks on some local informants too have prompted the police to intensify vigil. Though some of the major incidents have been brought to the attention of the police, many such cases remain unreported with the victims fearing retaliation from the gangsters. As part of the newly launched investigation, police officers have collected details of a number of suspected rural pockets where drug peddlers and buyers allegedly meet for their deals. They plan to keep such locations under the scanner with the support of local residents, youth clubs and voluntary organisation members. A police officer from Vadakara said the drug trafficking gangs were suspected of resuming their trade, cashing in on the relaxations in inter-State travel and containment regulations. There had been incidents in which ganja was seized from vehicles carrying vegetables, he said. Highway patrol squads Though COVID-19-related protocols and safety measures had affected routine checking activities on national and State highways till recently, police officers from various rural stations said it would be addressed promptly in view of the Onam season. They said highway patrol squads were being redeployed to track the movement of all suspicious vehicles and ensure flawless screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-rural-police-begin-crackdown-on-ganja-peddlers/article32425424.ece
24 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Aranmula to see low-key Onam celebrations this year||For the first time in the centuries-old history of the Aranmula Thiruvonathoni reception, the banks of the Pampa river will miss the rhyme and rhythm of snake-boats and the crowd ushering in those mighty oarsmen. In a major break in tradition, only one snake-boat (palliyodam) carrying representatives of each of the 52 Palliyoda committees will accompany the famed Thiruvonathoni to the Parthasarathy temple in Aramula this Onam. Last year, as many as six palliyodams were part of the regatta in its 10-hour journey. According to the Palliyoda Seva Sangham, the lone Palliyodam will carry six members from its locality, besides those representing the remaining 51 committees. The Sangham will soon come up with a procedure to select the representatives for each event. The move is in line with a decision by the authorities to organise the famed rituals of Thiruvonathoni reception, Uthrattathi boat race, and the Vallasdya in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. As per the new plan, each of the three ceremonies will be attended by representatives from each zone. Decisions at meeting The decision was taken during a videoconference of the Palliyoda Seva Sangham representatives with District Collector P.B. Noohu and Veena George, MLA, last week. The thiruvonathoni is scheduled to leave the Kattoor Mahavishnu temple at 6 p.m. on August 30 with only 20 people led by Mangat Bhattathiri and reach the Aranmula temple at 6 a.m. the next day. As many as 24 people will be allowed to board the Palliyodam that will accompany the Thiruvonathoni. The Uthrattathi boat race will be staged on September 4 with a palliyodam having 24 persons on board. The Ashtami Rohini Vallasadya will be held on September 10. The number of persons attending the event will be limited to 32, including 24 persons on board the palliyodam and eight others for conducting the ritual.Meanwhile, none of the events will be open to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aranmula-to-see-low-key-onam-celebrations-this-year/article32425520.ece
24 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||104 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 104 people ons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 93 people contracted the virus through local transmission while four persons had landed from abroad. The remaining cases came from other States. About 19 of the local contact cases were linked to the Nellad cluster while the clusters at Kadambanad and Kannamkod reported four cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/104-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32425522.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dip in cases as 397 test positive in capital||The State capital recorded a slump in COVID-19 cases on Sunday with the daily caseload falling below 400 for the first time after a week. A total of 397 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 5,425. With two more deaths—those of an 80-year-old Gandhipuram native and a 49-year-old Poojappura native, both of who died on August 19—being attributed to COVID-19, the official death toll has gone up to 60. Close to 97% of the cases have been attributed to local transmission. While these included 382 cases including 17 health workers, the sources of infection in 56 of these cases were unknown. Thirteen imported cases were also reported. The number of recoveries was 125. Meanwhile, 51 prisoners from the Poojappura Central Prison have recovered from the illness. As many as 54 infected inmates were subjected to antigen tests on the day. With this, the number of prisoners who have tested negative has gone up to 158 within three days. The Central Jail had been categorised as an institutional COVID-19 cluster with 485 cases. Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa conducted a webinar with cross-sections of the public as part of ensuring public participation for the containment efforts in the backdrop of the Onam festival season. Elaborating on the COVID-19 scenario in Thiruvananthapuram, Dr. Khosa said that the district which had 12,294 cases contributed 21% of the total cases reported in the State till date. With 60 deaths, the case fatality rate in Thiruvananthapuram stood at 0.47%, slightly higher than the State average of 0.39%. The recovery rate is currently 57.9%, while the State average stood at 65.8%. Currently, the district had 29 clusters of which 14 were large clusters with over 100 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-cases-as-397-test-positive-in-capital/article32425476.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly to take up UDF’s no-confidence motion today||The Opposition’s motion of no confidence against the government in the Assembly on Monday might sharply test the unity of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). It will also put to trial Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s adeptness in politically countering the charges raised by the Opposition. The UDF had introduced the motion to highlight the ‘flaws’ of the government ahead of the local body polls in November. However, the move appeared to have made a public spectacle of the fissures in the UDF. The opposing factions in the Kerala Congress (M) stuck their respective whips on the doors of their legislators at the MLA hostel here, creating some political drama on the eve of the debate. Earlier, Jose K. Mani said Roshy Augustine and N. Jayaraj, the two KC (M) legislators aligned with his faction, would abstain from voting on the no-trust motion. The dissension in the KC(M) threatened to diminish the numbers of the UDF on the floor of the House on a crucial day. KC(M) chairperson P.J. Joseph said legislators who defy the party whip would face disciplinary action and lose their seats in the Assembly. The numbers in the Assembly are in favour of the LDF. The LDF has 90 MLAs and UDF, 44. CPI(M) Independent from Koduvally Karat Rasaq and IUML MLA from Azhikode K.M. Shaji have no vote due to pending court cases challenging their election. The outcome of the no-confidence motion might be a foregone conclusion. However, the UDF hopes to use it to target the government generally and the office of the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan (CMO), specifically. V.D. Satheeshan, who would table the motion, told The Hindu that he would present a ‘chargesheet’ against the government to highlight its "ill-doings". Dominant topics The UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, Life Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal, ‘receipt’ of foreign aid by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, Adani group’s takeover of the Thiruvananthapuram airport, Sprinklr ‘scam’ and ‘failed’ pandemic prevention strategy are likely to dominate the debate. The LDF's counter is expected to hinge on the government’s stated achievements and the ‘soft Hindutva’ line toed by the Congress as ‘manifested’ in its welcoming of the laying of the foundation stone for Ram Temple in Ayodhya.  UDF hopes to use the motion to target the govt. generally and the CMO specifically||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-to-take-up-udfs-no-confidence-motion-today/article32425443.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Efficacy of sentinel study questioned||Public health experts have called into question why sentinel surveillance study, which should provide early warning signals and trends about the course of COVID-19, has failed to give the State any advantage in combating the pandemic. Three rounds of surveillance study from April-July, which tested exactly 1,18,554 (till July 31), and epidemiological samples later, the data from this exercise is very much at variance with the actual picture of COVID-19 unfolding in the State, with all districts reporting an average of 200 cases daily. Sentinel surveillance studies are being done in chosen populations assessed to be at high risk of contracting COVID-19.  Between April and July, the test positivity (proportion of people who test positive amongst all tested) recorded by the sentinel survey ranged from 0.10 to 0.59. In June when the case graph of the State had been climbing, only 38 out of the 17,079 samples from the high risk groups had tested positive. In July, just 205 out of the 35,038 samples tested positive. A bit far-fetched “The huge variance in the data from sentinel surveillance and the actual situation begs the question whether this study is serving any purpose. The State’s current strategy focuses on testing all influenza like illness (ILI) cases. It is a bit far-fetched that after testing 11,616 ILI samples in June-July, the sentinel survey picked up just 11 COVID-19 cases,” a public health expert said. He also asked why the official report of sentinel surveillance Round 3 has omitted the results of the samples tested from one of the groups (Group 6, epidemiological samples collected from community/hospital). The sentinel surveillance should ideally have been an epidemiological exercise planned and executed at the district-level rather than a centralised plan, he said. ‘Possible flaws’ The official report concludes that “it is very evident that cases and positivity are more in clusters, whereas in the general population, the positivity still remains low.” “Even when the credibility of the entire survey process is under fire, no questions are being raised about possible flaws in study design, implementation or data interpretation because it suits the political narrative that community transmission is not widespread in the State,” a senior epidemiologist said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efficacy-of-sentinel-study-questioned/article32425437.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lacklustre Onam rush at Chala market||Sukumaran Nair remembers the previous Onam seasons, when Chala market used to be teeming with the young and the old, to buy flowers in bulk to make the customary Athappookkalam . Business would start before daybreak, and go on till late in the night. Now, florists like him consider themselves lucky if they get a handful of customers each day. “Business was bad in the past two years too, due to the floods. But, still we used to make decent profits. This year is something else altogether. My forefathers had begun this flower business in Chala years ago. Till date, we have not experienced a slump like this. In the initial period of COVID-19, we had a hope that things would get better by Onam,” says Sukumaran Nair, who runs the KSP florists shop in Chala market. From Thovala The flower stock in Chala market usually arrives from Thovala, Hosur, Dindigul and Salem. Around 15 to 20 loads of flowers used to arrive here daily during Onam. Now, one or two loads arrive here each day. “Earlier, some bigger dealers used to have one or two entire loads arriving for them alone. Now, all of us together pool in to get our stuff in a single load or two. The only sales now is for temple rituals and such regular orders. In Thovala and Hosur too, they have cut down on cultivation, due to which prices of flowers like rose have gone up from Rs. 150-200 per kilogram to Rs. 300 now,” says Sreekumaran, who runs SSK Flower Mart and is the joint secretary of the Trivandrum Florists Association. College and school Onam celebrations, Athappookkalam competitions organised by organisations, and celebrations in government and private institutions had earlier ensured a steady business during the season. With schools and colleges remaining closed and offices now running with skeletal staff, they do not expect the business to pick up. Pared-down wedding celebrations, with a handful of guests, have also affected their sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lacklustre-onam-rush-at-chala-market/article32425478.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||History repeats after 15 years||The no-confidence motion coming up in the Assembly on Monday is after a gap of 15 years and the first against the Left Democratic Front headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The notice by Congress leader V.D. Satheesan for leave to make the motion expressing “want of confidence in the Council of Ministers” headed by Mr. Vijayan is the 16th in the history of the Assembly. Though it is the 19th notice, it will be the 16th time a no-trust motion is being taken up. Of the motions discussed, just one was passed. Two notices did not get the Speaker’s approval, as these were not supported by a minimum of 20 legislators. The last no-trust motion moved in the House was in 2005 in the 11th Assembly by CPI(M)’s Kodiyeri Balakrishnan against the United Democratic Front (UDF) government headed by Oommen Chandy raising major corruption charges against his Cabinet colleagues. The motion that got accepted was in September 1964, when Praja Socialist Party’s P.K. Kunju moved a motion against the government headed by Chief Minister R. Shankar. Shankar, who was the head of the Congress Legislature Party, was sworn in as Chief Minister after Pattom Thanu Pillai was appointed as Punjab Governor. Following the defeat in the floor of the House, the government headed by Shankar resigned. The State came under President’s rule and the Assembly was dissolved by the President. The shortest one The discussion on the no-confidence motion on Monday will also be the shortest in the history of Assembly. Usually discussions last two to three days. The longest so far is about 21 hours spread over three days. As the 20th session of the 14th Assembly has been convened only for a day with the main business of Kerala Finance Bill, the discussion on the no-trust motion has been limited to five hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/history-repeats-after-15-years/article32425447.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A new way to help those in need||The city Corporation has launched a ‘sanitiser holder making challenge’, to raise funds for the civic body’s project to provide food kits to families in Poonthura and surrounding areas of the capital's coastal region. The effort is to help them tide over the crisis following the COVID-19- induced lockdown and ban on fishing. The Corporation on Sunday organised a workshop for making the sanitiser holder using cloth. Participants can make sanitiser holders and sell them at Rs. 25 each, which can be contributed to the fund for providing food kits to the coastal families. The Corporation will give certificates for organisations or individuals who manage to make 100 sanitiser holders and contribute to the project.  Workshop The sanitiser holders being used in the workshop were made by green army volunteers Akhila S. Raj and Hashmi. Mayor K. Sreekumar has released a video in his Facebook page on making the holders. Organisations including Prathidhwani, C5, Indus Cycling Embassy, Nehru Yuva Kendra, and others were part of the workshop. Public can contribute to the Corporation’s initiatives through the websitewww.donatetmc.in. Contributions could be sent to the Consumerfed’s account in the Palayam branch of the Federal Bank (Ac no- 10210200020231, IFSC FDRL0001021 ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-new-way-to-help-those-in-need/article32425480.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. did not know the Adani link: Jayarajan||The State government on Sunday appeared to scramble to defend itself against the allegation that it had deliberately lost the bid to operate the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL). Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said a high power committee headed by the Chief Secretary had chosen Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, a legal firm, to represent the Kerala State Industries Development Corporation (KSIDC) in the bidding. However, the government had not known whether the firm had family members of the Adani group on its board. The government would probe whether any conflict of interest had paved the way for the State losing the bid to operate, manage and develop the priced public asset for the next 50 years. Opposition stance Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the United Democratic Front (UDF) would protest the AEL’s takeover of the airport independently. It would have no truck with the ‘deceitful’ government. The government had handed over the airport to AEL on a platter. It had conspired with AEL to ensure the KSIDC lost the bid. Mr. Chennithala said ‘inside information’ had helped AEL win the bid. BJP State president K. Surendran said the government was secretly pleased that AEL had gained control of the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-did-not-know-the-adani-link-jayarajan/article32425441.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on virtual classrooms conducted||The situation created by the COVID-19 has underscored the relevance of virtual learning platforms, according to Saiju Aravind, PG IIT Delhi, educationist and founder and chief mentor, EduBrisk Knowledge Solutions Private Ltd. Addressing a webinar organised by The Hindu in School, in association with EduBrisk Knowledge Solutions, he said virtual classrooms were designed to be feature-packed and future ready. “Virtual classrooms and online classes are not one and the same as many misunderstand them to be,” explained Mr. Aravind, the key resource personnel at the webinar. “Online classes occupy only a very small space in the context of virtual classrooms and they are like a tool in virtual classrooms.” Complementary method Virtual classes create an ecosystem for ubiquitous learning; however, the pedagogy had to undergo a change. Answering queries, he said virtual classrooms were not to substitute traditional schooling. “They complement each other and in turn help to increase the share of time spent together by teachers and students to a much higher level (which is at present only around 13% a year in India).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-virtual-classrooms-conducted/article32425455.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trade unions want EICL to start clay extraction||Trade unions of the English Indian Clays Ltd (EICL) in the district, which halted operations on August 10, have sought urgent State government intervention to allow the company to resume extraction of China clay so that it can restart operations. The CITU, INTUC and BMS unions of EICL have submitted a joint petition in this regard to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, and Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan. The livelihood of 1,500 families had been imperilled with the EICL management suspending operations at its Veli and Thonnackal units on August 10 citing heavy losses and shortage of China clay, District Clay Workers’ Union (CITU), English Indian Clay Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), and English Indian Clays Workers’ Congress (INTUC) said in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trade-unions-want-eicl-to-start-clay-extraction/article32425481.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP councillor suspended for taking part in CPI(M) stir||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor of the city Corporation, along with her family, took part in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M))’s Statewide protest on Sunday against the anti-people policies of the Centre. The BJP has suspended her from the party “for actions bringing disrepute to the party”. S. Vijayakumari, councillor of the Palkulangara ward, took part in the protest, causing an embarrassment for her party ahead of the upcoming local body elections. Allegations Ms. Vijayakumari said she had decided to leave the BJP and work with the CPI(M) in the future. “I have been having issues with the other BJP councillors for sometime. I was being isolated within the party. But the leadership has not taken any action although I have talked to them. Recently, a section of the BJP workers and Congress workers in my ward had put up posts attacking me in social media, by using an issue related to unloading of metal for road tarring as a pretext. No one from the party came forward to support me,” said Ms. Vijayakumari. BJP parliamentary party leader M.R. Gopan said Ms. Vijayakumari had spoken about differences with a couple of councillors. “Other than that, she has not lodged any official complaint,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-councillor-suspended-for-taking-part-in-cpim-stir/article32425479.ece
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell ad money for CMDRF||The General Education Department’s ‘First Bell’ digital classes that are telecast on KITE Victers channel have completed 1,500 episodes. The classes were launched on June 1 against the backdrop of COVID-19 and schools in the State not reopening. At present, as much as 442-terabyte data is being accessed each month from 141 countries on the web and mobile platforms of KITE Victers channel alone. Its YouTube channel (www.youtube.com/ itsvicters) has over 17.6 lakh subscribers and over 15 crore viewers a month. Rs. 15 lakh from YouTube “Only limited and restricted advertisements are permitted on our YouTube channel. It has been decided to donate the first month advertisement revenue of Rs. 15 lakh from YouTube to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF),” K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education), said. As part of the programme, general classes on yoga, motivation, and career are already being telecast on Victers. Classes on sports education will start this week, followed by classes on mental health in the first week of September. Only the classes based on the first volume textbooks for students will be aired till September. Regular classes will not be held from August 28 to September 2 as part of First Bell owing to Onam holidays, and the detailed schedule of programmes for this period will be published separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-bell-ad-money-for-cmdrf/article32425454.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested in clash||The Thumba police have arrested two people in connection with the clash among two groups that resulted in the death of a 65-year-old woman in south Thumba late Saturday. The police identified the accused as Jude Felix and Jose Solomon of south Thumba. Others were also booked for murder in the case. The incident occurred at 8 p.m. on Saturday when families and friends of two people clashed. The deceased Mary attempted to shield a relative but fell on the ground unconscious. Known to be suffering from heart ailments, she was confirmed dead at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-in-clash/article32425477.ece
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Investors get a guide on post-COVID options||The Industries Department has come out with a comprehensive investor guide to enable entrepreneurs to explore opportunities in multiple sectors. The guide aims at triggering a post-pandemic economic resurgence by projecting the State as a safe and sustainable investment destination. The compendium titled ‘Invest Kerala Primer’ was released by Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan at the Secretariat by handing over a copy to K. Elangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries. Besides providing information about potential areas that beckon investments, the guide lists how easily entrepreneurs can make decisions, thanks to a slew of legislative and policy initiatives that have reformed the investment regime in the State. It provides details of the investment climate that ensure hassle-free clearances and how and where to approach for assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/investors-get-a-guide-on-post-covid-options/article32425446.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Different demands, same method||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/different-demands-same-method/article32425453.ece
24 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police ‘beat up’ man and his son||A man and his son were injured and admitted to a private hospital after they were beaten allegedly by a group of police personnel from the Peddavadaguru Police Station on Saturday night. Nallayya, 45, and his son Bharat were allegedly bringing country liquor from a neighbouring village in an inebriated condition when a police party intercepted them. In her complaint, Nallayya’s wife accused a head constable, a constable, and their vehicle driver of beating her husband and son,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-beat-up-man-and-his-son/article32425559.ece
24 August 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple priests hit hard as income dries up amid coronavirus pandemic||Archakas (temple priests) have been facing severe financial problems. The lockdown and the restrictions on devotees due to the COVID-19 pandemic, robbed them of even the sundry income they get from devotees due to cancellation of ‘abhishekams’ and special ‘pujas.’ Temples were closed to devotees for nearly three months after the lockdown in March. During the period, only priests were allowed to perform the daily rituals. The archakas of small temples found it very difficult to even support their families during the lockdown. There was not much improvement in their financial conditions even after the temples reopened for devotees on June 8. ‘Abhishekam’ and other rituals remain cancelled and only ‘darshan’ is allowed, that too in a limited way, due to COVID-19 protocols. The cancellation of special pujas during the auspicious Sravana masam and postponement of weddings added to their woes.  Meagre salary There are an estimated 50,000 temples in Visakhapatnam district. Over 95% are small temples with less revenue and do not come under the purview of the Endowments Act. Most of the archakas are paid meagre salaries in the range of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 per month even in temples under the control of the Endowments Department. Only 30% of the income of the temple is given as establishment expenses for meeting the salaries of staff. While the clerical and administrative staff at the temples are paid more than 10 times that of the archakas. “A Supreme Court order says that the archakas are the most important persons in a temple after the deity and that their salaries should be paid first. The Pay Revision Commission scale is being implemented for attenders, junior assistants and other employees, but not for archakas. We have represented the issue to the authorities and Ministers several times in the past, but justice was not done to us so far,” says Muralikrishna, joint secretary of the Uttarandhra Archaka Sangham. To add insult to the injury, the Endowments Department puts up boards at the temples under its control asking devotees to put their offerings only into the hundis, thereby depriving priests of the offerings given to them by devotees. “A circular was issued in August, 2019, by the government, directing that the archakas should be paid between Rs. 10,000 (minimum) and Rs. 35,000 a month, based on the population, apart from extension of other benefits. But the same has not been implemented so far,” adds Mr. Muralikrishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-priests-hit-hard-as-income-dries-up-amid-coronavirus-pandemic/article32425593.ece
24 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavams at Kanipakam low-key affair||The 21-day annual brahmotsavams of Lord Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy at Kanipakam commenced on Sunday as a low-key affair due to the COVID-19 protocols. Every year, the event takes off the next day after celebrating Vinayaka Chavithi. Administered by the State Endowments Department, the temple usually attracts a huge crowd of pilgrims from across the southern States and from foreign countries too. This time, the priests initiated the ritual of ‘Dwajarohanam’ (hoisting of celestial flag) in the morning in the interior of the complex. Executive officer Venkatesh, Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu, Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy and local leaders from Irala, Tavanampalle, Chittoor and Bangarupalem mandals took part. In view of the pandemic, rituals that are usually performed in the streets would be confined to the prakaram of the temple. Executive officer Venkatesh said that those aged above 60 and below 10 are barred from having darshan. All protocols would be strictly followed, he said adding that those flouting the norms would be asked to leave. The official said that all the accommodation blocks in the temple town were being thoroughly disinfected for the convenience of the devotees. The officials also inspected the ‘Annadanam’ and temple kitchen and issued instructions for adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines. Special buses Meanwhile, the APSRTC authorities said that special buses would be plied to Kanipakam from Tirupati and Chittoor, apart from covering the rural routes surrounding the pilgrim town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavams-at-kanipakam-low-key-affair/article32425117.ece
24 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death toll rises to 440 in Prakasam, Nellore||The intensity of coronavirus spread refused to lessen in the south coastal Andhra region as the death toll in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts rose to 440 with 43 persons succumbing to the viral disease in the region in the last 48 hours as of Sunday. SPSR Nellore district accounted for 26 fresh deaths and Prakasam district 17. With this, 223 patients in Prakasam district and 217 in SPSR Nellore district have so far lost the battle against the disease. As many as 1,908 persons, including 985 in SPSR Nellore district, tested positive for the disease, according to a health bulletin released on Sunday night. With this, the cumulative positive cases increased to 39,158 in the districts, including 22,577 in SPSR Nellore district. Health authorities who were struggling to cope with ever increasing number of patients, had some reprieve as the difference between new admissions and discharges from hospitals narrowed. As many as 1,960 patients, including 1,112 in Prakasam, were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals during the period in the two districts. The number of active cases stood at 6,606 in Nellore and 6,069 in Prakasam. As many as 15 new containment clusters were formed in Prakasam district as the disease spread across 331 clusters. The district witnessed 58 deaths in less than a week. As many as 56 patients were put in intensive care unit as their condition remained critical. The number of in-patients in COVID-19 hospitals stood at 928 in the district, where over 4,000 asymptomatic patients were treated from their homes and another 1,000 patients from COVID-19 Care Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-toll-rises-to-440-in-prakasam-nellore/article32425561.ece
24 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole goes green on Vinayaka Chavithi||Vinayaka Chavithi was celebrated in a green way in Prakasam district as devotees switched over to eco-friendly material like natural clay and turmeric in a big way, thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic. The idols made up of plaster of Paris, which used to dot the Ongole landscape, were missing this time in the street corners as people strictly adhered to orders issued by the authorities to confine the celebrations to their homes. Residents of one Sai Saudha Apartment made a three-feet-long Ganesh idol using 16 kg of turmeric. The idol was immersed within the apartment premises on Sunday evening. The offering of very big Laddu was absent this time, though other delicacies, like mothakam, were offered. “This year, we did not receive any big order for Laddus as Ganesh Pandal organisers refrained from installing big idols in public areas,” lamented M.Srinvas, a sweetmeat shop owner on the Gandhi Road here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-goes-green-on-vinayaka-chavithi/article32425121.ece
24 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam Pantulu remembered||Rich tributes were paid to freedom fighter and statesman Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu on his 147th birth anniversary in Prakasam district on Sunday. Collector P. Bhaskar led a large number of his admirers in paying floral tributes to ‘Andhra Kesari’, an epithet earned for bearing his chest before the police to shoot at him during the Simon Commission’s visit to then Madras (now Chennai) in 1928. An exhibition with rare pictures of the late leader was organised on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-pantulu-remembered/article32425122.ece
24 August 2020||SAKHINETIPALLI LANKA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Boatmen emerge as new frontline warriors||The boatmen deployed in the Godavari flood relief operation emerged as the new frontline warriors in the fight against the COVID-19 battle in the island villages cut off from the mainland in the Konaseema area in East Godavari district. The flood water has cut off at least 76 habitations in the Konaseema area, pushing those infected into further trouble as they have lost access to the mainland for any medical aid in the emergency. The entire road network remains under a sheet of water in Konaseema, through which the branches of the Godavari flow to join the Bay of Bengal. In the Konaseema’s 15 mandas, as many as 300 boats are engaged in the relief operation, each manned by a driver and his assistant. “As many as 15 COVID patients have been evacuated from five island villages in the Konaseema area after the boat drivers agreed to it. Some of them have been brought to the mainland while the remaining have been admitted to the COVID Care Centre,” Additional District Medical and Health Officer (Amalapuram) T.K. Srinivas told The Hindu.  He said the boatmen were the only hope to attend to the COVOD patients under home quarantine in the habitations that were cut off from the mainland. By Sunday, six patients were evacuated from Pedapatnam Lanka, five from Pasarlapudi Lanka, two from Appanapalli, and one each from Appanna Ramuni Lanka and Sakhinetipalli Lanka. The boats will be available till the area returns to normal. More than 17.74 lakh cusecs of flood water is being released into the Konaseema area from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. A few hundreds of COVID patients are in home quarantine across the Konaseema area, and many of them will be evacuated based on their medical need. Meanwhile, the district authorities have imposed a ban on the movement of boats at night to avoid any untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boatmen-emerge-as-new-frontline-warriors/article32425567.ece
24 August 2020||SRISAILAM (KURNOOL DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Many throng Srisailam dam as gates lifted||With 4.97 lakh cusecs of water being released on Saturday, which came down to 3.43 cusecs on Sunday, a large number of people visited the Srisailam dam to view the sight, sidelining every COVID-19 norm. Approach roads from the hills on both sides of the dam--AP and Telangana--were jam-packed as many from Guntur, Kurnool, Prakasam as well as from Hyderabad visited the dam as 10 out of its 12 crest gates were lifted to release the floodwater. Giving a go-by to physical distancing and wearing of masks, many were seen posing together for photographs at the dam while others were scattered along the Dornala-Srisailam Dam road, making the place a picnic spot.  Low footfall at temple At the Srisailam Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple, the footfall was very low with just 5,000 people visiting the temple on Vinayaka Chaturthi, as against the the usual number of 50,000, said Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao. “From Sunday, we have started all arjitha sevas, kalyanam etc. by following all COVID-19 protocols,” he said. Tickets for sevas have been reduced to 30%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-throng-srisailam-dam-as-gates-lifted/article32425119.ece
24 August 2020||Staff reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic grips Polavaram village as Necklace Bund becomes weak||Tension gripped Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages as the Necklace Bund, constructed to protect the low-lying villages, became weak owing to the flood in the Godavari. With the flood water remaining at the danger level for the last seven days, the bund has been damaged and it may develop a breach at any time, said the villagers. As the flood situation continued unabated at Bhadrachalam, the second warning was sounded on Sunday. Water is flowing at the height of five feet, touching the Necklace bund, and if it develops breach, Polavaram and Patha Polavaram will wash away, said the officials. As a precautionary measure, the villagers have been shifted to safer places. Meanwhile, Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, West Godavari Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana, Irrigation Superintending Engineer (SE) Nagireddy and other officials rushed to Polavaram village. They monitored the ongoing bund strengthening works which continued till the early hours on Sunday. Irrigation officials supported the bund by packing it with sand bags and boulders. “Around 1000 families live in Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages. About 5,000 people, most of them tribals, are living in the villages along the bund,” said Mr. Suryanarayana. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Narayan Naik, who is camping at Polavaram village, said the residents of Polavaram, Patha Polavaram and Yedlagudem have been evacuated as the Necklace bund has become vulnerable to breaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-grips-polavaram-village-as-necklace-bund-becomes-weak/article32425581.ece
24 August 2020||Staff Reporter Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||German bank to aid energy-efficiency steps||German development bank KfW has agreed to support the promotion of low carbon technologies and energy-efficiency measures in various sectors in the State, especially in MSMEs and agriculture. In a conference call with Energy Secretary N. Srikant, KfW officials responded positively to a request to help the State in scaling up energy-efficiency initiatives as part of the goal to provide quality and sustainable energy to the domestic and industrial sectors. Mr. Srikant said the State was implementing certain energy efficiency programmes with the support of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. Meanwhile, the Energy Department requested the German development agency GIZ to extend technical support in the area of energy research, development and training. The government was focusing on long-term energy security and was committed to supplying quality power to the consumers, said Mr. Srikant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/german-bank-to-aid-energy-efficiency-steps/article32425571.ece
24 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No special entry online tickets during Brahmotsavams||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved not to issue Rs. 300 special entry online darshan tickets to devotees from September 18 to 27 in view of the Brahmotsavams. Even though the town is all set to witness two Brahmotsavams this year, the first from September 19 to 27 and the second from October 16 to 24, the TTD is yet to arrive at a decision on the scale of the conduct of the festival amid COVID-19 scare. A final call is expected to be taken at a meeting of its board of trustees scheduled on the 28th of this month wherein the modalities to be adopted for the second Brahmotsavams also is likely to be finalised.  Thirumanjanam ritual  Similarly, no special entry darshan tickets will be issued for September 15 in view of Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam, the periodical sanitary ritual organised ahead of every main event at the hill temple. September quota However, the online quota of special entry darshan tickets for the entire month of September barring the festival dates will be released from 11.00 am on August 24 (Monday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-special-entry-online-tickets-during-brahmotsavams/article32425583.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get-well wishes pour in for SPB||Overwhelming support poured in for the ailing playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam on Sunday when Telugu Bhashodyama Samithi members conducted group prayers in the heart of the city. The samithi’s founder president Sakam Nagaraja conducted the programme in recognition of the ace singer’s contribution to Telugu literature and his mellifluous melodies rendered in the language for over half a century. “SPB brought several facets of the language to light though his stage programmes, apart from creating love for the language in the present generation,” Mr. Nagaraja hailed. The body’s president Nadendla Srimannarayana, executive members B. Ramachandra Reddy, Vaka Prasad and M. Chandra Reddy sang ‘Koluko Balu - Paatanu eluko Balu’, praying in front of Sri Kapileswara Swamy temple and wishing for his speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/get-well-wishes-pour-in-for-spb/article32425585.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay safe, but do not isolate those in need, says Bhumana||YSRCP legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has appealed to the people to reach out to those who are helpless and are dependent on public support for their survival. At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has widened the ‘social distance’, the MLA’s participation in the novel programme organised by the Manava Vikasa Vedika on the city’s streets on Sunday seemed to suggest to the people not to widen the distance between two hearts. Taking cognisance of a few complaints that leprosy patients remain socially isolated during the pandemic and are devoid of any help, Mr. Karunakar Reddy pulled the wheel-cart used by them for mobility for a distance. “The message I intend to send out to the people is to reach out to the needy in the times of the unprecedented crisis. Staying safe does not mean that you have to remain socially isolated and unreachable to the needy,” he observed. Mr. Reddyhad appeal to the people to pay respects to the deceased by attending their funeral. He also appealed to the celebrities to walk out of their cocoons and send out a positive message to the people to help those in need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stay-safe-but-do-not-isolate-those-in-need-says-bhumana/article32425563.ece
24 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD staffer donates cane to dairy farm||A TTD employee Anjaneyulu donated 12 tonnes of sugarcane to the TTD-run Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshanasala (dairy farm), to be fed to the elephants on the occasion of Vinayaka Chaturthi. The Superintendent at the TTD Board cell, who is also the founder of the Joint Action Committee, handed over the donation worth Rs. 1.5 lakh to the dairy farm Director K. Haranath Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-staffer-donates-cane-to-dairy-farm/article32425564.ece
24 August 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Downstream villages in West Godavari in knee-deep water||The flood water level in the Godavari was recorded at 44.80 feet at Bhadrachalam at 8 p.m. on Sunday, and the first warning was in force. Many habitations in the downstream of the river were under knee-deep water. 79 habitations affected The water level of the Godavari was at 29 metres at the Coffer dam and 14.9 metres at Polavaram. Sabari River, which is in spate, was flowing at the height of 15.3 metres at Thallagudem. However, the officials said that the flood was receding at some places. Speaking to The Hindu , Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju said 79 habitations in the low-lying areas of the Agency were facing the threat and around 10,000 families have been shifted to rehabilitation centres. “We have shifted the residents from Paidakula Mamidi, Sirivaka, Kondrukota, Tekuru, Singanapalli, Kachluru, Mamidigondi, Cheeduru, Gaddapalli, Koruturu, Paidipaka, Rudramakota, Tatakuru Gommu, Tella Dibbala, Madapuram, Kothuru, Kukunur, Lachigudem, Repaka Gommu, Gommugudem and other habitations,” said the MLA. The government is supplying plastic covers for erecting tents, rice, kerosene, dal, vegetables, candles and other essentials to the villagers, he said. Meanwhile, thousands of people from the flood-hit areas in Kukunur, Velerupadu and Polavaram mandals trekked to the nearby hills. Many Koya and Kondareddy tribal families have been taking shelter in the hilly areas since a week. Communication to Kothuru, Repaka Gommu, Gutala, Rudramakota, Mahadevapuram, Tella Dibbala and other tribal hamlets has been cut off, said the ITDA officials. “Around 5,000 families are camping on the hills in the Agency area of West Godavari district, and the government is providing medical aid and ration to the victims,” said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana. Power supply to many flood-hit habitations have been disrupted and the restoration works will begin once the flood recedes. “Generators have been arranged at the rehabilitation centres and boats are kept ready for emergency,” said Mr. Suryanarayana, who is also the ITDA Project Officer. Relief works As many rivulets are in spate and flood water has inundated the main roads, road link has been cut off to many tribal hamlets. The Revenue and the ITDA officials are supplying essentials to the tribal people. “Medicines and groceries are being supplied to some island villages by launches. The officials are camping in the villages and monitoring the situation,” said the Sub-Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/downstream-villages-in-west-godavari-in-knee-deep-water/article32425579.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s organisations to stage protest on August 28||The office-bearers of various women’s organisations called for protests on August 28 against the government’s alleged negligence in tackling the high incidence of domestic violence against women during the COVID pandemic and in providing them means of livelihood during the crisis. In a joint press release, D. Rama Devi (All India Democratic Women's Association), P. Durga Bhavani (National Federation of Indian Women), M. Lakshmi Pragatiseela (Progressive Organisation of Women) and G. Lalitha (Akhila Bharata Mahila Samskrutika Sangham) stated that domestic violence has grown manifold during the pandemic and the opening of liquor business contributed to atrocities on women. Pregnant women were getting infected due to the governments’ “indifference to their plight” and women in home isolation have poor access to health care, they pointed out. The leaders said the increasing corporatisation of agriculture robbed women of their livelihood and that the rights of labourers, particularly women, were being trampled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womens-organisations-to-stage-protest-on-august-28/article32425123.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several areas inundated following flood surge in the Krishna||Several houses in the Krishnalanka and other low-lying areas were inundated and hundreds of families were displaced following a rise in the flood level in the the Krishna downstream of Prakasam Barrage on Sunday. The inflows to Prakasam Barrage were increasing by the hour due to heavy discharge at the projects upstream of it. As of 7 p.m., while the inflows were 3.16 lakh cusecs, the outflows were 3.08 lakh cusecs. The first flood warning would be issued once the outflows touch 3.96 lakh cusecs. The outflow at the Pulichintala project was 2.9 lakh cusecs. Meanwhile, district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz visited the flood-affected areas in Krishnalanka and advised people to move to the relief centres. COVID precautions Several houses built beyond the second canal bund were flooded. People were shifted to the relief centres set up at the IGMC Stadium and schools nearby. The Collector said that COVID precautions were also in place at the relief centres, and asked the people not to hesitate to take shelter in them. Commissioner, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, V. Prasanna Venkatesh, also visited the flood- affected areas. The VMC has set up 32 relief centres that can accommodate 8,900 persons. But the number of persons being accommodated at each centre is less than their full capactiy as COVID safety measures and physical distancing are to be implemented as per the orders issued by the Commissioner. The areas prone to severe flooding upsteam of the barrage are Rana Devi Nagar, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Taraka Rama Nagar of Krishnalanka and a few areas of Ramalingeswara Nagar. In the upstream area, Bhavanipuram, Vidyadharapuram and a few other areas are likely to be affected. The VMC has set up helpline desks and those in need can dial 0866-2424172 or 0866-2422515.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/several-areas-inundated-after-surge-in-krishna-level/article32425056.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan has let people down on capital issue, says TDP||MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) on Sunday accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of letting down the people of the State who had voted him to power believing his “hollow promises.” Mr. Srinivas was speaking at a meeting organised by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi’s Joint Action Committee (JAC) to mark the completion of 250 days of the agitation in support of the demand that the government continue Amaravati as the single capital . In a novel protest, the JAC members and leaders of the opposition parties submitted copies of a memorandum to the statues of B.R. Ambedkar and the Lady Justice. Mr. Srinivas said the TDP government had finalised Amaravati as the capital after taking into consideration many key aspects. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was the Leader of the Opposition then, had extended his support to the government’s proposal, but went back on his word after coming to power. Promise on SCS The MP said that the Chief Minister had taken the people for a ride by promising that his party would fight for the Special Category Status to the State and in getting special funds to take up development projects, but none of his party MPs had raised the issue in Parliament. He said the agitation for Amaravati had entered the 250th day and it would continue till the government gave up its plan to shift the capital. CPI leader K. Ramakrishna said the capital cannot be shifted when five-crore people wanted it to continue in Amaravati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-has-let-people-down-on-capital-issue-says-tdp/article32425574.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘40% people in Vijayawada contracted coronavirus’||Krishna district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that 20% of the population in the district and 40% in Vijayawada may have already contracted COVID-19 without the affected persons actually knowing about it according to the results of the sero surveillance, a scientific study to estimate the presence of antibody levels among citizens who aren’t tested so far. As part of the study, Mr. Imtiaz said that 3,750 samples across the city and district were tested and the results suggested that a total of 20% of the population in the district and 40% in the city had contracted the virus and recovered without showing any symptoms. He said that people in Ranigari Thota, Kothapeta, Wynchpet and other areas in the city and district were selected as per the study format and tested. Only those who had antibodies more than 10 units were considered having contracted the virus. “This study doesn’t mean that we have achieved herd immunity, but is a positive sign as most people developed antibodies. The district has lowest number of cases in the district now. However, people still have to follow social distancing measures to keep COVID at bay until a vaccine is found,” Mr. Imtiaz said in a video message. The district’s COVID tally stands at 13,875 with 142 new cases reported in the last one day. The death toll is 246 and death rate is 1.77%. The first case in the city was reported on March 23 when a foriegn returnee tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/40-people-in-city-contracted-covid-without-knowing-it/article32425113.ece
24 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protect Thotlakonda heritage site, Centre urged||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has written a letter to Union Minister of Culture Prahlad Singh Patel requesting the constitution of a high-level committee for the protection of Buddhist heritage site Thotlakonda in Visakhapatnam. He alleged that the proposed allotment of a land in survey number 314 (old) of Kapuluppada village near the ancient site for the construction of a VIP guest house posed a threat to the existence of the monument. The MP observed that such constructions were a violation of Article 49 of the Constitution, under which the States had the obligation to protect every monument or place or object of artistic and historic importance declared by or under a law made by Parliament to be of national importance. Further, the matter had come up in the High Court in writ petition number 173/2016. There were also norms laid down by the Supreme Court, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protect-thotlakonda-heritage-site-centre-urged/article32425600.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Firm donates medicines||Hyderabad-based parmaceutical company Natco Pharma Limited, through its corporate social responsibility arm Natco Trust, has donated medicines worth Rs. 1.02 crore to the Health Department as a contribution towards the State’s fight against COVID pandemic. The medicines include 2.99 lakh Apixaban tablets and 4,800 Enoxaparin injections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/firm-donates-medicines/article32425112.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avail our idol immersion service: VMC||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation(VMC) commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh appealed to the people of the city to make use of the Ganesh idol immersion service being provided by the corporation. In a release, Mr. Venkatesh said that in view of the government restricting idol immersion at public places, the Corporation has made special arrangements to transport the idols given by the public, and immerse them in Krishna river as per the rituals. He said people can avail the service by contacting local sanitation workers or sanitation inspector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avail-our-idol-immersion-service-vmc/article32425116.ece
24 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor jumps into Krishna river||An assistant professor in the Guntur Government General Hospital (GGH) A. Srinivas Rao (40) reportedly jumped into the Krishna river on Sunday. Police, NDRF and SDRF teams are searching for the missing person. The reasons for the alleged suicide are not known, the police said.The assistant professor jumped from the barrage leaving his bike and mobile on the pavement. He drowned in the flood, said One Town CI P. Venkateswarlu. Persons in distress may dial ‘100’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-jumps-into-river/article32425565.ece
24 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-APCO chairman’s houses raided||The officials of the CIDseized huge cash, gold and silver ornaments and documents from several houses belonging to the Andhra Pradesh Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society (APCO) former chairman and his staff. The CID team, along with its personnel from Tirupati and Nellore regional offices, conducted searches at the houses of APCO former chairman Gujjala Srinu and his staff in Kadapa and Hyderabad, and seized Rs. 1.11 crore in cash, 10.481 kgs of gold, 19.564 kgs of silver ornaments, apart from 43 bank passbooks and 515 other documents.  The seized valuables, bank passbooks, records of the society and other documents would be produced before the court, said CID Additional Director General P.V. Sunil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-apco-chairmans-houses-raided/article32425566.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 451 new cases, district tally crosses the 30,000-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 30,000-mark in the district with 451 new cases being reported on Sunday. The total number of cases has now gone up to 30,216. What seems to worry the Health Department officials is that the last 10,000 cases are reported in a span of just 13 days. According to COVID-19 bulletin released by the district administration, as many as 991 news cases were reported in the last 48 hours, including 451 on Sunday. As many as 11 persons succumbed to the virus, including five on Sunday, taking the death toll to 213 in the district.  736 clusters On August 22, as many as 733 patients recovered from the virus. Sunday saw 463 more persons recovering from the COVID-19, which takes the total number of patients recovered to 1,196 in two days. The total also includes patients being treated at home quarantine, apart from those who were admitted to hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. According to the officials, the total number of active COVID-19 cases is 5,042 and the discharged is 24,961, as on Sunday. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, said that the total number of clusters in the district is 736. Of them, very active clusters are 141, while active clusters are 81. Similarly, the number of dormant clusters is 514. As many as 171 clusters have been denotified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-451-new-cases-district-tally-crosses-the-30000-mark/article32425596.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flight services from Vizag rising steadily||The frequency of the flights operating from the Visakhapatnam International Airport is registering a steady increase with more airline operators evincing interest to operate from Vizag. IndiGo has announced the operation of its third flight daily between Vizag and Hyderabad with effect from August 25. Flight No. 6 E 7747 will leave Hyderabad at 5.15 p.m. and reach Vizag at 6.50 p.m. In the return direction, 6 E 7748 will leave Vizag at 7.20 p.m. and reach Hyderabad at 9 p.m. IndiGo is already operating flights from Vizag to Hyderabad at 12.30 p.m. and 10 p.m. IndiGo has also announced that its flight No. 287 Vizag-Bengaluru, being operated four days a week, would now operate daily. Similarly, the Vizag-Delhi (6 E 2772), which is being operated three days a week, would be a daily flight from August 25. IndiGo alone is operating 11 flights out of Vizag and is planning to operate ATRs from Vizag to Kolkata via Bhubaneswar and from Vizag to Tirupati via Vijayawada soon, according to travel industry sources. AirAsia, which is currently operating its Vizag-Bengaluru flight four days a week, has announced operation of a new flight to Bengaluru to leave Vizag at 9.40 p.m. and reach Bengaluru at 11.15 p.m. from August 25. The airline is said to be planning a direct flight from Vizag to Mumbai. SpiceJet has also announced operation of one flight each from Vizag to Hyderabad and Vizag to Delhi from August 25. “All the flights coming in and going out of Vizag are witnessing good loads despite the COVID-19 pandemic. On an average around 2,000 passengers are being handled at the airport every day. At present, we have 10 arrivals and 10 departures a day,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore told The Hindu , on Thursday. “Very soon Vizag airport will see the pre-COVID-19 traffic,” says Muralikrishna, a tour operator from the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flight-services-from-vizag-rising-steadily/article32425582.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gaiety marks Ganesh idol immersion in city||With COVID-19 restrictions in place, it was an eco-friendly Ganesh puja for Vizagites. Dressed in traditional attire, devotees performed puja and celebrated the festival with fun and gaiety at home. While many made idols on their own, and painted them with eco-friendly colours, others worshipped idols made with turmeric. Residents of various apartments also celebrated the festival by installing 3-foot high idols and organising special prayers on Sunday evening for collective good. Social media was flooded with messages as people wished their loved ones. A few pandals were set up in interior areas of rural areas and police had asked to take them off and urged them to celebrate the festival indoors. “It is true that we missed a lot of fun. Having a pandal in the colony makes a Ganesh puja special. However we celebrated the festival in our homes. We prepared different delicacies and exchanged them. By evening, we went to Beach Road and spent time with friends,” said K. Avinash, a resident of Madhurawada area. A large number of people took part in the Ganesh immersion programme on Sunday morning and evening. People along with their family members came to the beach, where they took part in the immersion ceremony. Jodugullapalem, Tenneti Park, Sagar Nagar, stretch near Rushikonda, Bheemili, Mudasarlova and a few other water bodies witnessed a number of people coming for immersion of Ganesh idols. As a measure to keep beaches clean, sanitary staff from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) stood at the entrance of the beach and sought people to dump flowers wastes, agarbathis, plastic bags in dumpbins and immerse only idols. Local fisherfolk were seen bargaining with people to immerse idols in water as the tides were high. The youth charged Rs. 10 for their service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gaiety-marks-ganesh-idol-immersion-in-city/article32425598.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure weakens; fresh one likely today||The well-marked low pressure over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood lies as a low pressure over central parts of East Rajasthan and neighbourhood now lies as a low pressure area over central parts of East Rajasthan and neighbourhood. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 7.6 km above mean sea level, tilting southwestwards with height. It is likely to move westwards across Rajasthan during the next two days, according to the IMD. A fresh low pressure area is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around August 24. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal AP and Yanam on August 26. The southwest monsoon has been normal over coastal AP and Yanam and weak over Rayalaseema. The chief amounts of rain (in cm), received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, are: Coastal AP and Yanam: Avanigada (Krishna) 3, Kavali (Nellore) 3, Masulipatnam Cdr (Krishna) 3 and Eluru (West Godavari) 3. Rayalaseema: Chinnamandem (Kadapa) 4, Sambepalle (Kadapa) 3 and Pullampeta (Kadapa) 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-weakens-fresh-one-likely-today/article32425591.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held ‘for ATM robberies’||The city police arrested a notorious inter-State ATM robbery gang, who have been committing thefts at the ATM centres using duplicate keys. The police found that the accused had made good with around Rs. 1.40 lakh at various ATM centres in the city.The arrested have been identified as Aakib Khan (27) and Mubarik (21), both hailing from Mewat district in Haryana. According to the police, a complaint was received from G. Surya Bhaskar Rao, Accountant, State Bank of India, Birla Junction branch, on August 21, in which it was stated that on July 7 and 8, two unidentified persons did fraudulent ATM transactions to the tune of Rs. 1.03 lakh by switching off the power cables illegally. Explaining the modus operandi, Inspector of Police (West Sub division crimes), M. Avatharam, who was a part of the investigating team, said that the gang had come from Delhi in a flight and stayed in a posh hotel. While coming, they had brought 34 ATM cards of their friends, relatives and also collected PIN numbers of the cards. They take a bike on rent and conducted recce over ATM centres, where there was no security. “Entering the ATM centre, they first open the lock of the front box with the duplicate keys. Then they insert ATM card, enter PIN, withdraw the amount and immediately after cash comes out of the machine, they switch off the power button through the front box which is already opened. As a result, the ATM shows ‘Transaction Failed’ due to the network failure, but withdrawal message is delivered to the register mobile number of the card holder,” he said. Police said that after a few minutes, the actual card holder calls the customer care centre and complains that he tried to withdraw amount, but the transaction failed and the amount was debited in their account. After three days, the above amount will be credited into the account by the bank as they too find that the transaction was failed. The actual card holder is given a share from the amount credited in the account. According to police, on August 22 at around 5 a.m., they received information about the gang attempting to rob an ATM centre in the city. The police found that the duo had committed theft of another Rs. 39,000 from an ATM. The police have recovered Rs. 76,000, 34 ATM cards and three duplicate keys from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-atm-robberies/article32425589.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth from Hyderabad drowns in waterfalls||A 22-year-old youth from Hyderabad reportedly drowned at Thatiguda waterfalls in Ananthagiri mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency area on Sunday. The deceased was identified as K. Rana Prasad, a resident of Yousufguda, Hyderabad, and a third-year mechanical engineering student. According to Circle Inspector of Araku police station Pydaiah, four friends from Yousufguda were on a tour to Araku. On Sunday, they visited Thatiguda waterfalls. While others went for swimming, Rana Prasad climbed a rock and he accidentally slipped and fell into the water. He became unconscious after suffering injury on his head. He believed to have swallowed water and died. His friends could not help him, the police said. “During normal times, local youth warn outsiders not to go inside waters or to climb rocks. Due to COVID-19 situation, there was no one nearby to alert them,” said Mr. Pydaiah. The body was shifted to the S.Kota hospital. Parents of the youth were informed and they are scheduled to reach on Monday morning. A case was registered. This is second drowning death in Ananthagiri mandal in a week. On August 16, a youth from Akkayyapalem in Visakhapatnam city drowned at Sariya waterfalls. Locals from the Agency said that despite the COVID-19 pandemic and increase in the cases in the district, many youths are visiting tourist spots, especially waterfalls, in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-from-hyderabad-drowns-in-waterfalls/article32425357.ece
24 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remand prisoner ‘ends life’||An accused in remand in connection with a murder case committed suicide at the central prison here on Thursday. According to Arilova police here on Friday, 46-year-old Muppala Prasad was arrested in a murder case in March under fourth town police station limits. Though the remand period was over he remained in jail as there was none to give him surety for bail. Prasad was reportedly upset over this and during tea break he climbed a mango tree in prison premises and hanged himself with a towel. His body was shifted to KGH for autopsy. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remand-prisoner-ends-life/article32425590.ece
24 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram, Srikakulam see spike in virus cases||Notwithstanding the COVID-19 protocols, both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have, in the last one week, been witnessing 800 to 1,000 positive cases every day on an average. The number of positive cases in both the districts is more than 34,000. In Srikakulam district, the number of cases registered so far stands at 18,367, and the number of active cases is 5,958. Complete lockdown With new cases being reported in the district headquarters too, the government has imposed complete lockdown on Sundays. Vending of vegetables, fish and meat too was not allowed, and violation of any kind was being viewed seriously. Authorities of the municipal corporation imposed Rs. 10,000 fine on Vishal Mart for violation of the lockdown norms. Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya said that complete lockdown would be in force every Sunday. In Vizianagaram district, the total number of cases stands at 15,763. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari have directed the civic authorities to take steps to control the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-srikakulam-see-spike-in-virus-cases/article32425588.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third warning withdrawn as inflows into Godavari reduce||The third warning for flood was withdrawn at 11 a.m. on Sunday as the inflows into the Godavari started falling at the Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) Barrage at Dowleswaram in East Godavari district. “The water level was 17.70 feet over the crest gates of Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram at 11 a.m. on Sunday. Therefore, the third flood warning is withdrawn. All the flood officers have been told to be alert round the clock until the withdrawal of further warnings,” said River Conservator K. Surya Prakasa Rao. The Superintendent Engineer (Irrigation Circle, Dowleswaram) is the designated River Conservator. However, the discharge of the flood water at the barrage stands at 19 lakh cusecs, and 10,400 cusecs of the flood water is being released into the canals, which bring the irrigation water to the Godavari delta irrigation system. According to East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, at least 180 habitations in the district have been affected by the flood since Saturday night . The flood water entered at least 29,494 houses, forcing the people move out. Crop damage Various crops in above 10,000 hectares have been damaged and the horticulture crops in above 7,900 hectares remain under the sheet of water. Above 57,000 among the 1,13,519 people affected by the flood have been shifted to the relief camps, while the rest remain in their habitations, waiting for the flood water to recede or to be evacuated by Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-warning-withdrawn-as-inflows-into-godavari-reduce/article32425577.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘AyushBindu’ helps find blood donors in no time||In an attempt to make it easy for the people in need of blood and plasma amid the coronavirus pandemic, a group of youth have developed a smartphone application, ‘AyushBindu’, bringing the donors and the patients on a common platform. With the app supported by the GPS technology, those in the need of blood or plasma can browse through the list of available donors in their vicinity on a real-time basis and seek help. Ilapakurthy Sri Krishna Vamsi and Tanuj Palepu, both students, conceived the idea and sought the technical support from the Suvarchala Solution and Konexions, two Hyderabad-based software firms, to help design the app. V. Sai Charan, Kartik Sridhar,Varad Arun Choudhari, Phani Raja Mitra are the part of the team which developed the app. How it works “The users can download the app from Google Play and register themselves as donors or patients. With the help of GPS technology, the app can help locate the right donor nearby, saving time. The app also provides an in-built communication channel throrugh which the donors and the patients can interact,” says Mr. Sri Krishna Vamsi. The app has features to ensure privacy of the users who can choose from 11 major Indian languages for interaction. “Now, we are visiting blood banks and voluntary organisations involved in blood donation in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts and create awareness about the app,” says Mr. Sri Krishna Vamsi, a BBA second year student. The use of technology at optimum level is need of the hour to save patients as only 40 lakh registered blood donors are available in the country, he says. “Only 2,708 blood banks are functioning in India at present and 81 districts don’t even have such facility. The existing blood banks are also unable to cater to the the demand which has gone up in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic,” he explains. Demand-supply gap According to Indian Red Cross Society which operates a blood bank in Srikakulam, the demand-supply gap of blood is more than 50%. “The demand for blood is 35,000 units per annum in the district, but hardly 12,000 units are available. Promotion of blood and plasma donation is need of the hour,” says P. Jaganmohana Rao, Chairman of IRCS Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayushbindu-helps-find-blood-donors-in-no-time/article32425573.ece
24 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Commercial operations at BTPS unit-II likely soon||The recent spell of heavy rains severely hampered the construction activity at the 1080-MW (4X270 MW) Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) near Manuguru, causing some delay in the original plans of the executing agency to make the unit II (1X270 MW) achieve Commercial Operation Date (COD) and synchronise the unit-III (1X270 MW) with the State grid by mid-August. The rain fury has virtually stalled the construction works at the TSGenco’s BTPS site for nearly 11 days because of heavy water-logging all along the construction site, sources said. As normality appears to have returned in the rain-hit Manuguru mandal following the respite from rains, construction work at the site is expected to pick up in the next few days. The BTPS suffered major disruption in construction works owing to the labour shortage during the first and second phases of lockdown a few months ago. Despite availability of just around 1,600 workers as against the original strength of 3,800 workforce during the prime lockdown period, the executing agency had managed to make the unit-I (1X270 MW) of the BTPS commercially operational on June 5 and synchronise the unit-II (1X270 MW) with the grid on July 3 this year. Engineers and officials of the TSGenco and the BHEL concerned earned appreciation from TSGenco chairman and managing sirector D Prabhakar Rao for accelerating the pace of works and achieving COD for the unit-I in spite of the constraints posed by the pandemic crisis in June. BTPS chief engineer Balaraju said the construction activity at the BTPS site was back on track after experiencing disruption for nearly 11 days owing to rains. All-out efforts were on to achieve COD for unit-II in a couple of days, he said. Steam blowing operation would be taken up in the uunit-III before synchronising it with grid next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/commercial-operations-at-btps-unit-ii-likely-soon/article32425402.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s COVID tally breaches 1-lakh mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed 1 lakh on Friday. With 2,474 new cases on August 21, the total stood at 1,01,865. The first case in the State was detected on March 2. While the first 10,000 cases were recorded in 115 days (March 2-June 24), 90,000 more cases were recorded in 58 days. The last set of 10,000 cases leading to one lakh mark were recorded in seven days (August 15-21). A total of 1,58,738 tests were performed in this duration. There are two prime reasons for the rapid increase in cases from third week of June. The first is relaxation of lockdown from beginning of June which led to increased movement of people, and subsequent increase in transmission of the virus. However, low number of tests were conducted till mid-June, drawing all-round criticism. The second reason is increase in testing from June 15 in government laboratories, and permission to private labs to conduct tests. After the tests were increased, more cases are being detected. Till June 15, less than 250 cases were being recorded per day. By the end of the month, around 1,000 cases were logged on a daily basis. While it took 115 days to record the first 10,000 cases, it took less than 10 days to detect each of the next nine sets of 10,000 cases till one lakh. Of those, 22,908 are active while 80,586 have recovered, and 755 have died. The State ranks ninth in terms of total cases across the country. Senior officials from the State Health department earlier said that the cases in GHMC will come down by the end of August while cases will continue to increase in other districts only to decrease by end of September. 40k tests a day The 2,474 cases detected on August 21 are highest in a day till date. One of the reasons could be further spike in the number of tests. While around 23,000 samples were tested in a day till August 20, it shot to 43,095 on August 21. And on the following day (August 22), 40,666 tests were conducted, leading to the detection of 2,384 cases. Of those new cases, 472 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 148 from Nizamabad, 137 from Nalgonda, 131 from Rangareddy, 120 from Karimnagar, 110 from Suryapet, 105 each in Khammam and Jagtial. This clearly indicates that the cases are continuing to surge in districts other than in urban localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-covid-tally-breaches-1-lakh-mark/article32425362.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Indian Railways to introduce ‘freight e-market place’||The Indian Railways will be introducing a ‘Freight e-market place’ — a one-stop logistic solution providing the first mile to last mile connectivity for bringing out more efficiencies in freight movement, and by December 21, a new freight operation information system is going to be unveiled. Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav disclosed on Thursday that a business development partnership portal is also on the anvil to facilitate dialogue with the stakeholders across the country. Participating in a virtual conference, Mr. Yadav observed that the freight movement so far this year has been encouraging despite the lockdown and prevailing pandemic restrictions with loading in the past 18 days being 7% (3.6 million tonnes) more than previous year in almost all major heads. The cumulative loading from April-August in foodgrains, fertilizer and other goods has been showing a perceptible rise, he said, and pointed out that the various zones and divisions have been asked to pull no stops to garner more freight from non-traditional goods, apart from coal, iron ore etc., to make up for the loss in passenger traffic revenue due to COVID-19. “The current doubling of speed of freight trains to 46 kmph will be maintained even after the eventual running of the passenger trains once the pandemic is stabilised by having a separate timetable. We will maintain individual timelines for passenger trains, freight trains and for maintenance works,” said Mr. Yadav. The plan of the railways is to provide rakes or freight coaches/trains on demand and for this purpose, an integrated plan of action has been put into place to double the current freight movement by improving infrastructure capacities of extra lines, modern wagons, quick turnaround times by developing 405 terminal goods sheds etc., within the next four years. The chairman informed that about 10 port connectivity projects, 51 coal connectivity projects, doubling of 11,500 km and multi-tracking of 2,500 km are slated to be completed by March 2024. Much before that in June 2022, the east and west corridor of Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) between Mumbai-Delhi-Kolkata will become operational allowing more freight trains to be introduced at enhanced speeds and capacities even while also freeing the passenger network to introduce more trains, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indian-railways-to-introduce-freight-e-market-place/article32425376.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ESIC Hospital to open 200-bed ICU facility for coronavirus patients||ESIC Medical College & Hospital in Sanathnagar will be opening a 200-bed ICU facility with inbuilt ‘negative pressure’ exclusively for COVID-19 patients. It is likely to become functional in two weeks. A liquid oxygen plan is also getting ready to ensure adequate oxygen is available to needy patients. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday was informed by Registrar T. Madhuri that the medical college and hospital has been monitoring the patients through an indigenously developed remote control unit in association with ECIL. It has kept its out-patient wing functional since the lockdown and over 7,000 patients have been treated for COVID-19 as well as other ailments. It has tested 21,000 samples and is keen to enhance the testing capacity to 6,000-8,000 per day and sought the Minister’s support to procure a high-end machine for the purpose. Plasma therapy is being undertaken and up to 15 patients have benefited from 25 donors, they added. Plasma donors The Minister also interacted with in-patients at the isolation ward and assured them proper treatment during their stay and felicitated the plasma donors. He appreciated the services being provided at the hospital on par with corporate hospitals and hailed the leadership of dean M. Srinivas. No effort will be spared to provide best of facilities for the college and hospital which has bagged awards as the best ECI units for the last couple of years, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/esic-hospital-to-open-200-bed-icu-facility-for-coronavirus-patients/article32425366.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Info panel brought down waiting time for appeals’||It was 35 months ago that the Telangana State Information Commission was formed with the appointment of Chief Information Commissioner and an Information Commission. It is no mean task that the two-member team managed to bring down the pendency of RTI petitions from four years to 12 months. The Telangana State Information Commissionhas received a total 17,943 appeals since its inception in 2017. Of them, 10,220 appeals relate to revenue, municipal administration (Greater Hyderabad Municipal Cororation) and panchayati raj departments. The Telangana State Information Commission was established on September 13, 2017 with Chief Information Commissioner and one Commissioner. By disposing of nearly 14,000 appeals during the last three years, the commission has brought down the waiting period from four years to one year. With the appointment of new Information Commissioners, the pendency will come down further, according to Chief Information Commissioner S. Raja Sadaram, who will demit office on Monday. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu on Sunday, Mr. Raja Sadaram expressed satisfaction at his tenure and recalled his efforts along with another member Budha Murali to introduce innovative initiatives. So far, a total of 17,943 second appeals/complaints were filed in the Telangana Information Commission. As on the date of formation of Telangana Commission there were 6,825 appeals pending from Telangana. The commission has taken a special drive and disposed of 13,838 appeals and brought down the waiting period from more than three years to one year. According to the CIC, on an average 550 to 600 second appeals are filed every month in the Commission. Virtual hearing “The Commission comprising me and Budha Murali continued the virtual hearings during the COVID-19 pandemic also. Now with the appointment of five new Commissioners, the backlog will get cleared very soon,” Mr Raja Sadaram exuded confidence. Speaking about the initiatives, the CIC said a review of the work revealed that people were directly filing applications before the commission instead of approaching the public information officers of the departments concerned . “There is need to create public awareness, especially in the rural areas about the provisions of the Act,” he noted. He said establishment of a facilitation desk in the commission was making the citizens understand how to make best use of the provisions of the Act to seek information. There is a general feeling that the applications are filed under RTI to seek frivolous and vexatious information. According to him, such applications do not exceed 2% and there are adequate provisions to deal with such cases including those which are repetitive and seeking voluminous information. The commission has introduced the system of sending preliminary intimation soon after a second appeal is filed. This has proved to be quite useful as it makes the officials concerned aware of the fact of filing the second appeal and facilitating furnishing of sought information much before hearing. The Cause list and notices of hearing are uploaded on the website well in advance facilitating the appellants and the PIOs, the CIC pointed out. The commission has made it a practice to upload the orders on the website the next day. The CIC observed that in a good number of cases, the Public Information Officers come up with the plea that the files are not available. “The plea of non-availability and not being able to trace out the record would amount to denial of information under the RTI Act,” he said noting that it also reflected poorly on the administrative system. Legislation needed “Maintenance of records should be given utmost importance with clear demarcation of responsibilities. Officials responsible for loss of Government records should be dealt with it appropriately. It is essential to enact a suitable legislation for this purpose,” he opined. A broad analysis of the appeals filed reveals that the information sought is about the basic data relating to the schemes, beneficiaries, budget, expenditure etc., which is required to be in the public domain. “There will be no confidentiality in those cases and there is nothing to hide unless there is some irregularity involved,” he observed. Records are the heart and soul of administration in government offices, Mr. Raja Sadaram said and felt that an effective system of creating, storing and managing the records would not only facilitate better sourcing of information under the RTI Act but also improve the efficiency of administrative machinery and reinforce the confidence of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/info-panel-brought-down-waiting-time-for-appeals/article32425393.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rich and developed TS’ needs to ramp up testing: Kishan||Telangana State is at the seventh position from the bottom in terms of testing for COVID-19 and there is an abject need to increase testing in the twin cities as well as in the districts, said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday. “We have given total freedom to states to take whatever measures are necessary to contain the spread. This includes increasing the containment zones, localised lockdowns and other measures as well as testing strategies. I request the government to ramp up testing. A rich and developed state like Telangana should take the lead,” he said. The Union Minister was addressing the media after launching the Rotary Blood Plasma Bank in Ameerpet and stated he was in regular touch with Health Minister Eatala Rajender on COVID-19 management. “Mr. Rajender also assured us that testing will be increased. We did a record 10.25 lakh testing throughout the country yesterday,” he said. Mr. Reddy also reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark that if five States including Telangana increased the testing numbers, the virus spread can be controlled. “There is no finality about the vaccine or when it is coming, so we have no other option but to protect ourselves and save our neighbours through masks, social distancing and personal hygiene,” he said. Several lives can be saved through plasma donation but it was necessary to bring about greater awareness and motivate people to donate. “Anyone who has tested negative and without any side effects, can donate after 28 days,” he said. The new plasma facility will ensure a technician is sent to the donor’s home to check the antibody count and only if a doctor certifies the fitness will the plasma be taken. “We will charge Rs. 10,500 a unit from those who can afford it,” Rotary Challa Blood Bank chairman Sharath Chowdhary said. The Minister also inaugurated the Facial Recognition Attendance System – AIeNA (Artificial Intelligence enabled Attendance system) installed in the medical college through collaboration with DRDO, Ministry of Defence and Electronics Corporation of India Limited, Department of Atomic Energy, which is a non-touch, low cost, robust, foolproof, accurate system for marking attendance with real-time analytics and reports. The manual attendance paper registers are a source of infections. This technology is preventing the risk of infection in the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rich-and-developed-ts-needs-to-ramp-up-testing-kishan/article32425364.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New road near Musi to better connectivity||A 60-feet wide road connecting Langar Houz with Hyderguda skirting the northern bank of Musi river is set to improve the connectivity between the two densely populated areas. “The earthen work on the road is nearly complete. The road should be ready within another three months if there is no disruption,” says Satya Reddy, executing the work at the site for the civic body. The road is a big departure from the planned four-lane skyway to connect Narsingi in the west to Nagole in the east. The 25.65 km skyway was expected to create an east-west corridor. While a skyway would have had a smaller footprint, the transformation lent by the wide road is equally stunning. What used to be the open sloping space of a meandering river is now a wall of rocks, mud and debris. Satellite imagery shows how the river’s course has changed due to the road over the last nine years. The 2016 Feasibility Report for environmental clearance held a dire warning for Hyderabad: “Since the project is skyway, there will be permanent change in land use pattern along the Musi.” But with the road, forming an embankment, the permanent change in land use will impact the city built on the banks of a river which has historical record of 14 devastating floods. The last being the 1908 flood that killed an estimated 15,000 people and left lakhs of people homeless. “The skyway stretching from Narsingi to Uppal would have disrupted the river flow with columns. This road will create a boundary on one side of the river and prevent further encroachments,” says C. Ramachandriah, an urban planner with the Centre for Economics and Social Studies. “We are in a desperate situation where encroachments have become rampant. If the road is going to prevent that, I see no problem with the road as it will improve connectivity,” said Mr. Ramachandriah. The new road has spurred construction activity on the river bank with even a water body being filled up and turned into a storage space for construction material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-road-near-musi-to-better-connectivity/article32425371.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revenue melas to be held in municipalities till Sept. 15||The State government has decided to conduct Revenue Melas in all municipalities two days a week to settle issues relating to property tax. The Municipal Administration department said the melas would be conducted on every Monday and Wednesday till September 15 and people could utilise the opportunity to redress their grievance related to property tax payment. People can represent issues like receiving tax over and above the assessed amount, double assessment, availing 90 per cent waiver on interest under the one-time settlement scheme, mistakes in the entries like name and change of name of owners after transaction, among others during the revenue melas. Senior officials would be available in the municipal offices across the State between 10.30 am and 1.30 pm during the two days to redress the grievances raised by the people. Interested people should carry necessary documents like assessment copy, mutation/registration documents and others to the revenue melas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenue-melas-to-be-held-in-municipalities-till-sept-15/article32425381.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Khairatabad Ganesha attracts large number of devotees||Khairatabad Ganesha continues to attract thousands of devotees each day despite the fact that there is a growing danger of fast spreading COVID-19. Whether it is 60 feet or nine feet, the size of the idol doesn’t matter for the devotees who are surging to have a glimpse of the iconic elephant god. Hyderabad police deployed at the mega pandal have had a tough time as thousands of devotees started thronging the venue without any regard for maintaining physical distance and other COVID-19 protocol. At least 3,000 devotees had darshan of the lord on Sunday. Earlier in the day, a clash erupted between Bajrang Dal supporters and the police, who were busy dispersing the devotees. However, Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee maintains that they decided not to allow people for the idol darshan, but cannot turn away those who have come from a long distance. “We have appealed to the public to take due precaution during the pandemic situation protection, as Ganesha darshan and pooja is also available online,” Utsav Committee convenor, Sandeep Raj told The Hindu . “People have a choice. They can have online darshan or they can come in person and have blessings. Keeping the norms of COVID-19 we are providing sanitizers, ensuring physical distance and have installed thermal guns to check the body temperature,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khairatabad-ganesha-attracts-large-number-of-devotees/article32425386.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Internal panel told to submit report in 15 days||Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) has constituted a five-member committee to inquire into the causes and circumstances that led to the major fire accident in the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station on the night of August 20. The committee has been asked to submit its report within 15 days. According to a circular issued by TS-Genco on Sunday, the committee will be headed by Chairman and Managing Director of the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy. Joint Managing Director of TS-Transco C. Srinivasa Rao, Director (Transmission) of TS-Transco T. Jagath Reddy and Director (Projects) of TS-Genco M. Sachidanandam will be its members. Chief Engineer (Generation) of TS-Genco P. Ratnakar Rao will be the convenor of the committee. The committee has been asked to make specific recommendations and measures to be taken to prevent or avert such accidents in future along with its detailed report on the accident. Meanwhile, Member-Secretary of the Southern Region Power Committee (SRPC) A. Balan expressed condolence on the loss of lives of engineers and others at Srisailam Left Bank power house in the accident occurred on August 20. “While watching the accident news, we were moved by the exemplary courage shown by the engineers and staff trying to extinguish the fire,” Mr. Balan said wishing speedy recovery of those injured in the mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/internal-panel-told-to-submit-report-in-15-days/article32425405.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TPCC leaders call on families||Terming the CID inquiry into the fire incident at Srisailam Left Bank power generation unit as an eyewash, TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy demanded that criminal cases be booked against the Power Minister Jagadish Reddy and Managing Director of TS Transco and TS Genco D. Prabhakar Rao for their alleged negligence. The Congress MP alleged that the incident occurred due to utter negligence of the State government as technicians had already warned the government about the glitches and Mr. Jagadish Reddy and Mr. Prabhakar Rao failed to review on the warnings ultimately leading to the incident. Criminal cases should be filed against them, he demanded. He also announced that he would raise the issue in Parliament seeking a CBI inquiry. Mr. Revanth Reddy along with former minister Shabbir Ali spoke to the reporters after visiting the family members of deputy engineer Bathini Srinivas Goud and Uzma Fatima, who lost their lives in the incident. They consoled the family members and said they would put pressure on the government to get them all the benefits at the earliest. They also visited the residence of Uzma Fatima and consoled her father Mohammed Zubair and other family members. Mr. Shabbir Ali said despite being in danger Uzma Fatima tried to extinguish the fire to save public property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-leaders-call-on-families/article32425408.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘UoH scholar died due to hospital’s negligence’||Surya Pratap Bharti (30), a research scholar from the University of Hyderabad, lost his life due to the sheer negligence of a private hospital, alleged student groups. The university student union, who organised a condolence meeting on the campus on Sunday, alleged that on August 17 when Surya Pratap, a native of Mau district in Uttar Pradesh, was rushed to a hospital in Nallagandla after he suffered a brain stroke and was paralysed, doctors said that his condition was critical and they must perform an operation to save his life. “But they conducted COVID-19 tests twice and the result came out two days later on August 19,” student union general secretary Gopi Swamy said. Treatment refused According to the doctors, Surya Pratap tested positive for the deadly infection, and further they refused to treat him. As a result he was shifted to another hospital at Gachibowli, where the research scholar tested negative for the infection, but doctors said that chances of his survival were very less, Mr. Swamy said. He succumbed on July 21. “How come the same person can be tested positive and negative for coronavirus in less than 24 hours. Our friend died due to the medical negligence,” he alleged, adding that they lodged a complaint against the hospital at Chandanagar police station. However, the police said that they are yet to register a case against the private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-scholar-died-due-to-hospitals-negligence/article32425384.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tough decisions forced officials to act||The Telangana State Information Commission in its three-year existence has come down heavily on a number of cases that came up for hearing before it. TS Chief Information Commission S. Raja Sadaram listed out half a dozen such cases which forced the authorities to act. He said the one case that the Commission heard pertained to the pollution and contamination of drinking water in Bholakpur and Musheerabad areas a couple of years ago. During the hearing it became clear that the issue was complex and multiple agencies were involved, he said. “There was considerable delay in relocating the units. When the matter came up in appeal to the Commission, number of sittings were held with all the concerned wings of Government as a result of which the Consultant appointed for the purpose submitted his report enabling the preparation of master plan,” he pointed out. The CIC said that in a case of air pollution in Bodhan road area of Nizamabad town too, commission’s intervention ensured that there was regular monitoring and pollution levels were brought down to permissible levels. On an RTI plea on non-availability of playgrounds in schools and colleges of twin cities and the utilisation of playgrounds of GHMC, the commission directed the GHMC to keep on the public domain the details of their playgrounds and the permission accorded to the educational institutions to make use of the same so as to create awareness among the students and parents. A hapless applicant working on conservation of water bodies in Balapur mandal was made to run from pillar to post to get the required information but the commission saw to that he got the relevant information. The commission came to the rescue of a woman in getting the terminal benefits of her son, who died in service at SCCL. In another case, the application of a doctor for settlement of her pension was kept pending because of non-availability of records. The matter was taken seriously and settled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tough-decisions-forced-officials-to-act/article32425395.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI(M) seeks transparency in statistics||The CPI (Marxist) State committee has demanded that the State government adopt transparency in declaring the actual number of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 rather than misleading people with false information. CPI(M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said there was a huge variation in the figures mentioned in the bulletin released by the government and the numbers announced by the district officials. According to the government’s figures, 43,095 tests were conducted on August 21 and 2,474 persons had tested positive. The numbers announced at the district level, however, pointed out that 4,325 persons were tested positive that day. The variation in the numbers could been seen from the fact that 545 persons tested positive in GHMC limits as mentioned by the officials, but the government bulletin claimed the number to be 447. Likewise, 92 positive cases were reported in Siddipet going by the bulletin, but the actual figure was 283. Similar was the case with several other districts including Jagtial, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. “The variation in the numbers proves the charge that the government is deliberately hiding the figures to show fewer COVID-19 cases in the State,” he said. He lamented that the government was unwilling to take lessons from global experience which showed that early detection of cases by conducting as many tests as possible would help in effectively controlling the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-seeks-transparency-in-statistics/article32425363.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayor inspects 2BHK houses at Rampalli||Mayor Bonthu Rammohan on Sunday inspected the double bedroom housing complex at Rampalli on the city outskirts. Accompanied by the GHMC officials and Chief Engineer Suresh, the Mayor went round the complex which will house 6,200 families, which is almost ready. He directed the officials to make sure that all the facilities provided in the complex were ready ahead of the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayor-inspects-2bhk-houses-at-rampalli/article32425383.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy calls for ‘rath yatra’||Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy has suggested to TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka to embark upon a ‘rath yatra’ in the State to ‘expose’ the forgotten promises of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He said he had already discussed the issue with them and the party would go to people, questioning unfulfilled promises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-calls-for-rath-yatra/article32425399.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 - to go with arranged pic Col Santosh Babu’s wife honoured||Santoshi Babu, widow of Colonel Santosh Babu, who made the supreme sacrifice with 19 other soldiers while defending Indian borders against Chinese aggression, was honoured by Smriti Joshi, Chairperson of local Army Wives Welfare Association, for her contribution in the city on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-to-go-with-arranged-pic-col-santosh-babus-wife-honoured/article32425397.ece
24 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU’s application date ends today||Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) has extended the last date for online applications for its entrance-based regular courses till August 24. Prof. M. Vanaja, Director, Directorate of Admissions, said the entrance tests would be conducted on September 19 and 20 whereas entrance results would be announced on September 30. Details can be had on manuu.edu.in, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manuus-application-date-ends-today/article32425398.ece
24 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Sudden spike in Khammam district||The district witnessed a sudden spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases with as many as 913 cases reported from across the district in the past three days. On Friday, it recorded the highest single day spike of 385 cases, followed by as many as 296 cases on Saturday and 232 cases on Sunday, sources said. Meanwhile, in a statement, Collector R.V. Karnan said full-fledged COVID-19 diagnostic and treatment services were being offered to needy across the district. Rapid antigen kits The district, so far, received as many as 12,207 rapid antigen testing kits and around 8,746 persons have undergone the tests. Of those, 2,152 persons tested positive for COVID-19. This apart, COVID diagnostic tests are being conducted at the TrueNat testing centre in the district headquarters hospital and a RT-PCR based testing centre at Mamata General and Super-specialty hospital. Isolation ward As many as 67 COVID patients are presently undergoing treatment at the 400-bed special isolation ward in the district headquarters hospital. The entire requisite infrastructure is available at the hospital and 15 new medical officers were appointed on a temporary basis in the hospital for COVID healthcare services recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sudden-spike-in-khammam-district/article32425369.ece
24 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Martyr’s statue planned at Lakkaram||Plans are afoot to install the statue of Doddi Komaraiah, hero of the Telangana Peasants’ Armed Struggle of 1946, on the Lakkaram Tank Bund in the town soon. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar garlanded the portrait of Doddi Komaraiah at the Tank Bund here on Sunday, symbolically laying the foundation stone for the installation of the statue of the first martyr of the Telangana Peasants' Armed Struggle. On the occasion, the participants recalled the valour of Doddi Komaraiah, who laid down his life fighting the tyrannical feudal forces under the then Nizam's regime. They said the martyrdom of the valiant leader of Kadavendi village, now in present Jangaon district, inspired the historic Telangana Armed Struggle by the oppressed peasants and other toiling classes in 1946. This eventually led to the liberation of Telangana (Hyderabad State) from the clutches of the autocratic rule of the Nizam's regime on September 17 in 1948, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/martyrs-statue-planned-at-lakkaram/article32425388.ece
24 August 2020||Khandala (Adilabad),TELANGANA||COVID scare keeps Khandala off limits for tourists||The spectacular Khandala Valley and its breathtaking waterfalls in Adilabad district are out of bounds for tourists for the last one month, thanks to the unrelenting spread of COVID-19. On requests by local tribals living in the village above, the district police set up a checkpoint near Ankoli village, eight kilometres from the town, to send back any tourist. “Except locals, no one is allowed into these villages. They sought permission from our senior officers for not allowing outsiders to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said a police constable deployed at the check post, even as he registers the entry and exit details of the villages. The police are noting down the personal details, including name, village name, vehicle number, date and time, of their entry and exit from the checkpoint. During weekdays, two constables are posted at the checkpoint, while on Saturdays and Sundays, the number is doubled as the inflow of nature-lovers from Adilabad town and neighbouring mandals multiply. Telangana’s Kashmir Hailed as the Kashmir of Telangana, erstwhile Adilabad district is a home for several unexplored gems, which are waiting to be promoted as eco-tourism destination and Khandala is one of them. Located about 25 km from Adilabad town, the Khandala-Lohara valley has four waterfalls, two each near Molalgutta and Lohara tribal villages, apart from picturesque landscapes and high points from where one can experience the view of the magnificent valley. First two waterfalls, locally known as Khopengidi, near Molalgutta, a tribal hamlet with eight houses and a population of less than 40 people, can be accessed through a rough and rugged terrain traversing through farm fields. While two other waterfalls, Keskudkappi and Jaitukappi, can be accessed through the hilly slopes. The steep scenic ghat road, popular as Khandala ghat, starts at Pippaldhari village. “Yes, this place can be turned into a tourism destination but now due to the outbreak of coronavirus, we are not allowing people, as the deadly virus can infect us,” the Kolam patel of Molalgutta Tekam Bapu Rao told The Hindu . While sitting on a charpoy (woven cot), Mr. Rao was worried if any villager gets infected, they won’t have enough money for treatment at a costly private hospital. “Once it is in, it will spread like wildfire. We cannot put our lives to risk just because someone comes here for revelry near the waterfalls,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-scare-keeps-khandala-off-limits-for-tourists/article32425374.ece
24 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda hospital sealed for ‘overcharging corona patient’||District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Saturday instructed medical officers to seal a private hospital allegedly “for overcharging a COVID-19 patient”. Following a complaint by an aggrieved family, medical officials inspected Navya Multi-specialty Hospital at Bottuguda in the town and found that the management was billing patients even without conducting the COVID-19 tests. Charged Rs. 50,000 a day Reportedly, the complaint received was about a patient who was charged Rs. 6 lakh, at the rate Rs. 50,000 per day, for COVID-19 treatment. District Medical and Health Officer A. Kondal Rao, who inspected the facility along with his deputies and officials from the police department, said the hospital was admitting patients with symptoms of cold and fever, and were charging high rates after labelling them coronavirus patients. “The hospital is also not approved to provide COVID-19 treatment to patients,” another official part of the inspection said. Five booked Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said five persons of the hospital management were booked for cheating and extortion, and all of them were remanded. Medical officials said that the department will intensify raids and randomly inspect private hospitals in the district to check medical malpractice.  The hospital was admitting patients with symptoms of cold and fever, and charging high rates after labelling them coronavirus patients. A. Kondal Rao, District Medical and Health Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-hospital-sealed-for-overcharging-corona-patient/article32425359.ece
24 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||An entire village responds with human face||Mudimaduguala Shankar, 48, was a native of Kashipet village in Manchiryal district. At about 1.30 a.m. on August 15, 2020, he had been steering a lorry from Husnabad to Siddipet. At Basvapur bridge, all of a sudden, the flood level increased and Shankar lost control on the lorry. Somehow, he came out of the lorry and hanged to a tree for several hours. In the morning, some villager observed him and alerted the district administration. On receipt of information, even Finance Minister T. Harish Rao directed the authorities to take all steps to save him. Rescue teams from Hyderabad and Warangal rushed there. In addition, a helicopter was pressed into service to save him. Meanwhile, the villagers made all efforts and tried to save him by throwing some rope. He held it for some time, but was washed away in the gushing flood water. The incident moved the entire village, with a population of about 3,000. They felt bad about a man being washed away despite their efforts to save him. They decided to help the family of Shankar, who died in their village because of floods, to the extent possible. Two youths — Md. Mujahid Pasha and T. Sudheer — from the village took the initiative and met the villagers and conveyed their decision. The entire village responded with a human face and contributed their mite. While some contributed as small as Rs. 200, some donated Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 5,000. The total amount donated was Rs. 1,10,000 and it was handed over to the family members of Shankar who reached Husnbad to collect the body after postmortem. “We saw the struggle by Shankar to survive. We were unable to save him despite efforts by us and the administration. We felt guilty over what happened. We decided to extend assistance to the family and villagers cooperated,” Mr. Mujahid Pasha told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-entire-village-responds-with-human-face/article32425401.ece
24 August 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Last video of AEs in Srisailam powerhouse||Two days after the fire accident in the State-run hydel station in Srisailam on Friday, which saw nine persons, including five engineers, perish, a brief video of the situation recorded by one of them surfaced on Sunday. The video of not more than 30 seconds, was reportedly the last recorded conversation between two assistant engineers Dharavath Sundar Naik and Mohan Kumar, who were stuck in the underground station. Dominated by blaring emergency alarms, the shaky video faintly shows Mr. Naik in a white vest, who was also recording the scenes on his cellphone. The panic talk between the two engineers ends abruptly, with Mr. Naik telling the other to “Give up hope”.  Sundar Naik: If we remain here, we will be finished  Mohan Kumar: What do we do then? Let’s think for a moment and then leave.  SN: If we keep thinking, this will accelerate too.  MK: No brother, shouldn’t we have some hope?  SN: Difficult, we are finished. Mohan, give up hope. The video surfaced on Sunday when Prameela, widow of Mr. Naik, switched on the phone and searched for content relating to the accident, if any. Later speaking to a few television channels over phone, she also said that her husband had called her at 11.45 p.m. that day. “He told me to take care of myself and the babies. He told that there was no time, that he might be killed in the fire and smoke that was engulfing the whole place. It was only a 30-second call, and my return calls were not answered,” Ms. Prameela said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-video-of-aes-in-srisailam-powerhouse/article32425403.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Embarrassing moments for TRS||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi(TRS) had to face some embarrassing moments with former chairman of State Legislative Council and TRS leader Swamy Goud praising TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, a strong critic of the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Goud said despite being born into an upper caste family Mr. Revanth Reddy had become a weapon of the Backward Classes and downtrodden sections and people from these sections should support such people. This was being viewed as an indirect attack on the Chief Minister with whom Mr. Goud had sailed during the Telangana agitation as president of Telangana NGO’s association. This is the second incident of Mr. Goud targeting his own party in recent times. Whether it is an indication of Mr. Goud changing the party or just continue to embarrass the TRS for sometime is to be seen. But he certainly gave some fodder for the political opponents of KCR.     The agriculture department recently sent customised phone messages to about 57 lakh farmers in the State on the status of their land holdings. They were asked to consult the local agriculture extension officers if there were discrepancies. The objective was to authenticate information on standing crops gathered in field survey by the department with feedback from farmers. This had been done for the first time in the country, as one senior officer said. Asked whether all the 57 lakh-odd farmers had cell phones to make the project success, the officer said they found to their dismay that, in some cases, the farmers furnished up to 10 phone numbers in their names! Irrespective of the number of phones in their possession, they were strictly told that the messages would be sent to only one number.     People and firms have started recovering from the impact of lockdown ever since the initiation of the Unlock process in phases. But one corporation that took a major hit during the lockdown is yet to recover. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation, which saw over 10,000 of its buses grounded for two months, has been operating one-third of its fleet since the Unlock process started. But the corporation is unable to meet even operational costs, thanks to people showing reluctance to take buses in the COVID-times. Against a daily income of more than Rs. 10 crore, RTC is generating less than Rs. 3 crore through district services but is feeling the pain since this amount would barely suffice. During the strike last year, the corporation had incurred huge losses and the ongoing lockdown came as a double hit for it. The hope was expressed in some quarters that the government would take steps to ensure that TSRTC is back from the red in the interests of people.  (R. Ravikanth Reddy, N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/embarrassing-moments-for-trs/article32425391.ece
24 August 2020||Bhopal,||Balaghat women curb felling of trees||For years, there had been indiscriminate felling of trees in the Birsa area of Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh rendering acres of fertile land barren. As things came to a head two years ago, local women came together, wielding lathis, to shoo away those felling trees and impose a fine on them. “We had to take ownership of the forest near us, take its responsibility. This was the only way to protect it,” said Kavita Sahu, 28, on the phone, from Kaniya village. Foresters tasked with curbing the felling patrolled in vain. A challenge had to be mounted from within the community. And women took the lead. Nearly 250 acres of land is now seeing a revived foliage with foresters planting saplings and women taking initiative to protect them. In addition, the 34 women members of the Van Devi Suraksha Samiti from four villages are preventing deforestation by imposing a Rs. 500 fine on those found with an axe. Since women are tasked with venturing into forests to cut trees, fetch fuel wood, only women can stop them, believes Ms. Sahu, president of the group. “Sustainable use of forests by picking fruits and medical plants judiciously, allowing enough time for their replenishment must be the way,” said Kamla Bai, 52, a member. Three times a day, the women in groups of four-five patrol the forest having harra, bahera and teak varieties, keeping foresters informed of any illegal activity. Leadership roles adopted by women have united them, made them more aware of environmentalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/balaghat-women-curb-felling-of-trees/article32425338.ece
24 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab reports 50 virus deaths, Haryana six||Punjab recorded 1,136 fresh COVID-19 cases on August 23 and reported 50 more deaths taking the tally to 1,086, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases have reached 41,779. The major chunk of new cases, 242 and 188, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. The Health department said the active cases are 14,165 and 26,528 patients have so far recovered. In Haryana, 1,096 fresh cases surfaced, taking the total tally of cumulative cases to 54,386. Haryana also reported six deaths taking the total tally to 603. The major chunk of new cases, 134 and 113 were reported from Panipat and Gurugram districts respectively. Active cases are 8,961 and 44,822 patients have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-reports-50-virus-deaths-haryana-six/article32425337.ece
24 August 2020||Mumbai,||State Congress bats for Rahul as party president||On the eve of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting and with interim party chief Sonia Gandhi offering to step down, the party’s Maharashtra unit on Sunday said Rahul Gandhi should now lead the party. Maharashtra Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Rahul ji should now lead the Congress. To have a courageous, sensitive and intellectually committed leader is not only the need of the Congress party but also the need of the country. With respect to Rahul ji ’s sentiments, we would like to say, ‘Come back, Rahul ji’ .” Mr. Gandhi has said in the past that the party should have ‘a non-Gandhi president’. His views were echoed by his sister and party leader Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra. In a statement, the State Congress said under Mr. Gandhi’s leadership, the party will be the voice of millions of Indians, determined to make history. “Under your able leadership and guidance, we would like to work for the poor and neglected in this country,” the party unit said. The party unit said until Mr. Gandhi takes over as president, Ms. Sonia Gandhi should remain the interim president. “Sonia ji ’s struggle and hard work is a source of inspiration for the members of the Congress family, like us,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-congress-bats-for-rahul-as-party-president/article32425469.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||No people, no show for folk artistes during pandemic||The pandemic has forced Shamshad Beharupiya to play a different part these days. Every morning, he fills his cart with footwear and heads to villages near Bandikui town in Dausa district of Rajasthan to make ends meet. At times, villagers taunt him as ask if he is the same Shamshad who dressed up as Ram at the invitation of the Yogi Adityanath government last year for the Deepotsav in Ayodhya or as Krishna, his favourite act, during the Haryana government’s 2019 Surajkund Mela where he was the face of the festival. “They say ‘ Yeh kya Bhagwan theli par !’ (What is this, God pulling a cart!),” says Shamshad. With a lump in his throat, he explains that hunger will not wait. “It fills me with shame. But then some of them buy an extra pair just because they have been our yajmans (patrons),” he adds. “This disease has dried up all art-related work,” says Shamshad. “Between the festivals, we used to go to our yajmans , who would pay us in cash or kind for putting up a show on the occasion of a birth, birthday or wedding. All that has become a thing of the past during the last four months.” Family of performers Shamshad comes from a family of beharupiyas — folk artistes who don various costumes to play figures from mythology, folklore and traditional stories — that once used to serve Maharaja Sawai Madho Singh of the erstwhile Jaipur kingdom. They are also said to have helped freedom fighters during the struggle for Independence. Shamshad’s father Shivraj Beharupiya, known for playing Lord Shiva, was selected by the Ministry of Culture to travel to different festivals in India and abroad. When the rajas (kings) gave way to rajnetas (politicians), Shamshad says, his father travelled to Uttar Pradesh and other States with his acts. He and his five brothers carried forward the tradition, playing different characters from Hindu mythology and Mughal history. “For us, Ram, Krishna, Akbar, Majnu are iconic characters of our shared past. We play them with all sincerity but don’t take them home... like actors in films. And most of our benefactors respect it,” he explains. But the lockdown since March this year has robbed the performers of a crucial tool — mobility. Shivram Nat, another street performer known for his aerial rope acts, first turned park keeper in the residential areas of Jaipur for survival but is now working as a labourer in a private construction company on the Jaipur-Udaipur road. Hailing from a village near Bharatpur, Shivram used to perform in top hotels of Jaipur and Agra before the lockdown. Well-known and even having featured in the television show Hindustan Ke Hunarbaaz , the lockdown made Shivram realise that despite the fame and popularity, he hasn’t risen much on the social ladder. “When my niece passed away, her body was taken down down from the funeral pyre in Kakarpura village of Agra as the Thakurs and the village pradhan objected. We had to take her body to another village more than seven kilometres away.” It was only when the news went viral, says Shivram, that the district administration promised to allow the Nats to cremate their dead in the gram sabha cremation ground. Mahipal Sapera, from a community of snake charmers, is keen on getting an MNREGS card made to tide over the lockdown. Son of a well-known snake charmer, Sheesha Nath, Mahipal says there was a time when their village on the Badarpur border figured in every Delhi hotel’s must-visit list for foreign tourists. He says animal rights’ groups defanged their art by taking the snake out of the performance. “We can’t use them but we are still called when a snake is spotted in a residential area or somebody gets bitten in a village,” he says of their deep relationship with the reptile. Left with only their beens, a wind instrument made from a bottle gourd and bamboo, Mahipal says people still call them to weddings. “The government takes us to festivals as some signposts of the past. But the lockdown has put a full stop to even that. Do you expect an artist to lift bricks? Will such a person find social acceptance?” he says, as he rushes to buy medicines for his father who is recovering from a heart attack. Skill upgrade Shailaja Kathuria, director of the Centre for New Perspectives (CNP), a non-profit working with street performers, says what they need is “creative dignity”. She feels the pandemic has proved harsher for street performers living in urban spaces as in rural areas the ties with patrons are still intact. The CNP has come up with a crowdfunding campaign to organise a virtual Tama Show wherein they are working with street performers to tell innovative picture book stories to children. Recently, dancer Arupa Lahiry performed a story, while a street magician performed an online ‘levitation’. “We are also working with classical musicians and dancers to upscale their skills. Flautist Rajat Prasanna is working with the snake charmers to help them learn new tunes. We are trying to rope in an Uzbek acrobat who knows Hindi to train Shivram in developing floor acts, as he only knows aerial ones,” says Ms. Kathuria. The most important aspect, notes the CNP director, is that the sooner performing artistes think out of the box and shift from dependence on State patronage, the better. “And digital literacy and digitally innovative performances is an important cog in this process. We are approaching the Sangeet Natak Akademi to include their performances in their online calendar so that they could get regular work,” she says. Both Shamshad and Junaid Rehman — son of street magician Rehman Shah — say they are up to the task as far as performing online is concerned. “I am now familiar with Zoom meetings, etc. and have put up a virtual show of levitation with my father,” says the high-school student, who meanwhile, is selling oranges to add to the family’s income during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-people-no-show-for-folk-artistes-during-pandemic/article32425336.ece
24 August 2020||Panaji,||Goa invites filmmakers to shoot||The Entertainment Society of Goa on Sunday welcomed filmmakers to the State after the Centre announced the standard operating procedure for resuming shooting. Amit Satija, CEO, Entertainment Society of Goa, tweeted, “Detailed SOP for resuming work in the media production industry by Govt of India..Film and other shooting has already been permitted in #Goa.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-invites-filmmakers-to-shoot/article32425333.ece
24 August 2020||Pune,||Can’t allow second COVID-19 wave in Maharashtra: Uddhav||While the process of unlocking may have started in earnest, Maharashtra cannot allow a second COVID-19 wave to throw it off-guard, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday while inaugurating Pune’s first jumbo COVID-19 hospital. Mr. Thackeray also urged the people of the State not to be complacent. “The recurrence of a second novel coronavirus wave has been observed in countries the world over. There is no hope for a vaccine before December. So citizens cannot afford to let their guard down and must keep taking preventive measures. They should not congregate needlessly during festive occasions like the ongoing Ganesha festival,” said Mr. Thackeray. After a rain-induced delay of nearly five days, the fully air-conditioned 800-bed facility — 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds — with negative pressure rooms was opened at the College of Engineering Pune. “I congratulate all authorities of the Pune administration, workers and agencies for having managed to complete this arduous task in record time. It is admirable that this facility could be set up despite heavy showers in Pune,” he said. ‘Need oxygenated beds’ The Chief Minister said more than ventilators, oxygen beds were the need of the hour. “I am happy that the facility has negative pressure oxygen beds as it is vital for patients before they become critical,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the facility would start operations from Tuesday. He said it would ensure the availability of oxygen and ICU beds to patients. “Furthermore, 20% of the patients in Pune’s hospitals are from other districts. They too need quality treatment. These jumbo facilities will prove crucial,” he said. Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said a second jumbo facility would begin operations by Wednesday at Annasaheb Magar grounds to cater to patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad, and the third hospital would be completed by Friday. He said, “The third facility at Balewadi is being set up through the CSR funds of the Pune Municipal Corporation. It will have 250 oxygenated beds and 44 ICU beds.” Mr. Rao said 1,200 people worked round-the-clock amid heavy rain to complete the facility. “The jumbo facility, where the patient and IT management systems are just like in a normal high-end hospital, is completely fire-proof and water-proof. It is commendable that it was set up in barely 20 days at a time when Pune district received its heaviest [75%] rain,” he said. Following his visit to Pune city, Mr. Thackeray had urged the district administration to expedite the process of setting up the jumbo facilities while regularly monitoring the bed availability in hospitals across Pune. ‘Maximum testing’ “There has been a lot of discussion in the past month of Pune having one of the highest active cases in the country. However, in the past two months, the maximum testing in the country has taken place in Pune,” said Mr. Rao, adding that the district authorities have been successful in reducing the COVID-19 case fatality rate. Mr. Rao said the recovery rate had shot up to over 75%, while complaints about non-availability of beds had dipped. He said, “On July 30, during his visit to Pune, the Chief Minister expressed concern about bed management. We had been directed to set up at least two jumbo facilities. Since then, we have added 1,500 beds and 200 ventilators while centralising bed management.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cant-allow-second-covid-19-wave-in-maharashtra-uddhav/article32425471.ece
24 August 2020||Pune,||10,441 new cases take Maharashtra tally past 6.80 lakh||Maharashtra reported a spike of 10,441 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total case tally to 6,82,383. The State also recorded 258 more deaths, pushing its total toll to 22,253. The State had reported an average spike of more than 14,000 cases for three consecutive days, but in the past 24 hours, just 50,000 samples were tested as opposed to the daily average of 70,000 samples. As many as 8,157 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 4,88,271, while the active cases, which stood below the 1.50 lakh mark 10 days ago, has now risen to 1,71,542. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 71.55%, while its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.26%. Pune reported a spike of over 2,500 cases to take its total case load to 1,50,207, while 67 deaths pushed its total toll to 3,741. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has risen to 31,200, with the district’s recovery rate standing at 75.73%. Mumbai reported 1,406 new cases to take its tally to 1,34,228, of which 18,299 are active. With 42 new fatalities, the city’s death toll has climbed to 7,356. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Navi Mumbai reported eight deaths as its toll climbed to 591, while a spike of 348 cases pushed its total case tally to 25,599. Thane reported a surge of 293 cases as its total case load crossed the 43,000 mark, while five more deaths saw its total death toll rise to 1,382. Nagpur district reported 818 new cases and 22 more deaths, pushing its case tally to 19,668 and toll to 504. “Of a total of 36,16,704 laboratory samples tested so far, 6,82,383 (18.86%) have tested positive,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/10441-new-cases-take-maharashtra-tally-past-680-lakh/article32425472.ece
24 August 2020||Thane,||Hospital’s licence suspended for overcharging patients||The licence of a hospital treating COVID-19 patients in Kalyan has been suspended for allegedly overcharging patients and violating other State government orders, an official said on Sunday. “The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) had received several complaints from patients about Sridevi Hospital charging them exorbitant amounts,” KDMC spokesperson Madhuri Phophale said. On the directives of KDMC Commissioner Dr. Vijay Suryavanshi, the hospital’s licence was suspended on Saturday by Additional Municipal Commissioner Sunil Pawar till August 31 or till the hospital complies with the official orders. The order stated that the hemodialysis facility at the hospital will continue, but admission of new patients has been prohibited. KDMC’s medical officer Sameer Sarvankar has been appointed the hospital’s administrator for keeping tabs on its compliance with government norms, the order said. A show-cause notice was earlier issued to the private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hospitals-licence-suspended-for-overcharging-patients/article32425473.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Holy dip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/holy-dip/article32425335.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump team releases ad featuring Modi||Trying to specifically woo Indian-American voters, the Trump campaign has released a commercial featuring footage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump held in Houston almost one year ago and in Ahmedabad in February. While the data show that Indian Americans mostly vote Democrat, the Republican Party is trying to target voters who are likely to be switch loyalties based on the Modi-Trump camaraderie. Tweeting out the ad, Kimberly Guilfoyle, who heads a fundraising unit for the Trump campaign, wrote, “America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!” This is the first Trump campaign ad specifically for an Indian-American audience. Clips of joint events The commercial was conceptualised by Al Mason, a Trump supporter who is advising the U.S. President on the Indian-American vote. The clip shows Mr. Modi holding up Mr. Trump’s arm on the stage in Houston and a shot of the two walking around the arena, hands clasped. There is also a clip of Mr. Trump’s Ahmedabad address. “America loves India, America respects India... we have come to know the splendour of the four million Indian Americans, they are truly spectacular people,” Mr. Trump says in the clip. Both the GOP and Democrats are appealing to Indian voters, especially those in battleground States, where the number of Indian-American voters — at least in some cases — exceeds the difference in vote margins between Mr. Trump and his 2016 opponent Hilary Clinton. A relatively small number of votes could help the candidate win the entire State (i.e., the electoral college votes for the State). These States include Arizona, Georgia, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin, with a total of 1.3 million Indian American voters, according to data from CRW Strategy shared at a Democratic Party campaign event. Republicans such as Mr. Mason are hoping that Indian Americans will move in sufficient numbers from the Democratic Party to the GOP in battleground States. Mr. Mason talks about “grassroots polling efforts” in a July op-ed he authored and said the results of these efforts “show that as many as 50 percent of potential Indian-American voters, the vast majority of whom traditionally have voted Democratic in presidential elections, will defect from the Democratic Party and vote for President Trump.” No details of the survey methodology or numbers were provided however. The Hindu has reached out to Mr. Mason for these. Townhall in July Democrats too have been specifically pursuing the Indian-American vote. In the middle of July, Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chairman Tom Perez spoke at a virtual ‘Indian Americans for Biden’ townhall and drew attention to the battleground States. Democratic presidential and vice-presidential nominees, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, also sent out Independence Day greetings during a Democratic event organised for that purpose on August 15 and Mr. Biden’s campaign has released a specific set of policies addressing Indian-American concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-team-releases-ad-featuring-modi/article32425039.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||China has been vaccinating people since July 22: official||China has since July 22 been administering its domestically developed COVID-19 vaccines to a broad range of people whose number may soon be in the hundreds of thousands, including medical workers, the armed forces, and employees of companies who are working overseas on Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects, said a health official on Saturday. China has eight different vaccines which are going through clinical trials, and none have so far been approved for the market. Some of the vaccines have, however, been administered on an “urgent use” basis for the past month, Zheng Zhongwei, director of the Development Center for Medical Science and Technology of the National Health Commission, which is leading the vaccine development programme, told state media. Two doses Authorities have permitted administering vaccines to medical workers, border officers and those employed overseas, while the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has also begun inoculating military personnel. Vaccines are being administered in two doses, with the second given one month after the first shot. “The number of people being vaccinated on an urgent basis may reach hundreds of thousands across China, considering that personnel in wider sectors are being offered free injections,” Tao Lina, an immunology expert, was quoted as saying by the Communist Party-run newspaper, Global Times . “But it’s difficult to give an accurate figure since the Chinese military has begun mass vaccinations but has not released details.” Vaccinations in winter That number could rise further by this winter. Mr. Zheng said that ahead of a possible wave of cases this winter, the vaccines would be made available “to people working in food markets, transport systems and services industries.” Those who have previously tested positive for COVID-19 will not be among the early group. Mr. Zheng said when the vaccine reaches the market, it would be priced slightly lower than the estimate given by one of the producers, Sinopharm, of around 1,000 Yuan, or Rs. 10,800 for two shots. Sinopharm has said a vaccine may be given the green light for marketing by the end of the year, which was “dependent on the progress of late-stage clinical trials overseas”. More than 20,000 people in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) had taken vaccines in Phase Three clinical trials, while Sinopharm has signed agreements with three other countries, Peru, Morocco and Argentina, for trials. BRI employees The Global Times quoted an employee of a state-run enterprise working on overseas projects as part of the BRI as saying “all staff in her company have been offered inactivated vaccine injections on a voluntary basis for free.” The employee took the vaccine on August 7 and said “at least 10 percent of the employees, mainly those in charge of projects overseas, have been vaccinated in groups since they were notified on July 30.” The inoculation of workers going overseas has, however, raised questions with some of the countries receiving them, with Papua New Guinea barring the entry of Chinese workers on a mine project who had been inoculated on August 10 before travelling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-has-been-vaccinating-people-since-july-22-official/article32425041.ece
24 August 2020||Seoul,||S. Korea tightens curbs after fresh COVID-19 outbreak||South Korea ramped up COVID-19 restrictions on Sunday to try to contain a growing outbreak, as many countries battled worrying surges in infections. The pandemic has killed more than 8,00,000 people globally, and continues to unleash destruction, with many countries detecting spikes in infections not seen for many months. Infections have soared past 23 million globally, and some countries are still facing first waves. South Korea, which largely brought its outbreak under control, tightened curbs to try to contain a new cluster. “The situation is very grave and serious as we are on the brink of a nationwide pandemic,” warned Jung Eun-kyeong, chief of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Clubs, bars closed Nightclubs, karaoke bars and beaches have been closed, with tight restrictions on large gatherings and religious services, after hundreds of infections were linked to Protestant churches. Face masks will be mandatory in the capital Seoul’s public areas from midnight. Lockdowns, physical distancing and masks are among the few options available to governments with no effective vaccine available yet. The World Health Organization said on Friday that the world should be able to rein in the disease in less than two years. Italy — once the European epicentre — said on Saturday it had registered more than 1,000 infections in the past 24 hours, the highest since the end of a punishing lockdown in May. The story is similar across Spain, Germany and France. The Rome region said it registered a record number of cases in the past 24 hours, a rise health officials blamed on people returning from holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-korea-tightens-curbs-after-fresh-covid-19-outbreak/article32425042.ece
24 August 2020||Washington,||Washington, Aug 23, 2020 (AFP) -||Donald Trump’s older sister Maryanne described him as cruel and a liar whose lack of principles meant he could not be trusted, according to recordings published n Saturday. “All he wants to do is appeal to his base,” she said in recordings obtained by the Washington Post . “He has no principles. None.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-aug-23-2020-afp/article32425044.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Thinking through the Nepal policy||On August 15, Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli made a friendly gesture towards India by telephoning Prime Minister Narendra Modi to convey greetings on India’s Independence Day. This should be welcomed. This was followed by a meeting of the India-Nepal Joint Project Monitoring Committee on August 17 chaired by the Indian Ambassador to Nepal and the Nepal Foreign Secretary. The committee was set up to review progress in the large number of bilateral cooperation projects. An India-Nepal Joint Commission meeting at the level of Foreign Ministers is due later in October but may be held virtually due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. But will the two sides hold Foreign Secretary-level talks on the vexed boundary issue that is related to Kalapani and Susta? Unilateral actions The Nepali side has upset the apple cart by taking a series of unilateral actions. A relatively minor dispute involving about 35 square kilometres of territory around the Kalapani springs, was expanded to claim a large wedge of Indian territory towards the east, measuring nearly 400 square kilometres. The expanded claim was incorporated into Nepal through a constitutional amendment and a revised official map. India has been confronted with a fait accompli though Nepal has conveyed its willingness to negotiate on the issue in Foreign Secretary-level talks. India should be willing to engage in talks with Nepal on all aspects of India-Nepal relations. But any talks on the Kalapani issue should be limited to the area which was the original subject for negotiations and Susta. To agree to talks which include the unilateral changes will create a very bad precedent not only in India-Nepal relations but in managing India’s borders in general. This is irrespective of Nepal presenting historical documents or maps which support its claims. Borders which have been accepted by both sides for more than 100 years and which have also been reflected on their official maps cannot be unilaterally altered by one side coming up with archival material which has surfaced in the meantime. This would make national boundaries unstable and shifting, and create avoidable controversies between countries as is the case now between India and Nepal. Geography and boundaries The Treaty of Sugauli of 1816 sets the Kali river as the boundary between the two countries in the western sector. There was no map attached to the treaty. Nepal is now claiming that the main tributary of the Kalapani river rises east of the Lipu Lekh pass from the Limpiyadhura ridgeline and hence should serve as the border. Even if the lengthiest tributary may be one principle for a riverine boundary, which is itself debatable, it is not the only one. There are many boundaries which do not follow any geographical principle at all but are the result of historical circumstances, mutual agreement and legal recognition. The fact is that once the British side carried out detailed surveys of the region, they consistently showed the India-Nepal border heading due north of Kalapani springs to a few kilometres east of the Lipu Lekh Pass. This alignment never changed in subsequent years and was also reflected in Nepali official maps. This is just a fact. It has been argued that it was the East India Company and successor governments which engaged in “cartographic chicanery” to shift the source of the Kali river towards the east. What prevented successive Nepali governments to reject such chicanery and assert the Nepali claim? There is no record of such a claim being raised at any point including when the Company was in a generous mood, having received Nepali help in putting down the 1857 Indian war of independence. In 1969, the then Prime Minister of Nepal Kirti Nidhi Bisht, demanded that India military personnel manning 17 villages along the Nepal-Tibet border since the early 1950s be withdrawn. Here is the National Panchayat record of Bisht’s statement: “The Minister informed that the check posts manned by the Indian nationals exist in seventeen villages — Gumsha, Mustang, Namche Bazar, Lamabagar, Kodari, Thula, Thumshe, Thulo, Olanchung Dola, Mugu,Simikot, Tin Kar, Chepuwa, Jhumshung, Pushu, Basuwa and Selubash.” If Lipu Lekh and Kalapani were on Nepali territory then why were they omitted from the list? I have pointed out earlier that the argument that the omission was due to Nepali “magnanimity” taking into account India’s security concerns vis-à-vis China is laughable. The withdrawal of Indian military personnel from the Nepal-Tibet border was precisely to win brownie points with China. The inconvenient fact is that the Chinese, at least since 1954, have accepted Lipu Lekh Pass as being in Indian territory. In the Nepal-China boundary agreement of 1960, the starting point of the boundary is clearly designated at a point just west of the Tinker Pass. History and ties In a recent article ( The Hindu , Editorial page, August 19, 2020), Nepali journalist Kanak Mani Dixit advised Indians “must try and understand why Nepal does not have an ‘independence day’”, the implication being that Indians should with humility remember their history as a colonised country while Nepal was always an independent nation. Independence Day has meaning for us because we engaged in a long and painful struggle for independence from British colonial rule. We also recall that it was the ruler of” independent” Nepal which sent troops to fight alongside the East India Company, mercilessly killing those who were fighting India’s first war of independence. The same independent country was happy to receive as reward chunks of Indian territory in the Terai through the treaty of 1861. If no agreement has superseded the Sugauli treaty as has been claimed then, perhaps the “Naya Muluk” received after Nepal’s alliance with the Company against Indians fighting for freedom, should be restituted. Or should this brand of “chicanery” be excused since it benefited Nepal? Reversing history selectively may seem tempting but it can open a Pandora’s box which may have irretrievably negative consequences for what Mr. Dixit rightly describes as “the most exemplary inter-state relationship of South Asia”. For India, more than the exemplary inter-state relationship, it is the unique people-to-people relations between India and Nepal; and, fortunately, inter-state relations have been unable to undermine the dense affinities that bind our peoples together. While India should reject the Nepali state’s ill-conceived territorial claims, it should do everything to nurture the invaluable asset it has in the goodwill of the people of Nepal. Shyam Saran is a former Foreign Secretary and Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research. He was India’s Ambassador to Nepal in 2002-04||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/thinking-through-the-nepal-policy/article32425026.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Russia is jumping the gun with its vaccine||Earlier this month, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the ‘approval’ of Russian COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, dubbed after the Soviet spacecraft of the 1950s. Numerous scientists around the world, however, found the announcement ridiculous, as the approval came before phase III of the required clinical trial was even started. Stages of a clinical trial In its developing stage, a vaccine must go through three phases of rigorous experimental testing on human beings, referred to as clinical trials, to judge its safety and efficacy. With an average sample size of less than 100, phase I is the preliminary study of safety, where the objective is to find the acceptable dose level which will not cause serious side-effects. Phase II is a study of safety and efficacy together, with a few hundred people or even fewer. Doses appearing to be simultaneously effective and safe are forwarded for a phase III study, which is a detailed evaluation of effectiveness in comparison to some existing treatment or some similar-looking treatment having no effect (called placebo). Hundreds or even a few thousand people are given either the vaccine or a placebo. They are then tracked over months to determine whether the people receiving the vaccine get infected less than people who get the control. This stage even allows scientists to look for rare side-effects that can’t be spotted in smaller, earlier stage trials. After the three phases, if the vaccine is found to be safe and effective, the study report is forwarded to the regulatory agency, which, if convinced, permits its usage en masse. Phase IV is the postmarketing surveillance stage. Such surveillance can only be conducted after the drug is marketed. Note that the phase I/II of the much-hyped Oxford trial had 1,077 participants, whereas Russia has claimed to have tested its vaccine on just 76 people in the first two phases. Even as researchers worldwide are rushing to develop vaccines for COVID-19, following standard practice, they continue to publish their studies in peer-reviewed journals, which are constantly scrutinised by the relevant scientific community. The community, in effect, enhances the credibility of these studies. However, no such article is available in the public domain about the Russian vaccine. Playing Russian roulette The race to find a vaccine is more of a marathon than a sprint. Top scientists such as the U.K.’s chief scientific adviser, Sir Patrick Vallance, and his U.S. counterpart, Anthony Fauci, and even the World Health Organization (WHO) have repeatedly maintained that a vaccine is not expected before 12-18 months. In contrast, the Russian vaccine is dangerously rushed — it got approval in less than two months of starting the trial. A Nature Medicine article in June stated that SARS-CoV-2 antibodies may last only 2-3 months after a person becomes infected. Another recent study of King’s College London found that levels of antibodies that can destroy the virus peaked about three weeks after the onset of symptoms and then started declining. Certainly, if antibody levels due to infection wane in 2-3 months, the vaccine might potentially do the same thing. And nobody knows the durability of the antibody created by the Russian vaccine — is it durable for a few years or a few weeks? This should be scientifically settled before the vaccine is used. Also, carefully conducted clinical trials might even show that a vaccine could be harmful for a section of the population. For example, a new type of measles vaccine in the early 1990s was found to be detrimental to baby girls, and so it was never licensed for the general population. In a 2018 research article published in the journal Biostatistics , a group of MIT scientists analysed data of 4,06,038 trials on drugs and vaccines in 2000-15. They observed that for vaccines of infectious diseases, the probability of success from phase II to phase III was 58.2%. And the approval rate of vaccines that passed phase III successfully was 85.4%. An approval, however, doesn’t always mean the vaccine works particularly well. For example, the seasonal flu vaccine was approved with no good alternatives being available. Thus, the Russian vaccine at the moment seems to be a lethal game of chance, such as the Russian roulette. In this dangerous game, a bullet is loaded into one chamber of a revolver, the cylinder is spun, and then the trigger is pulled while pointing the gun at one’s own head. In fact, in a survey of 3,040 Russian doctors and health specialists, conducted by the Doctor’s Handbook app, 52% said they were not ready to be vaccinated; only 24.5% said they were. And just a fifth said they would recommend the vaccine to patients, colleagues or friends. What’s more, a leading respiratory doctor in Russia has quit the Health Ministry citing “gross violations” of medical ethics in the development of the COVID-19 vaccine. Also, a vaccine should come out with clear-cut guidelines. For instance, the guidelines should specify whether one or more booster doses would be required. An inadequately vetted vaccine is not only potentially dangerous for the people who receive it, it could also impede global efforts to develop quality COVID-19 immunisations. Another Russian experience might illustrate the importance of the trust factor in vaccination programmes. In the 1990s, the massive re-emergence of diphtheria in the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union was the result of the fall in rates of the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccination due to rapidly decreased trust in the public health system. The driving force Could Russia not imagine the possible worldwide outrage over its sudden premature announcement of vaccine? In early August, the WHO warned against “vaccine nationalism”, noting that unless countries cooperate, an actually successful vaccine could touch off a worldwide frenzy. While a premature Russian vaccine might have partially been triggered by Russian nationalism, weren’t there similar shades when Dr. Fauci expressed “serious doubts” about the effectiveness of the Russian vaccine? The Russian vaccine might even emerge as a very effective vaccine in future. Also, didn’t Russia want to capture the huge world market for COVID-19 vaccines? That’s a potential market of billions of dollars. Ethics, however, should be the driving force for developing a vaccine. People taking the Russian vaccine at this stage would effectively be part of a grand phase III clinical trial. And I’d not like to be a guinea pig of the trial in this way. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics at the Indian Statistical Institute Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/russia-is-jumping-the-gun-with-its-vaccine/article32425035.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||More evidence of India’s food insecurity||Data from the latest edition of the State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World (SOFI) report show that India retains the dubious distinction of being the country with the largest population of food insecure people. Estimates presented in the report which was released by several United Nations organisations show that the prevalence of food insecurity increased by 3.8 percentage points in India between 2014 and 2019, the first term of the Narendra Modi government. By 2019, 6.2 crore more people were living with food insecurity than the number in 2014. Authoritative indicators The SOFI report, which is published annually, presents the most authoritative evaluation of hunger and food insecurity in the world. Since 2017, SOFI presents two key measures of food insecurity: the conventional measure called the Prevalence of Undernourishment (PoU) and a new measure called the Prevalence of Moderate and Severe Food Insecurity (PMSFI). Both of these are globally-accepted indicators of progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Target 2.1 to end hunger and food insecurity. While PoU is focused on estimating the proportion of population facing chronic deficiency of calories, the PMSFI is a more comprehensive measure of the lack of access to adequate and nutritious food. Estimates of PoU are based on food balance sheets and national surveys of consumption. Given that consumption surveys are done infrequently in most countries, these estimates are often based on outdated data and are revised when better data become available. In contrast, the PMSFI is based on annual surveys that collect information on experiences of food insecurity (such as food shortages, skipping meals, and changing diet diversity because of a lack of resources). The PMSFI uses the Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES), a gold standard in food security measurement developed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), for estimating globally-comparable prevalence rates. Given the solid conceptual foundations of this methodology and the ease of collection of data, FIES and the PMFSI have been widely adopted by countries across the world. The FAO commissions Gallup to include FIES questions in the Gallup®World Poll (FAO-GWP) survey conducted in more than 140 countries across the world. Many countries have also started conducting their own FIES surveys. Unlike most other countries, the government of India neither conducts official FIES surveys nor accepts estimates based on FAO-GWP surveys. Although FAO-GWP surveys are conducted in India, India is among the few countries that do not allow publication of estimates based on these surveys. Consequently, as in the past years, estimates of PMSFI for India are not published in SOFI. Country data However, interestingly, these estimates can be derived for India from the information provided in the report. The report provides three-year average estimates of the number of food insecure people for South Asia as a whole and for South Asia (excluding India). By taking a difference between the two, one can derive the estimates for India. These estimates show that while 27.8% of India’s population suffered from moderate or severe food insecurity in 2014-16, the proportion rose to 31.6% in 2017-19. The number of food insecure people grew from 42.65 crore in 2014-16 to 48.86 crore in 2017-19. India accounted for 22% of the global burden of food insecurity, the highest for any country, in 2017-19. It is also noteworthy that while the PMSFI increased in India by 3.7 percentage points during this period, it fell by 0.5 percentage points in the rest of South Asia. India has not released the latest National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) consumption expenditure survey data for 2017-18. As a result, conventional measures of poverty and food consumption are not available for recent years. Lack of availability of data from this consumption survey also has implications for the FAO’s PoU estimates for India. Because of a lack of regular availability of consumption survey data from most countries, the FAO uses supply-wise data on per capita food availability to measure changes in average per capita calorie intake. While this is a reasonable approach, it has become untenable for India because of a large and growing disparity between the supply-side data and data from the consumption surveys. Not only do the supply-side data show a much higher level of per capita availability of food than the amount of food that is captured to have been consumed in the surveys, even the direction of change between the two does not seem to be consistent. While the per capita dietary energy supply in India increased by 3.8% between 2011-13 and 2015-17, the consumption survey data that became available through a media leak showed that the average consumption expenditure (covering food and other expenses) fell by 3.7% between 2011-12 and 2017-18. On the whole, withholding of consumption survey data by the government has meant that SOFI continues to use outdated data for variability of food intake, making PoU estimates for India untenable. Given this, estimates of the PMSFI for India have become particularly valuable. Causes of suffering The significant rise in food insecurity, as shown by these data, is a clear manifestation of the overall economic distress during this period marked by a deepening agrarian crisis, falling investments across sectors and shrinking employment opportunities. The latest PLFS data have shown that the unemployment rates in the recent years have been higher than in the last four decades. It is widely believed that demonetisation and introduction of the Goods and Services Tax were two prime causes of economic distress during this period. A sudden imposition of an unprecedented and prolonged lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic has brought renewed focus on the problems of hunger and food insecurity. With a sudden loss of livelihoods, a vast majority of India’s poor are faced with increased food insecurity, hunger and starvation. A number of starvation deaths have also been reported in the media. Given this, these estimates of the PMSFI provide an important baseline estimate for the situation before the COVID-19 pandemic. It is critical for India to conduct a national survey on food insecurity to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on food security of different sections of the population. Vaishali Bansal is a research scholar at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-evidence-of-indias-food-insecurity/article32425028.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The source of self-regard||Readers often tag me on Twitter to draw my attention to various social media posts of journalists. They ask whether I approve of a particular statement made by a journalist on his or her Twitter account. Over the last decade, media scholars have come up with many questions about how journalists should use their social media accounts. Should social media be used as a tool for self-promotion? Is it the forum to express one’s indignation? A way to crowdsource stories? A way to engage with the readers? Is it possible to confront hate speech, harassment and offensive content with uncivil language and counter-attacks and insults? What is the net effect of the presence of journalists on these platforms: do their posts amplify toxicity or reduce it? In this context, some readers wanted to know whether a news ombudsman’s remit should include the social media posts of journalists associated with the publication. Social media policy Over the last two months, many broadcast journalists brought to my notice a motivated social media campaign that hurt the functioning of the newsrooms of two Tamil news channels. My column, “Cyberbullying must stop” (August 3), was the result of growing gender-based cyberbullying in Tamil Nadu. In 2007, the International Federation of Journalists, on behalf of the South Asia Media Solidarity Network, produced a handbook called ‘Byte Back’. It aimed to help journalists “take on trolls, call them out, respond to patently false information and posts, factual distortions, propaganda and misogyny”. Those who actively encourage avoiding news and complain of “negative fatigue” claim that the mainstream media is a bigger echo chamber than social media platforms. Most news organisations have come up with their own social media policies to protect not only the organisations but also the journalists who are working for them. In 2018, this newspaper came up with a social media advisory for its journalists. While some organisations have binding rules, others have guidelines. Journalists often view these guidelines as intrusive and violative of their right to free speech. In 2019, the public broadcaster BBC revised its editorial guidelines on staff use of social media, and for the first time it brought in verbal norms into writing for employees. BBC staff were told in an unambiguous manner that disclaimers in Twitter biographies such as “my views not the BBC’s” would not give them any defence against posts that may conflict with BBC’s guidelines. The revised guidelines stated: “The risk is greater where the public expressions of opinion overlap with the area of the individual’s work. The risk is lower where an individual is expressing views publicly on an unrelated area, for example, a sports or science presenter expressing views on politics or the arts.” Suggesting good practices The freedom of the press lies in the intersection of media freedom, media pluralism, media independence and safety of journalists. As recent events have shown, sometimes an online presence compromises the safety of journalists. I refrain from giving prescriptive directions and prefer to suggest good practices. I am convinced that it is not desirable for a news ombudsman to entertain complaints against journalists for their social media posts and engagements. As a news ombudsman, my daily task is to reconcile freedom with responsibility. In the case of the newspaper, one has access to all the facts. It is nearly impossible to follow such a method to analyse the social media posts of a journalist. The policy adopted by Reuters explains both the possibilities and the pitfalls offered by these platforms. It said: “Think before you post. One of the secrets to social media’s success is how easy it has become to participate. But that also makes it easy to respond or repeat before you have thought through the consequences. Whether we think it is fair or not, other media will use your social media output as Reuters comment on topical stories. And you will play into the hands of your critics unless you take care. Resist the temptation to respond in anger to those you regard as mistaken or ill-tempered.” In her Portland Arts and Lectures series in 1992, Nobel laureate Toni Morrison talked about the source of self-regard. Journalists should realise that the source of their self-regard does not lie in a 280-character tweet but in their journalism. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-source-of-self-regard/article32425032.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Not Mensheviks, but Bolsheviks||The attempt by 23 senior Congress leaders to demand long overdue organisational reforms is a welcome sign. What is ironic, however, is that many signatories, with honourable exceptions, of the letter demanding a “full time and effective leadership” and transparent elections to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) are themselves part of the current decrepit top echelon of the party. Apparently, in response to the letter, Sonia Gandhi has asked the CWC to find a new president. It remains to be seen whether in a knee-jerk reaction they will nominate Rahul Gandhi once more. Some senior leaders including the Punjab Chief Minister have already come out in support of the Gandhis continuing at the helm. Many of the current CWC members and other senior leaders realise that if a genuine revamping of the leadership takes place they will lose their positions. This is what makes the intent of many of the signatories suspect. At best they can be compared to the Mensheviks of pre-revolution Russia when what the Congress needs today is a cadre of Bolsheviks committed to a total structural and ideological overhaul of the party and removal of the deadwood in the high command. No signs of reshaping the party There are no signs so far of an alternative leadership committed to radically reshaping the party emerging within the Congress. Leave alone Bolsheviks there is no sign even of a group similar to the Young Turks who appeared in the wake of the Congress’s “poor” performance in the 1967 Lok Sabha election when the Congress won over 54% of the seats which was significantly lower than its share in the previous three elections then. Today the Congress holds less than 10% of the Lok Sabha seats but no one challenged the discredited leadership after the debacle in the 2019 election. Members of the CWC tried to outdo each other in pleading with Rahul Gandhi to stay on as the party president and when he refused, they beseeched his mother, in what appeared to be a choreographed act, to take over the position. The current demand by some senior Congress leaders for a range of reforms, including full-time leadership, does denote that they have finally woken up to the fact that the party faces major problems. But they still do not seem willing to face the reality that the problems they identify are merely symptoms and not the underlying cause of the party’s decay which has its origins in Indira Gandhi’s autocratic style and her determination to consolidate almost all power in her and her family’s hands. Reasons for decline There are two fundamental causes of the party’s decline. The first is the entrenched culture of sycophancy and dynastic “demigoddery” (to coin a new term) that leads to one Gandhi replacing another. This has become so embedded in the party’s DNA that it is evident even in the letter demanding major reforms in the party’s functioning. According to reports, the signatories to the letter make clear that the Gandhi family will continue to remain an integral part of the “collective leadership” of the party. This is the height of disingenuousness and re-opens the door to dynastic dominance. Taking the bull by the horns The second fundamental cause of the Congress’s decline is the severe dilution, indeed the near total surrendering, of the party’s ideological distinctiveness based on its commitment to the maintenance of pluralism as the bedrock of Indian democracy. The tendency not to challenge the ruling party’s homogenising ideology has made the Congress appear as the BJP’s B team. The last two elections demonstrated that the Indian electorate is not so naïve as to choose a pale imitation over the genuine article. In addition to organisational overhaul the Congress needs ideological regeneration that returns it to its philosophical moorings honed during the freedom movement. There is little sign that the party’s leadership, with a few exceptions, is willing to take the ideological bull by the horns. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/not-mensheviks-but-bolsheviks/article32425036.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Failing on fires||A fire in a hydroelectric station located close to unlimited quantities of water would seem to be a contradiction, but as the deadly blaze in the Srisailam power plant shows, the risk is very real. Nine people, including five engineers, perished in the facility on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border. At 900 MW capacity, the plant on the left bank canal of the Krishna is one of the biggest contributors to the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation; another branch serves Andhra Pradesh. What makes the accident more disturbing is that it comes as another shock in a season of disasters. Industries and power plants in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana have been wracked by accidents during the COVID-19 pandemic. In Srisailam, the fire appears to have started in a control panel during maintenance. The victims were unable to make an exit through an escape tunnel and were overwhelmed by smoke, while others at a different level could flee in time. Going by official accounts, the smoke made it difficult even for rescue personnel to enter the four-storeyed structure. Moreover, videos made by staff present a spectacle of a small fire rapidly engulfing the working area, trapping the personnel and leaving little room for manoeuvre. Telangana has instituted a CID inquiry, apart from the plant operator’s own probe. But an external technical audit with no conflicts of interest could better serve the objective, identifying lacunae to stop a future catastrophe. It can determine why the victims could not make a safe exit, as per standard procedure. Large hydroelectric power plants are usually built well below surface level, where generation, control and transmission equipment are located. Handling a fire becomes complicated in such circumstances, and safety features have to be extremely reliable. IEEE standards for substation fire protection, issued a quarter century ago, lay down norms for fixed and portable ventilation systems that can remove heavy smoke — as seen in Srisailam. Use of fire-retardant materials in construction, dual exits, easy vertical escape routes using staircases and alarm systems are all part of safety codes. Whether these features were available in the Telangana power plant, and if they were, why the personnel could not use them to quickly escape the inferno should be investigated. The dam fire is primarily the State government’s responsibility, but the Centre should take the opportunity to review safety in places such as Jharkhand, where extensive underground coal field fires have affected remote communities. India loses many lives to fires each year: at 12,748 accidental deaths in 2018, nearly double the number caused by forces of nature, according to NCRB data. Only a rigorous adherence to safety codes can reduce this shocking toll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/failing-on-fires/article32425021.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Women, uninterrupted||Among the more serious ramifications of the pandemic has been the rather extensive, even if unintended, disruption of health-care services. Normal life has been crippled by the restrictions flowing from control measures, and access to medical services has become infinitely tougher for a vast majority. The scale of the impact on women’s lives is only now being recognised, as global reports of inability to access contraceptives and abortion services during the long lockdown warn of dire consequences, including unwanted pregnancies, increase in domestic violence, and maternal mortality. A recent estimate by Marie Stopes International (MSI) said about two million women missed out on services between January and June; 1.3 million were in India alone. According to WHO, a recent survey of responses from 103 countries found that 67% reported disruption in family planning and contraception services. UNFPA projections indicate that 47 million women in 114 low- and middle-income countries would be unable to use modern contraceptives if the average lockdown continued for 6 months with major disruptions to services, and an additional 7 million unintended pregnancies are expected to occur. At the heart of this issue is the bulk of health-care services shifting to cater to COVID-19 related emergencies, and lockdown disruptions. India listed abortions as essential services under the lockdown, but the disruption of transport services hampered access to centres of care, and lack of awareness about these services being available during this period was a factor. It is pertinent to ask if services to facilitate abortion and contraception were indeed available in the cities and rural areas during the period, despite being listed as ‘emergency’ and thus allowed to remain open even during intense lockdowns. Almost 30% of the respondents seeking an abortion said that the clinic in their area was closed, according to the MSI report. Further, a study in six States by the Foundation for Reproductive Health Services India, showed a severe shortage of medical abortion drugs in pharmacies. For a country setting out to bolster its contraception and abortion services outreach, this pandemic and its lockdowns have dealt a blow. The need for contraceptive services remains high in India, with over 1 in 3 women (35%) reporting a need for contraceptive advice, as per the MSI study. Providing uninterrupted abortion and contraceptive counselling, devices and care services are essential to safeguard the reproductive rights of women, and protect them from abuse. These services must continue through measures such as telemedicine, incentives to local clinics to open their doors, resolving drug supply chain disruptions, besides improving access to health care. For, countries that do not prioritise women’s health-care needs will bear the heaviest of burdens, not so long after.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/women-uninterrupted/article32425022.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanskrit pandit-graduates (From an editorial)||At a recent function in connection with the Madras Sanskrit College, Mr. N Subrahmanya Aiyar, retired Dewan Pushkar of Travancore, drew pointed attention to the need for providing adequate openings for the graduates of Sanskrit Colleges. At present, the colleges affiliated to the University undertake instruction only in certain subjects embraced under the head of Indian culture, and the men that are turned out cannot pitch their ambition higher than being pandits in schools and colleges. As their number as well as the prospects of pay and promotion are not sufficiently attractive, Sanskrit educational institutions have to draw in students on promise of free-fooding, etc. Mr. Subramanya Aiyar suggests that those integrated in Indian religion and culture would do well to organise a mission serving to institute some other means of more largely and profitably employing these pandit-graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sanskrit-pandit-graduates-from-an-editorial/article32425029.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Individualism in invention (From an editorial)||Nothing obscures vision more than conventional illusions. One such illusion that has been nurtured with the emergence of the large-scale firm is that “a benign Providence has made the modern industry of a few large firms an almost perfect instrument for inducing technical change.” A book review published in the first number of The Unilever Quarterly this year tellingly reminds one that much of the material progress of mankind has been due to the “Eureka” of independent inventors rather than what organised research in big firms has been able to contribute. In fact, the review adds, “research is a matter of finding out, of adding to knowledge; invention is a matter of creating something useful, often out of existing knowledge.” All scientific progress consists in the inventiveness of the independent inventor. Studies made on the sources of invention in the United States have confirmed that a good number of them ranging from air-cushion vehicles through the electronic digital computers to semi-synthetic penicillins are the outcome of the brain wave of independent individuals. And the peculiar thing about these persons is that the brain wave does not depend on any particular competence in that field of knowledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/individualism-in-invention-from-an-editorial/article32425030.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking cover du ring a pandemic||During the ongoing pandemic, insurance products — health and term-life insurance in particular — have started gaining traction. More and more people are now becoming aware of the importance of having health or life insurance, with insurance shifting from being a push product to becoming a pull product. Even though people seem well in control of their financial health and related matters, they are extremely worried about the risk to their and their family’s physical health. As a result, the perception of the importance of health and life insurance is now more than ever before. This indicates that both life and health insurance have started becoming the cornerstone of personal financial planning in times of COVID-19. The pandemic has definitely accelerated awareness about insurance in India where coverage remains relatively low despite the country being the world’s second-most populous with a population of 1.35 billion. Health cover Since the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 in the last week of March, demand for health insurance policies has seen a huge spurt. As per general and specialised health insurers, online sales of health insurance policies have doubled between March and May compared with the same period of the previous year. Business — in terms of fresh policies issued — of the health insurance industry grew by 40% in the last two months while the year-on-year growth was 13%. A prominent reason for the continued growth of the health insurance business is health insurers are doing their best to ensure seamless service and support to policyholders. Most insurers have started offering health insurance policies through tele-underwriting or telemedical process in the place of physical medical check up to follow social distancing norms and keep people off the medical centres. Through telemedical process, you can buy a health insurance policy of up to Rs. 1 crore sum insured. To make sure that the maximum number of people are covered under some kind of health cover against COVID-19, on the directions of IRDAI, general and health insurers have started offering Corona Kavach, a standard, indemnity-based health plan and Corona Rakshak, a fixed-benefit health insurance policy. PolicyBazaar.com sells almost 1,000 policies per day on an average with a conversion rate of 10-15%. Customers buying these policies are mostly young individuals. The most preferred tenure is 9.5 months with 70% customers choosing the tenure while buying the policy. Similarly, the most preferred sum insured is Rs. 5 lakh, which is the maximum allowed under the policy construct. Among Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak, 85% of customers opt for Kavach and 15%, Rakshak. People buying health insurance plans with a higher sum insured have increased drastically. Earlier, the share of people buying health insurance plans with Rs. 20 lakh — Rs. 1 crore sum insured was less than 5%. However, in the situation, the share has now increased to 50% over the last two-three months. Moreover, insurers are now focussed on how they can use digital technology to better solve customers’ access problems. With everyone being sure that COVID-19 is here to stay for a while, most processes in the insurance sector are now shifting online. Term life cover The pandemic has also changed the people’s perception of term life insurance as the demand for such policies has seen a significant rise since the lockdown began. Reports suggest that demand for term insurance picks up during epidemics, with insurers also reporting a rise in the number of queries for pandemic covers by businesses even as savings’ policies may remain weak. Surely, COVID-19 has awakened public awareness of the need for term life insurance. With the world almost shut down and media reports filled with stories of tragic loss of life, people are becoming increasingly aware that a long life is not something they can take for granted. Reports suggest that online sales of term life insurance have increased by 40% in the last 3.5 months. Life insurers have also started to ramp up their telemedical tools with an increased volume of physicians and other health professionals lined up to consult with patients who are concerned about visiting physical centres. Issuance of life insurance policies through the telemedical process is catching on. During the lockdown, PolicyBazaar.com issued 58% of the policies via the online process compared with the pre-COVID-19 period figure of 36%. Talking about life insurance, under the telemedical process, the insurer checks the credit score of the customer along with his/her financial history of before issuing a term plan. This is because term plans have a sum assured that is approximately 1000 times of the premium paid. While buying a term plan, the maximum sum assured that one can opt while taking a plan through telemedical process is Rs. 2 crore.  (The author is Health Business Head, Policybazaar.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/taking-cover-du-ring-a-pandemic/article32425007.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Yellow metal can be the flavour for all seasons||Is this a good time to invest in gold? And if it is, should you buy physical gold or invest in gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)? In this article, we discuss whether market timing is important for investing in gold.  Your decision on when to invest in gold (market timing) should be determined by your objectives. Are you planning to invest in gold for consumption purpose? If so, market timing is not important. Why? Suppose your objective is to buy gold for your daughter’s marriage 10 years hence. You can set up a systematic investment plan for 120 months to achieve this objective. This way, you will be setting aside money from your monthly income and also spreading your investments through the ups and downs in gold prices. Your objective is to buy jewellery for your daughter’s wedding, not to profit from fluctuations in gold prices. Investment asset What if you are considering gold as an investment asset? Your objective then is to buy and sell gold to capture short-term movements in gold prices. Market timing is, therefore, important. You can apply technical analysis to time your investments. Investors also buy gold during market crises that occur because of a natural disaster or pandemics such as COVID-19 or events such as the 2008 sub-prime crisis. During such times, gold prices rise because of ‘flight to quality’ — investors consider gold to be the safest asset during a crisis. It is preferable not to have more than 15% of your total portfolio in gold. Financial versus physical You should consider investing in gold ETFs and not physical gold for two reasons. One, you can easily liquidate your investments at the spot price of gold. Selling physical gold is not easy. Also, the merchant who buys your gold will charge a commission (charge) on the spot price. Note that your objective of buying gold was to sell the investments close to the wedding date and use the sale proceeds to buy jewellery. So, using gold as collateral to raise money cannot be argued as a reason for buying physical gold. Importantly, investing in gold ETFs allows you to buy trendy jewellery closer to the wedding without worrying about the increase in gold prices. Why? If gold prices move up, so will your investments in the gold ETF, as the ETF tracks the spot price of gold. If you are investing in gold to capture short-term gains, market timing is easy with ETFs. Not only can you buy and sell ETFs intraday, you can also convert your investments into cash in quick time. Two, storing your financial gold is easy; you need a demat account to keep your gold ETFs. In contrast, you need a bank locker to store your physical gold. Now, getting a bank locker is difficult. Also, lockers have become expensive in recent times.  Before you buy a gold ETF, check the proportion of physical gold that the ETF holds in its portfolio; higher the proportion of physical gold, closer the ETF will trade to the spot price of gold. And, that means your objectives will be well served. You can find an ETF’s portfolio composition from the fact sheet available on the investment firm’s website. Also, ensure that the gold ETF you intend to buy is actively traded in the market; active trading will help keep the ETF’s price closer to its net asset value. Note that asset management firms also offer gold fund-of- funds, an open-ended fund that invests in a gold ETF managed by the same firm. You should buy gold ETFs, not the fund of funds; for the latter will charge you a fee in addition to the fee for investing in the gold ETF.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yellow-metal-can-be-the-flavour-for-all-seasons/article32425011.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.What are the ways in which I can invest in India in the name of my minor granddaughter who lives in the U.S. and is an American citizen by birth. G.V. PADMANABHAN A.The investment options for U.S./Canada NRIs per se are limited. And, it gets more complex with the person being a U.S. citizen. First, for any investment that is permitted, be it a deposit or policy, your U.S.-citizen-granddaughter needs to have an OCI (Overseas Citizenship of India). Even with that, many options are closed to NRIs and more specifically U.S./Canada NRIs. For example, most mutual funds do not offer schemes for U.S./Canada residents as the respective regulatory authorities abroad require local firms to report to them on such investments by their residents. Similarly, Post Office deposits are not available for NRIs. While there may be insurance policies available, such child policies are best avoided as either their cost structure can be poor, or they would be market-linked and would require you to track the performance. Stocks are permitted but it is best not done in a minor’s name. Unless your granddaughter has any plans to come to India or shift her citizenship, it is best that you do not invest in the name of the minor. Instead, you can choose any of the following options: one, you can simply continue investing in a mix of FDs and mutual funds (if you are familiar) in your name and add her as a beneficiary for some of these investments. Two, spell out in a simple Will, what you would like to leave for her. Three, you can simply do an international money transfer for her education as and when needed, as a gift. You can do $2.5 lakh per financial year. Please consult your auditor for any tax implications. Q.I have a fund with over Rs. 6 lakh in value. Looking back, it was a poor investment choice. It had an SIP of Rs. 5,000 which I cancelled. This fund is about 30% of my portfolio. I want to switch this amount to another fund from a different fund house. I understand that I would have to redeem the amount first to invest. Should I redeem the entire amount or do an SWP? I am asking this question for tax purposes as the corpus is large. And, once redeemed, should I invest the entire amount through lump sum or do a STP from a debt fund?  Ajay Kumar A.Yes, you need to redeem fully and reinvest. Once you realise your fund is a poor performer, there is no point removing it systematically, unless the amount is exceptionally large. Please consult your auditor on the tax impact and exit in one shot. Given that equity gains of up to Rs. 1 lakh are free of tax and your fund’s performance has anyway been mediocre, you are unlikely to see large gains as the market itself has not delivered much in the past 5-10 years. Generally, when you move from one equity fund to another, there is no timing risk. You remain invested in equity as an asset class — just that you move to another fund. However, most investors worry that reinvesting a lump sum in the new fund in one shot may result in losses if the market is at a peak. Again, technically it doesn’t as you need to consider your original entry as the point of investment in equity. Hence, we leave it to the investors to make the choice. If this timing issue worries you, exit in one shot and use an STP (from a liquid fund and no other category) to invest in 12-18 months. Else, move in one shot and top it up immediately with monthly SIPs to ensure you average, in case markets fall after your new investment.  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article32425009.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32425013.ece
24 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Azhar scripts Pakistan’s revival||Pakistan captain Azhar Ali reached the 6,000-run milestone in Tests as he thwarted England on the third day of the third Test here on Sunday. Azhar was unbeaten on 82 and shared an 83-run partnership with wicketkeeper Mohammad Rizwan (22) as Pakistan reached tea at 158 for five. The tourists were replying to England’s mammoth total of 583 for eight declared. Pakistan was 41 for four at lunch on a rain-marred morning session before Azhar scripted the revival in the company of Rizwan. For England, the 38-year-old Anderson did most of the damage, taking four for 42 off 16 overs. England is seeking its first series win over Pakistan since 2010 and went into the final game with a 1-0 advantage. On the second day, Zak Crawley had converted his maiden Test hundred into a memorable double (267) as the hosts piled on the runs. Crawley and Jos Buttler, who made 152, shared a stand of 359 to power England to 583 for eight declared. Record partnership Crawley faced 393 balls, hitting 34 fours and one six. His partnership with Buttler was a new fifth-wicket record for England, surpassing the 254 shared by Keith Fletcher and Tony Greig against India in Mumbai in February 1973. Buttler completed just the second hundred of his 47-match Test career, and the first as a wicketkeeper. When he was on 99, Buttler was given out caught behind off Mohammad Abbas. The batsman immediately reviewed the decision and replays showed the ball had missed the bat. Next ball, Buttler punched Abbas through point to complete a 189-ball hundred with 10 fours and two sixes.   Top maiden Test hundreds  365 not out - Garry Sobers (WI vs Pak), 1958 311 - Bob Simpson (Aus vs Eng), 1964 303 not out - Karun Nair (Ind vs Eng), 2016 287 - Reginald Foster (Eng vs Aus), 1903 277 - Brian Lara (WI vs Aus), 1993 274 - Zaheer Abbas (Pak vs Eng), 1971 267 - Zak Crawley (Eng vs Pak), 2020    Pakistan 236 for six  Pakistan was 236 for six in 80 overs with skipper Azhar Ali (113) and Yasir Shah (15) at the crease. Mohd. Rizwan was dismissed for 53 by Chris Woakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azhar-scripts-pakistans-revival/article32425140.ece
24 August 2020||KOCHI,||September restart unlikely, says Sumariwalla||With the scheduled September 12 restart to the competition season looking doubtful, the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is working on options to keep the athletes in shape. “It (September 12 start) looks difficult. But there will be some internal trials, some internal competitions among the campers in Patiala and Bengaluru,” said Adille Sumariwalla, the AFI President, in a chat with The Hindu . “And if there are javelin throwers, shot putters or discus throwers in that area, we can allow them based on government regulations.” The AFI has scheduled its season-opening Indian Grand Prix in Patiala on September 12, to be followed by the National Open Athletics in Chennai (Sept. 20-25) and the Federation Cup (Patiala, from Oct. 6).  “The Chennai Nationals looks very doubtful. I don’t think the State Government is going to allow that. If trains are not going to start, how are people going to come? But we will have internal competitions in Patiala. And for walkers in Bengaluru because they are there.” Sumariwalla felt that even if this year's competitions were cancelled owing to the coronavirus pandemic, it won’t be tough for Indian athletes to qualify for Tokyo. “Most of the people who had to qualify have already qualified. The rest have enough time to do so (from March to June next year during the AFI season).” He also felt that long-jumper Sreeshankar, sprinter Dutee Chand and shot putter Tajinderpal Singh could compete in indoor meets and qualify. Relay focus Sumariwalla wanted the quartermilers to focus on relays. “Hima Das will not qualify in the 400m but she has already qualified in the relay. It will be tough (for anybody) to qualify in the 400m but I would prefer that they focus on the relay at the Olympic level because now they have two relays (mixed and men or women). The pressure will be tremendous if they run the 400m too,” he said. “They may qualify (in 400m) but does that help the Indian team? If they are good, they may come to the semifinal, then what? Are they running 49s? No. Are they running 44s and below (in men's)? No.” "So, they will run two rounds in the 400m and then spoil the relay.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/september-restart-unlikely-says-sumariwalla/article32425412.ece
24 August 2020||DUBAI,||Zaheer Abbas, Kallis and Sthalekar in ICC Hall of Fame||Pakistan batting great Zaheer Abbas, legendary South African all-rounder Jacques Kallis and Pune-born former Australian women’s team captain Lisa Sthalekar were on Sunday inducted into the International Cricket Council’s Hall of Fame. The ICC conducted the ceremony virtually and it was attended by, among others, Kallis’ longtime teammate Shaun Pollock and Indian great Sunil Gavaskar. “I feel elated to get this honour, but more than me, it is an honour for my country and I just want to see that it inspires a generation of talented batsmen for the national team,” said Zaheer Abbas. “He is a colossus. The word fits him like a glove. No praise is too high. Very well deserved to be in this ICC Hall of Fame,” said Gavaskar, who was inducted in 2009, about Kallis. Gavaskar was also all praise for Sthalekar. “It is good to have another ‘Kar’ in the ICC Hall of Fame. Well done. You are an inspiration, not just in Australia also in India (as she was born there). You have interacted with many cricketers in India including the junior cricketers. You have shown with your feistiness that women can play at the highest level.” The Hall of Fame includes 27 Australians, 28 England players, six India cricketers, three from New Zealand, four from South Africa, one Sri Lankan and 18 from the West Indies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zaheer-abbas-kallis-and-sthalekar-in-icc-hall-of-fame/article32425192.ece
24 August 2020||DUBAI,||De Villiers, Steyn and Morris join RCB teammates||It was “steaming” outside as the South African trio of AB de Villiers, Dale Steyn and Chris Morris joined their Royal Challengers Bangalore teammates here. “I am very excited, very happy to be here. Travelling was bit different to normal but we have made it here with my South African friends and we are very happy to be back in the RCB family. I am looking forward to my COVID-19 test,” de Villiers said. “It’s going to be interesting to play in the heat. We got here like 3 a.m. in the morning and it was steaming outside. Looking forward to what’s it going to be like in a few weeks,” said veteran speedster Steyn. Meanwhile, wearing masks and face shields, Delhi Capitals and Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Indian players and support staff arrived on Sunday. Both the franchises shared a number of their players’ departure and arrival photos. Quarantined The players will be undergoing a mandatory six-day quarantine which is in line with the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the BCCI. The players and support staff will be tested every fifth day of the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-villiers-steyn-and-morris-join-rcb-teammates/article32425137.ece
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Middle-order has to step up: Laxman||Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor, V.V.S. Laxman hopes for an improved performance from the middle-order in the IPL to be played in the UAE in September. “Honestly, the batting revolved around the top-order [previously]. So, we are looking for the middle-order to play to potential and show the desired improvement in this edition,” 45-year-old Laxman said in a chat with The Hindu before leaving for the Gulf. On having David Warner back as captain, Laxman said the great Australian opener had always led, even when he wasn’t the skipper, with the bat. “He has been an exceptional batsman for us in the IPL,” said the batting great from Hyderabad. Bowling strength Laxman was excited with paceman Bhuvneshwar Kumar’s return to full fitness. “Bowling has always been our strength and with Bhuvi back, and given his reputation as one of the most dangerous bowlers in T20 format, it should be a potent force,” Laxman said. “The bowlers have been sensational and we hope to see them peak at the right time again,” he said. On the team’s prospects Laxman felt the side was always a pretty balanced outfit and will continue to be so. “We have some exciting young talent and also experienced Indian and foreign players. And, I reiterate that IPL is all about momentum and once you get it, it is imperative to sustain right through,” Laxman said.  On new coach Trevor Bayliss, who replaced Tom Moody for this season, Laxman said Trevor came across as an amazing human being from the interactions he had had with him. “He has handled the best and was with the World Cup- winning England squad. He knows what it takes to handle the toughest challenges.” Bio-bubble challenge The biggest challenge for the players and the support-staff, though, can well be the bio-bubble, Laxman felt. “We don't want anyone to deviate from the prescribed safety protocols of the bio-bubble,” he said. Laxman said playing in front of empty stands would be a big change. “It is the job of every one of us to peak gradually as cricket is all about form. We need to be at 100%, especially while playing in a totally different atmosphere.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/middle-order-has-to-step-up-laxman/article32425350.ece
24 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||India outwits China, reaches the quarterfinals||India shocked second seed China and topped Pool A at the online Chess Olympiad on Sunday. The 4-2 victory in the final round in the preliminary league helped the seventh seed finish with 17 points, one more than the Chinese. The top place in the group means India will progress directly to the quarterfinals, while China and Germany, which took the third place, will have to go through the play-offs. The victory against China, which began the tournament as one of the strong favourites, should do India’s confidence a world of good. It was the juniors that helped the team pull off the memorable win, as R. R. Praggnanandhaa and Divya Deshmukh took full points off Liu Yan and Zhu Jiner, respectively. All the four boards featuring the seniors were drawn. Earlier in the day, India defeated Georgia 4-2 and Germany 4.5-1.5. India thus won eight of its nine matches in the league. It should have been nine out of nine if power failures at Nashik and Vijayawada hadn’t interrupted the games of captain Vidit Gujrathi and Koneru Humpy in the match against Mongolia on Saturday. The match was drawn 3-3. “Bharat Singh Chauhan of the All India Chess Federation has informed Vidit and me that arrangements have been made to play our remaining matches from a five-star hotel if we want to,” Humpy told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-outwits-china-reaches-the-quarterfinals/article32425126.ece
24 August 2020||New York,||Murray begins well as Tour resumes||Britain's Andy Murray made a triumphant ATP comeback on Saturday, defeating Frances Tiafoe 7-6(6), 3-6, 6-1 in his first match of 2020 at the Western and Southern Open. The 33-year-old Scotsman advanced in hot and humid conditions to a second-round date with German fifth seed Alexander Zverev at the COVID-19 quarantine bubble that will also be used for the US Open, which starts on August 31. On the women's side, 20-year-old 16th seed Dayana Yastremska beat seven-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams 5-7, 6-2, 7-5. Greek 13th seed Maria Sakkari defeated US teen Coco Gauff 6-1, 6-3 in 64 minutes.  Important results (first round): Men: Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Nikoloz Basilashvili 6-4, 6-1; Denis Shapovalov bt Marin Cilic 6-3, 6-3; Borna Coric bt Benoit Paire 6-0, 1-0, (retd.); Kevin Anderson bt Kyle Edmund 7-6(3), 4-6, 6-3; Andy Murray bt Frances Tiafoe 7-6(6), 3-6, 6-1; Milos Raonic bt Sam Querrey 6-4, 6-4.   Women: Kristina Mladenovic bt Anastasija Sevastova 6-3, 6-4; Amanda Anisimova bt Alison Riske 6-3, 6-3; Dayana Yastremska bt Venus Williams 5-7, 6-2, 7-5; Maria Sakkari bt Coco Gauff 6-1, 6-3; Ekaterina Alexandrova bt Elena Rybakina 7-5, 7-6(6); Victoria Azarenka bt Donna Vekic 6-2, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/murray-begins-well-as-atp-tour-resumes/article32425143.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIFF lauds award winners||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) president Praful Patel on Saturday praised Arjuna Award-winning national team defender Sandesh Jhingan and former coach and player Sukhwinder Singh for being honoured with the Dhyan Chand Award. Jhingan is the country’s 27th footballer to win the Arjuna Award, while former India coach and defender Sukhwinder became the third person in football to receive the Dhyan Chand Award. “Sandesh’s spirit and tenacity have been such a remarkable hallmark in Indian football in recent times. You fully deserve this honour,” Praful said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-lauds-award-winners/article32425483.ece
24 August 2020||Sydney,||Australia ready to hit ground running||Justin Langer said his Australia squad is super-fit and ready to hit the ground running ahead of departing on Sunday for a white-ball tour of England, its first cricket since March. The 21-man squad gathered in Perth before taking a direct flight after which it will face several days of isolation in Derby due to coronavirus restrictions. Training will be permitted during their lockdown and they will play four inter-squad warm-up games to get match-ready after nearly six months of inaction. They will head to a bio-secure hub in Southampton for the first of three Twenty20s beginning on September 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-ready-to-hit-ground-running/article32425485.ece
24 August 2020||NW DELHI,||BCCI congratulates Rohit, Ishant and Deepti||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) congratulated limited-overs vice-captain Rohit Sharma for winning the country’s highest sporting honour — Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award this year — saying it was proud of his achievements. “Congratulations @ImRo45 for being conferred with the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, 2020, India’s highest sporting honour. He is only the fourth Indian cricketer to receive this award,” the BCCI wrote on its Twitter handle. “We are proud of you, Hitman!” The BCCI also congratulated senior pacer Ishant Sharma and women’s national team player Deepti Sharma on being named for the Arjuna Awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-congratulates-rohit-ishant-and-deepti/article32425486.ece
24 August 2020||Chennai,||Germanpreet to stay at Chennaiyin FC||Chennaiyin FC on Sunday announced that Indian midfielder Germanpreet Singh will be staying with the club after signing a new multi-year contract. The 2020-21 Indian Super League will see the hard-tackling 24-year-old from Punjab turn out in CFC blue for a fourth consecutive season. Germanpreet has made 36 appearances in all competitions for CFC during this period. “I am incredibly proud to continue playing for Chennaiyin FC. I have witnessed three great years here already, and the journey so far has been amazing with lots of learning and development. But I believe the best is ahead of me,” said Germanpreet from his home in Gurdaspur, Punjab. CFC co-owner Vita Dani added, “Germanpreet is another fantastic Indian talent who has made huge leaps during his time with us. We are delighted to have groomed and nurtured domestic players like him who showcase the immense potential and are unfazed on the big stage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/germanpreet-to-stay-at-chennaiyin-fc/article32425190.ece
24 August 2020||COLOGNE,||Sevilla has the last laugh||Sevilla clinched the Europa League title for the sixth time with a 3-2 win over Inter Milan, after an overhead kick by defender Diego Carlos in the 74th minute deflected by the Italian side’s top scorer Romelu Lukaku settled a thrilling contest, on Friday. It was an astonishing anti-climax to Lukaku’s first season after he had set the longest scoring run by a player in UEFA Cup/Europa League history when he netted in the 11th successive game to give Inter an early lead with a penalty conversion in the fifth minute. Luuk De Jong, who scored Sevilla’s winner in the semifinal, showed his predatory instinct again with a pair of headers which turned the tide in the side’s favour. However, Sevilla’s joy was short-lived as it was undone by a fine set piece three minutes later, with Marcelo Brozovic swinging in a free kick for Diego Godin to head home from close range. Julen Lopetegui won his first trophy as coach at senior level after a torrid period which saw him sacked by Spain and Real Madrid.  The result: Sevilla 3 (de Jong 12, 33, Lukaku 74-OG) bt Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 5-pen, Godin 35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sevilla-has-the-last-laugh/article32425128.ece
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Dhoni is unique in the way he is detached: Balaji||A week ago, former India skipper M.S. Dhoni shocked the cricketing world by announcing his retirement on social media, without much fanfare. One person who was in the vicinity when the World Cup-winning skipper decided to call it a day was former India pacer L. Balaji. The Chennai Super Kings (CSK) bowling coach was at the ground when Dhoni put out his statement. Speaking on Star Sports 1 Tamil show ‘Cricket Connected – Aatam Thodarattum ’, Balaji spoke about his conversation with Dhoni during CSK’s practice on the day he announced his retirement. “After practice gets over, I normally talk a lot to Dhoni about the wicket, about the playing conditions. That day I finished practice and went inside. I did not realise that he had already put out his retirement message at 7.29 p.m. After posting the message, Dhoni walked up to me and casually told me that he had asked the groundsman to water the pitch a bit more. I said, ‘okay’. And I didn’t realise anything. “It was a huge moment in his life, but, just like that, he moved on. Dhoni’s uniqueness is the way he is detached. He will never stop, no matter what the situation is, and moves on in his own style.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhoni-is-unique-in-the-way-he-is-detached-balaji/article32425188.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Here we come...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/here-we-come/article32425307.ece
24 August 2020||BENGALURU:,||BFC signs Ajith Kumar||Bengaluru FC announced the signing of left-back Ajith Kumar for an undisclosed fee from Chennai City FC (CCFC). The 23-year-old joins on a three-year deal ahead of the 2020-21 Indian Super League campaign. Ajith had played a crucial role in CCFC’s I-League triumph in 2018-2019, playing each of his side’s 20 games. “I am thrilled to have become a Bengaluru FC player. The chance to share a dressing room with a legend like Sunil Chhetri, who I hope to learn so much from, and so many of the national team boys is very exciting for me,” said Ajith. Club CEO Mandar Tamhane said: “We have been pursuing Ajith for some time now, tracking his progress in the I-League and his performances with Chennai in the AFC Cup. He is a bright young footballer and has all the qualities to fit into our system.” Call to rename Kanteerava Stadium The Bangalore Urban District Athletic Association (BUDAA) called on the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports to rename the Sree Kanteerava Stadium as Kanteerava Athletic Stadium. The reasoning is that athletics is “the only sport that cannot be played on any other arena be it hockey, football, tennis etc.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-signs-ajith-kumar-from-chennai-city-fc/article32425129.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen tour Season 2 in Nov.||After the stupendous success of the inaugural million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour, the second season will commence in November. The Tour witnessed some engaging chess involving some of the best names in the game. It recorded a whopping 70 million views across various online platforms and select TV channels. For the record, out of the five events, including the $300,000 Chess Tour finale, Carlsen won four. The next season promises to offer more prize-money and invite more world-class players. Talking about this signature event, Carlsen said, “It has been a dream come true to see the growth of chess and the fans embracing online chess as a thrilling spectator sport.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-tour-season-2-in-november/article32425301.ece
24 August 2020||SPIELBERG (Austria),||Spielberg, Austria, Aug 23, 2020 (AFP) -||KTM-Tech3’s Miguel Oliveira overtook Ducati’s Jack Miller and KTM’s Pol Espargaro on the last corner of the Styrian GP on Sunday to claim a first MotoGP for Portugal and the Tech-3 team. The race saw a dramatic incident when the brakes of Maverick Vinales’ Yamaha failed and he threw himself onto the tarmac before the bike smashed through the safety barrier.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spielberg-austria-aug-23-2020-afp/article32425131.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Vibhuti yoga||When the higher version of the infinite Lord is grasped, one realises Him to be both the intelligent and material cause of the universe. The Lord summons His inherent Maya Shakti that is latent and it becomes manifest. It is similar to the faculty of voice in each one of us. It is unmanifest in the listener while it is manifest as voice and speech in the speaker. The Lord’s Vibhuti is His Maya Shakti in manifest form; in unmanifest form it is yoga, pointed out Swamini Satyavratananda in a discourse. The presence is felt but not seen. Sat and chit are principles that are not seen but are felt as an experience. In the universe, the sun, moon and the fire are His three eyes. All lokas are His body. Akasa is His head. The Vedas are His mouth. All the directions are His face. When Arjuna asks Krishna about the most ideal and effective way of worship to adopt, he is told about the way of worship practised by the wise which has conferred enlightenment on them. The maharishis and sages are fully aware of this infinite glory of the Lord and appreciate these as His prasada. They discuss the Lord’s Vibhuti with one another and share this divine experience. They are aware of the Lord as ‘Eka’ roopa and also as ‘Aneka’ roopa at the same time. They know and understand the law and order in the world and also the laws of cosmic harmony that are held in place by the Lord. The omniscient Lord is aware of all the experiences of all beings. The Lord prepares the favourable conditions for understanding the higher level in those who worship His forms and follow karma yoga. He grants self knowledge as well as the knowledge of Reality as the Sat Chit Ananda principle which is free from the limitations of Time and Space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/vibhuti-yoga/article32425084.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 07:48 IST,||Sudoku - August 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-24-2020/article32425862.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||What it’s like to be me||It is Persepolis in colour and set in India — Imphal to Mumbai. Sadam Hanjabam has made a quasi-graphic novel of his journey in self-acceptance, from rising out of a mental health crisis to establishing Ya_All , a youth and queer-led and -focussed organisation in the North-eastern region of India. The illustrations are part of Mann Mela, one of India’s first digital museums dedicated to sharing personal, autobiographical stories of mental health, from youth across India, in the age group of 18 to 35. “Overcoming my trauma and sharing my experiences on mental health and inclusion have been very overwhelming,” reveals Sadam. Started by Sangath, Mann Mela is a step forward from its initiative, It’s Okay To Talk, the latter being a blog of mental health diaries. Through sharing people’s experiences, Mann Mela hopes to tackle common misconceptions around mental conditions, break stigma associated and encourage seeking help. “We wanted to capture first-person narratives but by utilising new media formats to talk about it in a much more nuanced way. That means using illustrations, film, interactive videos, VR and so on,” says Pattie Gonsalves, project head at It’s Okay to Talk and founder of Mann Mela. If Sadam’s story is in an illustrated form, Chandigarh-based Tarini Chawla’s story of being diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder, is in lightly animated chapters, voiced by her. Eight others are to join Sadam and Tarini’s, and released monthly on the Mann Mela website. Since April, Pattie and her team travelled to five places: New Delhi, Goa, Bhopal, Ahmedabad and Imphal, and held group discussions of 72 people with lived experiences of mental health needs. A team of seven young mental health advocates and four mental health professionals, consulted with 38 participants from 10 cities that included technologists, artists, mental health experts, and researchers. “We also held a national mental health artist-in-residence programme with 10 young artists selected through a national application,” adds Pattie. Each story takes three to four months to create; the interviews are transcribed, scripts are written, and the video or artwork is created. “The person whose story it is, participates as much as possible, whether it is by lending audio or by reviewing and writing parts of the script,” she says. Sharing space Well before the launch of this digital museum — before the pandemic struck — Mann Mela was envisioned as a travelling museum that would take the conversation of mental health from city to city. “The online museum was supposed to be more for archiving the artefacts we displayed in the physical spaces, but as things stand right now, we are going digital-first,” says Pattie. A prototype of the museum, hosted in Goa in February, is a precursor to what the travelling museum will eventually entail. “We wanted it to be an immersive space, where people can interact with other people’s journeys and feel like they are getting to know the other person better.” A human library of sorts: corporeal. “For example in the (One Day in the Life Of…) stations, we recreated a section of this person’s bedroom with different objects, and headphones were provided to listen to audio cues, of that individual telling you their story. So it feels like you are with them.” However, now, when the museum travels again, things would have to be changed. Six people in a booth, sharing headphones, touching a screen, will be out of the question. “Like museums all over, we will have to innovate,” says Pattie. Underlining the necessity of relaying personal stories of mental health, she says, “People understand those much better than an intellectual sounding PSA [public service announcement]”. Moreover, she adds, that it helps take into account the varying socio-political realities in the country. Growing up in a conflict-embattled area, or being of a certain sexual orientation influences mental health in separate ways. Alongside the stories, they also have learning resources, similarly illustrated in an easy-to-understand-and-share manner in both English and Hindi. “It tells you that if they have recovered, you can too. That kind of solidarity encourages people to seek help,” she says. But even when you do want to seek help, is help readily available in India — a country that has far less clinical psychologists than it has psychiatrists? Perhaps not, “which is why,” says Pattie, “we want to train non-specialists to be able to provide first aid. We want to equip young people with life skills that allow them to help themselves and people around them before they need to leverage external support.”  Visit mannmela.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-its-like-to-be-me/article32425459.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||All dressed up||“Not everything an elderly person confined to his or her bed wears needs to look like hospital clothes or night wear,” says Ashima Bhan, who recently launched Aaraam Se, an adaptive clothing line for the differently-abled, those with prosthetics, and the elderly, who may find movement difficult. Ashima has run her eponymous label in Kochi for five years now. The functional clothes have no buttons, button holes, or tie-ups. Instead there are zippers, Velcro, and elastic. The core idea was to create designs that would make dressing easy for the wearer and the caregiver. She started with two basic design variations — one set of garments that opened at the back and the other that opened from the side. This makes them ideal for wheelchair-users, those confined to their beds, or those who find it difficult to dress themselves. The collection includes kurtas and shirts with Chinese collars, pyjamas, kaftans, and dresses that also open at the shoulders. In solid colours, they are made of locally-sourced fabric. Currently, the collection has 10 styles and Ashima says she will be adding to this. Ashima is also working on stitched saris, a cross between a sari and a set mundu , complete with an elasticated underskirt. “For elderly women prone to osteoporosis and arthritis, self dressing is a struggle, and inevitably it is a depressing shift from a sari to a “nightie”. It does not have to be that way; there is a lot of scope to still dress with elegance and dignity,” she says.  Visit @aaramse.in on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-dressed-up/article32425463.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Have requested Centre to open metro in a phased manner: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Delhi government has requested the Centre to allow functioning of the Delhi Metro in a phased manner on a trial basis. He was interacting with traders to discuss measures to boost Delhi’s economy when a trader pointed out that customers were staying away due to lack of public transport. “We have raised the issue and have requested the Centre to consider Delhi somewhat separately from the whole country. The COVID-19 situation in Delhi is improving. If they do not want to open the metro in other States, they can do that. But the metro should be allowed in Delhi on a trial basis and in a phased manner. I hope that the Central government will soon take a decision on the same for the convenience of the people,” the Chief Minister said. Assuring the traders that the government was planning several measures to boost the economy, Mr. Kejriwal said that in the last five years, the people of Delhi have collectively overcome many challenges and they will also overcome the challenge of economic revival by working together in this hour of necessity. The meeting was attended by more than 215 traders from a variety of sectors like manufacturing, electronics, garments, automobiles, etc. and from all regions of Delhi, who presented a host of suggestions to the Chief Minister. Replying to them, Mr. Kejriwal said that on one hand his government is trying to keep the people safe by fighting the pandemic, and on the other hand trying to ensure that people do not die of hunger and reviving the economy. He said he understood work and COVID management can go hand-in-hand and therefore Delhi did not impose any lockdown after it was lifted. “I want to assure you that we will overcome the challenge of reviving the economy in Delhi. The pollution has decreased by 25% in the last five years, we controlled dengue last year, and novel coronavirus this year, and we are working together to revive the economy,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that measures like reducing the price of diesel, coming up with a start-up policy and starting a Rozgaar Bazaar were some of the measures already taken. Marketing tricks The Chief Minister said one of the suggestions was to launch a portal of industries and shops based on the material they manufacture and sell, especially in industrial areas such as Wazirpur, Bawana, and Badli. “Through this portal, Delhi’s wholesale market and industries can put their products in front of the whole world and they can receive orders from the whole world. We can call it Delhi Bazaar where the people can market their products,” he said. He added that Chandni Chowk has been redeveloped as a pilot project and that other markets and roads will soon be redeveloped in the same manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-requested-centre-to-open-metro-in-a-phased-manner-cm/article32425300.ece
24 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||In Millennium City, rain means pain||The urban planning mess of Millennium City, with its swanky malls, high-rises and luxurious office spaces, is laid bare every time it rains here. The situation has worsened with the growing population and traffic over the years and the city has almost been brought to its knees thrice over the past five years by heavy rain. It was no different on August 19 when around 120 mm of rainfall within a span of a few hours left the city inundated with flooded underpasses, roads turning into rivers and water seeping into high-rises. Urban planners and the municipal officials, conceding the lacuna in the planning, now agree that water recharge systems and check dams alone could be a feasible solution.  Effective solutions Speaking to The Hindu , Gurugram Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh emphasised that water recharge systems and arresting the run-off from Aravalis with check dams were key to avoiding frequent waterlogging and flooding in the city. “Even if a good drainage system is put in place, it is better to do rainwater harvesting. It not just prevents flooding, but recharges the groundwater which is so crucial for the city,” said Mr. Singh. He cited the example of Maruti Suzuki India Limited digging up around hundred rainwater harvesting pits along the boundary wall of its plant on Old Delhi Gurugram Road four years ago. It effectively addresses waterlogging in and outside the plant and recharges groundwater as well. Mr. Singh said check dams were constructed in the Aravalis and were inspected before the monsoon this year, but they failed to produce the desired results causing flooding on Golf Course Road. It would be reviewed. This year, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had an additional limiting factor of shortage of labour due to the lockdown, he added. “The contractors worked with almost 30% workforce,” said Mr. Singh. The new infrastructure developed over the past few years has also disrupted the drainage system and there was a need “to go back and sit with our designers and engineers to see that all that is there on the paper also exists on the ground,” said Mr. Singh. Perennial waterlogging Since the 2016 gridlock, an underpass and a flyover have been constructed at Hero Honda Chowk, the internal drainage system in many parts of the city has been revamped and Badshahpur drain has been lined and widened almost all along its length. A small patch of the drain in Khandsa, though, is incomplete due to land dispute with the owner. However, a stretch of NH-48 near Narsinghpur village is a perennial waterlogging point and the authorities have failed to find a solution. Unlike Noida, Gurugram is largely developed by private enterprises in bits and pieces and does not have an integrated drainage system — one of the important reasons for the frequent flooding. The civic infrastructure of the city is also not entirely maintained by the municipal corporation. Around ten private colonies have been taken over by the MCG over the past five years, but the rest, around 70, are still with developers and lack adequate drainage, sewage and electricity infrastructure. In many areas, including MCG and Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran sectors, the drainage system is not connected to the main drain and has no outlet. The natural water channels and ponds have not been preserved. Most of them have been encroached or thrown open to construction in the last two development plans of Gurugram, thus hampering the natural flow and dispersal of water. Endorsing the views of Mr. Singh, town planner Parveen Gulia said that creating rainwater harvesting structures was the most feasible solution. “Gurugram has no integrated drainage master plan. It is also not possible to create a linear drainage system now because of the huge land cost involved. Also, the natural nullahs and ponds have been encroached upon or lost to construction. The most practical solution, therefore, is to create rainwater harvesting wells. It will turn rainwater into a boon,” said Mr. Gulia. The city has been mostly concretised and the run-off coefficient is thus high, around 60-80%. Mr. Gulia said the city had a natural depression from east to west and there was a need to revive bundhs . Major culprit Former general-secretary of Sector 23A RWA Bhawani Shankar Tripathy said the MCG was a major culprit since the drainage system was not maintained and the waste management too was poor. “Contracts worth crores are awarded every year for desilting and maintenance of storm water drainage network, but there is lack of honest audit of the work being completed and as per requirement. Wastes of all kinds, be it municipal solid waste, construction and demolition waste or industrial waste, also continuously find their way into storm water drains,” saidMr. Tripathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-millennium-city-rain-means-pain/article32425329.ece
24 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Oppn. flays Punjab govt. over curbs||After the Punjab government announced a weekend lockdown in towns and cities of the State, the Opposition parties have hit out at ruling Congress, raising questions about rationality behind the move and accused the government of failing to provide efficient health services to curb COVID-19 spread. While the principal opposition — the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — termed the decision of lockdown irrational and beyond anybody’s comprehension, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) asked the Congress government to improve health services instead of indulging in coercive shut downs, which the party said were having a devastating effect on small shopkeepers, traders and skilled workers.  ‘Govt. hiding failures’ Senior Akali Dal leader and former Minister Daljeet Singh Cheema said the Congress government was taking unilateral decisions to hide its failures and prevent large-scale protests against its ‘misrule’, and asked the Amarinder Singh regime to strike a balance between lives and livelihood. “The government should improve ambulance services and hospital infrastructure, increase bed strength and recruit more doctors and nurses. It is not doing this at all and instead is forcing lockdowns without any scientific basis. The lockdowns will only result in more crowding in markets when they reopen leading to a further spike in COVID-19 cases. They are simultaneously leading to hardships for shopkeepers and tradesmen,” said Mr. Cheema. Earlier this week, the Punjab government ordered extension of the weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all the 167 cities and towns in the State from August 21 in a bid to deal with COVID-19 situation. AAP MLA and leader of the Opposition Harpal Cheema said imposition of lockdown by the government in the name of containing the spread of COVID-19 was completely irrational and beyond anybody’s comprehension. Mr. Cheema said the lockdown could be scientifically beneficial only if it was implemented for at least 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oppn-flays-punjab-govt-over-curbs/article32425320.ece
24 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Four held for printing pirated NCERT books||More than 48 hours after the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force and the Meerut police raided godowns and printing press units in Meerut and Amroha for printing pirated versions of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books worth crores, the alleged mastermind Sachin Gupta and his uncle and co-accused Sanjeev Gupta were still absconding. On Saturday evening, the Bharatiya Janata Party suspended Sanjeev Gupta, the vice-president of its Meerut unit, for damaging the image of the party. Meanwhile, the police have arrested four persons, including the supervisor of the godown in Meerut. On Saturday, the STF recovered around 9 lakh pirated books with NCERT logo from a godown which allegedly belonged to the Guptas in the Partapur area of Meerut, an official release said. “Four members of the racket have been arrested and 8,90,439 pirated books were recovered from the godown situated on the road between Achhrod and Kashi in Partapura area of Meerut,” the release said. The STF has also recovered nine computers, bill books, letter pads and visiting cards from what Brajesh Kumar Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, STF, described as a “big set up”. The team also raided a printing facility in the Gajraula town of Amroha which also belonged to the Guptas. ‘Officials informed’ “The counting of pirated books in the Gajaraula unit is still on,” Mr. Singh said, adding NCERT officials have been informed about the raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-held-for-printing-pirated-ncert-books/article32425319.ece
24 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Now, an app for farmers’ grievances||Odisha is working on a mobile-based application to enable farmers to upload picture of grievances such as water availability in canals and their redressal in a fixed timeframe. The application being developed through Odisha Computer Application Centre (OCAC) will use command area of projects as geo-fencing region to forward the grievance to the authority concerned . Under 5T (Teamwork, Technology, Transparency, Time leading to Transformation) governance system, action will be initiated for redressal within a timeframe. The State Water Resource Department will provide spatial information on sector- wise command area as a web service, which the grievance management application will consume. As per sources, the application is likely to be ready by September this year and inaugurated in the fourth week of the same month. Top engineers of the Water Resource Department have been asked to make information available regarding irrigation projects to the agriculture departments before the start of cropping season looking at water availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-an-app-for-farmers-grievances/article32425321.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||High Court asks AIIMS to treat critical patient earlier turned away by institute||The Delhi High Court has ordered All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here to provide necessary treatment to a woman who was previously denied treatment by the institute as it had stopped conducting surgeries due to the ongoing pandemic. Justice Navin Chawla ordered the Medical Superintendent of AIIMS to get the woman medically examined and get the required treatment administered to her. Gulshan Farooqi, 37, who is suffering from large fibroid uterus and severe anaemia, in her petition, stated that she was earlier admitted in Newa Care & Gynae Centre at Kanpur. The hospital advised her to go to AIIMS, Delhi, for treatment as it involved complications and needed higher medical set-up. In her plea filed through advocate Ashok Aggarwal, Ms. Farooqi said she had come to Delhi on August 8 from Kanpur and had gone to AIIMS but was denied treatment despite repeated requests. “No reason whatsoever was given,” she said. Mr. Aggarwal said since she needed continuous medical care, she got herself admitted at Sita Ram Bhartiya Institute Science and Research (SRBISR), New Delhi, and is still there under EWS category. However, the SRBISR has advised her surgery at a higher tertiary care centre with in-house blood bank facility and intensive care unit. Mr. Aggarwal submitted that such a facility is available at AIIMS and if AIIMS refuses to provide treatment, Ms. Farooqi would most likely die. Mr. Aggarwal further submitted that Ms. Farooqi also approached the office of the Union Health Minister with a request to persuade AIIMS to provide her treatment. “However, she was told that though the request was sent from Union Health Minister’s office on August 8 to AIIMS, the institute said surgeries were not being conducted for time being,” the plea stated. “If a premier institution like AIIMS stops conducting surgeries upon critical patients, where will they go?” Ms. Farooqi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/high-court-asks-aiims-to-treat-critical-patient-earlier-turned-away-by-institute/article32425290.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DPCC demands Rahul Gandhi as AICC chief||In an emergency meeting of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) on Sunday, a resolution was passed demanding that Rahul Gandhi be appointed as the president of the All India Congress Committee. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the members of the DPCC felt that it was only Mr. Gandhi who could provide dynamic and youthful leadership to the party in these trying times. The DPCC, in its resolution, said: “Only a powerful and fearless leader like Mr. Rahul can expose the lies and falsehood of the BJP and the Modi government and make the people of India aware of the dangerous direction the country was going towards under the Modi government.” In a statement, the DPCC said that while it acknowledged freedom of speech, it felt that some senior leaders publicly saying that a change of leadership in the Congress was needed was improper as it not only gave ammunition to the opponents to criticise it, but also demoralised the party cadre. “The resolution noted that this was an issue that should have been raised in the internal forum of the party, instead of going public by leaking it to the media,” the DPCC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dpcc-demands-rahul-gandhi-as-aicc-chief/article32425297.ece
24 August 2020||August 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Woman missing case transferred to anti-trafficking unit||Unhappy over the manner in which the police handled the complaint of a man, who claimed his wife’s father abducted her, the Delhi High Court has transferred the job of tracing the missing woman to Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (Crime). During a special hearing on Saturday, an HC Bench came down heavily on the investigating officer (IO) of the case for failing to even obtain the call details records (CDR) of the woman’s father. The alleged accused had switched off his phone. The court also directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police concerned to monitor the investigation and submit a status report on Monday. It also ordered the police to provide protection to the man, Ayan Kaseem, and his family members against any action or threats posed by his wife’s father or his family members. Mr. Kaseem had moved an urgent habeas corpus petition for production of his wife, Nida. He stated that they are both major and got married out of their own free will on August 17. He produced the marriage registration certificate before the court. In his plea, Mr. Kaseem stated that Ms. Nida’s father opposed to this marriage. He said on Saturday, the accused forcibly took his daughter after mercilessly beating him. ‘Wife may get killed’ Mr. Kaseem said he has grave apprehension that his wife may be harmed or even killed by her parents. Taking note of the seriousness of the allegation, the court directed the Station House Officer of Nabi Karim police station to immediately proceed to residence of the woman’s father and make enquiries on the whereabouts of Ms. Nida. After over an hour when the court took up the case again on Saturday, the IO said the father was missing. “The fact that respondent No.2 [father] had left his house without allegedly informing his wife about where he is proceeding and the fact that he has switched off his mobile phone are clear pointers to his involvement in Nida going missing,” the court noted. “We have little hope that the IO will carry out any fruitful investigation in this case. The least he could have done was to immediately obtain the CDR’s of the mobile phone number of respondent No.2 as well as Nida’s,” it said. “None of the family members of Nida was called to the police station for probe,” the court said. This happened despite Mr. Kaseem informing the SHO regarding Ms. Nida leaving the parental home and seeking police protection apprehending harm from her father on August 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-missing-case-transferred-to-anti-trafficking-unit/article32425324.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||40-year-old jeweller held for staging robbery to waive Rs. 61 lakh bank loan||A 40-year-old jeweller, along with his two accomplices, allegedly staged a robbery of 2.6 kg gold at his office in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal. He wanted to get bank loan worth Rs. 61 lakh waived, the police said on Sunday. They added that the accused, who tried to mislead the investigators, do not have previous involvement in the crime. Abhijeet Samanta, who has been dealing in jewellery making for the last four years, hatched the plan as he was not making much profit, mostly due to the lockdown. He along with his accomplices — Farhan (38), a property dealer, and Munna (28), who worked at a garage — staged the fake robbery. While Farhan arranged for a toy gun, Munna executed the robbery by venturing into the office wearing a burkha. The matter came to fore when Samanta told the police about the “robbery”. He said at 8.30 p.m. on Saturday, he collected a payment of Rs. 50,000 from a jeweller and went to office when a burkha-clad woman entered the premises and held him at gunpoint. He alleged that the woman slapped him and also snatched Rs. 50, 000 and keys of lockers from him. He said she made him open the locker and then tied his hands, legs and mouth with the cloth. Next, she fled the spot with jewellery and cash. During the investigation, the CCTV footages of different cameras were analysed and it was noticed that the entry of the woman was friendly and behaviour of the complainant was also suspicious, said DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia. Finally, after a six-hour interrogation, Samanta broke down and confessed to the police about the conspiracy. During interrogation, Samanta said in order to expand his business, he had availed a loan of Rs. 61 lakh from three different banks against the gold stock. Since 2018, his business was not going well and he failed to achieve his targets and finally due to the lockdown, he was not in a position to deposit the EMI of his loans, the DCP said. To waive the loans, he committed the crime along with his accomplices, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/40-year-old-jeweller-held-for-staging-robbery-to-waive-rs-61-lakh-bank-loan/article32425330.ece
24 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Substandard material may have led to corridor collapse’||A two-member team of experts has expressed apprehension that use of substandard construction material could have led to the collapse of a portion of the elevated corridor on Sohna Road and suggested the need for a review of the design. Two separate complaints have been filed in the matter by RTI activists, seeking registration of FIRs. Around 40-metre-long span between two piers of the 4.75-km-long under-construction elevated corridor on National Highway-248A had crashed late on Saturday evening. The corridor is part of the six-laning and strengthening of 22-km-long stretch of the highway, starting from Rajiv Chowk. Experts Alok Bhowmik and Vinay Gupta visited the spot along with top National Highway Authority officials on Sunday. Mr. Bhowmik was of the view that may be the quality of concrete of crushed segment was not up-to-the-mark, while Mr. Gupta stressed the need for holistic review of the design. Third-party testing They suggested there is a need for a third-party testing of the concrete. Since a portion of the collapsed span is still hanging from one of the piers, the experts suggested placing of sand bags under the hanging portion to arrest the impact if it falls further and develop proper methodology to take down the hanging portion. They also suggested third-party test of the source of materials. The spot of collapse has been cordoned off. The preliminary report of the collapse stated that it was “gradual”. A group of RTI activists and whistle-blowers, Aadhikar, has written to the Central Vigilance Commission, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate alleging that government officials, in collusion with the contractor, apparently ignored the CPWD works manual guidelines for “extraneous considerations” and sought registration of FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Another RTI activist, Mahender Kumar, wrote to the Station House Officer, Sadar, saying that the incident hinted at corruption and demanded registration of a case. Manjari Kapoor, a resident of Orchid Petals, said the construction site was not barricaded when the portion of corridor collapsed. Ms. Kapoor said her car was only a metre away from the spot and had a narrow escape. She was on her way to her sister’s place near Subhash Chowk when the portion of the corridor came crashing down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/substandard-material-may-have-led-to-corridor-collapse/article32425293.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||City sees highest single-day spike in cases for the month||The Capital recorded 1,450 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, the highest single day spike in August, taking the total number of cases here to 1,61,466, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. It added that 16 people died in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 4,300. During the same period, 1,250 people recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,45,388. At present, the government said, there are 11,778 active cases in the Capital and 627 containment zones. The last time the number of new cases was above Sunday’s figure was on July 18 with the count being 1,475. The number of active cases in the city has been increasing for the past six consecutive days and is the highest in over 25 days. The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 – below the 10,000 mark – on August 4, but since then it has remained above 10,000. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests per day, only 6,261 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. During the same period 12,470 rapid antigen test were conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-for-the-month/article32425296.ece
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Registration camp for workers starts in Delhi today||The Delhi government on Sunday announced that it will conduct a campaign for the registration of construction labourers between August 24 and September 11 in all 70 Assembly constituencies as well as online. Once registered, the government said, the construction workers will be able benefit from nearly 18 assistance schemes that the government is providing for them. Employment and Labour Minister Gopal Rai said that registration and physical verification will be done together during the 15-day camp. According to law, carpenters, construction site guards, people who work with concrete mixers, crane operators, electricians, mason, tiles stone fitters, welders, coolies and others can apply. Mr. Rai said that during the pandemic, the government provided financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to all registered construction workers for two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/registration-camp-for-workers-starts-in-delhi-today/article32425298.ece
24 August 2020||Bhopal,||Five of family found dead in M.P.||The Tikamgarh district police on Sunday morning found bodies of five members of a family, including that of a four-year-old boy, hanging at their house “The cause of the deaths is still unclear, we are investigating the matter,” said Prashant Khare, district Superintendent of Police. Neighbours had informed the police after the family did not open the main door as a milkman arrived at the house in the morning. Police later broke into the house in Khargapur and found the bodies hanging. No note was found, they said. The deceased have been identified as Dharamdas Soni, 62, a retired government employee, his wife Poona, 55, their son Manohar, 27, daughter-in-law Sonam, 25, and grandson Sanidhya, four. The bodies have been taken to a hospital for post-mortem.  Those in distress may dial helpline 7389366696.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-of-family-found-dead-in-mp/article32425322.ece
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘DU PhD students can now enter laboratories’||The Delhi University on Saturday said registered PhD students, who require access to laboratories, will be allowed to return to their places of work in a phased manner. A DU notice said the students, whose presence in the research laboratory is essential, may join the labs after getting a certificate from their supervisors. In this phased re-entry, only two to three of them will be allowed per laboratory at any given point in time. The students will also be required to take all necessary precautions such as social distancing, wearing masks, sanitisation while entering the academic areas, the notice states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-phd-students-can-now-enter-laboratories/article32425331.ece
24 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Ashok- brief||An executive with a multinational company was killed near DLF Phase-II rapid metro station on Sunday after his motorcycle was hit by a speeding car. The incident happened at 6 a.m. when Alok Gupta was on his way to Noida. Alok’s friend, riding another motorcycle behind him, took him and the two occupants of the car to Naraina Hospital. Alok died during treatment. A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashok-brief/article32425291.ece
