24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown ensured growth of cases remained linear, says govt.||India has managed to maintain a linear growth of COVID-19 cases over the one month period during its lockdown, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday even as the country reported over 1,409 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 21,700 with 16,689 active ones. Recoveries There have been over 4,324 recoveries, which takes the recovery rate to 19.89 %, the Health Ministry said. A total of 686 deaths have been reported, with 34 in the past 24 hours. It added that as on Thursday, there are 12 districts that did not have a fresh case in the last 28 days. Since April 21, eight new districts have been added including — Chitradurga (Karnataka), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Imphal West (Manipur), Aizawl West (Mizoram), Bhadradri Kothagudem (Telangana), Pilibhit (Uttar Pradesh), SBS Nagar (Punjab) and South Goa (Goa). Also, 78 districts from 23 States/Union Territories have not reported any fresh cases during the last 14 days. State Health Departments have put the nationwide death toll at 718 with 23,034 cases of which 17, 428 are active ones. Maharashtra has 5,304 active cases, with Mumbai reporting 478 new cases and eight deaths on Thursday taking the death toll to 168 and 4,232 cases. ‘Strategies succesful’ “Despite a 24-fold increase in testing, the percentage of positive cases is not rising phenomenally when compared to the percentage of positive cases at the beginning of the lockdown,” said chairman of the empowered group-2 C.K. Mishra. “The growth of cases has been more or less linear, not exponential; this indicates that the strategies we have adopted have succeeded in containing the infection to a particular level,” Mr. Mishra added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-ensured-growth-of-cases-remained-linear-says-govt/article31419968.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No community spread, but we have to be on guard: CM||The State government has concluded that the third stage transmission of COVID-19, when the disease spreads to the community, has eluded Kerala. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing media here on Thursday, said that so far there has been no community transmission in the State, even though the threat of this happening is very much real. On Thursday, the reporting of new COVID-19 cases in two districts, Kottayam and Idukki, which had been designated as Green zones earlier by the government because there were no cases in these districts had sent the alarm bells ringing. Of the 10 new COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala on Thursday, Idukki accounted for four cases and Kottayam, two, making the government put these districts back on the restricted zone list. Kozhikode also reported two cases, while Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam reported one case each. Of the 10 new cases, four had come from neighbouring States, two had come from abroad and four are contacts of the imported cases. Of the 447 cases reported so far, only 129 are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. Only 23,876 people are remaining in the government’s quarantine pool now, of whom 437 have been isolated in hospitals while the rest are in home quarantine The government is very wary and unhappy about the fact that the movement of people along the areas on inter-State borders surreptitiously has been contributing to new cases at a time when the State has been containing the disease well. Extensive PCR testing The sudden spike in new cases over the past week has had the government resolve to do PCR testing more extensively, especially in the four districts in the red zone. With the ICMR giving its approval, the PCR testing can now be done at the labs at Pariyaram and Kottayam medical college hospitals too, taking the total number of labs in the State to 16, including two private labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-community-spread-but-we-have-to-be-on-guard-cm/article31420273.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Two deaths, 54 new cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu reported two deaths due to COVID-19 on Thursday even as 54 persons tested positive for the disease in the State, with Chennai accounting for half the cases. The State’s COVID-19 tally now stands at 1,683 (including two who were counted in other States and one person who tested negative after death.) A 70-year-old man died of COVID-19 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Hospital authorities said he had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He was on dialysis. He tested positive for COVID-19 three days ago. The other death was of a 56-year-old woman, admitted to Apollo Hospitals. She had tested positive on April 4. With this, the State has reported a total of 20 deaths due to COVID-19. At present, there are 908 active cases in the State. Of the 90 persons discharged during the day, 29 were from IRT Perundurai Medical College Hospital, 27 from Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital and 20 from the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. With this, the total number of persons discharged so far is 752. Chennai continued to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases, with its count increasing to 400. Of the 27 new cases, four were children aged below 10 years. Dharmapuri district, which had no COVID-19 cases so far, recorded its first. There were five new cases in Salem, four in Namakkal, three each in Dindigul and Virudhunagar, two in Madurai, and one each in Chengalpattu, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Tiruppur, Tiruvarur and Villupuram. From 10 districts on Wednesday, fresh cases were reported in 16 districts. Nine other districts — Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Erode, Madurai, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi — had 50 and above cases. Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, the Nilgiris, Perambalur and Pudukottai have less than 10 cases. Krishnagiri has reported no COVID-19 case so far. Rajendra Ratnoo, Central nodal officer coordinating on COVID-19 between the Central and State governments, said, “Tamil Nadu has really geared up and is working systematically. The State’s surveillance, testing and clinical management has picked up, and the mortality rate is still quite low.” On the high number of cases in Chennai, he said population density was a key factor. “Thick urban population is a factor. A large number of persons have been roped into surveillance in the city,” he added. A total of 6,954 samples and 6,880 individuals were tested today. With this, the total number of samples and individuals tested in the State till now stands at 65,977 and 59,952, respectively. The State has got another testing facility in the private sector — Medall Healthcare, Chennai. With this, there are a total of 34 testing facilities — 23 in the government sector and 11 in the private sector. A total of 1,787 persons were in isolation facilities, 23,303 persons were under active home quarantine and 108 in government quarantine facilities. Till date, 87,159 persons have completed their 28-day home quarantine in the State. *This is inclusive of two patients who died in other States and one patient who tested negative after his death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-deaths-54-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article31420063.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Clause allowing FIR against firms for COVID-19 cases goes||The government withdrew on Thursday the clause allowing filing of an FIR against a company and its management if an employee tests positive for COVID-19, following concerns raised by India Inc. “There is no mention of sole responsibility fixed of owner/director on detection of COVID-19 positive case/s,” stated the reworked guidelines sent to business owners. “The policy has been revised and the FIR clause removed. All the confusions on this matter should end.” Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, meanwhile, maintained that there was no government directive “for an FIR against a factory”.  ‘No harassment’ On Thursday, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to the Chief Secretaries of all States requesting that the guidelines “should not be misused to harass management of any manufacturing/commercial establishment”. He said some apprehension had been raised in the media based on a wrong interpretation of the guidelines. It was believed that the States may take legal action, including imprisonment of the CEO, if a COVID-19 positive employee is found in the factory, and that in such a scenario the factory would be sealed for three months. “I would like to clarify that there is no such clause in the consolidated revised guidelines...,” Mr. Bhalla said. Subject to compliance with standard operating procedure, no fresh licence or statutory approval is needed for resumption of permitted activities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clause-allowing-fir-against-firms-for-covid-19-cases-goes/article31419971.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former bureaucrats flag ‘minority harassment’ in letter to CMs, L-Gs||A group of 101 former civil servants has written to Chief Ministers and Lieutenant-Governors of all States and Union Territories, expressing anguish over reports of alleged harassment of Muslims in some parts of the country, particularly after the meeting of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March. Through the letter, copied to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, they have sought directions to all public functionaries to remain vigilant in preventing “social boycott” of any community and to ensure that all entitlements, including medical and hospital care, rations and financial assistance, are available equally to all those in need. The group said it did not subscribe to any particular political ideology and rather focused on issues having a bearing on the Constitution. Among the signatories are former National Security Advisor Shivshankar Menon, former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi, former Chief Economic Adviser Nitin Desai, former High Commissioner to the United Kingdom Nareshwar Dayal, former Foreign Secretary and National Security Advisory Board Chairman Shyam Saran, former OSD on Kashmir in the PMO A.S. Dulat and former Health Secretaries K. Sujatha Rao and Keshav Desiraju. Former Director General of Police Julio Ribeiro, former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah, and former Chief Secretary (J&K) Hindal Tyabji have also endorsed the letter. “The Jamaat was criticised for ignoring the principles of social distancing when cases of COVID-19 had started emerging in the country. Although this was hardly the only incident of such gatherings, both political and religious, sections of the media hastened to give a communal colour to COVID-19, including attributing motives to the Tablighi Jamaat in spreading the virus to different parts of the country,” the group said. ‘Irresponsible’ media The group criticised Tablighi Jamaat’s action of ignoring the Delhi government’s advisories on organising such an event. “However, the action of the media in communalising it and extending it to the Muslim community as a whole is utterly irresponsible and reprehensible,” the letter added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-bureaucrats-flag-minority-harassment-in-letter-to-cms-l-gs/article31420159.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases touch 970||One more person died due to COVID in Telangana, taking the tally to 25.The total number of COVID cases in the State touched 970 as 27 more cases were detected on Thursday. Amid the gloom, there was some news to cheer about as 58 people who were cured of the disease were discharged. Many more are expected to be discharged in the coming days. Of the 27 cases reported on Thursday, 13 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 10 from Jogulamba-Gadwal district, said Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender at a press conference. One case each was reported in Kumaram Bheem, Medchal, Jangaon and Rangareddy districts. As on April 23, out of the total 970 cases recorded in the State, 693 are active, 252 were discharged and 25 people died. Mr Rajender compared various aspects related to COVID to drive a point about the State’s performance. While the national average of doubling rate (an indicator of how quickly cases increase) is 7.5 days, it is 12.5 days in Telangana. “While the national average of death rate is 3.18%, it is 2.6% in Telangana. In case of recovery rate, it is 19.9% at all India level, while ours is 22%,” Mr Rajender said. A review meeting on facilities, issues, measures taken at COVID-19 hospitals in the State was held by the Health Minister on Thursday. Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital Dr M Raja Rao, professors, Special Chief Secretary A Santhi Kumari, Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy attended the meeting. Procedure followed to admit, test, treat and discharge patients was discussed. To decrease the death rate, Mr Rajender directed officials to put in all efforts, use all treatment options to save patients when their condition turns critical. Different sections of the society have been pointing out lack of required number of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), N95 masks, and testing kits. He said the stock of PPEs and N95 masks has crossed 4 lakhs and 4.5 lakhs respectively. Earlier, the strategy implemented in containing spread of the virus in Karimnagar was hailed as a success. When asked why the number of cases in Suryapet, Gadwal and other districts was rising, Mr Rajender said it took almost 10 days to show results in Karimnagar and it would take some days to see the same impact in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-touch-970/article31420217.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,||State comes up with more relaxations||Following the formula of graded relaxation, the State government on Thursday eased some more lockdown norms, allowing additional services and activities to operate in urban and rural areas. In an order by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, the government has allowed the opening of shops selling dry fruits, ice creams and juices [takeaway only]; those selling educational books for students and those selling electrical fans; non-banking financial companies, including housing finance companies, micro-financials, with bare minimum staff, and credit cooperative societies in urban areas. Relaxations have also been given for shops which perform recharges for prepaid mobile phone connections. Food processing units in urban areas, such as bread factories, milk processing, flour/dal mills, are allowed to function. In a major boost to the realty sector in cities, the government has permitted construction in urban areas, where workers are available on site, and no workers will be allowed to be brought in from outside. The government has also allowed construction in rural areas to include water supply and sanitation, laying of power lines, telecom optical fibre and cables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-comes-up-with-more-relaxations/article31420011.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Field work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/field-work/article31420065.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DA for Central staff frozen till July 2021||The Finance Ministry on Thursday issued an order freezing the Dearness Allowance (DA) to the Central employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensioners at current rates till July 2021. “In view of the crisis arising out of COVID-19, it has been decided that the additional instalment of Dearness Allowance... and Dearness Relief..., due from January 1, 2020, shall not be paid,” said the order. “The additional instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief due from July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, shall also not be paid. However, Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief at current rates will continue to be paid,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/da-for-central-staff-frozen-till-july-2021/article31419969.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘More cases likely for three weeks’||A mathematical model projects no respite from the growth in COVID-19 cases and deaths for at least three weeks. Based on the relationship between deaths and cases from several countries, the model says India's healthcare system must prepare to tend to 7,928 ICU patients on May 6, or three days after the lockdown ends.PAGE 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-cases-likely-for-three-weeks/article31419972.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Industries can’t be forced to pay’||In a report on the Industrial Relations Code, 2019, the Parliamentary Committee on Labour recommended that “in case of natural calamities, payment of wages until the re-establish-ment of the industry may be unjustifiable”. Panel Chairman Bhartruhari Mahtab said the lockdown could be counted as such a calamity.page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-cant-be-forced-to-pay/article31419974.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India follows U.S. trajectory: expert||India’s trajectory in COVID-19 cases is following the U.S. and is likely to reach a plateau rather than peak soon, one of China’s top infectious disease experts has said. Since there were signs of community transmission in India, it was more likely to follow the U.S. trend rather than limit cases to a low number, Zang Wenhong said.PAGE 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-follows-us-trajectory-expert/article31419973.ece
24 April 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana sends buses to bring back students||The Haryana government on Thursday sent 31 buses to bring back students who are stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota due to the nationwide lockdown. “Thirty-one Haryana Roadways buses have gone to Kota to bring back the students,” State Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-sends-buses-to-bring-back-students/article31420161.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||2 deaths, 128 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi||Two deaths and 128 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the death toll to 50 and the total cases to 2,376, the Delhi government said. Three more areas were declared “containment zones”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-deaths-128-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi/article31420158.ece
24 April 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal surpasses Indore in case growth rate||The rate of growth in the number of COVID-19 cases in Bhopal was seven times that of Indore in three days, as the count of cases in Madhya Pradesh climbed to 1,687 on Thursday. The reason for the upsurge in cases in Bhopal, say district officials, is the backlog of samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhopal-surpasses-indore-in-case-growth-rate/article31420160.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Salary hike for contract doctors||The State government is set to hike salaries of doctors working on contract basis and use State transport corporation buses as goods carriers to supply particularly essential goods in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salary-hike-for-contract-doctors/article31420014.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Ten cases reported from one Bengaluru locality||Eighteen COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday in Karnataka and nine of them were from one labour colony at Vidyajyothinagar, Hongasandra ward, in Bengaluru. All of them were primary contacts of patient-419 in the same colony who tested positive on Wednesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ten-cases-reported-from-one-bengaluru-locality/article31420013.ece
24 April 2020||Belagavi,||Virtual protest today against killings||Sri Ram Sene will organise a virtual protest across the State on Friday, against the killing of Sadhus in Palghar in Maharashtra. Sene founder Pramod Mutalik has appealed to his followers to stage their protests in their houses, holding placards condemning the killings. Copies of a memorandum will be sent to the Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister and Maharashtra Chief Minister by e-mail, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virtual-protest-today-against-killings/article31420196.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Industries cannot be forced to pay wages: panel||The Parliamentary Committee on Labour, in its report on the Industrial Relations Code, 2019, submitted on Thursday, has recommended that “in case of natural calamities, payment of wages to the workers until the re-establishment of the industry may be unjustifiable”. Committee Chairman and senior BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab said that the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19 can be counted as one such calamity. The Industrial Code makes it incumbent upon the employer to pay 50% wages to the workers/employees who are laid off due to a shortage of power, coal, raw material and such instances for 45 days. The committee has, however, expressed reservation on payment of the prescribed percentage of wages to the workers in the event of closure of an establishment due to “natural calamity” . “In case of natural calamities like earthquake, flood, super cyclone etc. which often result in closure of establishments for a considerably longer period without the employer’s fault, payment of wages to the workers until the re-establishment of the industry may be unjustifiable,” the report says. The committee has suggested that “clarity” be brought in so that employers “not responsible for closure or lay off, are not disadvantaged in case of such natural calamity of high intent”. Asked if COVID-19 and the ongoing 40-day lockdown under which almost all industries have been shut, would also count as a natural calamity, Mr. Mahtab told The Hindu , that “it should”. ‘A helping hand’ “The basic idea about our recommendations is that the industry should also not be forced when the situation is beyond their control. The law has to be reasonable. It is for the government to step in and extend a helping hand for the industries,” he added. These recommendations were strongly opposed by three members — CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kaim, CPI Lok Sabha member K. Subbarayan and DMK’s M. Shanmugam. Dissent note In his dissent note against the report, Mr. Karim said the recommendations are unfortunate especially in the present context. “Given the present situation where the entire nation is fighting against monstrous attack of novel coronavirus and when every ordinary citizen has been shouldering the risk beyond his/her capacity, I am not able to understand the rationale behind these recommendations,” Mr. Karim wrote. The Industrial Relations Code, 2019 is an amalgamation of three laws — the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Trade Unions Act, 1926, and the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946. The law was introduced in the Lok Sabha in November last year and referred to the Standing Committee on Labour in December. With the ongoing lockdown, the draft report was circulated to the members on April 15 via e-mail and they were given eight days to respond. And the final adopted report was accepted by the Speaker Om Birla on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industries-cannot-be-forced-to-pay-wages-panel/article31419894.ece
24 April 2020||Kolkata,||Central teams check hotspots in Bengal||Three days after landing in West Bengal on instructions from the Union Home Ministry, two groups of the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) on Thursday checked COVID-19 hotspots, hospitals and quarantine centres. A group visited a quarantine centre in the Rajarhat New town area of Kolkata. This was followed by a visit to M.R. Bangur Hospital, which is serving as a primary COVID-19 hospital in the State. The group, led by Apurva Chandra, Additional Secretary, Defence Ministry, spoke to the hospital authorities about the treatment provided and its preparedness to accommodate more patients. Detailed presentation On Wednesday, Mr. Chandra wrote to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha seeking a detailed presentation from the Health Department on the COVID-19 situation. He also said the IMCT would like to visit some hospitals, quarantine centres, hotspots and market places. Another group of the ICMT visited an apartment complex near the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, where several residents had tested positive. The team, led by Vineet Joshi, Additional Secretary, Human Resource and Development Ministry, visited a quarantine centre at Siliguri. “We are getting the cooperation of the State government from today. We have asked a detailed report from it and learning about the situation on ground,” Mr. Joshi told presspersons. In Kolkata and north Bengal, State officials accompanied the ICMT groups. ‘Providing support’ Mr. Sinha told presspersons that cooperation was being provided to the IMCT groups. The State was not telling the two Central teams that they could not visit different areas in the State. “Today, they have informed us that they want to visit certain areas. We are looking into where they want to go,” he said. The IMCT that landed on April 20 initially got little cooperation from the State. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, describing the Central team’s visit as “unilateral”. Meanwhile, after Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s letter on April 21 claimed that the State was not cooperating with the IMCT, the Chief Secretary sent a letter to the Ministry promising all cooperation and saying that they had shared up-to-date reports with the Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-teams-check-hotspots-in-bengal/article31419919.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Model shows deaths, cases rising over next three weeks||There is likely to be no respite from increases in the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths in the country for at least three weeks, predicts a mathematical model that projects the future burden on India’s healthcare system. Based on the relationship between COVID-19 deaths and cases from several countries, the model posits that the country’s healthcare system must prepare to tend to 7,928 ICU patients on May 6. Authorities have currently extended the nationwide lockdown up to May 3. As of today, India has 24,644 ICU beds, and bed-demands and deaths, according to the model’s authors, assume a “worst-case” scenario. The projections are available on a freely accessible website, covid19medinventory.in, and the model has been developed by scientists from multiple institutions who were brought together by the office of the government’s Principal Scientific Adviser K. VijayRaghavan. Global experience The “academic initiative” as it describes itself bases its numbers on the number of COVID-19 deaths reported by hospitals. Though there are no projections on the number of cases, it derives numbers based on the global experience and relationships between testing and the true number of infections and, correlations such as: that 5% of total cases are critical, and 50% of those admitted to an ICU survive. The website shows an India map with the expected number of positive cases in every district. The model itself, however, is yet to be peer-reviewed but is available as a preprint for perusal. “Our model assumes a constant ratio between total infected (detected or not) and the number of deaths,” Aloke Kumar of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, wrote in an e-mail reply to The Hindu. “ So, any increase in deaths is reflected proportionately in confirmed cases. Since the entire model focuses on the healthcare system, we decided against giving out our projections for true infected in the dashboard,” he added. “Having said that, the death rate is approximately 1% of the estimate of true infection (considering South Korea as a benchmark where testing was quite methodical and extensive) and around 2-3% of reported infection.”  From April 23 to 29, the model projects 1,164 deaths, and from April 29 to May 6 predicts the number of fatalities to rise to 3,964 — again the authors emphasise — based on a worst case scenario. As of Thursday, India had reported 21,700 cases and 686 deaths. “It is certainly a large jump, as shown by the model,” P. Sunthar, of the Chemical Engineering Department at the Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai, wrote in an e-mail. “But we do hope the health administrations will take measures to contain the outbreak in badly affected areas (in which case we won’t see such large numbers in a week). But going by the global trend, this is what the model shows,” he added. While these numbers take into account the impact of the lockdown, the authors say the model’s projections for the third week and beyond aren’t yet reliable. Because it bases itself on deaths, the model would falter if the number of COVID-19 deaths aren’t truthfully recorded and could be a problem in rural areas or regions with limited hospitalisation facilities. However, being an adaptive model, the numbers as well as healthcare demand can change daily. Scientists who participated in developing the model include those from the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, and personnel of the Armed Forces Medical Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/model-shows-deaths-cases-rising-over-next-three-weeks/article31419927.ece
24 April 2020||Mumbai,||First batch of seafarers disembark in Mumbai||A total of 145 crew members disembarked from U.S. cruise ship Marella Discovery on Thursday, making them the first batch of Indian seafarers to be allowed by the government to return. The seafarers spent over 40 days in Indian waters as the government put together a standard operating procedure (SOP) for them in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. After Marella Discovery called in at the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) around 10.30 a.m., the Indian crew were put through a four-stage disembarkation process before being sent to a government-authorised quarantine facility. It was an emotional moment as the remaining crew of Marella Discovery , led by its captain Chris Dodds, bid their Indian colleagues goodbye, with promises that they would all sail through the pandemic and regroup for another voyage in the near future. MbPT officials said that the SOP for sign-on and sign-off for seafarers to embark and disembark was prepared by the Director-General of Shipping. While a check by the Port Health Officer and immigration clearance are regular activities, the SOP included a COVID-19 test and quarantine till the results are negative. An electronic pass will be created for all those who test negative. They will then have to apply to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for a transit pass so that they can travel to their respective homes in various States by road. Each transit pass will be valid for one seafarer and a driver only. While the crew are from all over India, 99 hail from Goa, and the State government is making arrangements for them to return home. The disembarkation of the Marella Discovery crew was carried out by shipping agent J.M. Baxi. “All the 145 crew disembarked on Thursday. After the clarifications on SOP came in late at night, there was limited time in hand. The transition was smooth,” said a senior official of J.M. Baxi and Company. The Ministry of Shipping brought out an order on Tuesday night that paved the way for Indian seafarers to return home. The process devised by the Ministry is going to be a three-phased one. Three phases In the first phase, the government will allow seamen on ships docked at Indian ports to disembark and sign off. In the second phase, those on ships in deep sea will be allowed to return. And in the final stage, all those who have disembarked from ships and signed off in a foreign country will be allowed to return. Seafarers in foreign countries would be allowed to return to India only when the government lifts its ban on flights and allows other Indians stranded abroad to return. “It’s very heartening to see the extraordinary effort made by the ship owners for crew disembarkation. Patience paid off. The send off was given to the Indian crew by remaining staff, a tradition at sea was followed to the core by Captain of the ship,” Sanjay Parashar, member of the National Shipping Board and Chairman, International Maritime Federation, said. Mr. Parashar said that the return of the seafarers had made their families smile, and given other stranded seafarers the hope that they too would be back soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-batch-of-seafarers-disembark-in-mumbai/article31419936.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP spreading communal virus’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday accused the BJP of spreading ‘the virus of communal prejudice and hatred’ even in the midst of the COVID- 19 pandemic. Ms. Gandhi made the charge at a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting held through video conferencing. The CWC asked the government to utilise the remaining lockdown period to prepare a ‘detailed exit strategy and a future road map’ that would substantially increase the health infrastructure capacity, revive the economy and protect current levels of employment and wages/income. While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Centre-State cooperation was key to successfully fighting the pandemic, former party chief Rahul Gandhi urged the Centre to resume economic activities in green zone, seal the hotspots and and address the issue of return of migrants workers on priority.  Chief Ministers of the Congress-ruled States - Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Amarinder Singh of Punjab, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh and V. Narayansamy of Puducherry complained of lack of financial assistance from the Centre. They also complained about the shortage as well as poor quality of the China-made rapid testing kits. “The fight against COVID-19 is being fought at the State, district, city and village levels. States, therefore, must be empowered to devise solutions tailored to their unique situations and challenges,” party leaders K.C. Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala said while reading out parts of a CWC resolution. In her opening remarks, Ms Gandhi told the CWC, “Let me also share with you something that should worry each and every one us Indians. When we should be tackling the coronavirus unitedly, the BJP continues to spread the virus of communal prejudice and hatred. Grave damage is being done to our social harmony. Our party, we will have to work hard to repair that damage.” Lynching incident Ms. Gandhi’s remarks come just days after the BJP targeted the Maharashtra government, in which the Congress is a part, for the lynching in Palghar on April 16. She pointed out that the speed and the spread of the pandemic had increased disturbingly in the past three weeks. “We have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister that there is no alternative to testing, tracing and quarantine programme. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. The PPE [personal protection equipment] kits are being provided to our doctors and healthcare workers but the number and quality are poor,” she said. Ms. Gandhi noted that the lockdown had meant acute distress to those who are earn their livelihood from the informal sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-spreading-communal-virus/article31419889.ece
24 April 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal surpasses Indore in case growth rate||The rate of growth in the number of COVID-19 cases in Bhopal was seven times that of Indore in three days, as the count of cases in Madhya Pradesh climbed to 1,687 on Thursday. The reason for the continuing upsurge in cases in Bhopal, say district officials, is the backlog of samples, whose test reports are coming in now. From April 20 to 22, if Indore, the State’s worst-hit city, recorded an average 16 cases a day, Bhopal saw 30. The rate of growth in the count for Indore was 1.75%, while for Bhopal it was 12.3%. The upward trend would continue for five or six days, and the city’s tally will hit a peak in around three days, District Collector, Bhopal, Tarun Kumar Pithode said. “We had collected 10,000 samples, of which results of half the samples are still pending,” Mr. Pithode said. Samples collected Samples were extensively collected during a recent survey for influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory illness. Besides, health workers had collected samples of high-risk persons, who either reside in hotspots or are primary contacts of patients. The virus was not transmitted to newer areas, with most recent cases being detected in Jahangirabad and T.T. Nagar, the city’s hotspots, where containment areas had been drawn up. Cases in the city touched 323 on Thursday. Around 10 days ago, when Indore’s case fatality rate was close to 10%, the highest in the country, the situation there was worse as 20% more cases were reported every day, whereas in Bhopal the rate was 12.9%. Akash Tripathi, Indore Divisional Commissioner, said in the coming days the surge was expected to plateau in Indore, which has the third-most number of cases after New Delhi and Mumbai, as newer cases were mostly from primary contacts of patients already in quarantine. Unrelenting uptick Yet, the unrelenting uptick in the number of deaths in the neighbouring districts of Indore, Dewas, Khargone and Ujjain, which in a combined form make up 85% of the 85 deaths in the State, is confounding health experts. Indore authorities are sending swab samples to the National Institute of Virology, to ascertain if a more virulent form of the virus strain was proving more fatal. As of April 23, as many as 28 districts of Madhya Pradesh were prey to the virus, with Indore, having 945 cases, bearing the maximum load. So far, 203 patients have recovered from the illness. In order to stop the virus’ spread further, the State government has identified 461 containment areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhopal-surpasses-indore-in-case-growth-rate/article31419916.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Foreigners paid dearly to fly out||Hundreds of foreign nationals stranded in India during the COVID-19 lockdown flew home in chartered flights organised by their home countries in coordination with airlines and the Government of India in recent weeks. However, the evacuation trips did not come for free and they were not affordable either. While the U.S. nationals had to pay anywhere between $2,000 and $2,500 per person from New Delhi to San Francisco or Mumbai to Atlanta, British nationals had to spend between £500 and £600 despite the U.K. government allocating £75 million for chartered flights from countries where commercial flight operations were not available. Loan option However, the U.S. gave a loan option to its nationals and even took a promissory note allowing them to fly and pay later. The U.K. government offered conditional loans that many could not avail while flying out of India. U.S. nationals were informed that if they failed to repay the loan, they would not be eligible for issue of new passport. Only U.S. citizens with confirmation with U.S. Mission to India were allowed to board the flights. “Please understand this flight is not free. All passengers will need to reimburse the U.S. government for the cost of the flight. Previous flights have cost between $2,000 and 2,500 per person. A legal document, called a promissory note, for the full cost of the flight must be signed by each adult passenger. However, payment is not required at the time of the flight,” the U.S. Embassy in India said in a travel advisory to its nationals. Responding to an announcement put out on Twitter by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office that U.K. travellers should return home and £75 million had been allocated to support special chartered flights where commercial options were no longer available, an aspiring flyer replied wondering why people were being charged £600 from India if so much money was earmarked. Another traveller said the tickets were “quite expensive” for one way and sought to know how he could take the loan. However, he was informed that he should attempt to use his own financial means to arrange return to the U.K.. No relief “I had to pay £1,088 for travel from Delhi to London for myself and my three-year-old daughter. This is more than double the normal fare... we usually pay £862 for return ticket on the same sector. We are British nationals and the U.K. government should have considered some subsidy if not free repatriation,” said Neha Chauhan, a banking professional in London who took a British Airways flight from Delhi on April 21, 2020. Early this month, the U.K. government said that over 3,000 British travellers, including tourists, short-term travellers and their direct dependents, currently stranded in India could get home on an additional 12 chartered flights for which bookings opened on April 10, 2020. Travellers who could not afford the cost and had exhausted all other options for getting funds were told to contact a commercial partner for seeking loan. “You may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan to cover the cost of the ticket. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the U.K.,” the advisory said. Srikanth, an IT director in a reputed firm in Washington DC and a native of Visakhapatnam, said the fare was almost thrice compared to the normal one-way trip from Delhi to San Francisco or Mumbai to Atlanta, the sectors in which the rescue flights were operated. “Travellers were told to report to the nearest U.S. Consulate for a health check-up. This fare is much more than what is sold during peak holiday season. Many stayed back hoping that flights will resume soon after the lockdown in India,” he said. Many other countries including Australia, Japan and others operated special flights to move their nationals stranded in India. Their pricing details were not available for comparison though airport sources said that most of the rescue planes charged double since they would fly back empty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foreigners-paid-dearly-to-fly-out/article31419929.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO develops mobile virology lab||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday inaugurated through videoconference a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL). It has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), together with ESIC Hospital, Hyderabad, and the private industry. “The mobile lab will be helpful in carrying out diagnosis of COVID-19 and in virus-culturing for drug screening, convalescent plasma-derived therapy, comprehensive immune profiling of patients towards vaccine development and early clinical trials specific to Indian population,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The MVRDL is the combination of a bio-safety level (BSL)-3 lab and a BSL-2 lab and was set up in a record time of 15 days. It can process 1,000-2,000 samples a day, the statement said. The laboratories comply with the biosafety standards of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) so as to meet international guidelines. The first such MVRDL was developed by the Research Centre Imarat (RCI), Hyderabad, in consultation with ESIC Hospital. It can be positioned anywhere in the country, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-develops-mobile-virology-lab/article31419943.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Allow MGNREGS payments in foodgrains, says Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in a letter to Union Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has asked the Centre to allow payment of MGNREGS wages in the form of foodgrains. Mr. Baghel said the State was employing five lakh workers every day under the scheme. He said the livelihood of over 62.5 lakh persons was dependent on the scheme which made it essential that the work continued in this hour of crisis. The Chief Minister proposed that handing the workers foodgrains directly was better due to the lockdown and the continuing scare of the COVID-19. “Once we credit the MGNREGS wages, the worker will have to go to the banks to withdraw the money. This would not only be a bother but also could jeopardise social distancing norms.” He said Chhattisgarh did not have many bank branches and faced the problem of Internet connectivity in Naxal-affected areas. “Due to this, there are often problems like link failure and workers have to contact the branch many times to withdraw the amount,” he wrote in his letter. Social Activist Nikhil Dey from the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan said payment should continue as required by the law. “If accessibility to banks is a problem, then the government must make timely cash payments in a public place,” Mr. Dey said. Workers were paid in cash for the first five years after the scheme was launched in 2006. It was only in 2011 that the government had started bank transfers. Mr. Dey said a “food-for-work” programme should run parallel to the MGNREGS in this time of crisis. “Food-for-work is well worth thinking about, with additional days of work provided, through possibly a disaster employment guarantee scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allow-mgnregs-payments-in-foodgrains-says-baghel/article31419897.ece
24 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat records 217 new cases and nine deaths||With 217 new infections and nine deaths recorded on Thursday, Gujarat’s COVID-19 curve continues to rise in number of cases and fatalities. So far, 112 people had died and 2,624 cases detected in the State. Amid the rising number of cases and casualties, Thursday also saw the largest number of patients, 79, getting discharged, increasing the number of recoveries to 258. Now, 28 infected patients are critically ill and supported by ventilator while 2,226 are stable under treatment. The State has so far tested 42,384 samples. Ahmedabad continues to account for the bulk of cases and casualties. On Thursday, out of 217 cases, 151 came from the city alone. Seven of the nine deaths occurred in Ahmedabad. As on Thursday, Ahmedabad’s tally of total cases has jumped to 1,652 and 69 deaths, while 113 people have been discharged after they recovered. Of the 79 discharged on Thursday, 45 came from Vadodara, which has seen 53 recover out of a total of 218 cases including 11 deaths. With rise in recovery and slow transmission of new infections, the city has managed to flatten its curve. “A total of 45 persons who were COVID -19 positive and under isolation in Ebrahim Bavani ITI, Ajwa Road, have recovered. They have tested negative twice in last two days, and have been discharged,” said Vinod Rao, senior IAS officer, who has been deputed by the State government to manage the pandemic in the city. He said the administration along with the help of Baroda Muslim Doctors Association had counselled all 45 persons to be plasma donors whenever the need arises in the coming days, and all of them have agreed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-records-217-new-cases-and-nine-deaths/article31419906.ece
24 April 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records single-day high||In a record single-day surge, Maharashtra reported a staggering 778 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday as the State’s cumulative tally exceeded the 6,000-case mark to 6,427, while 14 new deaths took the death toll to 283. According to State Health officials, six of these deaths were from Mumbai city, while five more were reported from Pune, and one each from Navi Mumbai, Nandurbar and Dhule, with the latter two districts reporting their first deaths. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 167, while that of Pune district has risen to 62 with as many as 59 deaths being reported from Pune city. “More than 55% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Mumbai and Pune Alarming spikes in the number of cases were reported from both Mumbai and Pune cities, with the Maximum City reporting an all-time high jump of 522 fresh cases to surge past the 4,000 mark to touch 4,205 cases. Pune city reported 100 cases in less than 24 hours, to take its tally of cases to 853, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported six new cases to take its total to 57. The cumulative district total for Pune now stands at 910, with nearly 170 cases being reported over just two days. “In the past few days, the cases in Pune district, especially in Pune city, have soared. However, this is primarily due to the fact that we have intensified testing as well as our screening efforts. An average 700-800 tests are being carried out daily in the highly infected areas in the city. We have expanded our testing capacity to as many as 1,035 samples,” said Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram. He further said that it was especially worrying that there were more women patients and female fatalities in the city’s Bhavani Peth area — a highly infected cluster accounting for more than 200 of the 800-odd cases in Pune city. ‘Suppressing details’ “People have been suppressing details of their ailments. I appeal to them — if they have fever or are showing virus-like symptoms, they must have themselves checked at any of the 75-odd flu clinics across the city,” Mr. Ram said. He said stringent lockdown measures would be implemented in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Alongside the surge in cases, a total of 51 persons were discharged today, taking the figure of persons recovered till date in the State to 840.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-single-day-high/article31419911.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air ticket refunds from travel sites delayed||If you have booked an air ticket during the lockdown through a travel portal, you are unlikely to get a refund immediately despite a government order. Most airlines have not reimbursed money to online travel agents (OTAs) due to a severe cash crunch. Low-cost carriers IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir, AirAsia and TrueJet say booking portals deposit money in advance in the bank accounts of the airlines to be able to buy air tickets. In return for this cash deposit, airlines create a wallet online against which a portal can purchase tickets. These wallets merely give entities an indication of the balance amount they can utilise, unlike other digital wallets that allow one to carry out monetary transactions. Since the government directive, airlines have not reimbursed cash to portals such as MakeMyTrip, Yatra.com, EasyMyTrip and ixigo, but merely restored the balance in the online wallet. “When airlines reimburse an amount to this online wallet, without actually refunding cash into our bank accounts, we don’t have money with us to give refunds. Only when fresh bookings start will we be able to utilise that wallet to book tickets for our customers, and with new cash flowing in, we will be able to refund our previous clients who have sought refunds,” says Nishant Pitti, CEO & Co-Founder, EaseMyTrip.com. Mr. Pitti says their website is the only one to refund cash to their clients by digging into its earnings. He says the website has made refunds for tickets worth Rs. 50 crore. Citing industry estimates, Mr. Pitti says that tickets worth Rs. 180 crore were bought by various travel portals from different Indian airlines during the lockdown period. Full-service carriers such as Vistara and Air India have asked OTAs to share air tickets and a refund application from passengers, which is then verified and processed. As far as direct bookings with airlines during the lockdown are concerned, the likes of IndiGo and SpiceJet have conveyed to their passengers that the money has been reimbursed and it will take three weeks for the amount to reflect in their bank accounts. In response to a query, Dhruv Shringi, co-founder and CEO Yatra.com said: “We are closely working with our airline partners to work out more benign policies for the customers and trying our best to streamline the cancellation and refund process. We are processing refunds as per the policies defined by the airlines.” MakeMyTrip says on its website, “If you have a credit shell issued by IndiGo or SpiceJet for an impacted booking, you can use it to book your ticket for a future travel date.” Ixigo’s website says, “We are working with our airline partners to get their updated advisories. In the meantime, the current policies remain valid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-ticket-refunds-from-travel-sites-delayed/article31419938.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,||India following U.S. trajectory, says Chinese disease expert||India’s trajectory in COVID-19 cases is following the United States and likely to similarly reach a plateau rather than peak soon, one of China’s top infectious disease experts has said. Since there were already signs of some community transmission in India, it was more likely to follow the trend of the U.S. and Europe rather than limit cases to a low number, said Zhang Wenhong, a leading figure in China’s COVID-19 strategy, who is also director of Huashan Hospital’s Department of Infectious Disease in Shanghai. “I think the overall situation in India may be similar to that of the U.S,” he said. “The measures of each state in the U.S. are different. Some states are strict and some have resumed work. India has to consider how the economy functions and how the epidemic can be controlled, so it does not pay a high price for epidemic prevention.” Long-term strategy He said in this view, India’s approach to adopt a long-term strategy made sense, including its approach to testing. While India’s approach in tackling COVID-19 has been different from China’s sweeping lockdowns and mass quarantines, India’s strategy was understandable for its national conditions. “Every country should find a way that suits them according to their situation,” he said. He suggested China’s “100%” lockdown, or Australia’s approach of locking down until very low numbers of new cases were reached, was unlikely to be replicated in other countries, and added that he did not necessarily advocate a one-size-fits-all approach. “I personally feel that India does not need to adopt such a strategy,” he said. “I think their government would probably follow the U.S. strategy.” India may not be able to keep cases to as low a level as did many places in China — which managed to limit the spread outside of the Hubei province epicentre with mass lockdowns, quarantines and testing — but at the same time, the rise in cases did not mean the spread was uncontrollable. Work goes on “Do not look only at the number of cases,” he said. “There have been hundreds of thousands of cases in the U.S. and Europe, more than in India. The lives of Europeans still has not stopped, and they are preparing to resume work, school and business.” Dr. Zhang made the comments on Wednesday while interacting with Chinese nationals in India in an online exchange arranged by the Chinese Embassy, and fielding questions on India’s strategy, testing and the future trajectory of cases. Globally under control He believed the global pandemic was broadly under control, and as the number of diagnosed cases increased, the mortality rate would further reduce. This outbreak, he said, was very different from SARS in 2003, which had a far higher mortality among both young and old. This also explained why some countries were choosing to reopen their economies and schools. On the question of whether Indians had a higher immunity than the rest of the world — a matter that has been widely debated in China — Dr. Zhang said the incidence rate in India suggested this was not the case. He said he was, however, moved to see how “calm” people were in handling the pandemic, which suggested what they did have was a high “spiritual immunity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-following-us-trajectory-says-chinese-disease-expert/article31419923.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ex-bureaucrats flag minority harassment||A group of 101 former civil servants has written to Chief Ministers and Lieutenant-Governors of all States and Union Territories, expressing anguish over reports of harassment of Muslims in some parts of the country, particularly after the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March. Through the letter, copied to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, they have sought directions to all public functionaries to remain vigilant in preventing social boycott of any community and to ensure that all entitlements, including medical and hospital care, rations and financial assistance, are available equally to all those in need. Among the signatories are former National Security Advisor Shivshankar Menon, former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi, former Chief Economic Adviser Nitin Desai, former High Commissioner to the U.K. Nareshwar Dayal, former Foreign Secretary and National Security Advisory Board Chairman Shyam Saran, former OSD on Kashmir in the PMO A.S. Dulat and former Health Secretaries K. Sujatha Rao and Keshav Desiraju. Former Director-General of Police Julio Ribeiro, former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah and former Chief Secretary (J&K) Hindal Tyabji also endorsed the letter. “The Jamaat was criticised for ignoring the principles of social distancing when cases of COVID-19 had started emerging in the country. Although this was hardly the only incident of such gatherings, both political and religious, sections of the media hastened to give a communal colour to COVID-19, including attributing motives to the Jamaat in spreading the virus to different parts,” the group said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-bureaucrats-flag-minority-harassment/article31419924.ece
24 April 2020||MUMBAI/New Delhi,||Two held for ‘attack’ on television anchor||Two persons were arrested by the N.M. Joshi Marg police in Mumbai on Thursday after Republic TV co-founder and anchor Arnab Goswami complained that he was attacked by them while he was on his home in the early hours of the day. The police said they were informed about the incident at 1 a.m, by the police personnel deployed for the protection of Mr. Goswami. A team was sent to the Raheja Atlantis building in Worli, where Mr. Goswami stays with his wife, Samyabrata. The team took the two men into custody. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Goswami reached the police station with an application signed by him, his wife and his police guards. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered. A police officer said the accused in their 30s had been identified as Pratik Mishra and Raju Borade, residents of Pratiskha Nagar in Vikhroli. They were produced in court in the afternoon and remanded in police custody till April 25. Mr. Goswami said the duo confessed to being from the Congress. He moved the Supreme Court against registration of FIRs against him in various States for his comments against Sonia Gandhi, seeking an immediate stay on prosecution. A Bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M.R. Shah is scheduled to hear the plea on Friday.  The party denied that its workers were involved in the alleged attack. “We are very sure Congressmen have nothing to do with this. This is not our tradition, not our culture. We will not get physical against anybody even those who criticise the Congress,” party general secretary K.C. Venugopal said in an online press conference. The Maharashtra unit of the BJP called the alleged attack a cowardly act. Senior leaders of the party on Thursday urged the State government to take strict action. “The Congress goons have attacked a respectable journalist,” Kirit Somaiya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-attack-on-television-anchor/article31419900.ece
24 April 2020||Pune,||CSIR lab defends sanitisation tunnel after Ministry’s advisory||In the wake of several advisories advocating against the use of sanitisation tunnels as part of efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Pune-based CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL) and the Mumbai-based Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT) issued a joint statement on Thursday asserting that the advisories “did not have any scientific basis”. “Efficacy of sodium hypochlorite, also known as hypo or bleach, ranging from 0.02% to 0.05% weight concentration was studied on personnel walking through mist tunnel unit besides antibacterial activity against standard microorganisms before and after exposure in the walk-through,” the CSIR-NCL and ICT said in a release. “Results indicated that [sodium hypochlorite used in this weight concentration range] did not show any adverse effects on the skin. Thus, we recommend using 0.02% to 0.05 wt. % sodium hypochlorite solution (200 to 500 ppm) for external body surface sanitisation of personnel walking through the mist tunnel by following standard safety precautions,” the two scientific establishments added. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) had in a recent advisory cautioned against the spraying of disinfectant on people as part of measures to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic and had explicitly said that “disinfectants are recommended for the cleaning and disinfection only of frequently touched areas or surfaces by those suspected or confirmed to have been infected” by the virus.  The statement said that the scientific reports would be submitted to government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/csir-lab-defends-sanitisation-tunnel-after-ministrys-advisory/article31419941.ece
24 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Sarpanches want phased return of migrants||With Odisha bracing for an influx of about 7.5 lakh migrant workers, sarpanches, who will be at the vanguard of government efforts to keep the State safe from possible COVID-19 spread, are dreading the scenario of thousands returning at the same time. The registration for return of migrants will begin from April 24. Sample this: Kansara panchayat in coastal Kendrapara district has readied 70 isolation beds while more than 300 migrant workers from the panchayat have already informed their family members about their return. In Bhatigaon panchayat under Bargarh district, an isolation centre with 20 beds is ready. However, 60 people from the area who are stranded outside are desperate to return. Similarly, the Gorakhunta gram panchayat in Malkangiri district has 50 beds whereas 160 people from the area are slated to return. In all likelihood, returnees will outnumber COVID-19 isolation beds at the panchayat level. At present, 2 lakh beds have been kept ready in 6,798 panchayats of the State. The government plans to increase the capacity to 5 lakh. “Around 7.5 lakh Odia migrants are stranded in other States. They are desperate to return home. The government concerned about their well-being,” said D.K. Singh, Odisha’s Panchayati Raj Department Secretary. “The government had announced to provide Rs. 5 lakh to each panchayat for tackling COVID-19. We have not received a penny,” claimed Pradyumna Kumar Jena, Kansara sarpanch. Although the government has appointed gram panchayat nodal officers who will be responsible for fixing the timing of return of migrants, sarpanches said full-fledged control rooms are required to keep tabs on the movement of people. The sarpanches have demanded that the government devise some mechanism so that migrants’ return could be phased out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sarpanches-want-phased-return-of-migrants/article31420163.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three Army personnel test positive in Gujarat||Three Army personnel tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Gujarat’s Vadodara, Army sources said on Thursday. As per the initial investigation, an ATM looks to be the source of the infection as they all had withdrawn money from it on the same day, the sources said. The necessary medical protocols were initiated and close contacts have been quarantined, the sources added. So far, there have been nine positive COVID-19 cases in the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-army-personnel-test-positive-in-gujarat/article31419921.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar thanks Saudi, Omani Ministers||India on Thursday thanked Saudi Arabia for looking after the expat Indian community as the world continued to struggle with the COVID-19 pandemic. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar spoke with his Saudi Arabia and Oman counterparts as the Gulf region began observing the holy month of Ramadan. “Appreciated the very warm conversation with His Highness Prince Faisal, Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia. Thanked him for taking care of the Indian community there. Discussed our shared interests in ensuring health and food security. India will remain a reliable partner,” he said in a social media message after the conversation. It is understood that Delhi has also assured Riyadh that the pandemic will not affect India’s supply of high quality Basmati rice to the monarchy. The conversation shows that officials continued to stay in touch even as people-to-people ties were strained after notable Arab commentators took to social media over the past few days to highlight incidents of Islamophobia in India. In this context, a source pointed to a tweet sent from a fake Omani account and described it as an “attempt to distort the special relation that India shares with the regional countries”. Dr. Jaishankar also thanked Foreign Minister Yusuf Alawi of Oman for “taking care” of the Indian community. Saudi Arabia has witnessed a surge in the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks with reports suggesting that a bulk of the affected patients could be Indian blue collar workers. According to available information, the majority of Indians abroad affected by the virus are located in the Gulf region with Saudi Arabia accounting for 186 and Oman for 238. Seeking repatriation Additionally, a large number of Indians in Saudi Arabia have been urging New Delhi to evacuate them. On Thursday, around 100 of them wrote a joint letter to Dr. Jaishankar seeking evacuation. The Hindu was told that the Indian missions are in contact with expat Indians in the region. One source indicated that they are aware of cases where Indians employed with local Gulf companies are eager to return as the employers have shut down because of the economic downturn. The expats have been in contact with the authorities through the COVID-19 cell of the Ministry of External Affairs which has been the coordinating body of the international operations. Sources said the cell has received 3,000 phone calls and 25,000 emails till Thursday from expat Indians and their relatives.  Discussed our shared interests in ensuring health and food security S. Jaishankar External Affairs Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-thanks-saudi-omani-ministers/article31419940.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Plan ahead for train services for migrants’||While the State was providing them food and health services, the labourers were without jobs and eagerly waiting to go home. “All these informal labourers are now jobless and eagerly waiting to go to their respective States. The incidents at Bandra Railway station gathering happened in Mumbai and is an example of restlessness of such labourers. In near future or maybe on May 3, 2020, or any other later date as decided by the Government of India, the lockdown would be withdrawn and public transport including railway would be starting and there will be a huge rush of all these migrated labourers at all railway stations,” Mr Pawar warned. Thousands of migrant labourers had gathered outside the Bandra station on April 14 — which marked the end of the first phase of lockdown — hoping to return home. With the extension of the lockdown and absence of trains, the police had to resort to a lathi charge to disperse the desperate people, resulting in several injures and arrests. It was alleged the crowd had gathered following rumours long-distance trains had started functioning even as politicians in the State criticised Centre’s lack of planning. Several Cabinet ministers from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had blamed the Centre for the incident. “The current situation at Bandra Station, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the Union Government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home for migrant labour. They do not want food or shelter; they want to go back home,” Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plan-ahead-for-train-services-for-migrants/article31419891.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||DA for Central staff frozen till July 2021||“The additional instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief due from July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, shall also not be paid. However, Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief at current rates will continue to be paid,” it said. As and when the decision to release the future instalment of DA and DR due from July 1, 2021, is taken by the government, the rates of DA and DR, as effective from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021, will be restored prospectively. They will be subsumed in the cumulative revised rate effective from July 1, 2021. However, no arrears for the period from January 1, 2020, till June 30, 2021, will be paid, according to the Department of Expenditure’s order. The combined savings on account of freezing of three instalments of DA and DR would be Rs. 37,530 crore in 2020-21 and 2021-22, an official said. The decision had been taken considering that there was a major increase in the expenditure on health as well as on welfare measures for various affected sections of society, including the poor and vulnerable. The State usually follow the Central orders on DA and DR. The Centre estimates that the saving on freezing of three instalments of State government employees and pensioners will be Rs. 82,566 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/da-for-central-staff-frozen-till-july-2021/article31419886.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India ensured linear growth of cases: govt.||“One crucial weapon we employed during the 30-day lockdown period is RT-PCR testing which has been scaled up. While on March 23 we had did 14,915 tests by April 23 we have now done more than 5 lakh tests,” said Mr. Mishra, who is coordinating availability of hospitals, isolation/quarantine facilities, disease surveillance/testing. Mr. Mishra added that during the 30 days of lockdown, India has been able to cut transmission, minimise spread and increase the doubling time of COVID-19. “We have been consistently ramping up our testing and utilising our time to prepare for the future,” he said. India currently has 19,4026 isolation beds for severe and critical cases, 24,644 ICU beds in 3773 facilities and 1,66,960 isolation beds in care centre with 12,371 ventilators, according to the Health Ministry. Urged to report Encouraging people to report any early symptoms of COVID-19 All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr. Randeep Guleria said, “Due to the stigma we have attached to COVID-19, patients are not coming forward or they are coming very late when they have severe breathlessness issues, thereby increasing morbidity and mortality.” He added that as per the patient profile, the critical thing is oxygen and hospital preparation is focused on ensuring oxygen support to those who need it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-ensured-linear-growth-of-cases-govt/article31419885.ece
24 April 2020||Mumbai,||Two Palghar accused are from BJP: Congress||The Maharashtra Congress on Thursday alleged that two of the accused in Palghar lynching — in which two sadhus and their driver were killed — are BJP office-bearers and the party wants to turn it into a communal issue using the media houses which serve its interests. “The list of booth office-bearers in Gadchinchale village was announced on the official Facebook profile of BJP Dahanu Mandal. The first two office-bearers, Ishwar Nikole and Bhau Sathe, are the 61st and 65th accused in the list of criminals accused of leading and participating in Palghar mob lynching,” said Maharashtra Congress Committee spokesperson Sachin Sawant at a press conference. He alleged that apart from that, the names of many other BJP members are in the list of those accused for killing the sadhus. “The government will take stern action against all these office-bearers for the heinous murder of sadhus, but wonder why the BJP has not taken action against them yet,” Mr. Sawant said. “After the Palghar incident, Union Home Minister Amit Shah called Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray but the BJP has not done anything to pass a law against mob lynching in the last two years despite a number of incidents in different States. In one of the lynching cases, the accused in some of the cases were later felicitated by the BJP ministers,” said Mr. Sawant. “In July 2018, the Supreme Court condemned mob lynching and directed the Central government to enact legislation against this heinous act. In addition, 11 guidelines were issued but the Centre did not take any action on them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-palghar-accused-are-from-bjp-congress/article31419882.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Clause allowing FIR for COVID-19 cases goes||Replying to a query, Principal Economic Adviser Sanjeev Sanyal told members of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry via a video-conference call on Wednesday that this was a classic example of a junior officer somewhere in the system issuing something without thinking and it becomes law. “This is a very good example of where an industry association comes back [and says] this is a problem and this makes no sense...” he had said, adding, this was what happened when the system was overloaded. “...All these things will happen, but we in the government are open to feedback. We will resolve it. It obviously makes no sense… you are businessmen and not doctors...you can’t track every single worker… it makes no sense at all for having this kind of draconian note going out.” Another industry body CII had reached out to the government stating that it would not be correct to hold employers culpable, as the infection could spread even through asymptomatic carriers. It, however, suggested randomised inspections. Meanwhile, the Home Ministry took to Twitter to clarify the guidelines issued by it. A Ministry spokesperson said that penalties under Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be applicable if the offence occurred with the consent and cognisance or due to the negligence of the employer. However, Mr. Javadekar tweeted: “Govt. has not issued any directive that if any Coronavirus case is detected in the factory, there will be FIR against the factory. This is a rumor and absolutely false.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clause-allowing-fir-for-covid-19-cases-goes/article31419884.ece
24 April 2020||Mumbai,||Plan ahead for train services for migrant workers: Maharashtra||With just about 10 days to go for the lockdown to end on May 3, Maharashtra urged the Union government to plan and resume railway services for several lakh migrant labourers who want to return home. In a letter to Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal on Thursday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar warned of a possible repeat of the violent incidents at the Bandra railway station on April 14, when thousands of migrant labourers who had gathered hoping to return home had to be turned back. He appealed for advance planning for resuming train services to facilitate the return of nearly 6.5 lakh labourers. The special trains could originate from Mumbai and Pune to all major destinations in the country, he said, “to accommodate all such restless labourers”. Warning of potential law and order problems, Mr. Pawar said Maharashtra has the highest number of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other northern States. While the State was providing them food and health services, the labourers were without jobs and eagerly waiting to go home. “All these informal labourers are now jobless and eagerly waiting to go to their respective States. The incidents at Bandra Railway station gathering happened in Mumbai and is an example of restlessness of such labourers. In near future or maybe on May 3, 2020, or any other later date as decided by the Government of India, the lockdown would be withdrawn and public transport including railway would be starting and there will be a huge rush of all these migrated labourers at all railway stations,” Mr Pawar warned. Several Cabinet ministers from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had blamed the Centre for the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plan-ahead-for-train-services-for-migrant-workers/article31420017.ece
24 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi cases cross 200||COVID-19 positive cases in Mumbai’s Dharavi crossed the 200 mark after it reported 25 new cases on Thursday, bringing the total to 214. It also reported its 13th death, a 69 year-old man from Shastri Nagar. Of the 25 new cases, most are from areas already part of containment zones, including Mukund Nagar, Kalyanwadi, labour camp and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar. Besides, cases were reported from newer parts of Dharavi, including Sant Kakaiya Marg, Chamda Bazar and Netaji Society. On Wednesday, a Central team had advised the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to increase the number of quarantine beds at least up to 5,000 considering a peak in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-cases-cross-200/article31419901.ece
24 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha reports 6 new cases, tally rises to 89||Odisha on Thursday reported six new COVID-19 cases, four in Jajpur district and two in Balasore, taking the total to 89. The four persons from Jajpur who had tested positive were family members of those who had returned from West Bengal and tested positive earlier, while the two cases reported from Balasore were contacts of a COVID-19 case detected earlier, the State government said. While contact tracing of the six patients was initiated immediately, the State government deputed three of its senior officials to oversee the containment measures in Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur. These three districts have reported as many as 33 cases till Thursday and a majority of them include those who had recently returned from the neighbouring State, their family members and close contacts. Legal action The State government ordered a 60-hour-long complete lockdown in the three districts, starting from 10 p.m. on Thursday, to contain the spread of the virus. Legal action would be taken against those violating the shutdown, the government said. The capital city of Bhubaneswar, which comes under Khordha district, has recorded the highest number of cases in the State so far (46). As on Thursday, 10 of the State’s 30 districts had recorded COVID-19 cases. Of the total 89 cases, as many as 33 had been discharged from hospitals after treatment by Thursday. While one patient had died earlier, 55 persons are under treatment at different exclusive COVID-19 hospitals. More testing Meanwhile, the State government’s high level inter-ministerial committee on the pandemic decided to increase testing to 3,000 samples per day by the end of this month. A total of 15,984 samples had been tested in the State till midnight on Wednesday. The meeting, held via videoconferencing, also discussed the implementation of a special plan that had been drawn up to deal with the emerging situation in the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-reports-6-new-cases-tally-rises-to-89/article31419907.ece
24 April 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata, Dhankar lock horns over virus fight||At a time when West Bengal is battling the spread of COVID-19, relations between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar reached a new nadir on Thursday, with Ms. Banerjee writing to him stating that the “Governor seems to have forgotten that he is a nominated representative and she an elected Chief Minister”. “You appear to have forgotten that I am an elected Chief Minister of a proud Indian State. You also seem to have forgotten that you are a nominated Governor,” Ms. Banerjee wrote in the five-page letter. Minutes after receiving the letter, Mr. Dhankhar took to Twitter to call it “outrageous, factually wrong and constitutionally infirm”. The public spat comes after differences between the two increased over issues pertaining to the pandemic. The Chief Minister quoted B.R. Ambedkar’s remarks in the Constituent Assembly and the recommendations of the Sarkaria Commission. In view of these comments, she said, “Your repeated and consistent interference in the administration... makes it clear who has fragrantly transgressed constitutional dharma.” She also blamed him for holding press conferences against the State. The Chief Minister, while making the letter public, said: “The people of this State and of this nation judge themselves who has done what and who is in breach of elementary norms of constitutional behaviour.” On Thursday, the Governor urged the Chief Minister to “ensure a seamless way forward for the Central teams”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-dhankar-lock-horns-over-virus-fight/article31419909.ece
24 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Rae Bareli doctors have untold stories of quarantine||A group of government doctors and medical staff in Rae Bareli, Uttar Pradesh, have released videos highlighting the poor and unpleasant living facilities provided to them at a government-run school, where they were lodged under “active quarantine”. After the “expose”, the chief medical officer of the district shifted the 25 doctors and paramedical staff to a guest house, providing them en suite single rooms. Till Wednesday evening, Rae Bareli had reported 43 COVID-19 cases, all of them active. In a series of short videos, the doctors and paramedical staff of the L1 facility (community health centre), showed the poor conditions they were made to live in. In a video, a man, identifying himself as a medical officer, described the team’s sleeping space, with four beds in a room thus: “It is 3 a.m. The electricity is gone. Fans are not working. This is awesome five-star class facility.” He then walks towards the shared toilet area, which has a dirty and stained floor, and shows the toilets, some of which are blocked and dirty. ‘Food not packed’ In another video, a voice describes the food available. Oily puris and sabzi are sealed together in a cloth bag without proper packing. “This is the food for active quarantine for doctors and all staff who are treating coronavirus patients,” it said. In the third video, a person in full PPE kit explained how the members lived in conditions that went against active quarantine norms. Not only did they have to share bathrooms and toilets, they were boarded in big classrooms with four beds in each. “Totally wrong for active quarantine,” he said. There was no light on the premises a day earlier; even the food came late. They were also made to share a single water can of 20 litres, he added. A mobile toilet was installed outside when they complained but they had no bathrooms. S.K Sharma, Chief Medical Officer, said, “We have shifted everyone to a guest house nearby. We are also arranging for a live kitchen there, so the doctors can get hot cooked food. The facilities [at the L1 centre] were arranged by the local administration. I was myself not satisfied with it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-rae-bareli-doctors-have-untold-stories-of-quarantine/article31420015.ece
24 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Kamakhya temple festival called off||With the lockdown, the annual festival at the Kamakhya temple here has been cancelled for the first time in its recorded history. Legends say the temple atop the Nilachal Hills, whose northern face slopes down to the Brahmaputra river, was built by the demon king Narakasura. Records are available only from 1565 when Koch King Naranarayana had the temple rebuilt. Kamakhya is one of the 51 shaktipeeths, or holy sites, for the followers of the Shakti cult, each representing a body part of Sati, Lord Shiva’s companion. The temple’s sanctum sanctorum houses the yoni — female genitals — symbolised by a rock. The festival marks the menstruation of the goddess “Tough times call for tough decisions. With a heavy heart, we have decided not to organise the annual Ambubachi Mela in view of the possibility of the spread of COVID-19 infection,” Kabindra Sarma, a senior temple priest said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kamakhya-temple-festival-called-off/article31419944.ece
24 April 2020||BHOPAL,||34 policemen test positive||So far, 34 police personnel, including some officers, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Bhopal, a top official said on Thursday. The official claimed that as per the findings, the initial infections in the city’s police force were caused when the personnel went out in search of those who had returned to the State capital after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin held last month. “With a policeman in our cybercell testing positive on Thursday, 34 of our personnel, including officers, have been infected so far,” Bhopal Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Upendra Jain, said. Around 30 of their family members had also contracted the infection, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/34-policemen-test-positive/article31419902.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||An obedient son||When Rama is exiled to the forest, Kausalya is inconsolable. She tries to dissuade Rama from leaving, but her pleas and tears are of no avail. Rama is determined to obey His father. But having left for the forest, Rama is anxious about His mother’s welfare, and says even the parrot she has reared is better than her son Rama. “The parrot gives warning cries, and is ready to bite anyone who it sees as an enemy. Of what use is this son of hers, who cannot comfort her or wipe away her tears?” laments Rama. Rama, therefore, had this feeling that He had not been a consolation to His mother. In order to compensate for this, when He took the Krishna avatara, He was an obedient son to Devaki, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. When He was born to Devaki, Krishna reminded her that He had been her son in her two previous births. This was in accordance with a boon He had granted her. She had asked the Lord that she should have a son like Him. There cannot be another like Him. He is alone, unique. Ekameva adviteeyam, says the Upanishad, indicating that there is none His equal or superior. Since the prayer was for a son like the Lord, there was no option for Him but to be born as the desired child. So, in two births, He had already fulfilled His promise. Now in the third birth, He had appeared as Krishna. Devaki, however, dreaded Kamsa. When she saw Krishna with four hands, she begged Him to conceal two of them. From then, until the slaying of Kamsa, the Lord showed only two of his hands. Only after the killing of Kamsa did He show His other two hands also. Thus, while Rama could not obey His mother Kausalya, Krishna did what His mother wanted, right from His birth. Thus, the regret He had as Rama was wiped off when He came as Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-obedient-son/article31419931.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea against govt. circular on meat eating||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday challenging the government’s March 2020 circular, allaying fears about the consumption of non-vegetarian food amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition, filed by Vishwa Jain Sangathan, said the circular “promoting the eating of meat” was issued by the Animal Husbandry Ministry under pressure from the “butchers’ lobby”. It said the Ministry did not wait to hear from researchers on whether COVID-19 was transmitted from animals to humans. “The circular advising people to eat meat in the midst of the spread of this deadly virus is premature. It was issued when biologists all over world were still searching for the source and its interface with animals,” the petition said. It said the eating habits of “some people” had jeopardised humanity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-govt-circular-on-meat-eating/article31419887.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Violence not the answer: Press Council||The Press Council has said it is distressed by the ‘attack’ on Republic TV anchor Arnab Goswami, and stressed that violence was not the answer to even bad journalism. The Council, in a brief statement, said every citizen including a journalist had the right to express their opinion which may not be palatable to many but this does not give anybody the authority to strangulate such voice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-not-the-answer-press-council/article31419895.ece
24 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Six-month-old dies of virus in Punjab||A six-month-old girl from Kapurthala, who was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for corrective heart surgery and tested positive for COVID-19, died on Thursday taking the toll to 17 in Punjab, according to an official statement. The State also reported 26 fresh cases — 18 from Patiala, six from Jalandhar and two from Amritsar — taking the count to 283. The Health Department said 66 patients had so far recovered. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh told Congress party president Sonia Gandhi during a videoconference that he had ordered a detailed audit of every virus-related death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate in the State. He informed the party leadership that the State was being guided by a group of experts. “The mortality numbers are high largely due to co-morbidity and lack of health-seeking behaviour,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-month-old-dies-of-virus-in-punjab/article31419920.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Australia pitches for trilateral ties||India and Australia would face common challenges in the Indo-Pacific as COVID-19 was stretching much of the world’s governmental capacity, Barry O’Farrell, Australian High Commissioner-designate, said in an address to the National Defence College (NDC) through videoconference. He called for greater cooperation, especially among India, Australia and Indonesia. Cooperation between India and Australia in southeast Asia was a natural fit. “As a starting point, we should build on last year’s successful trilateral maritime security workshop with Indonesia to identify new ways that our three countries can collaborate to be the best possible custodians of the Indian Ocean,” he said. In a separate development, the Australian High Commission, in coordination with the MEA, gave a ride to India’s Ambassador to Indonesia Pradeep Rawat and his family in one of the repatriation flights to Australia that had a stopover at Denpasar in Indonesia, official sources said. Diplomatic sources said: “Australia was very happy and keen to help two of our strongest Indo-Pacific partners, India and Indonesia, in this matter. The trilateral cooperation had been growing and would continue to be important as we considered the implications of COVID-19 for Indo-Pacific regional order.” Mr. O’Farrell said COVID-19 would not necessarily change the nature of threats but would hasten the pace at which they were developing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-pitches-for-trilateral-ties/article31419925.ece
24 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Three held for transporting people||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly transporting 76 people, including women and children, to Uttar Pradesh. Acting on a tip-off, a Farrukhnagar police team flagged down a truck coming from Ludhiana at Gurugram-Jhajjar border on Wednesday. The truck driver and his two helpers got down from the vehicle and fled the spot. However, they were later arrested. The police found 76 people sitting inside the truck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-for-transporting-people/article31420162.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Curbs eased on supply chain of essentials, building work in villages||Three days after it announced that there would be no relaxation from the COVID-19 lockdown for any industry, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday decided to exempt certain activities in non-containment areas of the State and allow some services. While construction activity in rural areas and MGNREGS work will be allowed, activities in the supply chain of essentials — manufacturing, wholesale and retail of such goods — have been exempted. A senior official told The Hindu that more relaxations were likely to follow the two G.O.s issued on Thursday. Asked why the government took the decision three days after it chose to retain the restrictions, the official said that the prevailing situation then was such that it was felt that there was no necessity to offer any relaxation. “But the 21-member expert panel has been continuously monitoring the situation, and as and when it is required to allow relaxations, the panel is giving recommendations,” he said. When asked whether more relaxations would follow, he replied in the affirmative but refused to divulge details. In a G.O., Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said: “All facilities in the supply chain of essential goods, whether manufacturing, wholesale or retail of such goods through local stores, large brick and mortar stores or e-commerce companies, including food processing units such as bread factories, milk processing plants, flour mills, dal mills, etc., located in urban areas” were exempted from lockdown restrictions. Facilities for export/import, such as packhouses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture produce and research establishments dealing with agriculture and horticulture activities were also exempted from the lockdown restrictions, through a G.O. dated March 25. Subject to conditions Construction projects in rural areas, including irrigation, desilting of tanks and channels, ongoing works with regard to dam safety, buildings (including construction and maintenance of medical colleges and hospitals), roads and bridges, water supply and sanitation, brick kilns, hardware material supply on-call basis, electricity-related works (generation, transmission and distribution) could be allowed, subject to certain conditions. MNREGA works, especially those related to irrigation and water conservation in rural areas, excluding containment zones and red blocks listed (see table, which would be updated by from time-to-time by the Health and Family Welfare Department) could be allowed, but after ensuring safety norms. However, not more than one-third of the required number of labourers should be mobilised and strict physical distancing guidelines should be followed. Besides, State/Central government offices for the maintenance of essential services could function with attendance not exceeding 33% of the total staff. The decision of the State government was based on recommendations of the Commissioner of Revenue Administration. Before allowing these select additional activities, the district administration shall ensure that all preparatory arrangements with regard to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for physical distancing in offices, workplaces, factories and establishments, as also other sectoral requirements, are in place. The government also allowed the operation of homes for children/ disabled/ mentally-challenged/senior citizens/destitutes/women/widows, bedside attendants and care-givers of senior citizens residing in their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-eased-on-supply-chain-of-essentials-building-work-in-villages/article31420103.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Key junctions on Anna Salai closed||A major stretch of the arterial Anna Salai in Chennai was closed for traffic on Thursday. The decision to seal key junctions on Anna Salai by placing barricades was taken after the number of vehicles entering the road increased in the last two days. Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, A. Arun told The Hindu , “We effected diversions on Anna Salai as there was higher traffic movement. In the lockdown period, people are not supposed to venture out on roads. Only the essential services and people who have movement passes can move on the roads. We saw a lot of unnecessary movements and so we decided to control those movements. We are not completely closing the road but giving an alternate way to reach their destination. The new measure will be in place daily until the end of the lockdown period.” Mr. Arun said, “Our main focus so far is only Anna Salai. We are going to assess the situation in other areas as well for effecting similar arrangement.” Ever since the city police promulgated prohibitory orders restricting movement of people and prohibiting unlawful assembly, traffic police personnel along with law and order police personnel installed iron barricades at several points to check vehicles and allowed only pass holders, who were providing essential services. From noon on Thursday, the long stretch of Anna Salai was closed, including Little Mount Junction, Nandanam Signal, Teynampet Signal, Vijayaragava road junction, Anna Flyover and Spencer’s Plaza. No vehicle was allowed to enter into the road and police personnel refused to remove the barricades for entry of pass holders as well. Along many stretches, even motorists who had relevant passes were not allowed and had to take a detour. A motorist who tried to reach Anna Salai from T.Nagar said the road leading to Spencer’s Plaza was blocked. “I had to go around under the flyover and on instruction from a policeman posted there I took a detour via Catheral Road, Music Academy and General Paterson Road in Royappettah. At the GP Road-Anna Salai junction, I was denied entry by police.” Caught unawares “The sudden diversion led to confusion and we had to take detours to reach our destination. At many junctions, motorists were stranded and gathered in large numbers requesting police personnel to allow them through,” another motorist from Velachery said. Police officials said only ambulances and essential service vehicles were allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/key-junctions-on-anna-salai-closed/article31420077.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free food at Amma Canteens||Amma canteens in the city have started serving free food. Nearly five lakh residents are expected to get food in the 407 Amma Canteens every day. Chennai Corporation has issued orders permitting self-help groups to accept funding from non-governmental organisations which have offered to donate food and relief material. “We will continue to serve free food in all Amma canteens until further orders,” said an official of the Corporation. The facility was likely to be continued even after the lockdown as a number of poor people might need support, officials said. The women SHG members have been asked to submit records of sale of food in their Amma canteens to the NGOs who will pay the money to the Corporation. Actor donates Rs. 50 lakh Actor Raghava Lawrence has donated Rs. 50 lakh for providing food in Amma Canteens, the officials said. “We are using the money for providing food in Amma canteens,” said an official. As of now, three NGOs had contributed towards free food. Many MLAs had been funding Amma canteens, the officials said. Minister for Fisheries D. Jayakumar had sponsored food in two Amma canteens in Tondiarpet zone and 22 Amma canteens in Royapuram zone. Another political functionary sponsored food in 11 Amma Canteens in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar zone. Former Mayor Saidai Duraisamy has funded food in five Amma canteens, according to a civic official.  Many prefer chapati “The Corporation has stopped chapati for dinner. They have asked us to provide rice varieties. But most visitors demand chapati for dinner. Many senior citizens, who are diabetic, request chapati. So the footfall has dropped in the evening in Amma Canteens,” said a worker in one of the canteens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-food-at-amma-canteens/article31420072.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Evolving epidemic’ throws up challenges for health officials||COVID-19 is an “evolving epidemic” and it has started posing a few challenges to public health officials, bringing in the need for detailed investigation. If persons testing positive for COVID-19 after the incubation period is one challenge, understanding the transmission dynamics is another, they said. According to the World Health Organisation, most estimates of the incubation period — the time between catching the virus and one begins to have symptoms of the disease — range from one to 14 days. When a few States had a quarantine period of 14 days, Tamil Nadu doubled the number of days, fixing it at 28. In one way, this has proved right, as a few persons have tested positive even after 20 days, said officials. There were a few cases in Tamil Nadu in which persons tested positive after the estimated incubation period of 14 days, said officials. “We have had a few such cases. For instance, patients have tested positive on the 16th and 20th day. This is why Tamil Nadu had decided to have a double quarantine period of 28 days, right from the start. We are now taking up detailed investigations of such cases,” an official said. Official sources said that persons testing positive at a later point were posing a puzzle. There were similar occurrences in Kerala too. “It is challenging, but COVID-19 is an evolving epidemic,” another official said. Transmission dynamics Transmission dynamics is another challenge. Health officials said that some persons who had attended the conference in Delhi tested negative for COVID-19, while their family members tested positive for the virus. In such instances, those testing negative too were put under isolation. “We need to understand transmission dynamics during the asymptomatic period. Who is testing negative is important, and whether the person is capable of transmitting the virus should be looked at,” he added. Age is also a factor, said officials. “The individual’s immunity response too plays a role,” an official said. Officials cited these as the reason why they continue insisting on strict adherence to home quarantine norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evolving-epidemic-throws-up-challenges-for-health-officials/article31420107.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ready to pitch in with plasma, say discharged patients||Following their discharge from hospitals, a number of persons who have recovered from COVID-19 have volunteered to donate plasma to help other patients in need. Among these volunteers is 37-year-old M.A. Mohammed Usman Ali, a resident of Theni. He is currently under home quarantine, nearly a month after returning from New Delhi, where he had attended a conference conducted by Tablighi Jamaat. He was discharged from the Government Theni Medical College Hospital on April 15, after being hospitalised for 16 days for treatment of the disease. “I heard about plasma therapy from a few doctors. They said that those who recover from COVID-19 will develop antibodies. We [patients who have recovered] are discharged after testing negative for COVID-19 twice. I am ready to donate plasma if asked to do so. We are ready to support the government in this [endeavour]. It is important to help people,” he said. A volunteer said that some patients had, during telephonic counselling sessions to allay fears about COVID-19, expressed their willingness to donate plasma. The State is taking up trials of convalescent plasma therapy for critically-ill patients, which involves the collection and transfusion of plasma from persons who have recovered from the disease. M. Mohammed Abbas, 38, who had returned from the Delhi conference on March 25, said he was hospitalised at the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital and discharged on April 20. “The hospital dean and the Sub-Collector spoke to us about the trials for plasma therapy. I am definitely ready to donate blood if it will benefit another patient. Many who were discharged along with me have also expressed their willingness to do the same,” he said. Authorities of a government hospital in Chennai said that they had informed discharged patients about the plasma therapy. “We informed them that we would contact them later. They can donate plasma for other patients if they are willing to do so,” a senior doctor said. As of April 22, 662 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-to-pitch-in-with-plasma-say-discharged-patients/article31420111.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrialists list lockdown woes||Leading industrialists in Tamil Nadu on Thursday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to relax restrictions to facilitate exports and allied activities during the COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Palaniswami, who held a meeting via video-conference with captains of industry to examine the feasibility of allowing various sectors to function during the lockdown, gave an assurance that he would consider their requests. “Since some of them [companies] were in the middle of [transacting] export orders, they sought certain relaxations [of restrictions] so that business could be maintained with international clients,” an official told The Hindu.  Hari Thiagarajan, chairman, CII, T.N. State Council, said that he had sought priority for export-oriented units and industries in rural areas, without compromising on safety. Raising the issues faced by the cement industry, N. Srinivasan, vice-chairman, India Cements, told the CM that trucks were stuck midway and the drivers had left.    The government heard their views and gave an assurance that it will examine their suggestions, but did not give any timeframe for implementing them, the sources added. Aqeel Ahmed Panaruna, chairman, Council for Leather Exports, said, “We are extremely satisfied with our meeting.” TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan and Tube Investments managing director S. Vellayan were among the participants of Thursday’s meeting, which was also attended by Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Finance Secretary S. Krishnan, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam and other senior officials. On Friday, representatives of the Apparel Export Promotion Council, the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries’ Association, the Federation of Indian Export Organisations and a few export associations from Tiruppur will participate in a similar discussion. The 21-member expert committee constituted by the government is scheduled to meet on Friday.  (With inputs from Sanjay Vijayakumar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialists-list-lockdown-woes/article31420108.ece
24 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to direct banks to suspend EMIs||The Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed as withdrawn a public interest litigation petition filed by a lawyer seeking a direction to the Union Finance Ministry and Reserve Bank of India to instruct banks and other financial institutions to extend the moratorium for repayment of all kinds of loans till July 31 and not to levy interest on delayed payments. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar refused to entertain the petition after Chevanan Mohan, counsel for RBI, told the court that it was for the Centre and the apex bank to take a call on issues having financial implications and not for courts to issue directions. Multiple prayers He also said the litigant had sought multiple prayers which were beyond judicial scrutiny. In his petition, the litigant B. Ramkumar Adityan had also insisted upon suspending Electronic Clearance Services (ECS), for collecting Equated Monthly Instalments (EMIs), till July 31. He further wanted repayment of the cheque dishonour charges or ECS non-clearance charges and other charges, if any, levied by the banks for default after March 1. The Division Bench also dismissed on merits yet another petition filed by the same lawyer with a plea to open temporary markets in schools, colleges and community halls to decongest regular markets and to issue coloured passes, depending upon age group, to the people for stepping out of their houses on different days of the week for purchasing essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-direct-banks-to-suspend-emis/article31420089.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those without ration cards can also purchase grocery kits, govt tells HC||The Registrar of Cooperative Societies on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that a Rs. 500 grocery kit being sold by the State government, during the ongoing lockdown, can be purchased even by those who do not have ration cards and that the kits will be available in other outlets too apart from all ration shops. In a counter affidavit filed before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar, Registrar G. Govindaraj said the kit, containing 19 items of consumables, was basically intended to help the poor and the middle class people who were affected by the increased prices of essential commodities during the lockdown. The Cooperative department had come up with the idea of selling the kits to mitigate the grievances of a particular section of people and hence it was decided to sell those kits through ration shops. “Now, the grocery kits will also be made available for sale at self-service units, retail outlets, Amma mini cooperative supermarkets and mobile farm fresh outlets,” he added. The counter was filed in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam seeking a direction to the government to ensure door delivery of the grocery kits to avoid crowd in the outlets. However, the Registrar did not commit whether it would be possible to ensure door delivery of the kits. He said, “The sales personnel in ration shops are engaged in issuing COVID-19 relief package of Rs. 1,000 and essential commodities to all cardholders. They are continuing to work in this extraordinary situation. They have been stepping out of their homes and serving the people to avoid hunger and to ensure availability of food items during the lockdown period.” With this submission, the Registrar urged the High Court to dismiss the PIL petition as devoid of merits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-without-ration-cards-can-also-purchase-grocery-kits-govt-tells-hc/article31420095.ece
24 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fourth dedicated shelter for workers from Northeast opened in south Chennai||For students, workers and daily wage labourers from the Northeastern States who have been stranded in the city due to the ongoing lockdown, a fourth dedicated relief centre has been opened in the Chennai South Region. Officials from the Chennai South region have been closely working with the North East India Welfare Association in identifying and ensuring that those from the northeast who are stranded in the city are safe. “Many persons who were employed at salons, spas and restaurants in the city haven’t been working since the lockdown and have run out of money. There are some students too who are in the city to study and patients who have come to the city for medical treatment,” said Tluanga Colney, general secretary of the association. Mr. Colney said that in anticipation of these workers and labourers running out of money and provisions, the association had reached out to community leaders in the city and asked them to identify persons who needed assistance. “The Greater Chennai Corporation has accommodated over 150 persons across three dedicated shelters and have also been arranging transport to help people reach the shelters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-dedicated-shelter-for-workers-from-northeast-opened-in-south-chennai/article31420074.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An app for home delivery of fish||Now, you can buy fresh fish in Chennai through the Meengal mobile application, launched by the Fisheries Department to facilitate home delivery of both marine and freshwater fish. “The app has been linked to four of our stores in Anna Nagar, Virugambakkam, Teynampet and Santhome and people within a 5-km radius of these outlets of the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation (TNFDC) can place orders. Deliveries are being done between 9.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. for now during the lockdown. It takes us a maximum of an hour from the time of order for delivery," explained an official. The TNFDC is placing orders from Pulicat for cultured prawns, fresh water fish varieties from reservoirs and marine fish from Ramanathapuram area. For now around 1,500 kg of fish is being sold in the city via TNFDC outlets and online orders. Consumers can also order fish on their revamped sitewww.meengal.com. Soon, they plan to introduce fish pickles and after the fishing ban is lifted ready-to-eat fish dishes and dry fish too would be available for sale, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-app-for-home-delivery-of-fish/article31420078.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law College starts online classes||The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law College has introduced online lessons for five-year and two-year law degree students. Officials said the administration transited to virtual instruction for both P.G. and U.G. students as the lockdown came in the middle of the semester. The university has around 1,500 students and a month’s classes have not been held due to the lockdown. They said a fortnight ago they announced the launch of online classes. “Students were provided the lectures provided via applications like Google classroom and other virtual learning platforms. Around 400 students have registered under each professor,” an official informed. “It has received good reception. Our professors have been uploading study materials ,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-college-starts-online-classes/article31420085.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Some leeway granted||The State government has issued a G.O. identifying 10 industries as continuous process industries. These include refineries, large steel plants including TMT bar manufacturers, large cement plants, continuous process chemical industries, including paints, sugar mills, fertilisers, float glass plants, large foundries with continuous process, tyre manufacturing plants and large paper mills. These industries will be permitted to engage “skeletal staff for essential maintenance of all closed industrial units to ensure safety of machinery/installation,” the G.O. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-leeway-granted/article31420105.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Corona’ an age-old term, finds mention in Nanjil Nadu dictionary||The term ‘corona’, which is now commonplace, thanks to the global pandemic, has been in vogue in Kanniyakumari for ages. In fact, its use to denote a type of skin disease was so widespread that it found its way into the Nanjil Naatu Sollakarathi (Dictionary of Nanjil Nadu), compiled by folklorist A.K. Perumal. “In the spoken language, it is pronounced as ‘corona’, but we write the word as ‘corna’. It is a skin disease normally affecting the fingers and palm,” said Mr. Perumal. Achiammal, an 80-year-old woman who is familiar with the word, said it was used to curse those who tampered with weighing measurements to cheat the customers. “We would say, kaiyile corona theenam pidikkattum (Get corona disease in your hands),” she recalled. Theenam denotes disease. Agriculturist Shenbagasekaran said the word was common among traders, particularly among those buying and selling milk and paddy. “If women notice the milkman trying to tamper with the weighing vessels, they would say, ‘Let your hand get corona’,” he said. At a time when paddy was given as remuneration instead of money, the word was used to curse the employer if he tried to reduce the amount of paddy. “In the process it also became more of an imagery. It means that you should be fair when it comes to paying remuneration to workers,” Mr. Shenbagasekaran said.  In the spoken language, it is pronounced as ‘corona’, but we write the word as ‘corna’ A.K. Perumal Folklorist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corona-an-age-old-term-finds-mention-in-nanjil-nadu-dictionary/article31420109.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan unveils song on COVID-19||With more than 50 journalists joining the song launch from across the world, the first-of-its-kind press conference might just be an indication of the future. At least that is what actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan believes. “Whenever I see a lot of mediapersons jostling with each other to meet me, I feel uncomfortable. This virtual press meet is happening in a comfortable manner, without any of you facing any discomfort. This might be the way of the future. That's my dream,” Mr. Kamal Haasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-unveils-song-on-covid-19/article31420361.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MEASI makes Rs. 50 lakh donation to CM’s fund||The Muslim Educational Association of Southern India (MEASI), the parent body of The New College, Chennai, has contributed Rs. 50 lakh to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund towards meeting the challenge of tackling COVID-19 pandemic. Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, who is also the president of MEASI, spoke to Chief Minister Edapaddi K. Palaniswami over phone on Wednesday, and requested him to accept the offer from a minority educational institution, says a release. MEASI honorary secretary T. Rafeeq Ahmed and treasurer Elias Sait assisted Mr. Ali in raising the fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measi-makes-rs-50-lakh-donation-to-cms-fund/article31420075.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko’s plea||Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary Vaiko has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to implement certain measures under the Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana (ABVKY) to provide some financial relief to nearly 9 million workers who had lost their jobs because of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikos-plea/article31420084.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aid for cine workers||The State government has paid Rs. 1,000 each to 7,489 members of various associations under the Cine Workers’ Welfare Board to help them tide over the crisis created by the COVID-19 outbreak, said the Minister for Information and Publicity, Kadambur Raju. The board has 21,679 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aid-for-cine-workers/article31420083.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital shut||The Chennai Corporation has shut the Andhra Mahila Sabha Hospital in R.A. Puram after three persons — two doctors and a nurse — tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-shut/article31420101.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concoction to be distributed||Over one lakh families residing in COVID-19 containment zones will be provided kabasura kudineer, a herbal concoction believed to boost immunity, the State government said on Thursday. The initiative is part of the ‘Arogyam’ campaign, launched by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Thursday. The Chief Minister distributed the concoction to police personnel at the launch of the initiative. “The concoction is not a medicine for treating COVID-19, and is meant to boost immunity,” an release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concoction-to-be-distributed/article31420104.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal unveils song on COVID-19||With more than 50 journalists joining the song launch from across the world, the first-of-its-kind press conference might just be an indication of the future. At least that is what actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan believes. “Whenever I see a lot of mediapersons jostling with each other to meet me, I feel uncomfortable. This virtual press meet is happening in a comfortable manner, without any of you facing any discomfort. This might be the way of the future. That's my dream,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-unveils-song-on-covid-19/article31420082.ece
24 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile associations demand special package||With the lockdown in force for more than a month now, textile and garment exporters and manufacturers have sought support from the government so that the units are able to manage the fund crunch and the businesses are not hit severely. The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has sought waiver of demurrage charges extended till the end of the lockdown period. Several garment exporters were receiving imported goods by air. But they were not getting the documents in the bank or from the shipper, as the institutions concerned and courier services had stopped and the importers were unable to clear the goods. Hence, the demurrage waiver should be granted from March 1. Indian Texpreneurs Federation said banks and financial institutions should expedite implementation of the measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India and the Government. Applications for additional working capital should be processed at the earliest. Availability of additional working capital limit will be critical for liquidity management of textile companies to restart operations. South India Spinners’ Association has appealed to Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to permit textile mills (LT, LTCT, and HT) to pay the electricity bill in six instalments. This will help the mills manage the funds available with them. Similarly, the MD charges should be reduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-associations-demand-special-package/article31420120.ece
24 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Denial of e-pass leaves Coimbatore resident anguished||More than 24 hours after he had applied for a travel pass to participate in the last rites of his elder brother, the Coimbatore district administration simply told A. Joyce Mal, “Please wait until the end of the lockdown.” The Sreepathy Nagar resident applied for the pass on Wednesday morning. “Soon after I saw the message around 6.30 a.m. that my elder brother A. Jayaseelan had died around 2 a.m. in Tenkasi, I applied online for an e-pass to see my brother’s body for one last time.” His application was to travel till Pollachi, where he was to join his niece and Jayaseelan’s daughter Angeline Jessy Grace. Soon after he clicked the submit button, he received an acknowledgement with the reference number EPASS-TN/2020/211005. In Pollachi, Ms. Grace had moved the sub collector’s office for an e-pass to travel till Tenkasi. She had listed Mr. Mal as one of the travel members and submitted aadhar, registration certificate of vehicle and driving license as proofs of identity. Even as Mr. Mal kept waiting for a pass, Mr. Grace received the pass. “She got it around 10.30 a.m,” he says and adds that as his pass was getting delayed, he had asked Ms. Grace to leave for Tenkasi. At 10.45 a.m. the district administration rejected his application saying, “Dear A. Joyce Mal, you application reference number EPASS_TN/2020/211005 dated 22/04/2020 has been rejected by The Collector for the following reason(s): Please wait until the end of the lockdown.” Sources in the district administration say processing over 1,000 applications a day with only 33% staff is difficult. The system does not allow for categorisation of applications based on reasons and therefore there is no way for officials to prioritise e-pass applications. But the sources did not specify the reason for the delay and for rejecting Mr. Mal’s application.  No proof District Collector K. Rajamani said there was no proof in support of the request. If the applicant attached proof, the application will be studied and permission given. He also clarified that the district administration had enough manpower to clear e-pass requests. ( With inputs from   M. Soundariya Preetha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/denial-of-e-pass-leaves-coimbatore-resident-anguished/article31420113.ece
24 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls to function from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m.||Coimbatore district administration has allowed stalls selling chicken, mutton, beef and pork to function from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. from Thursday. According to District Collector K. Rajamani, meat stalls should ensure physical distancing by customers. Shops where customers do not maintain physical distancing will be sealed, he said. Officials from civic bodies will monitor the functioning of meat stalls. They will check whether shop owners ensure physical distancing by customers or whether shops function beyond 1 p.m. Meat stalls were allowed to function last on April 12 on the occasion of Easter. Civic bodies took action against several stalls that were found selling meat from April 13. According to the Collector, fish stalls were not allowed to function.  Special Correspondent adds:  Broiler wholesale traders said that following the orders from the Collector, 20 % of the vehicles transported broilers to the retail outlets on Wednesday night. From Thursday night all the vehicles will operate, moving broiler to the retailers. Instructions have been given to all the retailers to ensure personal distancing and to keep the meat ready in packets so that customers do not have to wait. If they fail to do so, the wholesalers plan to take up and run the outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-stalls-to-function-from-6-am-to-1-pm/article31420126.ece
24 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||News portal founder arrested in Coimbatore||The R.S. Puram police in Coimbatore on Thursday arrested Andrew Sam Raja Pandian, founder of a portal called SimpliCity, in connection with certain news it published on alleged shortcomings faced by government healthcare professionals and alleged corruption by some employees of a public distribution system (PDS) outlet. The action followed a complaint from an official of the Coimbatore Corporation who alleged that the reports were 'false' and 'provocative' against the State Government. He was arrested for offences under Sections 188, 505 (i) of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Mr. Pandian was arrested late on Thursday, hours after the police questioned him, a journalist and a photographer of the portal. He was produced before the magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. As per the First Information Report, the police registered a case against the publisher of SimpliCity on Wednesday based on a complaint filed by M. Sundararajan, Assistant Commissioner (Personal). The complainant said that he found the reports by the news platform on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp which carried false information regarding the functioning of Government healthcare professionals and PDS employees while the Government machinery was struggling to combat COVID-19 spread. While one report said that Government healthcare professionals were struggling for food, another one said that PDS employees were stealing COVID relief fund meant for the poor, said the FIR. The complainant alleged that such reports were provocative enough to turn healthcare professionals and PDS employees against the Government. He also alleged that they could also lead healthcare professionals to stop working, thus affecting COVID-19 management in the State. Also, distributions of aids and essentials to the public would be affected if PDS employees stopped working, he alleged in the complaint. Journalists’ forum in Coimbatore and Tiruppur condemned the police action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/news-portal-founder-arrested-in-coimbatore/article31420122.ece
24 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||1,183 persons arrested in Coimbatore||The police registered 1,089 cases and arrested 1,183 persons for violating prohibitory orders in Coimbatore on Wednesday. This was the highest number of arrests made on a day in the district since the lockdown. The police seized 1,069 vehicles from them who were released on bail. The Coimbatore Rural Police imposed fine to the tune of Rs. 1.88 lakh on people who violated the prohibitory orders. Senior officials with the city and rural police said they intensified vehicle checking to reduce movement of people in public places.  Salem/Namakkal The Salem City Police on Wednesday registered 129 cases and seized 104 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders. The Namakkal police registered 218 cases against 233 persons for violating prohibitory orders. They also seized 99 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1183-persons-arrested-in-coimbatore/article31420138.ece
24 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns against issuing job advertisements||An advertisement pamphlet calling for applications for a job and promising Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 13,000 as monthly salary was distributed at Ramanathapuram area in the city on Thursday. According to the advertisement, eligible candidates for the job would be heads of women self help groups, PDS outlet employees, insurance agents, students and educated youth. The job was to help the needy avail of benefits extended by labour welfare boards of Tamil Nadu and government subsidies. A couple of mobile phone numbers were provided and those interested were asked to contact the numbers. When contacted, the candidates were asked to come for a meeting on Friday afternoon. District Collector K. Rajamani said he had summoned the individual, who had issued the advertisement, and had warned her not to take up such activities. He said the woman was warned of legal action if she continued advertising or taking up such jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-against-issuing-job-advertisements/article31420118.ece
24 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for poisoning tiger, tigress||A special team of the Forest Department on Thursday arrested two persons in connection with the recent poisoning of a tiger and a tigress within the limits of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) near here. The arrested have been identified as D. Vellingiri and M. Murugan of Sethumadai. They were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. On April 16, the special team arrested two others P. Rasu and C. Karuppusamy, both residents of a village near Pothamadai beat of Pollachi forest range of ATR where the carcasses of the big cats and that of a wild boar were found on April 8. According to the Department, the accused poached a wild boar first and placed poison in its carcass, flesh of which was eaten by the tiger and tigress, both aged around 10. The poisoning, according to the accused, was to avenge the killing of a calf that belonged to them by a tiger in December, 2019. Pollachi Forest Range Officer A. Kasilingam said that Vellingiri and Murugan had helped the two others in the poisoning.  Results of samples lifted from the carcasses of tiger, tigress and wild boar, which were sent to four different laboratories for analysis, were yet to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-poisoning-tiger-tigress/article31420127.ece
24 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Now, free food with egg at Amma Unavagam||Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan on Thursday said all five Amma Unavagams in the district would serve free meal with egg till May 3. Speaking to reporters, he said though the State government had taken a series of measures to contain COVID-19, people had to cooperate with officials. Only when the public stayed indoors, the spread could be contained. All assistance to needy people was being provided by front line workers, who were taking risk in discharging their duties. He said all forest checkposts in the State were manned round the clock to prevent entry of persons from other States. There need not be any apprehension about possible sneaking into Tamil Nadu. At least 50 persons, most of them from the ruling AIADMK party, surrounded the Amma Unavagam at Pookadai area here.  Violation of norm The packed hall sent shivers down the spine of health officials and police officers. Despite repeated announcements, the party functionaries stayed at the Unavagam for over 45 minutes. “This was in total violation of social distancing norms,” a health officer at the venue said.  A total of 55 persons, including 11 on Thursday, had been discharged from Karur Government Medical College Hospital. The district admitted 77 positive persons till April 23 at the hospital. In a press release, Collector M Vijayalakshmi said except for the death of a 95-year-old man on April 14, all others were responding to treatment and their condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-free-food-with-egg-at-amma-unavagam/article31420344.ece
24 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of free food begins at Amma canteens in Erode||Distribution of food at free of cost in all the 20 Amma canteens in the district began here on Thursday. Minister for School Education, Youth Welfare and Sports Development, K.A. Sengottaiyan, inaugurated the distribution at the canteen at Marapalayam during which Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, MLAs K.V. Ramalingam (Erode West) and K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East) were present. Corporation officials said that there are 11 canteens in the Corporation limits and the number of people depending on the canteens had gone up during the lockdown period. Around 16,000 to 18,000 consume food at the canteens every day during breakfast, lunch and dinner. They said that distribution of food at free of cost will be continued till the lockdown period. They said that they receive vegetables, rice and other ingredients as sponsors that were arranged by the MLAs. Likewise canteens located at other municipalities in the district serve food at free of cost to the people by receiving sponsors. Since most of the hotels and eateries were closed, conservancy workers, workers involved in essential services, homeless people and other people depend on the canteens for food in the past 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-free-food-begins-at-amma-canteens-in-erode/article31420116.ece
24 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door survey to be completed in a week||With over 50 COVID-19 positive cases being reported in the city, door-to-door survey of people with cold, cough, fever and breathing problem is expected to be completed by April 28. Kollampalayam, Sultanpet, Meera Moideen Street, Mosikeeranar Street, Railway Colony, B.P. Agraharam, Manickampalayam, Marapalam, Karungalpalayam and Kallukadaimedu are the containment zones in the city where over one lakh people are home quarantined. To check for symptoms in people in the city, the Corporation began a house-to-house survey on April 9 in which 1,300 staff from the Corporation, anganwadi and volunteers are involved. There are about 1.30 lakh houses in 60 wards in the Corporation and about 90,000 houses were covered so far. A team visits each house and collects details of family members, their travel history and enquires whether symptoms are found in any member. The team members are provided with mask and they are instructed to maintain personal distancing while collecting the details. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that two-third of the households was covered and survey works in other houses would be completed by April 28. He said that each team would be covering about 80 to 100 houses a day and added that no symptoms were found in people during the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-survey-to-be-completed-in-a-week/article31420131.ece
24 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||A few turn up for document registration in Erode||Though sub-registrar offices started functioning from April 20, only a few turned up for document registration and seeking other services as on Thursday. During the lockdown the State government had announced closure of all offices while offices related to essential services were allowed to function with fewer employees. The government had announced that sub-registrar offices would start functioning from April 20 with 33% employees and only 24 tokens should be issued for registering documents. All the necessary arrangements, wash basin with soap and disinfectants and markings to ensure personal distancing were made at the offices in the district. Also, boards were placed outside the offices directing the people visiting the office to wear masks. However, only a few people had turned up for registration in the past four days. Since the office on Municipal School Road in Sathyamangalam comes under containment zone, the office remains closed. Sources said that a few had approached the office seeking encumbrance certificate. The working hours of these offices were also reduced from 5 p.m. to 1 p.m. from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-few-turn-up-for-document-registration-in-erode/article31420117.ece
24 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Case against realtor||The Thingalur police have registered a case against a realtor who left the containment zone at Avinashi in Tiruppur district and came to his house in Thingalur with his family on Tuesday. On April 21, a family arrived at a farm house at Thoranavavi village in Perundurai block in their car. Since it is lockdown period, villagers alerted the Village Administrative Officer and the police. The officials held inquiries and found that they were from Devampalayam Palangarai village in Avinashi which was a containment zone. As they had violated the lockdown, the realtor, his wife, mother, daughter, mother-in-law and sister were sent back. A case was registered against the realtor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-realtor/article31420129.ece
24 April 2020||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Privacy protected in Sprinklr deal, Kerala tells High Court||The agreement on data sharing entered into between Sprinklr and the State government is likely to cause prejudice against COVID-19 patients and others as the State government has conceded exclusive jurisdiction to courts in the United States to deal with disputes, according to a statement filed by the Centre in the High Court. The statement pointed out that the Centre with the support of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) was capable of providing all requirements relating to data storage, processing, and application if a request to that effect came from the State government. The Centre also said that the agreement did not safeguard the rights to compensation as provided under the provisions of the IT Act. As per the relevant IT rules, consent of the persons concerned was required for sharing of data. It was always preferable to utilise the services available in the government sector for sharing sensitive data required for analytical purposes. The statement was filed in response to a writ petition against the data sharing agreement. Govt’s stance The terms and conditions of the master service and non-disclosure agreements signed by the U.S.-based Sprinklr with the State government ensure that the data of COVID-19 patients and those under surveillance are secure and their rights to privacy protected, the State government told the High Court on Thursday. A government statement said the privacy policy of the company and international data protection norms, including the General Data Protection Regulations, ensured a high level of confidence of the data. The platform made available by the company could handle large volumes of multichannel data and these would facilitate effective monitoring of those in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/privacy-protected-in-sprinklr-deal-kerala-tells-high-court/article31419951.ece
24 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai police to use app to check vehicles||Madurai City Police have launched a mobile application to automatically read registration numbers of vehicle and identify those with passes and those vehicles moving without any authorisation with a click of camera on their mobile phones. The application, developed by a team of software professionals affiliated to Vickram College of Engineering, has been under trial since Wednesday and would be put to use from Friday. Police officials in all ranks and also Special Sub-Inspectors of Police and Head Constables who are involved in vehicle check would have the app on their mobile phones. “With the photograph of the vehicle taken using the mobile phone camera, the app will read its number plate and store it in the data base. Any police officer using the app can track its movement,” Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham said. Presently police are only going by the passes pasted on the vehicles. Besides, many stick some self-made sticker on their vehicle, claiming themselves to be working for government departments or other emergency services, which the police could not verify in real-time basis. Meanwhile, the city police have also asked the Collectorate officials to include QR codes on the passes issued to government employees, private employees authorised to move and use vehicles for specific purpose. “Once QR code is implemented in passes, we can identify unauthorised movement using the QR code readers. People who use fake passes will be caught,” Mr. Davidson said. Can track movement “The app will also help us track the pattern of movement of each vehicle as it is recorded in the system. Suppose a resident from K.K. Nagar is moving on a vehicle on 80-Feet-Road there and says he is going to a shop, we can accept his claim. But if a person from Iyer Bungalow is found on the same road and does not have a valid reason for his movement, first he will be warned. If he continues to violate lockdown rules, we will seize his vehicle, as all residents have been advised to go for shopping in their area of residence,” a police officer said. As the vehicle movement will be recorded at every check post, his movement for the day could be tracked. “We can find out if a vehicle is unnecessarily moving everywhere without a reason,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-police-to-use-app-to-check-vehicles/article31420364.ece
24 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Court denies bail to 72-year-old man||Madurai District Court dismissed the bail petition of a 72-year-old man who was arrested and remanded in judicial custody for sexually abusing girl inmates of the home for children run by him. Sessions Judge J. Flora dismissed the bail petition filed by the man, Devapitchai, who was in-charge of Sunlight Children Home. Devapitchai was arrested and remanded in judicial custody in 2018 for offences punishable under the POCSO Act. The case of the prosecution was that the accused had sexually abused at least 11 girl inmates of the home. Usilampatti police had booked a case against him following a complaint lodged by one of the girls. “A perusal of records reveals that the case is in the trial stage and the Section 164 Cr.P.C. statement (recording of confessions and statements) of the 11 girls have been recorded. From the scrutiny of the statements, it is seen that the petitioner/accused had committed sexual assault on them,” the judge said. The girls who were under the custody of the accused had faced sexual abuse. Considering the gravity, seriousness and magnitude of the crime, the petition could not be entertained, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-denies-bail-to-72-year-old-man/article31420362.ece
24 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Paintings speak louder than words||With a view to conveying the message of the importance of staying indoors during the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteers have painted a drawing on the door near Anna Maligai, the headquarters of Madurai Corporation. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said this mode of sending home a message to the public had become popular across the country. The volunteers have also done the theme-based paintings at Ganesh Theatre junction, Munichalai Road junction, Keelavasal junction, Anuppanadi TNHB quarters and Keeraithurai. More such paintings would be seen near Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court and Mariamman Teppakulam soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paintings-speak-louder-than-words/article31420358.ece
24 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks status report on missing girl||A man from Thoothukudi district moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday, seeking a direction to the police to rescue his daughter. He alleged that she was kidnapped by a man from Thillai Nagar in Tiruchi, who was said to have fallen in love with her and threatened to kill her if she did not consent to the marriage. In the habeas corpus petition, M. Ponraj said his 17-year-old daughter was kidnapped when she was going to school on March 24, following which a complaint was lodged with the police. On March 27, he received a telephone call from his daughter, who claimed that one A. Suresh held her captive in Tiruchi. She told her father that if she did not consent to the marriage with Suresh within a week, he would kill her. Vilathikulam police were not taking necessary steps to rescue his daughter and with the lockdown in force, he was unable to reach her. Hearing the plea via videoconferencing, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and T. Krishnavalli directed the police to file a status report in the case and adjourned the hearing by two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-status-report-on-missing-girl/article31420342.ece
24 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two who flayed Centre on lockdown get bail||Ramanathapuram District Court has granted bail to two men, arrested and remanded in judicial custody for criticising in social media the Central government’s decision to impose lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. The third accused, a woman, is already out on station bail. Principal District and Sessions Judge R. Shanmugasundaram granted bail to A. Seeni and M. Ibrahim and directed them to stay at home during the lockdown period. They should not come out except in case of emergency, the judge said. The petitioners were granted bail on execution of own bond of Rs. 20,000 each. They were directed to appear before the Judicial Magistrate on May 13 and execute a fresh bond of Rs. 20,000 each. After the lockdown was lifted, they should appear before the police daily, the judge said. The judge directed the petitioners not to tamper with evidence or witness during trial and if there were any breach of the bail conditions, the bail order would stand dismissed. Appropriate action would be initiated against them, the judge said. S.P. Pattinam Police had booked the trio under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for their alleged criticism of the government’s decision to impose national lockdown and the subsequent prohibitory orders clamped under Section 144 of the Cr.P.C in social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-who-flayed-centre-on-lockdown-get-bail/article31420346.ece
24 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Students trained to be volunteers||Seventy students from The American College were trained to be psycho-social caregivers here on Wednesday. In his address, Madras High Court Judge P. N. Prakash said everyone seeks care and sensitivity during a crisis. “However, we can see that doctors, health workers and paramedics are not receiving the kind of warmth that they must get,” he said. ACP T.K. Lilly Grace MKU VC M. Krishnan, Principal M. Davamani Christober and M. S. Chellamuthu Trust Director, C. Ramasubramanian were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-trained-to-be-volunteers/article31420359.ece
24 April 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||For grieving conservancy worker, village comes first||A. Ayyadurai, 50, a conservancy worker deployed in the COVID-19 containment zone of V. Kalathur panchayat in Perambalur district, returned to work an hour after burying his mother — service to his people amid a global pandemic was more important to him. His mother was ill for a long time and died of blood sugar complications. Mr. Ayyadurai has been working in the panchayat in Veppanthattai block of Perambalur for over 20 years. “He is well known among people for being a dedicated and humble man, but we did not expect him to put their needs before his own,” said G. Prabhu, president of the panchayat. As part of efforts to check the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Ayyadurai’s work involves spraying disinfectant across the village, including the premises of the V. Kalathur police station, which was sealed after the head-constable there contracted the virus. Mr. Ayyadurai wears personal protective equipment and sets off on his special duties. On Tuesday, at around 12.30 p.m., after he had finished the morning’s work, Mr. Ayyadurai was informed that his ailing 80-year-old mother had died. He immediately rushed home and buried her by 5 p.m., in the presence of some 20 relatives, said Mr. Prabhu. After the burial, he was back to work for his 6 p.m. shift. “We expected him to stay home and grieve and had even arranged for a replacement, but he came back and went about his regular work,” he added. Mr. Ayyadurai also scheduled rituals for the next day around his lunch time, so that he would not miss duty. “The police had advised us not to keep her remains for long, and to ensure that people do not gather,” he said. “The people of V. Kalathur need me now,” he said. “My mother is no more. I can sit at home and grieve for days, but that is not going to help anyone. If I go out to work and keep the village clean and spray disinfectant properly, my people can remain indoors and sleep in peace. The people of my village have been afraid since a policeman tested positive and it is my job to reassure them,” he said. One’s personal problems should never come in the way of work, especially during a crisis like this, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-grieving-conservancy-worker-village-comes-first/article31420098.ece
24 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No community spread of COVID-19 in Puducherry, say officials||The results of surveillance tests undertaken across the city have shown that there is no community spread of COVID-19, health officials said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference, Prashant Kumar Panda, Health Secretary, said tests conducted on randomly drawn samples from various city locations showed no signs of the virus. “This instils confidence that Puducherry, which currently has only three active COVID-19 patients recovering at the Indira Gandhi Medical College & Research Institute (IGMCRI) hospital, remains in Stage-1 of transmission,” he said. “Our RT-PCR testing has been very good. Till date, we have tested 1,473 patients out of which 1,354 have returned negative results for the coronavirus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-say-officials/article31420081.ece
24 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||CM, Speaker undergo test||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu and several MLAs underwent an RT-PCR test for COVID-19 as a precautionary exercise on Thursday. The Health Department had arranged the testing between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. as a safeguard measure for the leaders as they had been visiting public places and high-risk containment zones to evaluate prevention measures . The results are expected on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-speaker-undergo-test/article31420096.ece
24 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||18 shops sealed||A revenue team on Thursday sealed 18 shops in Pudukottai town after they were found functioning violating the prohibitory orders. The team led by Revenue Divisional Officer, Pudukottai, M.S. Dhandayuthapani inspected various parts of Pudukottai town in the morning and found some shops selling steel, fancy items and mobile recharge, besides some petty shops, were functioning violating the prohibitory orders. Official sources said only shops selling grocery items, vegetables and medicines besides those selling fish were allowed to function. The 18 shops did not come under the category for which relaxation had been given to function during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-shops-sealed/article31420380.ece
24 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers seek relief||Members of Tamil Nadu Auto Workers’ Sammelan here have urged the government to include autorickshaw drivers in relief scheme and disburse cash through Regional Transport Offices. Speaking to reporters, CITU general secretary M Sivaji said here on Thursday that only a few drivers and workers were members in the Tamil Nadu Welfare Board. So, the government should extend the relief to all workers during this pandemic. The COVID-19 has completely hit normal life of autorickshaw drivers and workers. It would be welcome to give a relief of Rs. 1000 in two phases through respective RTOs across the State, he said and added that they had sent at least six mails to government officials but there was no response to their grievance. As a last resort, he said the Sammelan may approach the court seeking justice as the pandemic had not only hit lives of autorickshaw drivers but also posed a very big question mark on their future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-seek-relief/article31420345.ece
24 April 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||PHC sealed as nurse tests positive||After a 27-year-old nurse employed in a primary health centre (PHC) at Uchipuli tested positive to COVID-19, the district authorities sealed the centre on Thursday. Health officials said the nurse was screening visitors to the PHC over the last few days. She was tested when she began to show symptoms of COVID-19. Preliminary inquiry revealed that she travelled by a government bus to the PHC. Two days ago, she attended a counselling session at the centre. Also, it was learnt that the nurse met her husband a week ago. All her relatives, including her child, would be screened. She was admitted to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital for treatment, the officials said. Meanwhile, C. Kamaraj, Special Monitoring Officer for the district, inspected a few locations in R S Mangalam that were declared as containment zones. Already, Paramakudi, Keelakarai, Mandapam and Anandur had been identified as containment zone after positive cases were reported. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said except for 10% all foreign returnees numbering 4,777 persons had completed the mandatory home quarantine. A three-member panel from the office of the Directorate of Medical Education, Chennai, visited the government hospital at Rameswaram, Mandapam and other places to take stock of the facilities available in isolation wards, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phc-sealed-as-nurse-tests-positive/article31420348.ece
24 April 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri district reports first positive case||A 35-year-old lorry driver tested positive for COVID-19 in Dharmapuri on Thursday. This is the first case reported in the district. The lorry driver is from a village near Morappur and containment measures are being undertaken in that area. The patient is undergoing treatment at Government Mohankumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. He was transporting goods during the lockdown period too. His travel history is being studied by the officials. In Salem, five persons including three women, tested positive for the disease on Thursday. The patients are from Thadagapatti, Kitchipalayam, Mettur and Karumandurai here. They are undergoing treatment at Government Mohankumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. In Namakkal, four new cases were reported on Thursday of which three are contacts. One of them is a Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel who was deployed for duty in Salem. Police officials have quarantined the entire battalion strength in Salem, and they are undergoing tests.  New case in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported a positive on Thursday, bringing the total cases in the district to 110. Health Department sources said the patient was a 48-year-old man from Udumalpet who attended the Delhi conference. He is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-district-reports-first-positive-case/article31420136.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) supports State govt.||The row over the government’s decision to engage a U.S. company for analysing COVID-19 data has triggered dissensions in the Left Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The rumblings in the LDF surfaced with the Communist Party of India (CPI) reportedly expressing discontent over the IT Department’s decision to engage the firm without the consent of the Cabinet and Law Department clearance. IT Secretary M. Sivasankar met CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran and briefed him about the circumstances that prompted the government to ink the deal with Sprinklr. Mr. Rajendran later called on Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and held discussions about the deal. Later, Mr. Balakrishnan told reporters that both Communist parties shared similar views on data sanctity and individual privacy and the CPI(M) was open to discussions with the CPI for clearing the air. Exigencies called for extraordinary decisions and the pact with Sprinklr was one such. “The CPI(M) does not think that the government has gone overboard on the pact or violated the party’s stance on data handling. Adequate safeguards have been made to prevent data leak or trading. Moreover, it could be examined once the crisis blows over,” he said. Mr. Balakrishnan accused the Opposition of attempting to derail the virus containment efforts and creating a smokescreen by raising allegations against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his family members. Chinks in BJP exposed Differences in the BJP surfaced with State president K. Surendran pressing his demand for a Vigilance probe into the Sprinklr deal and general secretary M.T. Ramesh demanding a CBI probe. Both leaders stuck to their stance exposing the chinks in the organisational apparatus. CM defends deal Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan refused to be drawn into a debate with the Opposition on the question whether it was improper for Mr. Shivsankar to visit Mr. Rajendran at the party’s State headquarters here. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala accused Mr. Vijayan of having demoralised the bureaucracy by despatching the IAS officer to “placate” Mr. Rajendran. The latter had aired scepticism about the government’s “ambiguous” deal with Sprinklr. Mr. Vijayan defended the deal by stating that the extraordinary pandemic situation had warranted the arrangement. It had triggered the dire need for an entity to analyse field-level health information to inform the State’s containment strategy. Mr. Vijayan said the SNC-Lavalin case was the consequence of a political witch-hunt launched against him by the United Democratic Front. The Vigilance had found the accusation baseless. The court too found no merit in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-supports-state-govt/article31419953.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown drives taxi drivers into a vortex of despair||Taxi operators and drivers who are already without income due to the lockdown are a worried lot. As they face compulsion to pay house rent, dues for the vehicle and meeting food expenses, their cash reserves are depleted, and any further extension of the lockdown period is bound to push them into desperation. Their fear that the worst is yet to come is not unfounded. For many, keeping the vehicles idle for a stretch of few weeks has already started causing deterioration in the condition of the battery. Maintenance problem is not much for cars running on petrol but taxi drivers have always preferred diesel cars for better margins. “Extended lockdown period also means having to spend a lot on setting right the brake pads, replacing engine oil and replacing the tyres, which would put us in a helpless situation,” said Ganesh, a taxi owner-cum-driver of Prakash Nagar. There is nothing for taxi drivers in the stimulus package of the Central and State governments. “Our plight is not going to end any time soon. There is no certainty that our earnings will be restored to earlier levels once the lockdown is lifted. There will still be apprehension among the people to go out for shopping or to visit crowded places,” Ravi, another owner-cum-driver of Amman Nagar said. Though these drivers have developed a strong customer base, it has meant precious little at this juncture. Those operating vans specifically for school trips are the worst hit. With flat spots developing on the tyres of the vans that have been kept parked for long, the drivers find themselves in an unenviable situation of replacing the tyres before operating school trips again. “Replacing four tyres would cost a fortune. But then, we will have to bear the expenditure. For us it is a question of sustaining a livelihood,” Devakumar, a van-operator of Tiruverumbur said. Not all the drivers have benefited from the government’s announcement of relief for workers in unorganised sectors. “The government must consider our sufferings and announce a stimulus package for sustaining our livelihood,” he emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-drives-taxi-drivers-into-a-vortex-of-despair/article31420376.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It’s a bleary-eyed time for those with ophthalmological conditions||City residents with spectacles or other ophthalmological conditions which require follow-up demand the reopening of optical shops and out-patient services as they consider it an essential service. M. Mani, a 68-year-old man broke his spectacles while walking back home from a shop about 10 days ago. He lives with his wife in Woraiyur while his son and his family are at Erode. “I called up many spectacle stores but they said they were not allowed to stay open. I need my glasses to see properly and I am suffering from headaches because of no glasses,” he said. S. A. N. Vaseegaran, Tamil Nadu convener of the Aam Aadmi Party, in a petition to the Chief Minister had urged him to look into the matter and allow the services to function. “Doctors recommend patients to wear glasses or the eye defect might increase, and cause other problems such as headaches. When it is essential for one's well-being it is an essential service. We hope they take our recommendation,” he said. Mr Vaseegaran decided to take up the issue as he is suffering without glasses himself, he says. “I had undergone a cataract surgery about 8 months back. Now, the vision is slightly blurry and I get terrible pain in the neck. When I contacted my doctor he says the only solution is to get my eyes tested and wear glasses. Although the solution is simple, there’s no way to do it,” he said. The Tiruchi Ophthalmic Association had decided to suspend outpatient services to prevent community spread of COVID-19. Emergency services such as treatment of eye injuries, removal of foreign objects would, however, be treated. Speaking to The Hindu , Sairam Gopal, Secretary, Tiruchi Ophthalmic Association, said that although the clinics will not turn away patients with emergencies, patients themselves must understand the severity of their condition. “Routine surgeries, cataract treatment and routine eye check-ups are being postponed,” he said. The primary reason (for suspension of OP services) was to avoid infections, especially as most patients are over the age of 60. “We do not want to put them at a risk. The condition can be treated better in a safer environment,” Dr. Gopal said. The other reason is that most clinics are functioning with skeletal staff strength. Many staff members are unable to travel to the hospital as they depend on public transport. Dr. Gopal advises patients to stay indoors to stay safe. “If it is unbearable, rush to your nearest clinic, we will ensure you are treated but for cataract and other routine checks, please wait, as the risk outweighs the condition.” Ophthalmologists are also providing tele-consultation where routine patients send photographs of their eye and the doctors suggest medications, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-a-bleary-eyed-time-for-those-with-ophthalmological-conditions/article31420379.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Price of rice records a sharp increase in Tiruchi||Despite availability of sufficient stocks of paddy with rice mills, price of rice has recorded sharp increase in the retail market in Tiruchi. On an average, the price has gone by Rs. 6 -12 a kg of boiled rice, depending on the quality and variety. In retail rice stores and grocery shops in Tiruchi, one kg of Mannachanallur Ponni (old) variety was sold between Rs. 56 and Rs. 62. The price of Mannachanallur ponni (new) was hovering between Rs. 45 and Rs. 50. Before the imposition of lockdown, one kg of Mannachanallur Ponni (old) was sold at Rs. 48 -54 and new rice was sold at Rs. 42-46. Prices of Andhra and Karnataka ponni have also gone by Rs. 5-6 a kg. Similarly, the rates of idly rice have also risen by Rs. 5 a kg. “Most retail and grocery stores in the city sell one kg of high quality Ponni rice at Rs. 60 a kg. The rate is Rs. 56 in a few stores. The upward revision is due to high cost of transportation of rice,” says Manikandan, who runs a grocery store in Cantonment. However, except a few old varieties of rice, the rates in Mannachanallur, where about dozens of rice mills are located, remain unchanged for the last five months. Though the supply chain was disrupted for a week after the lockdown, it was restored quickly with the intervention of the State government. Due to sharp increase in prices of rice, several consumers visit Mannachanallur to buy rice directly from the mills. M. Sivanandan, who owns a rice mill at Mannachallur, told The Hindu that the number of consumers from Tiruchi, who visited Mannachallur to buy rice directly from the mills, had gone up sharply over the last few days. It was mainly due to a big difference in price. Industry sources attributed the price rise to a section of retailers, who have created an “artificial shortage” of rice in the wake of curfew restrictions. Some traders, who have taken, advantage of restriction in business hours and business days, have increased the prices. Industry sources further said that there was no reason for price rise in the near future as rice mills have piled up stocks. Moreover, farmers also have a huge stock. The current price would likely to continue up to the year end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-rice-records-a-sharp-increase-in-tiruchi/article31420385.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Blithe indifference of patients to safety norms a cause of concern||Doctors at the Government Hospital for Tiruverumbur Taluk at Thuvakudi, that mostly caters to the rural population in several surrounding villages in a radius of over 10 kilometres, are concerned over the reluctance of outpatients towards safety protocol specified by the government for preventing community transmission of COVID-19 virus. A number of patients do not seem to realise the importance of wearing face masks in the hospital. Adherence to personal distancing also leaves a lot to be desired. The doctors are a worried lot as there is a high level of footfall of outpatients even during the lockdown period. The emphasis of the government to ensure that people stay indoors for prevention of community transmission of the COVID-19 virus has seemingly not had the desired impact in rural areas. The hospital caters to the people living as far as Suriyur and Ariyamangalam. Though there is no public transport, hundreds of people still keep coming in two-wheelers and queue up every day at the hospital. “We have been trying hard to impress upon the regular patients that they desist from coming to the hospital if the ailments are not serious. But, the patients do not seem to understand the gravity of the situation,” a senior doctor said. Though the outpatient footfall during the lockdown period is much less when compared to pre-lockdown days, the number is still high in the present situation, the doctor said. When compared to 600 to 700 outpatients on normal days, the number at present is between 300 and 400, he said. The hospital with a capacity to accommodate 60 patients is in the process of creating a special COVID-19 ward to accommodate 10 patients. The Government has sanctioned Rs. 25 lakh for the purpose, according to an official source. “There are adequate personal protection equipment in the hospital. So far, no patient with COVID-19 symptom has approached the hospital”, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blithe-indifference-of-patients-to-safety-norms-a-cause-of-concern/article31420372.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Teachers of govt. colleges struggle to keep students engaged||While teachers in government-aided and self-financing arts and science colleges have made a beginning for online interface with students to complete unfinished portions pertaining to the odd semester during the lockdown, their counterparts in government arts and science colleges are struggling to keep the students engaged. According to the college heads, portions varying between one and two units have not been completed yet as about 20 teaching-learning days were lost due to the lockdown. Teachers say that unlike in the case of students in government-aided/ self-financing colleges, it would be unreasonable to expect those in government arts and science colleges to have smartphones due to socio-economic backwardness. The State Government made an announcement a week back that the exams for the current semester will be conducted at the start of the next semester, and that the date of reopening of colleges will be announced later. Ruling out any scope for engaging students of government arts and science in academic activities online, Principal of the Government Arts and Science College, Tiruverumbur, A. Megala, said the maximum that the teachers have been able to do was orienting students on the finished portions through text messages and prevailing upon them to undertake assignments and home tests. The unfinished portions can be handled only after the colleges reopen, Prof. Megala said. “Students of government arts and science colleges will be at a disadvantage if the Higher Education Department conducts exams straight away after reopening of colleges on the premise that the unfinished portions have been learnt,” another principal of a government college in a rural area in the region said. According to the college head, a possibility does exist for teachers in government colleges to record their teachings and post them on WhatsApp groups of students. But, the plain reality is that it is difficult to expect students from rural areas to focus and listen to the video lectures. Unlike in the urban localities, there is no restriction on outdoor movement of people in villages, and there are other priorities such as helping out their parents in their farms, tending to cattle, or running errands, a teacher pointed out. The best possible way out now will be for the university to upload contents for the unfinished portions of the various subjects on its website so that the students would have the possibility to be prepared at their own convenience at least in theory. In any case, there must necessarily be some breathing space after re-opening of colleges before the start of the rescheduled semester examinations, he emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-of-govt-colleges-struggle-to-keep-students-engaged/article31420374.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp groups to ensure protection||Police in Tiruchi Range comprising Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Karur districts have put in place a system to ensure safety and security for doctors and sanitary workers who are in the frontline battling the COVID-19 pandemic. To ensure protection of doctors and para-medical staff, a Whatsapp group has been created in each of the 19 sub divisions falling under the five districts. The Deputy Superintendent of Police of the respective sub division has been made the group administrator of the Whatsapp in the respective limits with doctors and para-medical staff as the members. The Superintendent of Police of the respective district would also be a member of the Whatsapp group. A separate Whatsapp group for sanitary workers has been created at 66 law and order police stations in the Tiruchi Range. The respective Inspector of Police has been made the group administrator. Places where doctors, para-medical staff and sanitary workers reside have been integrated in a digital map and steps were being taken to provide them protection with a constable through E-beat system, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whatsapp-groups-to-ensure-protection/article31420381.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Leading hotels to accommodate frontline medical professionals||The district administration has roped in a few leading hotels in the city to accommodate medical professionals, who have been drafted for treating COVID-19 patients. As per the arrangement, doctors, nurses and those directly involved in treating the patients at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) have been advised not to visit their homes after completing the day’s schedule. Instead, they can directly head to the designated hotels in Thennur and Central Bus Stand, where rooms have been booked for them. They can stay in the hotels even on off days. Moreover, designated liaison officers have been identified for making arrangements for food and transportation. In addition to it, a few restaurants in the city have also been roped in to serve food to the doctors, nurses and others. The medical professionals have been given all details such as allotted rooms, liaison officers and the restaurants, which supply food to them. A senior officer told The Hindu that it was a precautionary step to ensure the protection of medical professional and their family members. Thanjavur Special arrangements have also been made for doctors posted at the COVID-19 special wards in the Thanjavur Medical College hospital. Around 200 doctors and para-medical staff have been posted for duty at the special ward. They were posted in shifts to take care of the patients round-the-clock, according to Collector M. Govinda Rao. These doctors have been requested to stay away from their families and have been provided accommodation at a hotel on Gandhi Road and a 28-room building at a higher education institution on Thanjavur-Tiruchi Highway. Disinfecting exercise was being carried out regularly at these places where the doctors were accommodated, the Collector said. Meanwhile, Tamil Desiya Periyakkam has urged the people to treat doctors and para-medical staff with dignity and compassion as they were acting as barriers to check the spread of COVID-19 virus. Condemning the incidents of attacks on doctors and opposition to accord dignified burial for doctors who died due to the virus in the State, the TDP president, P. Maniarasan has urged the government to create awareness among the public that the dreaded virus cannot spread from a corpse. While wanting the Tamil Nadu government to create awareness among the public in this regard, the TDP has also demanded that arrangements be made for sending back migrant workers from other States to their native places in view of the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leading-hotels-to-accommodate-frontline-medical-professionals/article31420386.ece
24 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Crocodile caught near Pullambadi||A crocodile which had come out of a waterbody was caught by locals in Vandarampalayam village near Pullambadi in the district on Thursday. The locals tied the crocodile and informed the police who in turn alerted the Forest Department officials. On receiving the information, a Forest Department team went to the village. The team caught the crocodile and subsequently released the reptile near Kallanai, said a department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crocodile-caught-near-pullambadi/article31420382.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||6 held for hunting monitor lizard||A Forest Department team arrested a six-member gang on the charge of hunting a monitor lizard and consuming its meat. The offence was committed on Tuesday at Solaiammapatti village near Valanadu. The crime was committed outside the reserve forest. Based on an information, the officials acted swiftly. The accused were held at Solaiammapatti. They were brought to the Forest Dept. office and arrested. A case under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 has been booked against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held/article31420352.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruchi/Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive in central region||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 continues to show a downward trend in the Central region with just two persons, one each from Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, being found to be infected with the virus on Thursday. A member of a health team in Tiruvarur district was among the two persons who tested positive in the region .According to official sources, the 23-year-old male member of the health team hails from Needamangalam. He was involved in COVID-19 prevention exercise. Around 50 persons close to him and those visiting the places he frequented were traced and have been brought under the surveillance of the Health department, sources said. The media bulletin issued by the Health Department termed the patient as a ‘contact.’ Meanwhile, in Thanjavur district, a 60-year-old woman of Orathanadu tested positive on Thursday. She was in contact with a person who had already been tested positive for the virus, sources said. 26 discharged Meanwhile, 16 more patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were discharged from Karur Government Medical College Hospital after treatment on Thursday. Of them, 11 were from Dindigul district and five from Namakkal district. A six-year-old girl, a 10-year-old boy and an 86-year-old person from Dindigul were among those discharged. With this, the number of patients discharged from the hospital after being treated for the virus, has gone up to 122. While 22 were from Karur, 55 patients were from Dindigul. Remaining 45 patients were from Namakkal district. The discharged persons were sent home in ambulances and Collector T. Anbalagan gave them a warm send off. Rosy Vennila, Dean of the hospital, said that 66 more patients, who had tested for COVID-19, were still in the hospital. All of them were recuperating well. In Tiruchi, seven patients, including an 18-month-old baby girl, were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Thursday. The patients had tested negative for the virus twice consecutively, official sources said. All seven patients, including the baby, were dropped off to their homes in the district in 108 ambulances after a team of doctors and nurses felicitated them with a platter of fruits and applauded them. All recovered patients have been asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 more days. The MGMGH now has 17 positive patients – including nine from Tiruchi, four from Ariyalur, three from Perambalur and one from Pudukottai undergoing treatment at the isolation ward. The district has seen a total of 57 positive cases of which 42 persons have recovered, District Collector S. Sivarasu said. He also urged the public to remain indoors and wear facemasks if they have to venture out to purchase essentials. “People must not wander outside. To ensure that Tiruchi district becomes COVID-19 free, we must continue to follow the lockdown norms,” he said. Three persons who underwent treatment for the novel coronavirus infection at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital were discharged on Thursday. According to official sources, with the discharge of three persons , the total number of persons discharged after treatment for COVID-19 infection from the hospital has risen to seven. The three discharged on Thursday hail from Kumbakonam, Neivasal and Ooranipuram areas. As on Thursday, the total number of persons undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 special ward here stands at 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive-in-central-region/article31420383.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruhci,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel reach out to senior citizens staying alone||The police in Tiruchi Range encompassing five districts have reached out to senior citizens staying alone in their residences and providing them necessary assistance after ascertaining their requirements in view of the current lockdown. Realising the difficulty faced by aged persons residing alone at a time when prohibitory orders had been clamped to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, law enforcers in Tiruchi Rural, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Karur districts carried out a survey during which they found that 1,852 of them were staying alone. Field-level police personnel on regular rounds in their respective police station limits have been meeting the senior citizens and fulfilling their requirements. ‘Reach me’ app A police press release said a total number of 168 volunteers in Tiruchi Range had come forward to help such senior citizens and registered themselves in the mobile app “Reach Me” and were helping the aged every day. After ascertaining the requirements of senior citizens, groceries were supplied to 219 of them so far. Face mask and food packets were given to 904 senior citizens and arrangements were made for medical assistance for 142 others. The release further said the number of senior citizens staying alone were identified in Tiruchi Range through Special Branch Constables and representatives of local body concerned. The aged citizens were sensitised to the precautionary measures to be taken by them to check the spread of COVID-19. The daily requirements of such persons were being fulfilled by nominating the local body representative or those staying close by as their guardian. Senior citizens have been given the telephone numbers of the police station concerned and of the beat constable and pamphlets containing awareness messages. Volunteers on duty The volunteers have been given the task of fulfilling the daily requirements of senior citizens residing near their vicinity. The volunteers and police personnel have been advised to maintain personal distancing while rendering help and assistance. In places where there were no volunteers, assistance to the senior citizens was being rendered with the cooperation of the respective local body representatives. The Inspector of Anti Human Trafficking Unit in the respective district have been tasked with the responsibility to monitor the initiative and ensure whether the aged citizens requirements were being fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-reach-out-to-senior-citizens-staying-alone/article31420377.ece
24 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Giving positive turn to lives of convicts’ children||As different types of assistance extended to the poor and needy make the rounds on social media, there is one group that quietly helps children of life convicts. It was in 2015 that K.P. Raja of Madurai, who was a counsellor, met life convicts lodged in Palayamkottai Central Prison. In trying to understand the reasons behind their deviant behaviour, he zeroed in on alcoholism, poverty, property dispute, sudden provocation and bad companionship. In some cases, repeated harassment by police drove them to prison again even though they were ready to turn over a new leaf. “It was at this point that I thought of their innocent children, whose future had been adversely affected by their fathers’ conviction. In some cases, the men had received life term for murder of their wives. I began to focus on these children, who are now orphans,” he says. A few like-minded friends and an autorickshaw driver joined hands with him and they conducted a survey of families of life convicts in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts. The field visits helped them gather information about the number of children, livelihood of relatives taking care of them and issues such as social exclusion or discrimination in school. At the end of the survey, 300 children were shortlisted. Mr. Raja discussed it with a few more friends, who came forward to lend a helping hand. They started savings bank accounts for the children, who lived with their guardians or in hostels. The sponsors began to remit amounts ranging from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 12,000 a year directly to the bank accounts to ensure uninterrupted education to them.  Five years since the launch of their charity, Global Network for Equality, 16 students now pursue engineering courses, 37 are in arts and science colleges and the remaining study in schools. Among the group’s success stories is a boy from Thoothukudi district, an outstanding hockey player who has been selected by Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu for its sports hostel. Even after he shifted to Madurai to practise as lawyer in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, Mr. Raja’s association with the prisoners and their families continues. With all students returning to their homes now, the charity reviewed its database and identified 50 extremely poor children for assistance during the lockdown. In a bid to ensure that they do not go hungry, those living in villages have been given Rs. 3,000 and others Rs. 4,000. “If the beneficiary is a teen, especially a girl, it is Rs. 5,000. We are in the process of helping another 50 children,” Mr. Raja says. What is more, when 78 life convicts were released from prisons in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts as part of MGR Birth Centenary Celebrations, Mr. Raja and his team helped in reuniting them with their families and helped eight of them to restart their livelihood. “Since the eight prisoners possess culinary, tailoring and automobile skills, we gave them financial assistance of up to Rs. 25,000 to start an eatery or a workshop,” he says. The Global Network for Equality helps children of prisoners in 15 southern districts. Those who need any assistance may contact Mr. Raja at 99629 81392.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/giving-positive-turn-to-lives-of-convicts-children/article31420354.ece
24 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Couple, son killed||A couple and their five-year-old son were killed in a road accident near Mukkoodal near here on Thursday evening as a speeding car hit their bike. P. Madhavan Durai, 40, of Kumarasamypuram near Pappakudi was taking his pregnant wife, Rajeshwari, 35, to a nearby hospital for routine check-up. Their son, Bharathiraja, was also with them. He was travelling along Mukkoodal–Pappakudi Road, when a speeding car hit the two-wheeler. All the three were killed on the spot. Mukkoodal police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-son-killed/article31420350.ece
24 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 481 crore disbursed from EPF||An amount of Rs. 481.63 crore has been disbursed as special withdrawal from the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme till April 17. A statement said the provision is part of the PMGKY (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana) announced by the government through an urgent notification in the wake of the pandemic. Under the provision, non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75% of the amount standing to the member’s credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is provided. The member can apply for lesser amount also. As on forenoon of April 17, Rs. 481.63 crore has been disbursed to 40,826 Provident Fund members as advance, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-481-crore-disbursed-from-epf/article31420349.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||13 Tiruppur patients discharged||Thirteen patients from Tiruppur, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, were discharged on Thursday. In a release, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the 13 patients included six children. With this, the total number of patients recovered from COVID-19 in Tiruppur district stood at 30 as on Thursday. There were 110 confirmed patients in the district. These 13 patients would be in home quarantine for the next 14 days, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Two more patients from Tiruppur district, although fully recovered, had been made to stay at the ordinary ward at the ESI Hospital as their relatives were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, he said in the release. Five more recover in Coimbatore Five persons were discharged from the ESI Hospital on Thursday. With this, the total number of persons recovered from COVID-19 in Coimbatore touched 93. Of the five, four were women. Hospital Dean A. Nirmala, Medical Superintendent T. Ravikumar, Resident Medical Officer K. Kulandaivelu and the medical team gave them a send off and advised them to strictly follow 28 days of home quarantine. Four discharged in Salem, five in Namakkal Four more patients, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here, were discharged on Thursday. According to health officials, two male patients aged 40 years and 45 years from Tharamangalam, who had attended the Delhi event, and two contacts, a 22-year-old female from Edappadi and a 28-year-old female from Kalarampatti were discharged. R.Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, P.V.Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, J.Nirmalson, Deputy Director of health services, and K.Parthibhan, City Health Officer gave them a send off. The patients were asked to be in home quarantine for 14 days. They were advised to contact the hospital if they develop any health problem. So far, 14 patients, who were undergoing treatment here, have been discharged. In Namakkal district, two men and a woman from Namakkal and a woman patient from Lathuvadi near Mohanur were discharged from the Karur Medical College Hospital on Thursday. A 40-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at the Karur Hospital, was discharged on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-tiruppur-patients-discharged/article31420133.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Seven migrant workers secured in Uthukuli||The police secured seven migrant workers who allegedly attempted to escape in a mini truck at Uthukuli here on Wednesday. Of the seven, three were from Rajasthan and four from Madhya Pradesh, the police said. At around 12.15 a.m. on Wednesday, the Uthukuli police conducted a vehicle check based on intelligence inputs at the four-way road in Kodiyampalayam. The seven men were found at the back of the mini truck. Preliminary investigations revealed that they were tile cutting workers who wanted to leave for their hometowns. Driver Mohan allegedly did not know the intention of these workers and agreed to drop them at the location they asked, the police said. The Uthukuli police booked a case against Mohan under section 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and seized the vehicle. No case was booked against the workers and the police handed them over to their contractor in Kangeyam on Wednesday, instructing him to provide food and other essential needs to the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-migrant-workers-secured-in-uthukuli/article31420134.ece
24 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||12 Dalit villagers booked for protest over burial ground||As many as 12 Dalit villagers were booked by the police for staging a protest against the alleged denial of burial ground for the deceased at Muthandipalayam village in Palladam, Tiruppur, on Wednesday. Palladam police said that the case was booked following a complaint lodged by K. Ayyampalayam Village Administrative Officer D. Karthikeyan. On Wednesday, following the death of Sasikala, her husband Shanmugam along with other villagers from the Dalit community staged the demonstration alleging that they do not possess a burial ground. The demonstration allegedly violated the personal distancing norms and was held in violation of the prohibitory orders in force under Section 144 of the CrPC, the complainant alleged. Accordingly, Palladam police registered a case against Mani and 11 other villagers under sections 143 (Punishment), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) and 291(Continuance of nuisance after injunction to discontinue) of the Indian Penal Code. The deceased’s husband, who is visually challenged, was not booked, police said.  However, no arrests were made in this case. Palladam Tahsildar D. Subramanian alleged that the protest was instigated and could have caused communal unrest in the village. “A 15-cent land has been allocated to them, but they refused to use it as a burial ground because of the presence of a temple on that land,” he said. On Wednesday, following conciliatory talks by Revenue Department officials with the protesters, the body was buried in a place called Vandipathai, which was previously used as a burial ground by the Dalits in the village. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that a decision will be taken regarding an alternative burial ground after the end of the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-dalit-villagers-booked-for-protest-over-burial-ground/article31420121.ece
24 April 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Three test positive in Virudhunagar, two in Madurai||Three more persons, including a Health Inspector, tested positive for COVID-19 in Virudhunagar district on Thursday. The other two were from a village near Kanniseripudur from where a college girl tested positive a few days back. The district administration has brought Saminatham where the Health Inspector resides under containment zone. Kumarapuram near Kanniseripudur, where the other two persons – an 11-year-old boy and a 29-year-old woman – reside has already been under containment zone. Tracking of contacts of the three persons was under way, Collector R. Kannan said, adding the Health Inspector was coordinating with some of the positive cases in Rajapalayam in their tests. With these three new cases, the number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 22. Ten persons have so far been discharged after they tested negative. The 12 positive cases are being treated at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. In Madurai city, two persons tested positive, bringing the total number of positive cases in the district to 52. One of the positive persons, a 70-year-old woman from West Masi Street, is the mother of a bhattar at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. Collector T.G. Vinay said she had comorbid conditions like coronary artery disease for the past 10 years and diabetes. She was admitted to the GRH with fever on April 21. A health official said the patient suffered breathlessness for the past three days. A press release from Adi Saiva Sivachariyargal Nala Sangam said samples had been lifted from all staff, bhattars and police personnel posted at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. Tests were conducted on all the family members, neighbours and those who worked at their house. The rumour that a bhattar attached to the temple who returned from abroad tested positive was false. An official from the engineering wing of Madurai Corporation said West-North Masi Street junction and Town Hall Road also fell within the containment zone formed near their residence. Another person who tested positive was a 60-year-old man from Sellur. The Collector said he was working as a watchman and had last gone to work a month back. He had no fever. But, he had breathlessness for the past one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-test-positive-in-virudhunagar-two-in-madurai/article31420351.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Banana mandis to function at three locations||In a big relief to banana growers in Madurai, the district administration has allowed the functioning of banana mandis at three locations in the city where farmers can sell their produce to commission agents. According to a release from the district administration, farmers can bring their produce between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. to three locations - Obula Padithurai, Yanaikkal and M.G.R. Bus Stand at Mattuthavani. Commission agents can auction and sell bananas between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. An official from the Horticulture Department said that retailers can sell the bananas to customers at 41 makeshift vegetable markets set up by the Madurai Corporation across the city. In addition, the district administration has also given permission to use the banana-ripening chambers at Thayir Market and Yanaikkal. The COVID-19 pandemic had caused severe distress to banana farmers and traders, said K.M. Gopalan, coordinator of a farmer producer group in Melavalavu. “There was a dip in demand for plantains and banana leaves, following the lockdown. Farmers also faced difficulty in transporting their produce to markets. As a result, farmers did not harvest even fully mature crop and left it to wilt. Hence, this announcement provides some respite to the farmers,” he said. The official said that farmers will be paid on the basis of the weight of their produce. It will be ensured that physical distancing will be maintained by shopkeepers and farmers at the markets, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-mandis-to-function-at-three-locations/article31420360.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 and diabetes: can DPP-4 inhibitors play a role?||The whole world has been shaken by the COVID-19 pandemic. Scientists working in different fields such as epidemiology, virology and immunology are struggling to find the remedy to control and prevent this epidemic. A number of theories are going around about the cause and effect of this virus on human beings. The protective role of small pox and BCG vaccination from COVID-19 is also being analysed. Morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19 is high in those with co-morbid conditions including Diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is associated with low grade chronic inflammation induced by the excessive visceral adipose tissue (belly fat). Persistent hyperglycemia ( high blood sugar ) and inflammation can cause ineffective immune response resulting in decreased defense mechanism against any infection. As a consequence, uncontrolled diabetes along with advanced age is a major factor of poor outcome during an infection with COVID-19. Recently a ray of hope has appeared in the usefulness of the class of drug, DPP-4 inhibitors. DPP-4 inhibitors are used to control blood sugar levels and widely used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes. We need to know the function of DPP-4 to understand the role of DPP-4 inhibitor. DPP-4 is a type 2 transmembrane glycoprotein expressed in many tissues including immune cells. Although its functions are not fully understood, it plays a role in post meal glucose regulation. DPP-4 expression is high in visceral adipose tissues and increases inflammation and insulin resistance. In a simple way we can now understand a drug that inhibits DPP-4 will reduce blood sugar, reduce insulin resistance and reduce inflammation. Coming to COVID-19, excessive inflammatory response after an infection has been shown to be the major cause of an adverse outcome including acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney injury. So harnessing the protective role of DPP-4 inhibitor in decreasing the profound inflammation seems logical. Few studies published on the anti–inflammatory protective role of DPP-4 inhibitors in diabetic mice with MERS –CoV infection support this concept. A meta analysis in human beings also showed that upper respiratory tract infection does not increase significantly with DPP-4 inhibitors treatment. It concluded that DPP-4 inhibitors have been associated with anti inflammatory and anti adipogenic effect. We need more data on the anti-inflammatory effect of DPP-4 inhibitors in minimising the risk and the progression of acute respiratory complications in COVID-19 patients with Type 2 Diabetes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-and-diabetes-can-dpp-4-inhibitors-play-a-role/article31420093.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2 deaths, 54 new cases of COVID-19 in T.N.||As on date, Coimbatore has a total of 134 COVID-19 cases, followed by Tiruppur with 110 cases. Nine other districts — Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Erode, Madurai, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi — had 50 and above cases. Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, the Nilgiris, Perambalur and Pudukottai have less than 10 cases. Krishnagiri has reported no COVID-19 case so far. Rajendra Ratnoo, Central nodal officer coordinating on COVID-19 between the Central and State governments, said, "Tamil Nadu has really geared up and is working systematically. The State’s surveillance, testing and clinical management has picked up, and the mortality rate is still quite low." On the high number of cases in Chennai, he said population density was a key factor. "Thick urban population is a factor. A large number of persons have been roped into surveillance in the city," he added. A total of 6,954 samples and 6,880 individuals were tested today. With this, the total number of samples and individuals tested in the State till now stands at 65,977 and 59,952, respectively. The State has got another testing facility in the private sector — Medall Healthcare, Chennai. With this, there are a total of 34 testing facilities — 23 in the government sector and 11 in the private sector. A total of 1,787 persons were in isolation facilities, 23,303 persons were under active home quarantine and 108 in government quarantine facilities. Till date, 87,159 persons have completed their 28-day home quarantine in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-deaths-54-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-tn/article31420100.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Small tea growers seek better price||The small tea growers in the Nilgiris have appealed to Indcoserve to pay higher price for the tea leaves that they supply. According to H.N. Sivan, founder president of Nilgiris Nelikolu Micro and Small Tea Growers and Farmers Development (NSTF) Society, the small tea growers, numbering nearly 25000 in the district, supply about eight crore kg of green tea leaves to the Indcoserve factories. With much difficulties, tea sales through tea auctions have just started in Coonoor. The average sale prices were around Rs. 85 a kg, including Indco teas sold in the auctions. “Even though the prices realised now were higher compared to pre-lockdown period, the member farmers of Indco Tea Factories were paid only Rs. 12.50 a kg of their green tea leaves supplied by them during the month of March, 2020,” he said. For almost a month, there was no production of teas and now too workers are going to the fields with fear. The small farmers harvest nearly 25 kg of tea a day in a field. The labour cost alone varies between Rs. 250 to Rs. 400 a day. A farmer has to spend on inputs and fertilizers too. The Indcoserve should pay at least Rs. 18 a kg, he said. Indcoserve has started supplying 1,250 tonnes of Indco teas to Kerala Government for reasonably good prices, for free distribution to PDS card holders in that State. It should discuss with the Tamil Nadu government too and supply teas that can be given to PDS card holders in the State free of cost, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-tea-growers-seek-better-price/article31420119.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homage/article31420124.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 23   Coimbatore  Persons in hospitals: 261 (male -121, male child – 10, female – 114, female child – 16) Government hospitals – 204 Private hospitals – 57 Positive cases – 134 (no new case on Thursday) Persons recovered - 93 (five on Thursday)  Tiruppur  House quarantined: 898 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 17 Samples lifted: 2,455 Results declared: 2,088 Positive: 110 (one case on Thursday) Negative: 1,978 Discharged: 30 Results awaited: 367||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31420139.ece
24 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Family sent away from SP’s office||Police personnel posted at the gates of the Superintendent of Police office here sent away a man, his wife and their son who came to report a case of assault from their relatives, without letting them meet the Superintendent of Police on Thursday. Channappa Nandihalli and his wife Dakshayini came to the Superintendent of Police office from Bavihal village in Bailhongal on a motorcycle along with their son. They said that their relatives had beaten them up over a land dispute. Four persons, including Channappa Nandhihalli’s cousin Shivanand, had attacked them, he said. The woman said that the assailants bit her on her shoulders when she tried to stop them from beating her husband up. However, the staff manning the gate at the entrance of the Superintendent of Police office did not allow them to go inside stating that the Superintendent of Police was busy in a meeting. They advised them to go to their jurisdictional police station. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi, who was in a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar at the Command and Control Centre when the family came to meet him, said that he would monitor the case strictly and ensure legal action was taken against the accused. He promised that one woman sub-inspector of police and two women police constables would be posted at the grievance redressal centre functioning from a tent at the entrance of his office to receive complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-sent-away-from-sps-office/article31420200.ece
24 April 2020||Bengalru,KARNATAKA||Ten cases reported from one Bengaluru locality||Eighteen COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday in Karnataka and nine of them were from one labour colony at Vidyajyothinagar, Hongasandra ward, in Bengaluru. All of them were primary contacts of patient-419, a 54-year-old migrant labourer in the same colony who tested positive on Wednesday morning. Area sealed The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has now sealed the area, which has over 500 houses, apart from the temporary sheds on vacant land where the construction workers stayed. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the civic body was informed about the nine positive cases late Wednesday night and that they immediately evacuated and tested all the secondary contacts residing in the temporary sheds there. “Nine of the 23 primary contacts have tested positive. The remaining 14 are under quarantine. As many as 162 secondary contacts have been traced and they are being monitored. They will be put under quarantine once their tests results are out,” he said. A senior BBMP official said the vicinity had been sanitised and sealed. “We are still trying to ascertain the source of the virus. They might have been in touch with more people and hence we are doing door-to-door campaigns and phone surveillance,” an official said. Door-to-door survey MLA for Bommanahalli Satish Reddy told The Hindu , “ASHA workers are doing a door-to-door survey. Fortunately, it’s a dead-end on one side of the settlement and on the other side, there is a storm-water drain. This has restricted the movement of people.” Meanwhile, sources in the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. said they were in the process of identifying the construction labourers to ascertain whether they had previously worked with any Namma Metro contractor. On Wednesday, a private hospital’s licence was cancelled and the facility was sealed by the Bengaluru Urban district administration for allegedly not informing the government of the then suspected COVID-19 case, who then tested positive (P- 419). A few hospital staff had also resisted quarantine. Apart from the nine cases in one locality, one more positive case was reported in Bengaluru. Two cases each were reported in Vijayapura, Hubballi, and Mandya, while one case each was reported from Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada districts. While the contact tracing for the patients in Vijayapura is under way, all the other patients are contacts of those who were tested positive earlier. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Karnataka stands at 445.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-cases-reported-from-one-bengaluru-locality/article31420036.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Salary hike for contract doctors; KSRTC buses to be used as goods carriers||The State government is set to hike salaries of doctors working on contract basis and use State transport corporation buses as goods carriers to supply particularly essential goods in the next few days. These decisions were taken at a marathon meeting held by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday with senior officials on steps to be taken during the next few days and post-lockdown period to tone up administrative machinery and bring revenue to the State. On leased land, buses The government has decided to take back all lands allotted on lease to various non-government organisations that have not utilised them till now, thereby violating lease conditions, sources in the government said. Cash-trapped government had already decided to implement Akrama-Sakrama scheme in urban areas of the State to regularise unauthorised constructions and auction some BDA sites to generate revenue. With KSRTC and other State RTCs having incurred loss of Rs. 816.21 crore till April 20, owing to lockdown, it was decided that buses would be used as goods carriers to transport essential goods to bring revenue to the State. It was decided that KSRTC and BMTC buses will be given to private companies on a contract basis. With this decision, BMTC/KSRTC buses and metro trains in the city are unlikely to become operational for a few days after lifting of the lockdown on May 3. Farm produce The Chief Minister discussed various options available before the government on saving perishable commodities in cold storages and later selling them in the market. Options of exporting farm produce to other States and countries too was discussed and officials were told to come up with solutions to provide remunerative prices to farmers, sources said. Mr. Yediyurappa also had telephonic talks with Union Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda and told him to take steps to supply fertilizers to farmers at reduced prices since prices at international markets have crashed owing to lockdown. Water release The Water Resources Department’s officials have been told to release excess water from reservoirs for crops planted by farmers. Keeping in mind last year’s flood, the officials have been told to monitor water levels in each major reservoir every day. The Chief Minister told the officials to activate task forces set up at the gram panchayat level and ensure supply of potable water to all residents.  Activate task forces set up at the gram panchayat level and ensure supply of potable water to all residents.B.S. YediyurappaChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/salary-hike-for-contract-doctors-ksrtc-buses-to-be-used-as-goods-carriers/article31420054.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15% spike in domestic water consumption||As most people in the city are at home due to the lockdown for almost a month now, and with the increase in awareness on personal hygiene, the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has seen a gradual increase in domestic consumption of water. The water utility has noticed an increase of around 15% over the past three and a half weeks. Tushar Girinath, chairman, BWSSB, said there is usually a spike in consumption of water during summer. “However, this year, the spike is above average as everyone is at home all the time,” he said and added that as the water meter reading was stopped due to the lockdown, they did not have accurate date. “But based on other parameters such as pumping and quantity of water consumed, we can say that the consumption, on an average, has increased,” he said. Since water supply for commercial and industrial units has been stopped, BWSSB has managed to divert around 140 MLD of water for domestic purposes. However, diverting the leftover water has not been an easy task for the board. “Diverting unconsumed water is not as easy as it seems as pipeline capacity remains the same and we also need to maintain certain level of pressure,” a senior engineer said, adding that the demand from residential areas and hospitals was more. Vishwanath Srikantaiah, water conservationist, said it was the right time for all agencies concerned to promote and encourage people to effectively utilise grey water for various purposes. Water bill collection dips On the other hand, the BWSSB, which raises around Rs. 120 crore from consumers every month, saw a dip in March and is expecting a revenue dip in April as well. The board has offered a ‘payment holiday’ due to the lockdown where it has promised that it would not disconnect water supply if people were unable to pay the monthly bill, which will be recovered later. In addition, dip in revenue due to stoppage of water supply to commercial and industrial establishments is inevitable to the board. According to senior officials, the board collected Rs. 120 crore in January and Rs. 119 crore in February. “Our revenue dipped to Rs. 97.8 crore in March due to the lockdown that started in the last week of March. 60% of bills are paid in the latter half of every month and our collection was hit from March 23,” a senior official said. Though BWSSB kiosks are open and online and digital payment methods are available, BWSSB has received 40% less revenue till the mid of April. BWSSB receives over Rs. 78 crore through bills paid from BangaloreOne and BWSSB kiosks. “To compared it with last month, by March 15, the board had collected Rs. 30 crore but as on 16 April, the collection stood at Rs. 18 crore,” a BWSSB official said and added, “A dip in collection was expected due to the lockdown. The recovery time might take three to six months. This will definitely impact the financial condition of the board.” Online payments up The board has also seen an increase in people paying online. “This month, of the Rs. 18 crore collected, over Rs. 11 crore was through online transactions, which is more than usual,” B.M. Manjunath, PRO, BWSSB, said, adding that the board was encouraging consumers to pay the bill either through their website or digital payment wallets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-spike-in-domestic-water-consumption/article31420021.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru tops State in tests per million||Among the 20 districts in Karnataka that have reported COVID-19 positive cases, the highest number of tests per million have been done in Mysuru district, while the lowest is in Belagavi district. Mysuru district has conducted 902 tests per million, while Belagavi, with 162 tests per million, has fared the poorest among the 20 districts, according to the data available on Wednesday. Mysuru district has reported 88 COVID-19 positive cases, the second highest in the State after Bengaluru Urban (101 positive cases). Officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare point out that there is a need for the Belagavi districts administration to ramp-up tests as the district has reported 43 COVID-19 cases, the third highest in the State. Although the highest number of tests — 6,430 — have been done in Bengaluru Urban, the tests per million stands at 668. Karnataka has conducted 471 tests per million and nine districts are testing above the State average. Giridhara R. Babu, professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, said Belagavi has detected 12% of the cases in the 60 and above age group, and the majority of them had a contact history. “The elderly getting affected will have relatively poor outcomes. This is an important indicator in all districts as we move forward towards the end of the extended deadline for lockdown. It appears that the initial quarantine efforts were not successful when compared with a better performing district such as Mysuru. Belagavi is not doing well in terms of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness surveillance,” he said. Dr. Babu also added that in Mysuru, 5% of the cases are in the 60+ age group, and nearly 82% of the infection was reported from contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-tops-state-in-tests-per-million/article31420039.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP launches health line||Given the COVID-19 situation in the city, citizens are finding it difficult to get routine health services and consultation, while public and private healthcare facilities are not able to provide routine out patient services, given the limitations due to the lockdown. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), in collaboration with Bloomberg Philanthropies and Vital Strategies, has launched a health line (07447118949) through which teleconsultation services will be offered to citizens for their health-related issues. The health line was launched on Thursday by Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. In a release, Mr. Goutham Kumar said that the health helpline was launched to offer medical consultations and counselling to citizens without them having to step out of their homes. The BBMP’s 42 doctors will be available for consultations on the health line. They will be working in four shifts and the health line would be open between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. All calls to the helpline will be routed to the doctors on duty by the call centre. Each caller will be given a unique ID. If during consultation, the doctors feel further investigation is required, a video call would be made to the patient. “In future, private practitioners may also join the BBMP’s health line, which will be further developed,” the Mayor said. Mr. Anil Kumar said that in the light of COVID-19 cases being reported in the city, many private hospitals and nursing homes were offering treatment for diabetes, kidney and heart ailments only as in-patient treatment. “Many citizens are apprehensive of even going to the fever clinics. Citizens may now make use of the health line, which offers free consultation over phone. The medicines will be prescribed by the doctors,” he said. Meanwhile, the release also stated that this intervention will be in addition to the existing care and not for total substitution of regular OPD care. The doctors have been directed to necessarily elicit history of the case, progress and onset of symptoms and related medical conditions. That apart, travel history over the past 28 days, history of contact with a known COVID-19 positive patient and address of the caller must be sought. If any patient is reporting from the 19 well-defined containment zones, he/she must be given consultation. The health officer of the zone concerned should be informed so that sampling, testing and other action can be initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-launches-health-line/article31420026.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kidwai to test every patient and attendant for COVID-19||To ensure COVID-19 pandemic does not come in the way of providing treatment to cancer patients and also to safeguard patients and staff from getting infected, the State-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology will start testing every patient and his/her attendant from next week. A similar system has already been put in place at Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences. This comes in the wake of patients thronging the hospital despite being asked not to do so unless there is an emergency. The tests will be done at the institutes’s outsourced Advanced Molecular Biology Laboratory and only if patients test negative will they be taken in for treatment, institute Director C. Ramachandra told The Hindu on Wednesday. “Even if one positive patient is admitted or taken up for therapy, the entire hospital will be at risk. Hence, we now want to take only such patients who test negative and send the positive cases to dedicated COVID-19 hospitals,” the doctor said. “The laboratory has PCR machines and is equipped to take up COVID tests. We are in the process of obtaining all the required approvals as per ICMR protocols,” said the Director. “The plan is to set up a swab collection centre at the entrance. We will put up a shamiana near the entrance where patients can wait after giving the samples. Although our patient load has reduced from the regular 1,500 a day to around 250, we want to make sure none of them are infected after coming to the hospital,” he said. In the first week of March, the Director had asked patients to postpone non-emergency procedures as “delaying chemotherapy and radiotherapy for one or two weeks is better than contracting COVID-19.” However, it is inevitable for those developing breathing difficulty, bleeding, abdominal distension, difficulty in swallowing and severe pain to visit the hospital, he said. On the system being followed at Jayadeva, its Director C.N. Manjunath said: “We are testing all in-patients just after admission and observing them for four-five days before taking them in for surgeries.” Is it foolproof? However, sources in the Health Department said as every patient who walks into a hospital may not be COVID-19 infected, the plan to test everyone is “unwarranted.” “The best approach is to take appropriate precautions rather than depending on the tests as no test is foolproof. The patient may be negative at the time of collecting the samples and the staff may not follow precautions. But what if the patient tests positive after admission and the staff is under the impression he/she is negative? So, without categorising patients into negative or positive, hospital staff should cater to every patient taking all precautions that they would have taken if the patient was positive,” the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kidwai-to-test-every-patient-and-attendant-for-covid-19/article31420042.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. schools allowed to collect fees from those who can pay||The State government has decided to allow private educational institutions to collect fee from those parents who are financially sound and volunteer to pay. The decision has been taken in the wake of managements of private institutions approaching the State government to allow them to collect fee to pay the salary of the staff. Earlier, the State government had ordered private educational institutions not to force parents to pay the fee till the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 ends. Primary and Higher Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has directed officials to come out with a circular on the decision taken by the government. However, the Minister, in his note, has said that private educational institutions cannot force parents who are not in a position to pay the fee owing to financial constraints. Mr. Suresh Kumar has warned that education institutions would face action for pressuring such parents to pay the fee. The educational institutions will be asked to use the collected amount to pay the salary of staff on priority. Private school managements have welcomed the move. “We welcome the decision of the State government. We had appraised the government about the issues institutions are facing. We will use the fee collected to pay the salary of the staff. We also stand with government on taking action against those errant institutions who will pressure parents to pay the fee despite knowing their financial difficulties,” said D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka.  Earlier, the State government had ordered private educational institutions not to force parents to pay the fee till the lockdown to contain COVID-19 ends||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-schools-allowed-to-collect-fees-from-those-who-can-pay/article31420033.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Child marriage prohibition officers asked to remain vigilant during lockdown||The Department of Women and Child Development has directed all child marriage prohibition officers to remain vigilant during lockdown and take steps to ensure prevention of child marriages. The Director of the department, on Wednesday, issued this order based on The Hindu’s report earlier this week. The story - ‘Rise in child marriage, physical abuse complaints during lockdown’ had pointed out that ChildLine, between March 25 and April 5, received 37 calls reporting child marriages and 32 calls related to physical abuse of children. The Director, in a letter to all the Deputy Directors, pointed out that the child marriage prohibition officers need to be alert on April 24 on Akshaya Tritiya when the number of child marriage cases could be a matter of concern. “Officers need to pay more attention and need to take action,” the letter stated. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights too has asked its members to investigate into the matter and pointed that the cases were coming from rural parts of North Karnataka. Antony Sebastian, chairperson of the commission, welcomed the move by the department. “The commission members will also get on the field to verify the statistics,” he said. Nagasimha G. Rao, child rights activists, has hailed the department for its quick action. “During times like these, there is a need to act quickly and not spend too much time to deliberate and plan. We hope the officers on field will be able to prevent child marriage cases,” he said.  Officers need to be alert on April 24 on Akshaya Tritiya when the number of child marriage cases could be a matter of concern. Department of Women and Child Development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/child-marriage-prohibition-officers-asked-to-remain-vigilant-during-lockdown/article31420046.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anyone buying drugs for fever, cough, cold have to give personal details at pharmacies||Chemists/druggists as well as pharmacies in hospitals will now have to make a note of the name, address, and phone numbers of anyone buying medicines for fever, cough, and cold over the counter. The Director of the Department of Health and Family Welfare issued a notification on Wednesday after the State-level Technical Expert Committee said that influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness cases which have symptoms similar to that of COVID-l9 should be screened in the initial stages so that morbidity and mortality owing to COVID-19 can be arrested in the community. The drugs for which the pharmacists will have to collect details include those for fever (anti-pyretics and anti-inflammatory), cold (anti-allergic), and cough (anti-tussive). The notification also states that the drugs could be paracetamol, paracetamol of all dosage and strength, cetirizine, chlorpheniramine etc., and all types of cough syrups. “The above said drugs either individually or in any combination are included,” the notification states, adding that the regulations will come into force immediately. It also states that chemists/druggists shall report such cases to the respective district health authorities every day and these are subject to verification by the district health officers or his/her representatives. Justifying the department’s decision, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said this was being done in the interest of the public. “||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anyone-buying-drugs-for-fever-cough-cold-have-to-give-personal-details-at-pharmacies/article31420038.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sub-registrar offices in Karnataka to open from today, with conditions||A month after the registration of properties was stopped in the State, offices of sub-registrars are set to open from Friday with certain conditions. The offices in the State will be open from 9 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. To maintain social distancing in the offices, the Stamps and Registration Department has been asked to popularise the pre-registration data entry (PRDE) system, which is currently in vogue in Bengaluru. The sub-registrars have been directed to register a maximum of three documents per hour. While social distancing has to be maintained within and outside the office, visitors will be scanned with thermal scanners. Wearing of masks has also been made compulsory. The offices in containment zones will remain closed, and the registration process in the red zone will be done through the PRDE system, which will be extended to all offices across Karnataka. Under the PRDE system, a time slot is given for registration, and the entry pass will be issued by the respective sub-registrars. Applications for encumbrance certificates, duplicate copy of registered documents, certificates needed for farm loans will have to be received online only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sub-registrar-offices-in-karnataka-to-open-from-today-with-conditions/article31420034.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dunzo delivery person held for trying to sell snake||The Central Crime Branch sleuths arrested two persons, including a delivery person, for allegedly trying to sell a two-headed snake (double engine snake) for Rs. 50 lakh. The arrested were misusing the delivery bag of Dunzo company to transport the snake. The arrested are Mohammad Rizwan, 26, and Azar Khan, 27, residents of Gurappanapalya on Bannerghatta Road. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), said: “We have rescued the snake and seized a scooter and three mobile phones. The reptile is protected under Schedule 4 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972.” Rizwan is working as a delivery person for Dunzo. Azhar Khan packed the snake in the travel kit and was trying to sell it, Mr. Patil said. The snake has huge demand in the international market and is sold for around Rs. 50 lakh. Based on a tip-off, a team rushed to Basappa Garden near Sarakki signal in JP Nagar and nabbed the duo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dunzo-delivery-person-held-for-trying-to-sell-snake/article31420028.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Alternative arrangements for other health conditions||With many district hospitals being converted into COVID-19 hospitals, the State government has made alternative arrangements for patients who are undergoing treatment for other chronic health conditions. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Thursday that 23 out of the total 166 dialysis centres were being used as hospitals for COVID-19 patients. “To make sure patients are not affected, we have roped in 45 private hospitals where patients can undergo treatment at the same rate under the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka scheme,” he said. As many as 62% of the COVID-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka are found to be asymptomatic. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, pointed out that a large number of patients who tested positive did not have symptoms such as cough, cold or fever. Sources in the department said the majority of them were primary or secondary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alternative-arrangements-for-other-health-conditions/article31420037.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two new containment zones in city||To prevent the spread of COVID-19, BBMP on Thursday night declared two more containment zones, taking the total number of such areas in the city to 21. One containment zone has been identified in Hongasandra ward (189) under Bommanahalli zone, and the other in Vasanthnagar ward (93) under the east zone. A containment zone is an area of 100 meters radius around the premises of a COVID-19 positive case, which will be sealed for 28 days. On Sunday, the BBMP had declared 19 containment zones in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-new-containment-zones-in-city/article31420022.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KOF donates Rs. 25 lakh||The Karnataka Cooperative Oilseeds Growers’ Federation (KOF) on April 21 donated Rs. 25 lakh to the CM Relief Fund for COVID-19. Annasaheb Shankar Jolle, chairman, KOF, presented a cheque to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kof-donates-rs-25-lakh/article31420051.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constable injured||A 48-year-old head constable K. Gopal was severely injured after a speeding motorist hit him when he was asked to stop at a checkpoint near Kanteerava Studios on Thursday. Mr. Gopal, attached to Rajajinagar traffic police, was examining passes. The police nabbed the motorist, Sumanth, a resident of Leggere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-injured/article31420027.ece
24 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Special teams to survey people with cough, fever||Special teams from the Health Department will survey people with complaints of cough, fever and breathlessness in Dharwad district. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has issued instructions to the effective. The special teams comprising ASHAs and health assistants will visit every household and collect details of people who have undergone treatment for cough, fever and breathlessness after the lockdown was imposed. It is mandatory to collect details of patients who have availed themselves of treatment and medicine at private clinics and hospitals, she said. There are a total of 1,750 clinics and hospitals registered under KPME Act in the district. Of these clinics and hospitals, 1,500 are working. These clinics and hospitals should compulsorily submit details of people who have visited them for breathlessness, fever and cough during the lockdown. If any patient has undergone treatment for these ailments in the last 10 days, the hospitals should immediately submit their details, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-teams-to-survey-people-with-cough-fever/article31420206.ece
24 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Relaxation for some sectors||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has said that lockdown will continue till May 3, however, those working in some sectors will enjoy relaxation during the lockdown period. Speaking to presspersons, here on Thursday, he said that factories in the pharmaceutical, food processing and packing sectors would be allowed to function. There would be no restrictions on agriculture and horticulture activities. The government has allowed construction works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxation-for-some-sectors/article31420211.ece
24 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||67 from Dharwad return home from quarantine centres||As many as 67 persons from Dharwad district who were quarantined in different government quarantine facilities in Hubballi and Dharwad have completed their quarantine period and have returned home. According to a press release from the district administration, all these persons were quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure and those who have tested negative after their 12th day in quarantine have been discharged from lodges which have been temporarily converted as quarantine centres. The quarantined persons were given a farewell from their respective quarantine centres on Wednesday evening and they were given food kits and gift vouchers donated by donors. The health staff and officials clapped and bid them adieu after handing over the food kits. Speaking on the occasion, Assistant Commissioner Mohammed Zuber thanked the Hubballi Dharwad Hotel Association for handing over rooms in various lodges to the district administration for creating temporary quarantine centres. He said that those who had come in primary contact with COVID-19 positive patients were being quarantined by the government and he would appeal to the public to voluntarily get themselves quarantined if they have come in contact with any such positive patients. Hubballi Urban taluk tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal said that those returning home were being given gift vouchers from Sapna Book House donated by Kashinath Chatni and food kits provided by Star Airlines. Naimuddin Sheikh who successfully completed the quarantine period said that as he had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, he was quarantined and the health staff took excellent care of all of them. He said that he would thank the doctors, nurses and the police who were risking their lives in the fight against the pandemic and would appeal to all to extend their cooperation to the administration in the fight against the pandemic. Syed Aslam Khadar and a soldier of Madras Regiment Rafiq Sab who were quarantined because of their Delhi travel thanked all for the good treatment and care. Hubballi Rural Tahsildar Prakash Nasi, Health Officer Shashi Patil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/67-from-dharwad-return-home-from-quarantine-centres/article31420208.ece
24 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Officer fails to report for duty, suspended||Assistant Engineer of the Minor Irrigation Department Narendra Kumar, who had been appointed as Sectoral Magistrate for Pattana Hobli, Kalaburagi taluk, has been suspended from service for not reporting for duty and his failure to enforce COVID-19 lockdown in his area. Using his powers conferred under Rule 10 (1) (d) of Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate of Kalaburagi B. Sharat, on Tuesday, placed the delinquent officer under suspension with immediate effect pending a departmental inquiry. The Deputy Commissioner’s order came after Kalaburagi Tahsildar, in his report submitted on the same day, complained that Mr. Kumar had not reported for duty ever since he was appointed as Sectoral Magistrate on April 9, 2020. Junior Engineer Mallikarjun Malipatil discharged duties as Sectoral Magistrate in the absence of the former. Based on the report, Mr. Sharat concluded in his proceedings that Mr. Kumar showed delinquency by violating the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Karnataka Civil Services (Conduct) Rules and took the action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officer-fails-to-report-for-duty-suspended/article31420201.ece
24 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Another Bantwal woman dies in Mangaluru||A 75-year-old woman from Bantwal who was suffering from COVID-19 died in Mangaluru on Thursday. She was also undergoing treatment for stroke. This is the second COVID-19 death reported in the coastal belt, particularly in Dakshina Kannada. The woman who died on Thursday was a relative of a 50-year-old woman, also from Bantwal, who died of COVID-19 and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) at the Government Wenlock Hospital on April 19. The 75-year-old woman was undergoing treatment for stroke at a private hospital in the city since March 18. She was shifted to the intensive care unit of the Wenlock Hospital on Wednesday and tested positive for COVID-19 early on Thursday. According to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, the First Neuro Hospital near Padil in the city where the 75-year-old woman was being treated before she was shifted to the Wenlock Hospital has been declared as the Supervised Isolation Centre. The areas surrounding the hospital have been declared as active containment zone by identifying borders. It comprises two houses and five shops, with a population of 16. The buffer zone has also been declared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-bantwal-woman-dies-in-mangaluru/article31420040.ece
24 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Wild tusker rescued from well||A wild tusker which had accidentally fallen into a well in an agricultural field close to the MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary was rescued by the authorities on Thursday. The lone tusker, aged around 25 years, is suspected to have crossed over from the Hoogyam range of the sanctuary. It had entered Kudaluru village around 7 a.m in search of fodder and fell into the 25-ft deep well full of water. The local villagers adjoining the forest boundary heard the trumpeting sound of the elephant emanating from the well and saw it thrashing around in desperation. The Forest Department, on receiving the information, launched a rescue operation around 9 a.m. An excavator was pressed into service to clear the ground, remove soil and create a pathway to enable the elephant to walk out of the well, said V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. He said after about 90 minutes of incessant operations the pathway was created at a 45 degree angle and the tusker heaved itself up and made a dash towards the forest which bordered the village. The authorities said their efforts were delayed because of the large crowd which created a ruckus and terrified the elephant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wild-tusker-rescued-from-well/article31420032.ece
24 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Poachers nabbed in Nagarahole||Two poachers were thwarted from hunting animals and nabbed by the forest guards in the early hours of Thursday. The two persons possessing a gun, two torches, a machete and 5 live cartridges were intercepted in the Cauvery block reserve forest and buffer area of the Hunsur Wildlife Range of Nagarahole National Park around 12.15 a.m. Though they tried to evade the forest guards they were overpowered on the banks of the Cauvery and taken into custody. Deputy Range Forest Officers Ramu and Sachin along with forest guards Manju and Ganesh, Range Forest Officer Hanumanthraju, and staff members of the Cauvery Anti-Poaching camp were part of the team that foiled the poaching attempt. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said “We are trying to ascertain if there is a larger network behind them or these were local operators trying to hunt for meat.’’ After the lockdown was announced on March 25, there have been four cases of poaching in Nagarahole alone. At least two such incidents were reported from Bandipur as well in which a few persons were taken into custody.  In the meantime, the STPF personnel have stepped up combing operation along the national park periphery to remove snares laid by poachers. Six held in Kerala Kalpetta Staff Reporter writes: Six persons were arrested at Kattikulam in the district on Thursday on the charge of poaching in the Bavali forest section of the Tholpetty forest range in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. The accused were identified as A. Sasi, 30; P. Suresh, 33; P. Babu, 34; N. Aneesh, 40; K. Kariyan, 50; and C. Mani, 38, of Narangakunnu tribal hamlet near Kattikulam. Wildlife Warden P.K. Asif said that the accused had hunted Malabar giant squirrel, flying squirrel, porcupine and mouse deer from Masalakunnu forest on April 21 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poachers-nabbed-in-nagarahole/article31420030.ece
24 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Raichur to soon get laboratory||Raichur will soon get a laboratory to carry out COVID-19 tests, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has said. In a release here, Mr. Kumar said that the laboratory will be established at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh at the Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) after necessary approval. “The grant of Rs. 50 lakh has already been released and the lab will soon be established with all equipment,” he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Kumar also visited the Ganekal Reservoir which supplies drinking water to Raichur. Water is now being stored in the reservoir to meet the drinking water demand during summer. He suggested that officials concerned should ensure that water was only used for drinking purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raichur-to-soon-get-laboratory/article31420202.ece
24 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Woman dies in cattle feed plant||A 35-year-old woman, who was working on outsource basis, in the Karnataka Milk Federation cattle feed plant in Gubbi died after she got stuck in a roller on Thursday. The deceased Mangalamma was working in the unit for the past 12 years. She has an eight-year-old daughter. As her husband is unwell, she was the breadwinner of the family. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-in-cattle-feed-plant/article31420043.ece
24 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||10 more districts to get COVID-19 laboratories||Home Minister and district in-charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday that the State government had set up COVID-19 testing laboratories in 17 districts and 10 more districts would get such facilities by April 30. Addressing presspersons after chairing a review meeting, Mr. Bommai said that a COVID-19 testing laboratory would set up at the District Government Hospital here. He would get clearance for the testing laboratory here from the State government immediately. More Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits were required in Udupi district for healthcare sector workers. Hence, he would ask the Directorate of Drug Control in Bengaluru to release 3,500 PPE kits for Udupi immediately, he said. A 50-bed ward with centralised oxygen supply would be set up at the District Government Hospital here for treatment of patients with moderate COVID-19, while a 10-bed ward with centralised oxygen supply would be set up at the taluk headquarters in Udupi district, he said. When Udupi district was put in the Green Zone category, the government would decide on what relaxations could be given with regard to sand removal and other such issues. It would take three more days for Udupi district to enter the Green Zone provided no new COVID-19 positive case was reported, he said. Though fishing had been permitted, it was incumbent upon fishermen to follow social distancing while fishing and selling fish. The State government would deal sternly with any attack on healthcare staff and police dealing with COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-more-districts-to-get-covid-19-laboratories/article31420209.ece
24 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Special parcel train||Essential commodities such as food items, medicine, medicinal clothes, etc., were loaded and transported from the Udupi Railway Station on Thursday to Goa, Panvel and Vasai Road in Maharashtra and Bharuch in Gujarat by a special parcel train. Amid the lockdown, the Railways is playing a vital role in providing logistics support to maintain continuity in the supply chain across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-parcel-train/article31420210.ece
24 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Registered Medical Practitioner booked||The police registered a case under Section 304 of Indian Penal Code against a Registered Medical Practitioner on the charge of causing the death of a 13-year-old girl by giving treatment illegally to her at Kolihal Doddatanda, in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput said in a release here on Thursday. He had treated the girl in violation of the direction given by the district administration, he said. The district administration had specifically given instructions to all private doctors to inform the Health Department if any patient went to them for treatment for fever. But, Registered Medical Practitioner M.P. Ajit of Kolihal village gave treatment to the girl for fever, he said. However, after treatment, the girl died on April 22. Following the incident, her parents lodged a complaint with the Hunsagi Police, he said. Meanwhile, a senior police officer told The Hindu that the accused has gone absconding and the police have launched a search for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/registered-medical-practitioner-booked/article31420204.ece
24 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Bharat Petroleum introduces ATMs||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited has introduced Automated Teller Machine (ATM) facilities in six petrol pumps in Yadgir district to help general public particularly those from the rural areas and customers, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has said in a release. The ATMs have been set up in these six petrol pumps: Budhya Naik Petrol Pump on Sedam-Yadgir Road and Danish Fuel Point on Gurmitkal-Yadgir Road in Yadgir; Chand Petroleum and Gudgunti Petroleum in Shahapur; Basava Petroleum in Kodekal and Jagadish Fuels in Gogi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-petroleum-introduces-atms/article31420203.ece
24 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||900 kg rotten jaggery, hooch seized||In a raid, officials of the Excise Department seized 900 kg of rotten jaggery and two litres of hooch in Gandhi Chowk area of Yadgir city on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, the officials conducted the raid. The accused who had stored the rotten jaggery and hooch is yet to be traced. Deputy Commissioner of Excise Shashikala Odeyar led the raiding team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/900-kg-rotten-jaggery-hooch-seized/article31420205.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ten Gulmohar trees cut, case registered||Nearly 10 Gulmohar trees in front of an apartment complex in Kengeri were mysteriously felled on April 13. A case has been registered at Kengeri Police Station. Bhanu Prakash, Range Forest Officer, said preliminary inquiries revealed that a truck came and took away the wood the same day. The residents did not stop the felling of trees but later complained to us, he said. “There are conflicting reports as to who carried out the felling. Based on our complaint, the Kengeri police have registered a case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-gulmohar-trees-cut-case-registered/article31420023.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Out of bounds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/out-of-bounds/article31420048.ece
24 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||No new case in Alappuzha||No new case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on Thursday. Officials said one person was admitted to Taluk Hospital, Haripad, with symptoms, taking the number of people under observation there to three. “At present, no one is undergoing treatment in the district. However, three persons remain under observation in the taluk hospital,” said an official. Besides, 39 people have been put in home quarantine in the district taking the total number to 1,855. The police have registered 151 cases and arrested 257 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. They were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance 2020. Authorities also seized 84 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-in-alappuzha/article31420326.ece
24 April 2020||Idukki,KERALA||More curbs in Idukki as four test positive||The administration has imposed more restrictions in the district after four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. With this, the district, which did not report positive cases after April 2, was moved from Green to Orange zone. The district administration has made it mandatory for all to wear masks at public places and a penalty will be imposed on violators. The decision was taken at a meeting at the Collectorate on Thursday. Drones will be deployed in border areas with Tamil Nadu to monitor interstate movement of people. A Pala resident who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, on Wednesday evening, District Collector H. Dinesan said. She was intercepted at the Cumbom Mettu check-post while coming from Delhi in a taxi with her husband on April 16. They had been put up at an isolation facility at Cumbom Mettu since then. Her husband has tested negative for the virus. The information about the driver and the vehicle was handed over to the authorities in Delhi. The couple reached Delhi from Melbourne on March 20 and was coming to Kerala after a 14-day quarantine there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-curbs-in-idukki-as-four-test-positive/article31420327.ece
24 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Squads to monitor those in home quarantine||The Kannur district administration has decided to appoint three-member squads to ensure that people who came in contact with COVID-19 patients comply with quarantine regulations in their homes. District Collector T.V. Subhash, who held a review meeting on Thursday, said the squads comprising health workers, police and local body officials would be given the charge of each house. The Collector said that swab examination of those who had come from abroad and those who came in contact with them was almost complete in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squads-to-monitor-those-in-home-quarantine/article31420290.ece
24 April 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Construction, farming allowed in non-hotspots||Lockdown curbs will be relaxed in non-hotspot areas in Kasaragod district from Friday. However, stringent restrictions will be continued in hotspot areas, according to District Collector D. Sajith Babu. Six panchayats — Chemmanadu, Muliyar, Chengala, Mogral Puthur, Uduma, and Madhur — and Kasaragod and Kanhangad municipalities have been declared as hotspots. “It has been decided to resume cultivation, construction and sanitation activities in non-hotspot panchayats by following strict guidelines of the State government,” the Collector said. Construction activities that needed to be completed before the monsoon could be restarted, he said. Besides, permission to resume agricultural activities had been given, he added. Permission has also been granted for activities under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Six more persons were discharged from hospitals in the district on Thursday after they tested negative for COVID-19. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients has come down to 20 from 169. There are now 3,126 persons under observation. Of these, 3,070 are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/construction-farming-allowed-in-non-hotspots/article31420281.ece
24 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi police to keep lockdown relaxation under control||The Kochi City police have devised a two-pronged strategy to keep things under control during the partial lifting of the lockdown in the city, except in the two hotspots, on Friday. The boundaries leading to the hotspots — Chullikkal and Kathrikadavu — have been fully demarcated with red paint showing their status. Barricades were put up restricting entry and exit from the hotspots. “We will conduct a drone surveillance of the hotspots on Friday. There will be just two entry and exit points for the hotspots and people inside will not be let out and those from outside will not be allowed in except in case of medical emergencies. Banks and other financial institutions within the hotspots will remain shut and only ATMs will function,” said G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Kochi City. Shops dealing in groceries and provisions will be allowed to function only from 10 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. with the first hour reserved for senior citizens considering their vulnerability to the disease. Shops will be allowed to cater only for residents within the hotspots. The rest of the city will operate as per the detailed instructions brought out by the government last week ahead of the categorisation of areas into different zones. “Private vehicles with registration numbers ending with odd numbers will be allowed on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and even numbers on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. No such restriction will be there on Sundays. We are anticipating some confusion initially since the city is not used to such an arrangement before. We are planning extensive awareness promotions, especially over social media,” said Ms. Poonguzhali. Public transport will remain fully suspended, while no public gatherings will be permitted. Places of worship will remain closed. IT and IT-Enabled Services will be allowed to function with half the staff strength, while hotels will be allowed to serve takeaways. Construction and allied sectors will also resume activities. Grocery and provision stores will function between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Traffic cops and home guards have been called back from picketing duty and redeployed for their normal traffic duties anticipating spike in traffic. However, home guards posted at migrant labour camps will continue the duty at camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-police-to-keep-lockdown-relaxation-under-control/article31420278.ece
24 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Private hospitals need testing facility: IMA chief||Private hospitals have to be equipped with testing facilities as every patient has to be considered a probable COVID-19 patient unless tested otherwise, says Abraham Varghese, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala. Pointing out how a doctor in Tamil Nadu had died after, perhaps, getting infected from a patient, Dr. Varghese says that while both the State and the Union governments rule out community spread of the disease, preparations should be afoot foreseeing the movement of people post lockdown. Random tests Even though the State government has begun doing random tests, unless at least 500 people for a lakh of population are tested, there could be no clear estimate of what is expected and the kind of preparedness it requires, Dr. Varghese says. Private hospitals “It has been a month since all private hospitals have closed their outpatient departments and channelised fever cases to the government sector, while taking care of only emergency cases; it is also essential that the hospitals be opened for treatment of other sick patients,” says Sajeev Singh, superintendent of the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences. Dr. Singh says it is important that all health-care institutions, the secondary and tertiary hospitals where patients reach for treatment, be trained for testing for the virus. The test should become mandatory like the ones done for HIV, hepatitis B, and other routine tests before any procedure on a patient. Hospitals also have to start functioning to generate income for paying the employees too, he adds. According to Dr. Varghese, there is going to be a dip in every person’s income and health-care professionals too have to face the issue. The government also has to look into the issue of reinfections as there is a possibility of different strains of virus causing the infection again, says Dr. Varghese. Lack of clarity As there is a lack of clarity about the incubation period too, people have to be prepared for taking precautions for a longer period even as the government starts removing lockdown in a phased manner after May 3.  Preparations should be afoot to curb community spread foreseeing movement of people post lockdown. Abraham Varghese IMA State president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-hospitals-need-testing-facility-ima-chief/article31420305.ece
24 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stringent regulations to continue in Kochi hotspots||Being in Orange A zone, lockdown relaxations in Ernakulam district from Friday will be limited, especially with regard to activities in the health sector and the rural economy, according to S. Suhas, District Collector. He said there would only be partial relaxation with the lockdown being in force till May 3. There will be no relaxation in Division 8 of Chullikkal and Division 65 of Kathrikadavu, the two hotspots in the Kochi Corporation area. They were identified after considering live COVID-19 cases as well as previous cases that had primary and secondary contacts. Of the two cases at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, one is from Malappuram, while the other is from the Kaloor South area. Despite relaxations in the rest of the district for some sectors, especially agriculture, fishery, textile manufacturing, food processing, animal husbandry, and poultry, there will be strict monitoring to ensure that people follow lockdown norms, the Collector added. Lockdown norms include compulsory use of mask while stepping out of homes, social distancing, avoiding gathering of more than five persons, ban on spitting in public places, use of lift by not more than two persons at a time, cars being occupied by not more than three persons, and ban on pillion riding on two wheelers. Restrictions on wedding events and funerals will continue. Banks will function as usual, while non-banking finance companies should function with 50% of personnel. Anganwadi workers will distribute food and nutritional products to lactating mothers and children once in 15 days. However, anganwadis will remain closed. Akshaya centres and postal services will be functional as usual. Workshops and textile manufacturing units will be allowed to function. Online food delivery will be permitted till 8 p.m. No inter-district travel will be allowed. Educational institutions, including coaching centres, as well as commercial establishments, except those mentioned in the list of services allowed will remain closed. There will be no taxis and autorickshaws. People can go for walk for health reasons, but not in groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-regulations-to-continue-in-kochi-hotspots/article31420288.ece
24 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Thursdays no longer enthuse tribal farmers of Marayur||Thursdays used to be busy days for Kathiresan and his fellow tribesmen, but not since the outbreak of COVID-19. Muthuvan tribe members of the Marayur forest division used to bring their farm produce to Chilla, the Thursday market at Marayur. It has been nearly six weeks since the market was shut down upsetting their life. Traders from Idukki and neighbouring districts used to reach Marayur on Thursdays to purchase beans, green pepper, cardamom, tapioca, coffee beans, and plantains. On an average, commodities worth Rs. 3 lakh used to be sold there. “The functioning of the market has been suspended since the pandemic outbreak to prevent crowding. The Forest Department is running the market through the Forest Development Agency to protect the tribesmen from exploitation,” said B. Ranjith, Divisional Forest Officer, Marayur. Tribesmen worried Now, with the extended lockdown, the tribesmen are a worried lot. “It is summer and there is shortage of water. Farmers are in crisis,” said Mr. Kathiresan. “Since the market is not functional, they have been asked to dry the vegetables under the sun. There are buyers for such products too. Cancellation of orders is also an issue as some farmers had planted vegetables and medicinal plants based on orders,” said K.V. Binoji, facilitator of the participatory forest management scheme. Meanwhile, the tribesmen have set up ‘home-made’ disinfectant kiosks on the pathways leading to their hamlets to check the spread of the disease. “Tamarind powder and neem leaves are mixed with water and kept at the kiosks. Those entering the village and going out need to wash their hand and feet using the same,” said Mr. Kathiresan. At the same time, T.S. Anish, Associate Professor, Department of Community Medicine, Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, expressed doubts about the effectiveness of the potion. “Only a 70% alcohol-based hand sanitiser or soap and water has been found effective in checking the spread of the virus. Tamarind may be good a good antiseptic but its effectiveness against the virus is yet to be proved,” Dr. Anish said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thursdays-no-longer-enthuse-tribal-farmers-of-marayur/article31420303.ece
24 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Shops plan to upscale online delivery||Grocery and meat stores that took orders online following the lockdown have plans to scale up the online business even after the lifting of restrictions. Traders and entrepreneurs exuded confidence that online orders would witness a spike even after the relaxation of lockdown restrictions as people may be reluctant to come out in large numbers. The growing demand for doorstep delivery has also boosted confidence among service providers. “We sell an average 500 kg of fish daily through orders received on WhatsApp. There is good response to online booking of cut vegetables that we launched to provide quality products at the doorstep. Rice, cereals, oil and other products available at our Farm Shoppe will now be available for online purchase through an agreement with food ordering and delivery platform Swiggy,” said Shinoj Subramanian, head of the Ernakulam Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) functioning under the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) here. N.B. Swaraj, media coordinator of Lulu Group in Kochi, said the doorstep delivery of essentials and other items from its hypermarket would be expanded after the lockdown. “We are adding more drivers and pick-up staff as part of upscaling doorstep delivery services. Products available online can also be availed through delivery service apps like Swiggy and Zomato,” he said. Traditional kirana store owners, who had successfully reduced the rush in the lockdown period by receiving orders through WhatsApp, will continue the service to check the likely increase in footfalls after the lifting of the lockdown. “The delivery will be done a day after because of the shortage of workers. Customers are cooperating with us despite the delay,” said an owner of a margin-free shop in Aluva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shops-plan-to-upscale-online-delivery/article31420280.ece
24 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro work resumes||DMRC resumed the last leg of works on the Kochi Metro’s Thykoodam-Pettah corridor on Thursday, after a month’s lull following the Covid lockdown. All civil, signalling and telecommunication works on the 1.5-km-long corridor was halted on March 22 following the lockdown. “We resumed the work from Thursday using the 100-odd workers. They are engaged in finishing works of Pettah metro station. These works, including of entry/exit to the station, will get over by the first week of May. It will be followed by inspection of the corridor by the Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) for issuing safety certificate,” metro sources said. The pending two lanes of the four-lane Champakkara bridge would be completed by August. With works resuming at Pettah station, the CMRS will inspect the corridor post-lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-work-resumes/article31420279.ece
24 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Milma increases feed production||Milma, the apex milk cooperative in the State, has increased cattle feed production to 600 tonnes a day and has promised farmers that feed packs will be delivered on the basis of orders without delay. Individual farmers or milk collection societies can place orders online and make advance payments for cattle feed packs to be delivered through the societies, said P.A. Balan, Milma chairman, on Wednesday. He said the factories at Pattanakkad (Alappuzha) and Malampuzha (Palakkad) had increased production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-increases-feed-production/article31420293.ece
24 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||WhatsApp platform receives 73 domestic violence plaints||A fortnight into its launch, a WhatsApp-based platform for women to file domestic violence complaints has received 73 complaints from various districts. The WhatsApp facility introduced by the Department of Women and Child Development is in addition to the 24×7 helpline it has been operating for quite some time. With all family members forced to stay indoors, there are chances of domestic violence cases going up and women may not be able to make calls to the helpline number (181 Mithra) as the family members would be around. Such women could send an SMS or WhatsApp message at 94000 80292, says T.V. Anupama, Director, Women and Child Development Department. Increase likely Once the lockdown is lifted and mobility restored, there could be an increase in the number of such complaints. During the pre-lockdown period, women could walk into the facilitation centres and seek support. However, the restrictions on mobility during the lockdown period is a matter of concern. Sending a message via WhatsApp or an SMS would bring the issue to the attention of the authorities concerned, she says. Women in distress Women in distress often find the access to justice and police stations difficult to come during the lockdown period, says J. Sandhya, a former member of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Once the public transport system is back and lockdown withdrawn, more complaints might surface, she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/whatsapp-platform-receives-73-domestic-violence-plaints/article31420304.ece
24 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Now, second person from Kulathupuzha tests positive||A second person from Kulathupuzha, a close relative of the first case who contracted the infection during his visit to Puliyankudi, was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. The 85-year-old woman was shifted to Government Medical College, Paripally, and the Health Department is tracing her primary and secondary contacts. According to the route map released by the Health Department, the woman, who was staying with her daughter-in-law at Kumaramkarikkam, had daily contact with the patient. Her routine till April 18 included visiting 13 houses within 100-m proximity, spending around five to ten minutes at each home. On April 19, she was placed in home quarantine and her sample was taken on April 21. After sample collection, she was placed in institutional quarantine at the Kerala Institute of Local Administration, Kottarakara, till Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-second-person-from-kulathupuzha-tests-positive/article31420325.ece
24 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam on high alert after two more test positive||Two persons, a headload worker and a health-care worker, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. The headload worker, a 37-year-old, had come into contact with a truck driver from Tamil Nadu while unloading watermelon at a fruit shop in the Kottayam market on April 20. The driver, who is in isolation at the General Hospital in Palakkad, however, is yet to be confirmed positive for the virus infection and officials are awaiting his test results. Meanwhile, seven persons who were examined after coming into contact with the truck driver have been tested negative for the infection. The second person, a health worker in Thiruvananthapuram, had reached Kottayam on March 24 and was reported to be living at his home here. He developed symptoms of the disease on April 22 and was immediately subjected to a virology test. Both the persons have been admitted to the corona isolation ward at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. Further, efforts are on to trace the persons who had come into contact with these patients while the sample of the driver who had brought the health-care worker from Thiruvananthapuram to Kottayam has been sent for examination. Market inspected Following the development, a few wards of Kottayam municipality and Panachikkadu and Vijayapuram panchayats where the residences of the patients are located have been declared as hotspots. Earlier in the day, a joint team of officials led by District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu, District Police Chief G. Jaidev, and District Medical Officer Jacob Varghese inspected the Kottayam market. Directions have been issued to close down shops in the market and a disinfection drive will be carried out at the market on Friday. The fellow workers of the headload worker at the market too will be subjected to examination. Orange zone Meanwhile, the district has been reclassified as an Orange zone for the disease outbreak in view of the back-to-back cases over the past days. The reclassification, according to officials, would bring in necessary changes in the relaxation of lockdown restriction, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-on-high-alert-after-two-more-test-positive/article31420330.ece
24 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Free food kits recovered from offices of Left parties||Authorities have unearthed free food kits meant for distribution among ration card holders from Left party offices here. It is alleged that PDS (public distribution system) shop owners had stocked the kits in the offices. Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress staged a protest in front of a local committee office of the Community Party of India (Marxist) at Madappally, near Changanassery, on Wednesday accusing a ration shop dealer of diverting the kits to the party office. Following this, a police team rushed to the spot and directed the shop owner to shift the consignment to a safe location. A similar incident was reported from T.V. Puram, near Vaikom, on Thursday when a team of police and Civil Supplies officials inspected an office of the Communist Party of India and found nearly 200 kits there. A preliminary probe suggested that the kits had been delivered to a PDS shop nearby from the Taluk Supply Office. In both cases, the dealers had taken the kits to the party offices on the pretext of space constraint at the shops. Jayaprakash V., District Supply Officer, said notices had been served on the ration shop dealers seeking an explanation. ‘Conditions violated’ “A preliminary investigation suggested that both dealers had violated the condition of keeping these kits, meant for distribution later, at neutral and safe locations. Action will be taken based on their response,” the official said. The episode has triggered a political controversy in Kottayam with leaders of Opposition parties accusing the Left parties of attempting to regulate the distribution of food materials from the government as per their priorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-food-kits-recovered-from-offices-of-left-parties/article31420309.ece
24 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||T.N. native, Dubai returnee test positive in Kozhikode||A 67-year-old native of Tamil Nadu who has been put up at a temporary shelter for destitute people and a resident of Azhiyoor who returned from Dubai last month were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the number of COVID-19 patients from Kozhikode now stands at 23, of whom 11 have recovered. Six persons from other districts and one from Tamil Nadu too were tested positive for the virus here. Among them, two each from Kannur and Kasaragod have been discharged. One each from Kannur and Malappuram are undergoing treatment, along with the Tamil Nadu native. The 33-year-old resident of Azhiyoor had disembarked at the international airport at Nedumbassery in Kochi on March 20. He had been in home quarantine since then. The Tamil Nadu native was at the shelter set up near the Government Medical College Hospital. Both are at the isolation ward of the medical college hospital now, and their condition is reported to be stable. Meanwhile, the number of people under observation came down to 2,770, with 1,052 completing home quarantine on Thursday. Those under observation now include 36 at the hospital. Seven were discharged on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-native-dubai-returnee-test-positive-in-kozhikode/article31420275.ece
24 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Auctioning resumes at Vengeri market||After a brief lull, the bi-weekly auctioning at the Agricultural Urban Wholesale Market at Vengeri is back with a bang. For more than a month, farmers in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts have been feeling the pinch owing to the cancellation of the auction for various reasons. It was a double whammy for farmers who were unable to sell their produce owing to H1N1 earlier and now COVID-19. But, the Agriculture Department resumed the auction last week on moderate scale with farmers directly selling their produce. “However, from this week the auctioning has been going in full swing. A dozen farmers from Kozhikode and Malappuram reached here and auctioned their produce at reasonable prices on Monday and Thursday,” said Narayanan Kalpakassery, chairman of Sangha Maithri, an apex body of farmer clubs, and convener of the auction committee. In the coming weeks more farmers and traders would take part in the auction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auctioning-resumes-at-vengeri-market/article31420274.ece
24 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||POCSO case against IUML leader||The Thamarassery police on Thursday booked a local leader of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on the charge of sexually abusing a minor boy. The case was registered against O.K.M. Kunhi under the POCSO Act. According to the police, the alleged sexual assault took place on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-case-against-iuml-leader/article31420289.ece
24 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Study finds viable substitute for Ashoka bark||A team of researchers at Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala’s Centre for Medicinal Plants Research (CMPR) has stumbled upon a viable substitute for Ashoka bark, a depleting Ayurvedic drug used for uterine disorders. The discovery by the team led by C.T. Sulaiman, senior scientist at phytochemistry division, under the guidance of project director Indira Balachandran, is expected to bring to an end the increasing adulteration being carried out in the name of Ashoka bark. Major ingredient A major ingredient in medicines like Ashokarishta and Ashoka ghrita, Ashoka bark remains one of the most adulterated raw drugs in the Ayurveda medical industry today largely because of its unavailability. “This research outcome is definitely going to make a major impact on Ayurveda industry,” said Dr. Sulaiman. The study was conducted with the support of the National Medicinal Plants Board, Union Ministry of AYUSH. Similar properties The phytochemical and pharmacological evaluations of certain bark drugs found that the bark of Shorea robusta, a tree belonging to the Dipterocarpaceae family, had similar biological properties as Ashoka. The discovery was published in the current issue of Future Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences brought out by renowned publisher Springer Nature. The other members of the team were K.M. Prabhukumar from taxonomy division, Jyothi C.K. and Jinu Krishnan Unnithan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-finds-viable-substitute-for-ashoka-bark/article31420299.ece
24 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ramzan begins amid lockdown||The holy Islamic month of Ramzan has begun in the State with the sighting of the new moon on the Kapad beach on Thursday evening. Muslims will begin their month-long fasting from Friday. However, mosques across the State will remain locked down, denying gatherings for prayers. Kazis across the State, including Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar, Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, Syed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari, Syed Nasir Abdul Hayy Shihabuddin, Syed O.P.M. Muthukoya Thangal, and K. Alikutty Musliar confirmed the sighting of the new moon. No gatherings Muslim leaders called upon the community to observe the fast by abiding by the restrictions imposed by the government as part of fighting COVID-19. They proscribed the community from gathering in mosques for prayers. They asked the community to do all prayers, including special prayers such as Taraveeh, from home. The Imam of Makkah, in a special message two days ago, asked the people to conduct the special night prayers from home. He said that Taraveeh could be halved considering the special situation. Lifestyle change Ramzan will bring about a visible change in the lifestyle of Muslims as they go without food and water during the day and engage in special prayers called Taraveeh at night. Most temporal activities, including marriages, are generally avoided during Ramzan. Instead, Muslims engage themselves in activities meant for spiritual cleansing during this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramzan-begins-amid-lockdown/article31420301.ece
24 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Brahmana Sabha offers financial assistance to priests||The Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) has offered financial aid worth Rs. 25 lakh to priests, their assistants, and Vedic scholars who have been rendered jobless following the closure of temples after the announcement of the lockdown. KBS president and Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities director Karimpuzha Raman inaugurated the distribution of ex-gratia payment at a function held at Old Kalpathy near here on Thursday. “We are giving Rs. 2,000 in the first phase to 1,000-odd priests who have applied from across the State,” said Mr. Raman. KBS State general secretary N.V. Shivaramakrishnan, treasurer K.V. Vasudevan, vice president Sundara Raman, joint secretary Santhana Gopalakrishnan, north zone secretary M.R. Krishnan, and Old Kalpathy Gramajana Samooham trustee Mahesh attended the function. “A large number of priests, assistants, and Vedic scholars have at present no means but to bank on such financial assistance. It is time we cared for them,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brahmana-sabha-offers-financial-assistance-to-priests/article31420286.ece
24 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Vigil stepped up against intrusions into State||The district authorities tightened the vigil against people sneaking in and out by violating the lockdown restrictions. District Collector D. Balamurali said here on Thursday that apart from the police, GST intelligence officials too started surveillance at the borders in view of reports of lockdown violations. The authorities here have made it mandatory for truck and lorry owners to provide self-declarations stating the names of the drivers and helpers. The new move came into effect when people started travelling in lorries in the guise of helpers. State Police Chief Loknath Behra wrote to his counterparts in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to adopt the same measure by making it mandatory for truck owners to certify the names of drivers and assistants in a self-declaration. Survey conducted Health officials have conducted a survey covering all the households in 11 grama panchayats with travel history in the last two months, potential future travel, and their co-morbidity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-stepped-up-against-intrusions-into-state/article31420284.ece
24 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Screening on the doorsteps in Pathanamthitta||The district administration has rolled out an automated vehicle, Total India Remote Analysis Nirogya Abhiyan (Tiranga), to facilitate safer and people-friendly screening for SARS-CoV-2. Tiranga enables health workers to avoid undue exposure to suspected patients during the screening process, says Vinay Goyal, Thiruvalla Subcollector, himself a medical doctor. A group of youngsters from the district, led by Dr. Goyal, are behind the initiative. Tiranga is equipped with an infrared thermometer which can be operated from the fully closed vehicle, a microphone system for two-way communication, and a camera to take photos of Aadhaar card or any other identity card of the person to be screened. There are facilities for thermal scanning and collecting throat swabs of people without direct contact with them, Dr. Goyal says. The vehicle, carrying a medical volunteer, non-medical volunteer, field assistant and driver, can cover 500 people a day. In sensitive areas Dr. Goyal says Tiranga would be more useful in sensitive or trouble-prone areas where health workers in the field are at risk of facing violence. The system would be effective in containment and buffer zones, camps, and slums in particular. A questionnaire has been pasted on either side of the vehicle for local people to understand the questions in a better way. Dr. Goyal says the idea has been envisaged by Vikas Yadav, his collegemate at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences at Rohtak in Haryana. The total expense involved, excluding the cost of the vehicle, is Rs. 10,000 and Tiranga could be emulated at the national level against the backdrop of the growing number of cases, says Kurien Oommen, former District TB Officer. District Collector P.B. Noohu says the experiment has turned out to be a success over the past one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screening-on-the-doorsteps-in-pathanamthitta/article31420332.ece
24 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case for 10th day in Pathanamthitta||No new cases of COVID-19 were reported from any part of Pathanamthitta for the tenth consecutive day on Thursday. The number of home-quarantined persons in the district came down to 709 against the 6,229 in the first week of April. As many as 627 persons among the 709 quarantined are those who came from other States and 82 others are the primary and secondary contacts of infected persons. A medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here on Thursday evening said seven persons remained in isolation wards of two government hospitals in the district as on Thursday afternoon. As per the bulletin, five of them are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and two others are at District Hospital, Kozhencherry. Six persons among them are COVID-19 patients. A total of 158 persons, including 11 cured of COVID-19, got discharged as on Thursday evening. Mr. Noohu said 17 throat swabs sent from the district were tested positive for COVID-19 while 2,903 others were tested negative for the viral infection.s  Meanwhile, 144 surveillance squads deployed by the Health Department have screened 6,267 people for fever and other symptoms of COVID-19 at 14 border points in the district on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-for-10th-day-in-pathanamthitta/article31420339.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Accident rate baffles authorities||Twenty-six fatalities and injuries to 184 persons in 173 road accidents in the State during the lockdown period from March 25 to April 14 are baffling law enforcers and road safety authorities. The accidents occurred at a time when there were curbs on the entry of vehicles on roads and the police had been present in large numbers to enforce the lockdown to contain COVID-19. The Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA), which has compiled the figures from the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) records, submitted the accident statistics during the lockdown period to the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety headed by K.S. Radhakrishnan on Thursday. The statistics for the remaining period will be submitted once the lockdown is withdrawn. 92.6% dip in accidents Compared to the corresponding period (21 days from March 25) last year, there has been a dip in road accidents by 92.6%, fatalities by 91.1% and injuries by 93%. There were 2,352 road accidents in the State from March 25 to April 14 in 2019 with 291 fatalities and 2,614 injuries, according to the KRSA. “Junctions were not manned and traffic signals were switched off and this might have led to speeding by essential and commercial vehicles and ambulances. There might also be spillover cases from the pre-lockdown period. During the lockdown, accidents should not have taken place. The detailed analysis of the accidents and type of vehicles will be looked into as there was no criss-cross movements at junctions,” Executive Director, Road Safety, KRSA, T. Elangovan, told The Hindu . The road accidents came down from 11,026 during January-March 2019 to 10,592 in the same period this year. Fatalities came down from 1,262 to 1,047 and injuries from 12,295 to 11,803. The dip in accident rate is 3.9%, fatality rate is 17% and injury rate is 4%. The KRSA has also submitted these figures to the Supreme Court Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accident-rate-baffles-authorities/article31420295.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kottayam, Idukki out of Green zone as new cases emerge||The State government on Thursday downgraded Kottayam and Idukki districts from Green to Orange in the COVID-19 categorisation. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government was constrained to withdraw the lockdown relaxation in the districts following the emergence of new cases. Kottayam and Idukki had reported two and four new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, respectively. Mr. Vijayan said Idukki was particularly vulnerable to a resurgence in infections given its proximity to Tamil Nadu. He said the constant movement of people between the States through hilly plantation and forest routes posed a public health threat to both States. The government would further tighten the lockdown regulations in Kasaragod, Kannur, Malappuram, and Kozhikode that come under the Red zone. The remaining 10 districts are in the relatively low-risk Orange zone. The people in the localities could expect comparatively more freedom of movement to buy essentials, attend work, or keep hospital appointments. (The government has cancelled Orange B categorisation given the threat of new cases cropping up sporadically across the State.) However, the government would seal off epidemic hotspots, if any, in Orange districts from other neighbourhoods. People in such zones could expect stringent imposition of the lockdown regulations. Categories In rural areas, if authorities categorise a neighbourhood as a hotspot, they could impose total lockdown in the entire panchayat. In municipalities, the government would close the ward as a whole if a new case is reported. If the epidemic is resurgent in a Corporation, which has a higher density of population, the government would be constrained to shut down the entire ‘urban division.’ Mr. Vijayan said in the third phase of the epidemic, Kerala had not witnessed any community spread. However, the threat persisted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-idukki-out-of-green-zone-as-new-cases-emerge/article31420312.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU plans post-lockdown schedule||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has given shape to a post-lockdown academic schedule. Quelling concerns raised by final-year engineering students, the university may commence examinations only after completing a reworked number of contact classes. Besides, it has been tentatively planned to defer the classes of junior batches until the completion of final-year classes to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing norms. The university, which faces a challenging task of coordinating the activities of engineering colleges spread across the State amid the COVID-19 crisis, discussed the unfolding crisis threadbare at its recent academic council meet through videoconferencing. The panel arrived at a consensus to reserve 20 contact days and nine days for study leave prior to the commencement of the examinations for all final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses. In the case of lower-semester students, there will be 30 contact days and nine days for study leave prior to the examinations, sources said. Though the university had planned 73 contact days for the ongoing semester, only 42 were conducted until the imposition of the lockdown, leaving a balance of 31 days or 186 contact hours (each contact day comprises six class hours). Extra classes To compensate for the working days lost owing to the pandemic, the university has been deliberating with the teaching community on the feasibility of conducting extra classes beyond the normal working hours. Various options such as organising classes on Saturdays and advancing classes to 7 a.m. and possibly extending them beyond the regular hours are being considered. Principals may be allowed to evolve flexible schedules after considering logistics such as transportation of students. With many colleges also being unable to hold at least one of the two rounds of series tests due for the current semester, the university is also likely to suggest alternative measures to make up for the lost time. Despite having chalked out a rough schedule, the university has adopted a guarded stance as far as resumption of classes is concerned. College reopening The colleges will reopen only on the basis of orders issued by guidelines following the lifting of the lockdown. Besides, uncertainty remains over the ability of students admitted under the Non-Resident Indians (NRI) and Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) quota and the Government of India nominees in attending classes with many having left for other States and abroad.  The university is deliberating with teachers on the feasibility of conducting extra classes beyond the normal working hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-plans-post-lockdown-schedule/article31420296.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DDMCs to decide on all restrictions||State Police Chief Loknath Behera said here on Thursday that all restrictions on movement of people would continue in COVID-19 hotspots and containment zones. The District Disaster Management Committees (DDMCs) would decide on imposing restrictions or relaxing curbs at the district level after assessing the situation. The changes would be based on the guidelines issued by the State government or the Centre. Mr. Behera directed district police officers to release the vehicles impounded during the lockdown on payment of the fine decided by the Kerala High Court. Fine prescribed Station House Officers and sub-inspectors in charge of law and order have been directed to release the vehicles after issuing TR-5 receipt for payment of fine. The High Court has prescribed a fine of Rs. 1,000 for two and three wheelers, Rs. 2,000 for light motor vehicles such as cars and jeeps, Rs. 4,000 for medium commercial vehicles, stage carriers and contract cariages and Rs. 5,000 for big commercial vehicles. The amount collected as fine from the vehicle owners would be credited to the treasury account the next day itself. A press note quoting Mr. Behera said the department had prepared the guidelines for accounting the money. 4,654 arrests Meanwhile, 3,105 vehicles were seized and 4,428 cases registered across the State on Thursday for violating lockdown restrictions. As many as 4,654 arrests were also recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ddmcs-to-decide-on-all-restrictions/article31420319.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital registers a fresh case||A 44-year-old man was diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. A native of Puthenchantha in Varkala, he has been quarantined at his home since his arrival from Sharjah on March 19. He tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after developing various symptoms and has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here. The new COVID-19 case comes two weeks after the previous case was reported in the district. It also comes a day after the district administration removed Varkala municipality from the list of COVID-19 hotspots. Now two are under treatment for the disease in the district. As many as 183 people were placed under observation in the district on the day, while 88 completed their quarantine period. A total of 1,489 are currently quarantined in the district. Among them, 1,379 are quarantined in their homes. Forty-four symptomatic people are under observation in hospitals, while 66 are accommodated in the corona care centre at the Mar Ivanios College hostel. While 27 samples have been sent for examination, 39 others have returned negative. Case against 119 The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered cases against 119 people and seized 85 vehicles for lockdown violations. Twenty-nine people were booked for not wearing masks. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 603 cases, arrested 636 people and confiscated 445 vehicles. Screening Meanwhile, the police and health workers have intensified screening at the interstate and inter-district border points, including Amaravila, Inchivila, Panachamoodu, Kadampattukonam, Madathara, Thattathumala and Kappil in view of reports of people crossing over after evading detection. The district administration has screened 1,25,560 vehicles at 16 check-points since the commencement of the lockdown till April 21. Besides, 2,42,661 people were examined using thermal scanning devices. Among them, 105 who showed symptoms were hospitalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-registers-a-fresh-case/article31420334.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IIITM-K develops AI search engine for COVID-19 studies||The Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management-Kerala (IIITM-K) has developed an AI semantic search engine to enable researchers to get deeper insights into scientific studies, especially when the need to find an early solution to the COVID-19 crisis has resulted in a large set of complex scientific information. Named www.vilokana.in, which in Sanskrit means ‘finding out’, the search engine was developed by a team led by A.P. James, Professor at the Centre for Artificial General Intelligence and Neuromorphic Systems (neuroAGI), IIITM-K, as part of the open science initiative of the research centre. Srijit Panja and Akshay Maan are co-authoring a research article based on this work. Tackling a problem The search engine will guide researchers to the right information very fast. This makes easy the contextual search of information from the vast domain of scientific literature, which is a difficult problem faced by scientists and people to get deeper insights into scientific studies. “This is a good initiative in the fight against COVID-19 as such AI tools can help extract contextual insights from research articles,” a press note quoting Saji Gopinath, CEO, Kerala Startup Mission, and Director, IIITM-K, said. The user can supply keyword-based queries, the meaning of which the search engine will be able to understand, and find the relevant text from the scientific papers. Advanced functions The user also has the option to upload any scientific text for analysis, which can be used for sentiment analysis and knowledge discovery. The search has several advanced functions such as being able to pick up undiscovered keywords, learning based on popularity, summarise the text and help identify trends.  Such AI tools can help extract contextual insights from research articles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iiitm-k-develops-ai-search-engine-for-covid-19-studies/article31420337.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State headed for a deep financial crisis||As businesses and commercial activities continue to be in the stranglehold of COVID-19, the State’s own tax and non-tax revenue that has turned a trickle will further dry up, pushing the government to the brink of a grave fiscal crisis. The post-COVID-19 fiscal crisis will be hard for the State to tackle. Even if the Centre decides to ease the lockdown curbs on May 3, the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector and other businesses are unlikely to get rid of the chill before Onam and that would directly impact the State’s revenue, Finance Department sources said. The government would again have to avail itself of a loan for clearing the salary and pension bills in May. The commitment for clearing the salary bills roughly works out to Rs. 2,450 crore and Rs. 1,450 crore for pensions. The current treasury balance being less than Rs. 1,000 crore, the government would have to go for market borrowing for disbursing salary and pension. RBI warning The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has warned the State against major borrowings at exorbitant interest rates. Since the Centre has not cleared the request for raising the annual borrowing limit from the current 3% to 5%, exhausting the option in the first quarter of the current financial year would not be a wise option. The State’s own tax revenue has been pegged at Rs. 5,100 crore, non-tax revenue at Rs. 1,000 crore and other Central transfers put together at Rs. 1,500 crore. Till the business activities are revived and normalcy is resumed in the State, revenue streams such as Goods and Services Tax, excise, motor vehicle tax and stamp duty will remain choked. The dribble from oil and other sources would be too inadequate, the sources said. The woes of traders handling perishables and legions of workers in various sectors who are looking for assistance need to be addressed. Still, the decision to coax employees and teachers to share the burden for the time being and return the money once the finances become stable is seen as a better option than the decision of the neighbouring States to go for pay cuts, the sources said.  In dire straits The bills roughly work out to Rs. 2,450 crore for salary and Rs. 1,450 crore for pension The current treasury balance is less than Rs. 1,000 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-headed-for-a-deep-financial-crisis/article31420316.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Repository of online study materials||The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has created a repository of online study materials of various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes on its website ( www.kshec.kerala.gov.in ). The learning resources, created in various formats including videos, powerpoint presentations and PDF, have been developed in association with faculty members of affiliated colleges and State universities. The educational contents are being delivered through various platforms including YouTube. A wide range of study materials of courses including BSc, BA, BCom, BBA, MSc, MA, MCom., on subjects such as Electronics, Physics, Computer Science, English, Zoology, Commerce and Economics have been covered. Preliminary screening The council has uploaded the study materials after undertaking a preliminary screening. Besides, a feedback provision on the website enables students and teachers to offer suggestions to create or modify learning resources as per their requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repository-of-online-study-materials/article31420297.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Teacher’s daily bulletin keeps NISH students updated||When the whole world pores through newspapers and tunes into news channels for their COVID-19 news and updates on the latest guidelines, students of the National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) here turn to their English teacher to stay updated. Ever since the lockdown began, Silvy Maxi Mena has been running a daily news bulletin in sign language with interpreter Vinayachandran. Short and snappy, the bulletins, ranging from 10 to 20 minutes, are uploaded around afternoon in NISH’s YouTube page. She began the bulletins as many of the students do not read newspapers and the news bulletins for the aurally challenged in some Malayalam news channels have been discontinued as the interpreters are unable to travel due to the lockdown. “Many of them have been trained only in sign language at school. So, for our degree course, we train them in English and Mathematics for one whole year before we begin the actual course. In some cases, even their parents might be aurally challenged. They would find it hard to keep updated on the latest guidelines. That’s why we decided to start this daily bulletin, covering news from across the world,” says Ms. Silvy. Tracking news She keeps track of the daily happenings and prepares the script in the evening, for which her background in journalism comes in handy. Her daughter Kripa, a college student, shoots the video on her mobile phone. Due to the patchy Internet signals in Thachottukavu, where she lives, she sends out short two-minute clips of her news reading to the interpreter who then shoots the sign language part and combines the videos. “When I first suggested this idea to Sheeba George, NISH’s executive director, she supported the idea, but asked me to ensure that the news is authentic. There has been a lot of positive feedback from the students and the faculty. I use these bulletins to improve the English language skills of the students too. They are given assignments to watch the news, try to write it down and then send me,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-daily-bulletin-keeps-nish-students-updated/article31420307.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hailstones pelt parts of capital||Hailstones fell in parts of the district on Thursday amid the afternoon summer showers, catching people by surprise. “I was home when it happened around 3 p.m. The phenomenon must have lasted five minutes in all,” said Anil Kumar K., president of the Vilappil grama panchayat, said. A number of other places, including Vayalikkada and Vattiyurkavu, also experienced the phenomenon. Weather officials said hail could occur during thunderstorms in summer when the conditions were just right. Up to 2 cm “Intense heating, abundance of moisture and instability in the atmosphere can give rise to towering clouds which go beyond freezing level. A thick layer of ice that forms on these clouds falls to the ground as hailstones when the updraft weakens. These small ice balls can have a diameter of 1.5 to 2 cm,” K. Santhosh, Director, Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hailstones-pelt-parts-of-capital/article31420336.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIIST comes up with a palatable Trikatu||The National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (CSIR-NIIST) here has developed a palatable version of Trikatu, an Ayurvedic formulation prescribed for respiratory tract infections, cough, asthma, gastric and abdominal disorders. The technical know-how has been transferred on a non-exclusive basis to the Parassala-based Trivandrum District Palm Products Development Cooperative Federation, the NIIST said here on Thursday. Though considered an excellent medicine, Trikatu is characterised by Tikshna guna (hot and pungent), which makes it difficult to consume, NIIST scientists said. Many Ayurvedic practitioners prescribe its use along with sugar or jaggery. Palm neera The NIIST has developed a palatable formulation of Trikatu using a syrup from palm neera, which has applications in various health conditions, including asthma and anaemia and bronchial suffocation. Trikatu is also used in the preparation of several classical Ayurveda formulations used in the treatment of common cough and cold, respiratory disorders and digestive disorders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-comes-up-with-a-palatable-trikatu/article31420317.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for stealing liquor||The Attingal police arrested a youth for stealing liquor bottles from a parked lorry in Mamom a few days ago. The accused was identified as Anikuttan, 19, of Kovalam. He along with his accomplices allegedly stole five cases of liquor bottles from the vehicle that had been parked outside a petrol pump on April 17. The bottles were intended to be transported to the Beverages Corporation godown in Attingal. The investigation team zeroed in on the accused after being alerted by the Thiruvallam police of an illicit liquor sale that was reported in the region. The gang reportedly sold each bottle for prices ranging from Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,000. Efforts were on to apprehend the other members of the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-stealing-liquor/article31420335.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Quarries allowed to open||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday allowed commencement of mining operations. He said the move was to support the construction industry, which had resumed operations minimally. However, quarry owners should ensure social distancing and employ only the minimum required number of workers. Cement warehouses too will be allowed to open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarries-allowed-to-open/article31420315.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Weddings allowed inside churches||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that churches will be allowed to hold weddings. However, not more than 20 persons, including the priest, could attend the event. Mr. Vijayan said Christian rite mandated that a priest should solemnise the marriage in front of the altar. Hence, the government has permitted churches to open for a minimum period to conduct marriage services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weddings-allowed-inside-churches/article31420314.ece
24 April 2020||THIRUVNANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railway hospitals to supplement efforts||Railway hospitals at Pettah in the capital and Olavakode in Palakkad are gearing up for the treatment of COVID-19 patients to supplement the State’s and Centre’s health-care efforts to contain the pandemic. With the two hospitals designated as COVID-19 hospitals, Railways have earmarked 54 beds in the Divisional Railway Hospital at Pettah and 55 at Olavokode. The 109 beds are among 5,000 beds identified in 17 dedicated hospitals and 33 hospital blocks in railway hospitals. Railways have begun steps to upgrade the facilities in the two hospitals and recruit additional doctors and paramedics. The personnel will be hired on contract basis at the divisional level for three months , Divisional Railway Manager, Thiruvananathapuram, Shirish Kumar Sinha says. For the Pettah hospital, the authorities will need 24 doctors and 128 paramedics while 32 doctors and 110 paramedics will be required at Olavakode. Steps have been initiated to procure ventilators, PPEs and medical equipment such as potable X-ray and ultrasound and defibrillators to meet the needs of the two hospitals. Separate entrance will be created for COVID patients at the Olavakode hospital, as only 55 of 100 beds are earmarked for them, Palakkad DRM Pratap Singh Shami says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-hospitals-to-supplement-efforts/article31420291.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Alert through street art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-through-street-art/article31420322.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On alert mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-alert-mode/article31420283.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sprinklr: Centre states stance in High Court||None of the government institutions in the State were capable of doing big data analysis in the shortest possible time. The statement said the choice of jurisdiction of New York courts was a standard form of contract of the company. The data resided in India and hence there would be no issues of jurisdiction. Even if any breach occurred outside India, prosecution could be initiated within India under Section 75 of the IT Act provided such breach impacted a computer or computer resource within the country.  The statement was filed in response to a writ petition challenging the data-sharing agreement signed with Sprinklr.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sprinklr-centre-states-stance-in-high-court/article31420292.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-way/article31420341.ece
24 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancel private varsity tests, urges Praja Science Vedika||The Praja Science Vedika has requested the State Governments of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to cancel the validity of online entrance examinations conducted by private universities till the results of the Intermediate examinations are announced and examinations for Class X conducted. Praja Science Vedika State president M. Suresh Babu alleged that some private universities were earning a lot of money by conducting online entrance tests to fill seats. “Valuation of Intermediate answer-sheets in both States has not taken place and the process may start in May. Class X exams are yet to be conducted. However, some universities are holding online entrance tests in April,” Mr. Suresh Babu said. “At a time when governments are unsure if entrance examinations can be conducted till June or July, and board examinations and term-end examinations have been put off indefinitely, some private universities are creating an artificial demand for the seats,” he alleged. There was no demand for seats in these private universities and they do not abide by promises in their brochure. A trend has begun of parents reserving seats by paying Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 (non-refundable), as the dates for government examinations and common entrance examinations has not been announced yet, Mr. Suresh Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancel-private-varsity-tests-praja-science-vedika/article31420393.ece
24 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six new positive cases recorded, 4 discharged in Anantapur||Six new positive COVID-19 cases were reported from Anantapur district on Thursday, indicating the disease was spreading, but on the other side, four medical and paramedical staff, who were infected in the Government General Hospital here while treating the Patient No. 3, were discharged from the KIMS Savera COVID Hospital. With this, the total number of positive cases went up to 42 in Anantapur district and of them 11 have been discharged so far, while three of them died and 28 patients were undergoing treatment. Among those discharged included two doctors and two staff nurses of the GGH, Anantapur. They expressed satisfaction at the care taken by doctors at the COVID hospital and follow up by the district administration, which allowed them to be discharged on April 23, after they were determined COVID positive on April 9. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and GGH Special Officer M. Jahnavi talked to the four persons who were discharged on Thursday and said that this would act as a morale booster for the remaining medical fraternity. He, however, asked all of them to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days, though they had tested negative twice in 48 hours. All the Junior Doctors and House Surgeons of the GGH, who were quarantined and tested negative, joined duties, Ms. Jahnavi added. Surprise check Meanwhile, in view of the steep rise in the number of positive cases in Kurnool district, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu conducted a surprise check on the implementation of lockdown measures at the Aluru Road, Kasapuram and Gooty Check Post. He asked the police officers to be stringent with the travelling public and not to allow anyone without proper authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-new-positive-cases-recorded-4-discharged-in-anantapur/article31420391.ece
24 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur Collector tests negative for virus||Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who had visited COVID-19 positive patients at the KIMS Saveera COVID-19 Hospital last week wearing personal protection equipment (PPE), underwent a screening test for coronavirus by voluntarily submitting a throat swab sample on Wednesday. His result came back negative on Thursday. Mr. Chandrudu’s visit to the hospital, meant to boost the morale of COVID-19 patients as well as the medical staff, invited mixed reactions. While some appreciated the gesture, there were others who said it was uncalled-for. The Collector told The Hindu that he wanted to send out a message that there is no stigma attached with getting tested for COVID-19, and urged people to come forward and get tested if they think they are experiencing any symptoms of coronavirus. He urged people not to spread fake news or rumours on anything related to COVID-19 or about the happenings in the containment zones, and asked them to instead focus on thanking the frontline staff for the services they were rendering at a time of crisis. Appreciating the people of the district for their cooperation in the implementation of the lockdown, Mr. Chandrudu said that the efforts were paying off with the growth in positive cases being low.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-collector-tests-negative-for-virus/article31420392.ece
24 April 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood banks running out of stock||Restrictions on the movement of people during the lockdown and apprehensions over transmission of coronavirus have resulted in dwindling reserves at blood banks in the city. Though there is no immediate threat, a severe shortage of blood is imminent, if the situation continues for long, say doctors. Donors wonder whether it is safe to donate blood when the coronavirus threat looms large. Though doctors say their fears are unfounded, donors have their own apprehensions. Further, the non-availability of public transport and restrictions on the movement of private vehicles are rge others causes for donors keeping away from donation. “Though COVID-19 is not transmitted through blood, positive patients will not be considered for donation, till they complete 28 days post-recovery. Similarly, donors, with travel history or their family members testing positive for COVID-19 are not considered,” says A. Sugandhi, Medical Director, A.S. Raja Voluntary Blood Bank. “We follow the national guidelines and there is no room for apprehension among donors. The lockdown curbs resulted in the depletion of our stocks. We are not being allowed to hold camps in view of the social distancing norms.” “I had adopted 70 children, suffering from thalassemia 15 years ago, and have been meeting their blood requirements through regular donors ever since. We requested Police Commissioner R.K. Meena to issue passes to blood donors , and he readily agreed. We are able to manage with the existing supplies but in May, we are likely to face problems,” explains Dr. Sugandhi. “The relatives of patients are donating blood, when it comes to delivery-related complications. Thalassemia and sickle cell anaemia patients have stopped coming in view of the lockdown. They need to go for blood transfusion only when they face a crisis like bleeding ,” says G. Arjuna, Superintendent of King George Hospital. “Our reserves fell to 35 units before COVID-19. We received 64 units through the recent donation of Rajya Sabha member Vijaya Sai Reddy and other YSR Congress Party leaders. We shared 50 units with KGH and Victoria Government Hospital (VGH). Though accidents have declined and surgeries are not being performed, thalassemia and sickle cell patients need blood,” says P. Venugopal, HOD, Pediatrics, Andhra Medical College . “Actor Chiranjeevi has sent the right message by donating blood in this crisis. He should now call upon his fans in Visakhapatnam too to contribute to the noble cause,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-banks-running-out-of-stock/article31420427.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka gives Devanahalli chakota new wings||Armed with its unique taste and flavour and a Geographical Indication tag, the Devanahalli Pomelo, the fruit popularly known as chakota , is set to get a push from various quarters. The Horticulture Department plans to provide the plant to interested farmers in Devanahalli and Doddaballapur regions. Owing to urbanisation and change in landscape, the number of farmers growing the fruit has come down over the years. The fruit is localised in around 13 villages in Devanahalli taluk, eight villages of Sidlaghatta taluk, and seven villages of Doddaballapura taluk. Joint director of the Horticulture Department, Krishnamurthy, said: “Farmers in these areas grow chakota on the border of their fields or near their homes. This has been the practice for years. After the fruit got the GI tag, farmers are coming forward to grow the plant. The department is using its farms in Chickballapur and Bengaluru Rural district to provide plants for cultivation.” At Soppahalli farm in Chickballapur, the department will propagate 5,000 plants and provide them to farmers. Guru Kumar, a farmer, said: “Devanahalli is known for chakota . During summer, farmers used to sell it on Devanahalli main road and NH for Rs. 80 a piece. However, due to lockdown, the demand has come down.” Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL), the operator of Kempegowda International Airport, too has taken measures to cultivate the fruit. In a release, BIAL said that under its CSR programme ‘Namma Ooru’, it will come up with an orchard of 500 chakota plants. BIAL states that with support from the Horticulture Department, 50 plants have been planted on its campus that once was a hub for Pomelo before the construction of the airport. “This location will be developed as an organic Pomelo cultivation demonstration site, with signboards and literature for those interested in learning about the process,” the release said. The release further states that BIAL intends to promote cultivation of the fruit around the region and create a viable market by collaborating with Indian Council of Agricultural Research and other institutions. BIAL will also work with farmers in and around Devanahalli to preserve the fruit and promote cultivation by empowering self-help groups and sundertaking tree grafting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-gives-devanahalli-chakota-new-wings/article31419948.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Occupancy in Karnataka prisons down to 95%’||The average percentage of occupancy in prisons across the State has been brought down to 95% from 110% by releasing 1,198 prisoners on temporary bail and parole, and shifting 575 prisoners from overcrowded prisons to less crowded ones for preventing spread of COVID-19, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka. As many as 790 undertrial prisoners were released on temporary bail based on veracity of the charges against them on recommendation of a High Powered Committee (HPC), constituted as per the apex court’s guidelines to decongest prisons as a precaution. And 408 convict prisoners were released on parole, the government said in its statement. The statement also said that 575 have been transferred from 12 of the overcrowded prisons in the six other prisons having lesser number of prisoners than the maximum capacity, and an additional temporary living space to house 1,471 prisoners in various prisons has been created since March 23. With these measures, the government said, the average occupancy percentage in nine central prisons has come down to 100.79. Similarly, the average occupancy percentage in 21 district prisons is now 89.5 and in 16 taluk/revenue prison the occupancy percentage is 73 and the average occupancy percentage in all prisons is 95.1. The occupancy percentage was reduced to 109 from 134 in Bengaluru prison, which at present has 4,914 prisoners against the capacity of 4,526 as on April 19. There were 5,046 prisoners against the capacity of 3,766 as on March 23 and additional capacity for 760 prisoners was created thereafter. Prisons in Mysuru and Kalaburagi are the only two other central prisons having more number of prisoners than the capacity. The average occupancy percentage in Mysuru has been brought down to 107 from 155, and in Kalaburagi it was brought down to 119 from 165. Meanwhile, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, taking note of measures taken to prevent COVID-19 in prisons, pointed out that the undertrial prisoners can still file pleas to exercise their right to seek bail from the jurisdictional court even if the HPC had not considered them for release on temporary bail. Screening All new undertrial prisoners and those returning after expiry of parole are being screened for symptoms before admission, and they are kept in separate barracks for 10 days and shifted to regular barracks after further medical examinations, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/occupancy-in-karnataka-prisons-down-to-95/article31419945.ece
24 April 2020||Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru/Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die in Tamil Nadu, one in Telangana||Tamil Nadu reported two more deaths due to coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Thursday. Another 54 persons tested positive for COVID-19, with Chennai accounting for half of these cases. This took the State’s tally to 1,683 (inclusive of two patients who died in other States and one patient whose samples tested negative after his death). An elderly man died of COVID-19 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, while a 56-year-old woman, who was admitted to Apollo Hospitals, also died. She had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 4. With this, the State has reported a total of 20 deaths. At present, there are 908 active cases. More patients were discharged across the State. Of the 90 who were discharged, 29 were at IRT Perundurai Medical College Hospital, 27 from Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital and 20 from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. With this, the total number of persons discharged in the State stood at 752. Chennai continued to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases, with its total count increasing to 400. Of the 27 new cases here - 14 men and 13 women, four were children aged below 10 years. Dharmapuri district that had no COVID-19 cases so far recorded its first case. There were five new cases in Salem, four in Namakkal, three each in Dindigul and Virudhunagar, two in Madurai, and one each in Chengalpattu, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Tiruppur, Tiruvarur and Villupuram. Kerala confident: CM The Kerala government has concluded that there is no third stage, or community transmission, of COVID-19 in the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing the media, said that there was no community transmission, even though the threat of this happening was very real. There were 10 new COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala on Thursday. New cases in two districts, Kottayam and Idukki, earlier designated as green zones because there were few or no cases, have got the alarm bells ringing. Idukki accounted for four cases and Kottayam, two, bringing the districts back on the restricted zone list. Kozhikode also reported two cases, while Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam had one case each. Of 10 new cases, four were from neighbouring States, two from abroad and four were contacts of imported cases. In Karnataka, 18 new cases were reported on Thursday, nine from a labour unit in Hongasandra, Bengaluru. All were primary contacts of a 54-year-old migrant labourer who tested positive on Wednesday. Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike sealed the area. 970 in Telangana Besides the fatality, cases in Telangana touched 970 as 27 new ones were detected on Thursday. Also, 58 people were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-die-in-andhra-pradesh-one-in-telangana/article31419961.ece
24 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor district registers 14 new cases||Fourteen new positive COVID-19 cases were registered in Chittoor district on Thursday, taking the total to 73. District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told the media that of the 14 new cases, five were reported from Srikalahasti, followed by Yerravaripalem with three cases, and the mandals of Tirupati Urban, B.N. Kandriga, Yerpedu, Chinnagottigallu and Puttur one each. The Collector said that so far, 5,740 sample tests were conducted in the district, of which results of 1,846 were awaited. “Fifteen quarantine centres have been set up in the district ever since positive COVID-19 cases surfaced in the district. These centres are equipped to handle 1,740 cases. At present, 414 persons are under quarantine. In relief camps, we are providing food and shelter to 2,111 persons,” Mr Gupta said. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said of the new positive cases, majority of them were government personnel and their family members. “It is becoming difficult for the officials to pin-point the location of the cases. Most of the personnel kept travelling between their workstations and places of residence. We are going to increase rapid tests to the optimal levels in the coming week,” he said. Red zone inspected Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Thursday inspected the red zone at RTC Colony in Puttur town, and directed the police personnel in the sub-division to strictly implement the lockdown. He said that as the COVID-19 positive cases spread to Nagari, Puttur, Nindra and Vadamalapeta mandals, barricading be made wherever necessary. After the village of Kuppedu in Nindra mandal registered one positive case, the neighbouring mandals of Pitchatur and Narayanavanam were also declared as red zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-district-registers-14-new-cases/article31420396.ece
24 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases go up to 195 in Guntur||Guntur district recorded 18 new cases till 11 a.m. on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 195, the second highest in the State after Kurnool. Special Officer B. Rajasekhar, District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar took stock of the situation. It has emerged that there has been a pattern of the coronavirus spreading from those who had tested positive to their primary and secondary contacts. Of the 195 cases identified so far, more than 110 are from Guntur city. The spread of infection is rapid and concentrated in the areas where persons have been tested positive. Any delay in shifting the persons from their homes to quarantine centres could prove costly. The trend of those living in quarantine being tested positive is also rising creating anxiety in the district administration and with most of the cases being asymptomatic, the local administration is grappling with the spread of the virus. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that 3,816 persons were shifted to quarantine centres. The district administration is making arrangements to provide 400 ICU beds and 227 ventilators to meet any emergency.  More hotspots The cluster containment zones in Anandapet, Kummaribazaar, Butchiah Thota, and Srinivasarao Thota have emerged as hotspots with more cases emerging. The police have barricaded all entry and exit points in these regions. According to the district administration, it will increase testing and random testing will be intensified in the red zones identified. More than 30,000 people are set to be tested in the red zones. With the number of positive cases increasing day by day, the district administration has announced more measures aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, P.H.D. Ramakrishna said that lockdown would be strictly implemented from Friday and vehicles could be seized if people were moving after 9 a.m. He also said that all entry and exit routes to Guntur were completely barricaded and sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-spreading-fast-in-guntur-district/article31419977.ece
24 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muslim elders in Guntur meet Collector||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said on Thursday that the district administration agreed to allow one Imam, one moazzin, and two workers into masjid in view of the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan on Friday. The Collector along with additional DGP Ujwal Tripathi, IGP J. Prabhakara Rao and SPs PHD Ramakrishna and Ch. Vijaya Rao convened a meeting with Muslim religious elders and said that all the religious elders conducting prayers in mosques should quarantine themselves. He also said that in view of lockdown, dry fruits boxes would be sent to homes in the red zone areas and asked all the people to stay indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muslim-elders-in-guntur-meet-collector/article31419978.ece
24 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR staff do their bit||The operation department of the Guntur Division, South Central Railway, has mobilised Rs. 5.16 lakh from station masters, controllers, traffic inspectors, guards, pointsmen, TNCs, clerical staff and other officers to help those in crisis in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. Out of this, Rs. 1.82 lakh has been distributed to safaiwalas and private security personnel working in Rail Vikas Colony, safaiwalas and vehicle drivers of Rail Vikas Bhavan, sand boys, box boys and STBAs of various stations. Each got Rs. 2,000. An amount of Rs. 2.25 lakh has been donated to Amma Charitable Trust, Guntur, which is supplying food to labourers, quarantined people and the orphaned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-staff-do-their-bit/article31419979.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strict lockdown will bring down cases: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed the hope that strict implementation of the lockdown in the State and quarantining of people affected by COVID-19, the coronavirus transmission may come down in the State. Mr. Rao held a high-level meeting on COVID-19 and lockdown implementation at Pragathi Bhavan till 11.30 p.m. on Wednesday with Health Minister Etala Rajender, Chief Secretary, DGP and Principal Secretary, Health and CMO officials. Earlier in the day, a team of senior officials toured Suryapet, Gadwal and Vikarabad districts on implementation of lockdown till evening and later they reached Pragathi Bhavan and explained the situation to the Chief Minister. With only 15 cases diagnosed as Covid positive in the tests held on Wednesday, compared to the number of new positive cases in the last two days, Mr. Rao sounded optimistic and said possibly that number would further come down, according to a late night statement on Wednesday. Mr. Rao also reviewed the situation in Hyderabad and other areas of the State. The medical officers also apprised him of the situation in various districts and told him that there were indications that the cases would come down gradually. The Chief Minister said that the measures taken by the government were giving good results. All those affected by the virus were identified systematically and a list of people who came into contact with the affected was prepared and tests were conducted. As a result the government could estimate the number of cases across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strict-lockdown-will-bring-down-cases-kcr/article31420260.ece
24 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly man in Kadapa wins the battle||An elderly man in his 80s who had tested positive for coronavirus and was undergoing treatment at SVIMS Tirupati was discharged on Wednesday after testing negative. The Kadapa resident reached his home in Alamkhanpalli to find that the entire area is now a containment zone. The octogenarian was having co-morbidities like diabetes and blood pressure, but stayed put at hospital with determination for a fortnight and returned home healthy. Despite his ripe age, the elderly man was comfortably moving around at home and was in good spirits. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan paid a visit to his residence on Thursday and wished him good health. “His recovery will give a lot of confidence to many who are scared of coronavirus,” Mr. Anburajan said. He left the elderly man’s home after giving him suggestions to follow during the home quarantine.Mr. Anburajan later called on the wife of a police constable, who had reported positive for COVID-19, and is now in isolation. Explaining to her the importance of staying confident, he said the constable would recover soon. DSP eputy Superintendents of Police U. Suryanarayana (Kadapa town) and Vamsidhar Goud (Special Branch) accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-man-in-kadapa-wins-the-battle/article31420402.ece
24 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Premature baby gets a new lease of life||A male baby boy, who weighed just 840 grams at the time of birth, was discharged from the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on Thursday following a 75-day treatment which saw his weight going up to 1.4 kg. On February 10, U. Naga Lakshmi of Bikkavolu delivered the baby boy in her seventh month of pregnancy. ‘Responding well’ “The baby was kept on ventilator for two days and blood transfusion was performed as part of the treatment in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). He is healthy and responding to his mother,” GGH Superintendent M. Raghavendra told The Hindu . “Factors such as anaemic conditions and pre-eclampsia are to be blamed for the premature delivery, in which survival of baby will be in question,” said Dr. Raghavendra. The team of doctors led by M.S. Raju, head of Paediatrics Department, and N. Madhavi treated the baby.  The GGH authorities handed over the baby to the parents in the presence of his grandmother Kanthamma. The team of doctors earned accolades from the district authorities for their service during the COVID-19 health emergency. ‘Well equipped’ Dr. Raghavendra said the GGH was well equipped and such cases would be accepted round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/premature-baby-gets-a-new-lease-of-life/article31420410.ece
24 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. going all out to tackle crisis in Kurnool’||The government is putting in place a series of initiatives, including conducting an intensive survey in red zones and setting up ‘mini COVID centres’ in Kurnool district which has witnessed an alarming spurt in cases, said Health Minister Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas. The number of positive cases in the district stands at 235 as of Thursday evening. After visiting the Government General Hospital here, which was converted into a State COVID19 Hospital for providing high-end medical services, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and Labour and Employment Minister G Jayaram along with the Health Minister held a three-hour review with doctors and district officials. “Some minor oversight in identifying the COVID suspects in the initial stages led to the massive rise in the number of positive cases, but now the situation is fully under control. We three Ministers are here to provide all necessary help from the government,” Mr. Alla Srinivas told reporters. A real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machine has begun testing samples, significantly increasing the capacity. Tests were also being conducted through TrueNAT and rapid testing machines, the Health Minister announced. Treatment for people in the 37 containment zones would be done there itself, he said. During the review, the Ministers asked Collector G. Veerapandian to set up ‘mini COVID centres’ with a medical officer and paramedical staff manning at the Ward/ Village Secretariat buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-going-all-out-to-tackle-crisis-in-kurnool/article31420409.ece
24 April 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco Board cuts crop size||Anticipating a dip in global demand, the Tobacco Board has reduced the crop size for Karnataka from 99 million kg to 88 million kg for the ensuing year. The crop size was revised by the Tobacco Board at a meeting held in Guntur on Wednesday in the wake of the Indian Tobacco Association (ITA) reducing its indent, fearing a plunge in global demand for the commodity due to COVID-19. The meeting presided over by Board Chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu and attended by Executive Director K. Sunitha conducted the meeting through video-conferencing with other Board members. The meeting also sought to address the concerns of tobacco growers, who were worried over the fate of their produce if the demand for the commodity plunged in the COVID-19-afflicted global economic scenario. Manjunath, regional manager of Tobacco Board in Mysuru, told The Hindu that a reduction in crop size will translate into each farmer bringing down their crop size correspondingly. Now, each farmer will be able to grow only 1,558 kg per barn against the earlier 1,700 kg per barn, he said. Tobacco is grown in an estimated one lakh hectares in Karnataka, mostly in Periyapatna, Hunsur, K.R. Nagar and H.D. Kote taluks of Mysuru district, besides Arkalgud and Holenarsipur of Hassan district by an estimated 60,000 to 70,000 growers. More than 80% of the tobacco grown in the State, classified as superior Virginia Flue Cured (VFC) variety, is exported to various cigarette manufacturing companies in about 60 to 70 countries. Javare Gowda, president of VFC Tobacco Growers’ Association of Karnataka, said the revision brings down the risk to the export-oriented commodity. “If they grow less, there will be more demand,” he said. The Tobacco Board’s decision came after appeals were made for a crop holiday in certain quarters. Convener of the Anti-Tobacco Forum and Cancer Patients’ Aid Association in Mysuru Vasanthkumar Mysoremath referred to health advisories against consumption of tobacco and studies indicating the vulnerability of smokers to COVID-19, and said the government should declare a crop holiday while farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar urged the tobacco growers to take up cultivation of tobacco only if the authorities guarantee a remunerative price for the produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-board-cuts-crop-size-for-state/article31420050.ece
24 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases rise to 50 in Prakasam||Two more persons - one from Ongole and another from Chirala in Prakasam district - tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours. In a positive development, two more patients were discharged from the COVID-19 isolation centre in Nellore on Thursday, taking the total number of patients who have recovered so far to seven in SPSR Nellore district. The number of infected persons in Prakasam district rose to 50, health officials in Ongole said. Ongole accounted for a maximum of 30 cases followed by six cases in Chirala, four in Kunkalamarru, three each in Kandukur and Kanigiri and one each in Markapur, Veligandla and Gudlur. “As many as 58 patients are under treatment, and a majority of them from Nellore city are showing signs of recovery,” health officials said. Results of 990 samples are still awaited. Meanwhile, Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar held a meeting with industry representatives in Ongole and worked out modalities for allowing functioning of industrial units with restrictions in the green zone. The Collector wanted officials to speed up execution of drinking and irrigation water projects and finalise tenders for stalled projects during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positive-cases-rise-to-50-in-prakasam/article31420398.ece
24 April 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irate farmers set fire to paddy||Irate farmers reportedly set fire to paddy following non-procurement of the produce and harassment by millers and traders at a procurement centre in Laxmipur village of Thangallapalli mandal in the district. Reports reaching here said the farmers took huge quantity of paddy to the procurement centre. But, traders and millers refused to buy the paddy blaming heavy moisture content and chaff and told them to get the paddy cleaned for securing the minimum support price. Farmers argued with traders claiming that they had brought cleaned paddy, but were being harassed on various pretexts and forcing them to resort to distress sale. In protest, the farmers doused a heap of paddy with petrol and set it on fire to lodge their protest. The farmers complained that they had to spend lot of money on pesticides to protect the crop from rice blast disease. The farmers also suffered huge loss due to the recent unseasonal rains as it damaged standing crops and washed away the produce at some procurement centres. Meanwhile, farmers staged a dharna with pesticide cans in Jagtial district demanding the government and traders to procure their paddy in Jabithapur village of Pegadapalli mandal. The police arrested 30 farmers for staging dharna during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irate-farmers-set-fire-to-paddy/article31420265.ece
24 April 2020||SAMALKOTA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tests positive after one month||A 33-year-old youth, who tested negative for COVID-19 in early March, tested positive on Thursday in Samalkota town in East Godavari district. East Godavari Joint Collector-II G. Raja Kumari told The Hindu: “The 33-year-old youth had a travel history of Delhi. He was tested negative nearly a month ago. On Thursday, he was tested positive but did not show any symptoms.” The man has been admitted to the Government General Hospital in Kakinada for further medical treatment. “The field staff is engaged in identifying the primary and secondary contacts of the youth in the Samalkota town,” added Ms. Raja Kumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-tests-positive-after-one-month/article31420404.ece
24 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revenue assns. criticise police||Srikakulam Revenue Employees Association president J. Rama Rao on Thursday came down heavily on the police department for preventing tahsildars, revenue officials and other department staff from attending work during the lockdown. Addressing a press meet, Mr. Rama Rao alleged that Narasannapeta Circle Inspector Tirupati Rao had harassed Deputy Tahsildars of Polaki and Kotabommali on Wednesday though the duo had shown their identity cards and explained about their official work at quarantine centres. “Ration shop dealers were also detained at Pathapatnam police station when they were planning to distribute essential commodities according to the directive of the Srikakulam Collector,” Mr. Rama Rao said. Association district president M. Kali Prasad urged Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas to take necessary action to ensure that employees did not have to face police harassment while discharging their duties during the lockdown. He alleged that hundreds of employees were facing untold miseries every day due to the police harassment at various checkposts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revenue-assns-criticise-police/article31420424.ece
24 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Indian culture will prevent COVID-19 spread’||Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram on Thursday blamed ‘adoption of Western culture’ as the main cause behind the spread of many diseases, including COVID-19, in the country, and urged people to follow Indian culture and traditions in order to protect themselves from the pandemic. Mr. Sitaram distributed essential commodities to the poor in Amadalavalasa, Srikakulam and other places in the district. He said that Indians can overcome any pandemic if they stick to healthy food habits and maintain cleanliness in homes and public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indian-culture-will-prevent-covid-19-spread/article31420399.ece
24 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU seeks GO for payment of full salary||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Thursday urged the State governemnt to issue a Government Order (G.O.) for the full payment of salaries to workers and wages for labourers during the lockdown. Along with CITU Srikakulam district president P. Tejeswara Rao, Mr. Govinda Rao submitted a memorandum to Speaker Tammineni Sitaram in Srikakulam, urging him to convey the feelings of the workforce to the State Government. He said that many companies were planning to cut salaries and other facilities, citing financial difficulties. Mr. Govinda Rao said that the corporate companies never share their profits but try to punish labourers with wage cuts whenever they were facing problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-seeks-go-for-payment-of-full-salary/article31420423.ece
24 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps will be taken to minimise loss of academic days: AU V-C||In an effort to see that not many academic days are lost due to the lockdown, Andhra University has decided to take several steps including cutting short the Christmas and Pongal holidays. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that parallel evaluation of exam papers of final year students would be done. “This will fill the gap between the completion of the exams and declaration of results. Earlier, if the exams are completed by mid-May, the results would be declared by mid-June. Now, the results will be declared almost instantly ,” he said. Only students with backlog will have problems in this case, he added. AU follows a strict academic schedule of completing the exams by May 3 for degree courses, April first week for engineering and mid-May for PG courses. With the lockdown extending till May 30 for educational institutions, everything appears to be delayed by a couple of months. “If the lockdown for educational institutions is lifted on May 30, then we are planning to hold the exams from June first week and open the colleges by July first week. But this is subject to the May 30 deadline,” he said. The V-C said it had been decided to cut short the Christmas and Pongal vacations, and if required the summer vacations too. Every year, AU declares Christmas and Pongal vacations from December 20 to January 20. “This time, we will have three days for Christmas and three days for Pongal,” said Mr. Prasad Reddy. No external evaluation The AU College of Engineering has decided to evaluate the project works of final year students internally. To keep the academic schedule running, Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), has started online classes. “We are sending study material online and students can interact with the professors through e-mail or phone. If the embargo is lifted on May 30, we will begin regular classes from June 1 to 30 and exams in July first week. The results will be declared by July third week. We will also give 15 days for supplementary, so that classes can begin from August first week,” said IIPE Director V.S.R.K. Prasad.  Entrance exams Admission in IIPE is done through IIT-JEE advance. It all depends on the JEE dates for mains and advance. “We expect that the JEE format will be completed by July-end and our classes can begin from August last week, instead of August first week, he said. Whether it is IIPE or AUCoE, admission depends on IIT JEE or EAMCET, and the AU has cautioned the aspirants to be prepared for the examinations at a short notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-will-be-taken-to-minimise-loss-of-academic-days-au-v-c/article31420429.ece
24 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IISER chips in with resources to fight coronavirus||The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati has joined the fight against coronavirus by making available its resources and manpower to combat the pandemic. The institute recently shared its RT-PCR machine with the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) Tirupati, designated as a State COVID-19 hospital, for testing and treatment of the virus. IISER administrators extended the support of technical manpower and assisted the government in standardising equipment and consumables for testing purposes. Along with the equipment, the institute also donated 60 plates, each with a holding capacity of 96 samples, thus helping in testing more than 5,000 samples. Homegrown sanitisers The institute also prepared 100 litres of hand sanitisers with 99.8% propanol as per World Health Organisation (WHO) norms. After meeting the requirements of the institution’s housekeeping and sanitary staff, the sanitiser was distributed to frontline staff. As work at the permanent campus came to a standstill due to the lockdown, a number of migrant workers were held up at the site without wages. “We counselled and prevailed upon the migrant labourers in Yerpedu campus to stay put in the safety of our premises rather than travel to their hometowns in other States,” said IISER Director K.N. Ganesh. Apart from providing daily ration and essential commodities to them, the institute also conducted an awareness campaign for the workers on maintaining social distancing and usage of sanitisers. The institute’s faculty and staff had also provided generous contribution to several homes for the senior citizens and special children in and around Tirupati to help them tide over the current crisis. To overcome the glitches triggered by the lockdown, the institute has already launched online classes and the academic activities are going on in full swing, with 80% of students attending the classes, Prof. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiser-chips-in-with-resources-to-fight-coronavirus/article31420401.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally touches 893 as 80 new cases emerge in a single day||The State has once again seen a spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases detected in a single day. During the past 24 hours, the State has reported 80 new cases and three deaths, taking the tally to 893 and the toll to 27. During this period, 6,522 samples have been tested, the highest so far. The situation in Kurnool district continued to be grim with 31 of the 80 fresh cases reported from there, taking the total count to 234. Kurnool also reported two more deaths and Krishna district has reported one more. Next to Kurnool was Guntur district with 18 new cases and 195 total cases. Chittoor, which is emerging as another hotspot, has reported 14 new cases while Anantapur and East Godavari have reported six new cases each and Krishna and Prakasam have reported two new cases each. Visakhapatnam has reported one new case. 21 discharged Meanwhile, 21 patients — nine in Krishna, seven in Chittoor and five in Kadapa districts — have recovered and have been discharged. So far, 141 patients have recovered and there are 725 active cases. Kurnool and Guntur account for 48% of the total cases in the State. They are followed by Krishna (88), Chittoor (73), Nellore (67), Kadapa (51), Prakasam (50), Anantapur (42), West Godavari (39), East Godavari (32) and Visakhapatnam (22). So far, 48, 034 samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-touches-893-as-80-new-cases-emerge-in-a-single-day/article31420406.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need for obtaining test results in real time: Naidu||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday expressed concern over the delay in obtaining results pertaining to over 16,000 COVID-19 tests at a time when identifying every infected case was crucial to prevent its spread. Mr. Naidu, in a letter to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, said it was necessary to obtain the test results in real-time. The lesser number of tests and delay in obtaining the results was due to lack of enough laboratories in the State, he observed. “At present, there are only eight COVID-19 testing laboratories in the State. This is causing inordinate delay delay in obtaining the results. Hence, it is pertinent to partner with private testing laboratories to speed up the process. This will not only help in tackling the disease in a better way but also better the health infrastructure in the long run,” Mr. Naidu observed. “The spread appears to be continuing unhindered in the State. It is important to identify the number of positive cases by increasing the number of tests and obtaining the results at the earliest,” he said. Stating that the TDP government had procured 250 TrueNat testing kits for effective control of tuberculosis (TB) in the State, Mr. Naidu said the tests help in detecting COVID-19 effectively. For further confirmation, RT-PCR tests might be conducted. Accordingly, the government should use the TrueNat kits in larger numbers, he said. ‘Ensure quality PPEs’ Expressing concern over the alleged non-supply of quality personal protection equipment (PPE) and sanitisers to the frontline warriors, Mr. Naidu said it would expose them to risk. The government should finalise the norms for standardisation of the PPEs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-for-obtaining-test-results-in-real-time-naidu/article31420413.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on energy efficiency, States told||The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has urged State governments to aggressively promote energy efficiency that is vital in achieving future energy security and in making energy more affordable while delivering environmental and social benefits. In a communication to the designated agencies for the implementation of energy efficiency programmes in the States on the occasion of the 50th Earth Day (April 22), the BEE said energy security was a major area of attention and the COVID crisis highlighted the critical value of electricity. The bureau observed that as the governments faced the economic impact of the lockdown, they needed to focus on evolving strategies for stimulating economies and creating employment after the crisis is blown over. Energy efficiency programmes offer several opportunities in boosting economy, BEE Director General Abhay Bhakre stated. According to a press release by A.P. State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy, Union Minister of State for Power and New and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh directed the BEE to strengthen the State-designated agencies in expanding the energy efficiency programmes to ensure energy security and environmental protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-energy-efficiency-states-told/article31419983.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aggressive testing is the main agenda: top health official||Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said that the government’s agenda is to test more and more persons in the State to track the spread of the disease and contain it. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Dr. Jawahar Reddy condemned the allegations that the government is suppressing the number of cases. “We have been doing a huge number of tests, unlike any other State. We do not gain anything from suppressing the figures and in fact, they cannot be hidden. One case delayed for a day will spread to a number of persons in one week. Our strategy is to test and isolate the patient,” he said. The State now can conduct nearly 6, 980 RT PCR and TruNat tests per day at nine VRLD labs and 42 TruNat labs besides antibody rapid tests which will be used for community screening, he said. Dr. Reddy said that three Delhi returnees who tested negative long ago tested positive when tested recently. He said 80% of the positive cases in India are asymptomatic. Seven cases reported in Chittoor district were out of the already identified red zones and the trend was worrisome. He said State has applied for permission for plasma therapy through AIIMS, Mangalagiri and SVIMS, Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aggressive-testing-is-the-main-agenda-top-health-official/article31420407.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to acquire Athena opposed||The APSEB Assistant Executive Engineers' Association (AAEEA) has written a letter to Energy Secretary N. Srikant on Thursday requesting him to drop the proposed acquisition of the 2 x 600 MW Athena Chhattisgarh Power Limited (ACPL) by APGenco calling it an unscientific capacity addition that will be a drag on the A.P. power utilities. AAEEA general secretary N. Lakshmana Rao stated that ACPL has no proper coal linkages and acquiring any power plant outside A.P. without doing a thorough techno-economic feasibility analysis would have disastrous consequences. ACPL should not be bought just because it was a pit-head station, he said, pointing out that the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) rejected the proposal to buy ACPL as its boilers and other parts were China-made. ‘Generation cost will increase’ Mr. Lakshmana Rao said acquisition of ACPL would push both APGenco and discoms into debts at a time when the State power sector was in doldrums. He insisted that the forecast deficit baseload of 1,000 MW could be met by operating the existing Thermal Power Plants (TPPs) at higher Plant Load Factor (PLF) instead of backing them down. Operating the TPPs below 80% PLF or backing down would increase the generation cost besides resulting in a faster wear and tear. Integration of private variable renewable energy into the grid which started in 2015-16 was increasing day by day in an unscientific manner, he said. The landed cost of power generated by ACPL would be far higher than that of the local plants, Mr. Lakshmana Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-acquire-athena-opposed/article31419982.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM: no room for complacency||Andhra Pradesh stood first in the country in the COVID-19 tests per million ratio by conducting 961 tests on Thursday, officials told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting. Of the 48,034 tests conducted so far, 14,423 were rapid tests. Of them, 11,543 were conducted in the red zones. On Wednesday, 6,520 RT-PCR tests were conducted. Of the total rapid tests, 30 turned out to be positive. For further confirmation, PCR tests would be done, the officials said. ICMR approval Stating that the kits procured from South Korea had the ICMR’s approval and were working satisfactorily, the officials said the tests were being conducted as per protocol. Mr. Reddy, while patting the officials for the achievement, asked them not to be complacent. “Take necessary steps and conduct another round of door-to-door survey in July. Focus attention on thalassemia, cancer and dialysis patients. See that these patients do not face any hardship. Respond immediately to all the calls received on the helpline number 104. Ensure that emergency and delivery cases are not hit,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-now-top-state-in-ratio-of-tests-officials/article31419955.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sujana blames YSRCP leaders for rise in cases||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Y. Satyanarayana Choudary (Sujana Choudary) has made critical remarks against the ruling YSR Congress Party in the State. Mr. Chowdary squarely blamed the YSRCP leaders for a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State. “Despite the word of caution from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and experts, the ruling YSRCP leaders have been violating the lockdown rules. Under the garb of assistance, they were making ‘hungama’ and taking out rallies. It is leading to a steep rise in the cases. The ruling party members and leaders should behave in a more responsible manner,” he said. In a statement on Thursday, the MP said that the Union government had been extending liberal assistance to Andhra Pradesh to tide over the coronavirus crisis. The Centre was ready to continue the same but the State should not make claims and publicise it as the State government assistance. Else, it would be politicising the assistance to the people during the times of crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sujana-blames-ysrcp-leaders-for-rise-in-cases/article31420421.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online training for TGTs begins||The outbreak of COVID-19 and the resultant lockdown has hindered a proposed three-month-long induction programme for 409 Trained Graduate Teachers (TGTs) recruited recently by the Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (APSWREIS). Reworking on the programme, the society has collaborated with multiple knowledge partners like Firki (Teacher training initiative by Teach for India), Azim Premji University, Mantra Social Services and the British Council, to capacitate the new teachers. The training that commenced on Thursday is a learning model that will help the teachers engage in self-learning through apps and share reading material on WhatsApp. They are expected to write down their reflections and participate in daily discussions through a video conferencing application in small groups called learning circles. The topics covered include ‘a joyful classroom, student relationship, community engagement, CCE, curriculum and aims of education among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-training-for-tgts-begins/article31419981.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up cold storages: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed Marketing Department officials to set up cold storages and godowns at the village level, and said the government will buy the produce directly from the farmers. He directed the officials to pay MSP for the crops and continue direct purchases through Rythu Bharosa Centres. Addressing a review meeting on Thursday, Mr. Reddy said agriculture assistants should monitor the prices on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-cold-storages-cm/article31420416.ece
24 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT hears arguments through videoconference||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), for the first time on Thursday, heard the arguments in a petition against destruction of the mangrove forests near Kakinada through a videoconference. NGT Southern Zone Bench judicial member Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta heard the arguments by NGT and Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Upadhyay on behalf of petitioner Bolisetti Satyanarayana and NGT advocate Donti Madhuri Reddy representing the Government of Andhra Pradesh, in Chennai. While the petitioner filed the plea on April 17, the date for hearing was delayed for setting up the videoconference equipment. The tribunal opted for videoconference in the wake of the lockdown. After recording the arguments, the NGT adjourned the ruling to Monday so that it could take into consideration a ruling of a similar case that was coming up for hearing on the same day (April 27) in the A.P. High Court. While a case was filed in the NGT on April 17, a plea was filed in the HC on April 20, challenging the clearing of forests for house sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-hears-arguments-through-videoconference/article31420411.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More time to apply for CUCET||The Central University of Odisha has extended the last date for submission of online application forms for admission in various under graduate, postgraduate and research programmes offered by it through CUCET 2020, till May 23. The university had earlier extended the last date from April 11 to April 25. Now it has further extended it to May 23 due to extended lockdown period. Candidates can fill and submit the CUCET 2020 online application form available at www.cucetexam.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-of-cucet-extended/article31419980.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be considerate in fee collection, private institutions told||Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission R. Kantha Rao on Thursday directed the managements of private schools, junior colleges and private teacher educational institutions to collect only the first quarter tuition fee as fixed for the last academic year at the time of admission of a student. In a statement, Mr. Kantha Rao said this was to facilitate smooth running of the schools and colleges after they reopen. He, however, said that keeping in view the possible financial hardship on account of the lockdown, the managements should consider the parents’ request for instalment facility by allowing them to pay the first quarter fee in two equal instalments (with a gap of at least 45 days). No admission should be rejected for failure to pay full quarter fee, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-considerate-in-fee-collection-private-institutions-told/article31420415.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre gave liberal aid to A.P.: labour board chief||Central Labour Welfare Board chairman and BJP State secretary V. Jayaprakash Narayana said the Central government has extended a financial assistance of Rs. 10,947 crore to Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) through various schemes to mitigate the impact of COVID-19. Mr. Jayaprakash Narayana said in a press release that a sum of Rs. 870 crore has been sanctioned out of the 14th Finance Commission funds to villages for creating basic infrastructure and sanitation and Rs. 431 crore to municipalities for a similar purpose. Besides, the Centre gave nearly Rs. 492 crore for bridging the revenue deficit and Rs. 559 crore towards advance from its disaster management fund.  Panel recommendation Above all of them, approximately Rs. 1,893 crore has been devolved towards the State’s share in Central taxes as per the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission. The Central government was committed to the development of A.P. and would continue to extend a helping hand in the future as it (the State) grappled with the fallout of bifurcation and the severe blow dealt to its fragile economy by the COVID pandemic, Mr. Narayana added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-gave-liberal-aid-to-ap-labour-board-chief/article31420417.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC: give urgent relief to migrant workers||A Division Bench of the High Court comprising Justices C. Praveen Kumar and D. Ramesh directed the State government to provide shelter, food and medicine to migrant workers within 24 hours after identifying them. The court gave the direction to the government while hearing a petition filed by CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna seeking orders to the Central and the State governments to allow migrant workers in Vijayawada, Guntur and other places to return to their hometowns and villages within the State and other parts of the country. Mr. Ramakrishna also sought the provision of accommodation and an urgent financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each to the workers to enable them to buy essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-relief-to-migrant-workers-hc/article31419956.ece
24 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Offer Ramzan prayers at home: Governor||Extending his greetings to Muslims at the beginning of the holy month of Ramzan, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Thursday made an appeal to them to stay indoors and offer prayers from the confines of their houses. In a statement, the Governor said people of all communities should extend their cooperation to the government in containing the spread of COVID-19. Stating that pluralism was an integral part of our society, he said, to achieve success in the fight against virus, people of all religions, castes and sects should strengthen the hands of the governments.  All communities should extend their cooperation to the government in containing the spread of COVID-19 Biswa Bhusan Harichandan Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/offer-ramzan-prayers-at-home-governor/article31420414.ece
24 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thatichetlapalem on alert yet again as one more tests positive||One more COVID-19 positive case was recorded from Thatichetlapalem area on Wednesday night, a health bulletin said on Thursday. The patient, a 30-year-old woman, is a close contact of a COVID-19 patient who recently discharged from GITAM Institute of Medical Science and Research (GIMSR) after treatment. With the new case, the total number of positive cases reported from the city has gone up to 22. With 19 patients being discharged after treatment, the active cases are three. Contact tracing According to officials, the woman, along with five others of the same family, were shifted to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) on April 06, after one of their close contact, who returned from Mumbai, tested positive. Apart from the woman, all the other five including the primary contact had tested positive and were treated at GITAM Institute of Medical and Science Research (GIMSR). Last week, all the five persons were discharged after their samples tested negative. However, the Rapid Response Teams (RRT) had collected samples of all the persons again and sent for testing as part of the protocol. “On Wednesday, results of all the persons reported negative, expect for the woman. All the family members, including the 18-month-old son of the woman, have been put under quarantine once again,” said Andhra Medical College principal Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. Strict enforcement Soon after the reports of the woman tested positive, GVMC Chief Medical and Officer of Health K.S.L.G. Sastry rushed to the spot. A sanitation drive was undertaken. Spraying operations were conducted with sodium hypochlorite solution. The sanitary workers, ward volunteers in the zone were alerted about the new case. The entire area, which has already been declared a containment zone, has been put under strict enforcement.  According to Dr. Sudhakar, about 7,000 persons have been tested from April 6 till date. “Visakhapatnam leads all districts when it comes to number of tests,” he said. It is also learnt that results for 500 samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thatichetlapalem-on-alert-yet-again-as-one-more-tests-positive/article31420435.ece
24 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily wagers fear an uncertain future, says survey||Four schoolchildren, who are part of Samalochana, an NGO, have conducted a survey on the impact of the lockdown on migrant workers, construction workers, MNREGA workers and domestic help. Using an app, the four-member team called about 100 workers and compiled a data with the aid for a questionnaire. While M. Manasvi, a student of Std IX (Timpany School) conducted a survey on construction workers, B. Niruti of Std. VII of Delhi Public School Ukkunagaram, worked on NREGA workers and domestic help and Vamsi Krishna of Std. VIII of Kendreya Vidyalaya Waltair and P. Druthi of Std VIII of DAV Secondary School Chennai, conducted a survey on migrant workers. The team members told The Hindu that each worker was asked a set of 10 general questions and five specific questions about their profession. “As per our general observation, 64% of the workers supported the extension of the lockdown till May 3, 95% of eligible workers received PDS entitlements and door delivery of cash, 70% complained about the upsurge in prices of essential commodities post lockdown and 64% were satisfied with the way the government has been tackling the COVID-19 pandemic,” said the team members. Low awareness The two main general concern of the workers across the sectors were guarantee for food and water and loss of livelihood. In the case of migrant workers going home, food security seems to be the primary concern and only 20 % of the respondents know about the deposit of Rs. 500 in Jan Dhan accounts, said Chakradhar of Samalochana and team leader who trained the students. Only 5% of respondents said they received cash in their Jan Dhan accounts and of them, only 2% were able to collect it. As far as building construction workers are concerned, only 40% are enrolled in welfare boards. Only 18% know about the COVID relief programme announced by the Centre. Coming to NREGA workers, 80% of respondents complained about not receiving work and not receiving unemployment allowance mandatory under the Act and 65% of workers complained about not being able to collect the wages from banks. Moreover, 80% of the workers reporting for NREGA work complained about difficulty in reaching the work site due to lack of transportation. In the survey for domestic help, 80% complained about not receiving salary during work holidays. About 82% of the migrant workers reported about the availability of food grains lasting only three days and complained about losing their jobs. Almost all of them sought government support for going home.Samalochana has been conducting surveys by training schoolchildren for the last few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-wagers-fear-an-uncertain-future-says-survey/article31420437.ece
24 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Display of price list must at all shops’||Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed the officials to conduct frequent inspections to ensure that the price list of essential commodities were displayed at all shops to prevent fleecing of consumers. “Sale of essential commodities is allowed from morning to evening in all areas, except for the containment zones, while the same in the red zones is between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m.,” he said. Consumers can call the control room and lodge complaints in case of traders fleecing them. The officials should act promptly on such complaints, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/display-of-price-list-must-at-all-shops/article31420425.ece
24 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child Care Institutions told to restrict entry of visitors||State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) member K. Apparao visited various Child Care Institutions in the district on Thursday. Mr. Apparao interacted with the staff, children and briefed them about the steps to be taken to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. He advised the institutions to discourage entry of visitors to the maximum extent. He also asked them to ensure proper hygiene by undertaking sanitation measures. “Children need to be encouraged to wash their hands and cover their nose, mouth while coughing or sneezing. Children with flu like symptoms should be provided with efficient healthcare services,” he said. Masks distributed Meanwhile, the SCPCR officials, in cooperation with NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, distributed masks, soaps and sanitisers to 2,937 children in 30 CCIs in the district. District Child Protection Officer Unit A. Satyanarayana and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-care-institutions-told-to-restrict-entry-of-visitors/article31420436.ece
24 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LPS: CPI(M) seeks action against revenue officials||Alleging that revenue officials are acquiring land belonging to the poor under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) in violation of the High Court orders, the CPI (M) has demanded action against the erring officials. Letter to Collector In a letter to Collector V. Vinay Chand, CPI (M) leader K. Lokanadham has said that Simhadri Ganga Raju from Iruwada in Sabbavaram mandal had been cultivating a stretch of 75 cents for the past 45 years. “The revenue officials had tried to acquire the land, while sparing the poramboke land surrounding it. This caused mental agony to Mr. Raju who attempted to end life by immolating self. The government should conduct a probe and punish the erring officials ,” said Mr. Lokanadham. He further alleged that the Sabbavaram MRO was acting as per his whims and fancies.“The MRO is playing into the hands of some ruling party leaders. He does not even heed to the directions of the High Court which has issued a stay on acquisition of house sites,” alleged Mr. Lokanadham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lps-cpim-seeks-action-against-revenue-officials/article31420431.ece
24 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||100% job quota sought for STs in tribal regions||The Girijana Sangham has appealed to the State government to file a review petition against the judgment of the Supreme Court, limiting the reservations for STs in jobs in tribal areas at 50%. In a statement, the Sangham’s Visakha Urban Committee president S. Damodar said all posts in tribal areas were reserved for STs since the time of combined Andhra Pradesh as per a government order. He sought the government intervention to ensure justice to the tribal people by continuing recruitment as it was done in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-job-quota-sought-for-sts-in-tribal-regions/article31420430.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala blames illegal travellers for new cases in green zones||The State government on Thursday said the illegal movement of people across interstate borders might have triggered the emergence of new COVID-19 positive cases in Green zone districts such as Idukki. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan flagged the smuggling of people across borders in cargo vehicles and illegal travel across districts defying the lockdown as the foremost threats to the State’s epidemic containment strategy, which, he said, entered its third phase. A mafia emerges Mr. Vijayan asked law enforcers to commit their resources, including drones, to halt the to and fro movement of people between Kerala and Karnataka and also Tamil Nadu through ill-policed byways, forest trails, illegal crossing points, and rural roads. (State Police Chief Loknath Behera directed District Police Chiefs to use drones to crack down on border crossings through highways and byroads.) The tightening of lockdown curbs had spawned a mafia that transported people for cash. They contracted a network of ambulance and container lorry drivers to conceal passengers in the holds of their vehicles to convey them to their respective disembarkation points. Some persons living on properties abutting interstate borders aided the racket. The Kollam police arrested five persons who tried to enter the State illegally from Tamil Nadu through the Aryankavu check-post. They had attempted to cross over in cargo vehicles. Kollam District Collector Abdul Nassar said the administration would cancel the permit of cargo vehicles which smuggled people. A special squad was formed to monitor the 28 entry and exit points along the interstate border. Moreover, the Collector has prohibited lorry crew from bivouacking at houses or eateries near the border. Teacher’s trip Mr. Vijayan ordered an investigation into how a schoolteacher from Thiruvananthapuram could enlist the help of the police and later the Excise Department to travel to Thamarassery in Kozhikode from where she crossed over to Karnataka with her two-year-old boy in an excise vehicle for onward passage to New Delhi. The Wayanad police said the woman had journeyed to Muthanga unchallenged on the strength of a vehicle pass issued by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Narcotic Cell, Thiruvananthapuram Rural. She then crossed over to Karnataka allegedly with the help of an inspector attached to the Excise Circle Office, Kalpetta. Her husband received her at the Madhur check-post on the Karnataka side of the border. District Police Chief, Wayanad, R. Ilanko said the police booked the woman and the excise official for violating lockdown and jeopardising pandemic control. Mr. Vijayan said the police booked a health service doctor for aiding his wife, a surgeon at the Tamil Nadu Medical College Hospital, Kanyakumari, cross the border with Kerala at Tamil Nadu almost daily. The authorities quarantined the couple and booked them under various provisions of the law. Drivers’ declaration The Palakkad district authorities tightened the vigil against people sneaking in and out by violating the lockdown restrictions. District Collector D. Balamurali said that apart from the police, GST intelligence officials too started surveillance at the borders. The authorities have made it mandatory for truck and lorry owners to provide self declarations stating the names of drivers and helpers. The new move came into effect when people started travelling in lorries in the guise of helpers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-blames-illegal-travellers-for-new-cases-in-green-zones/article31419946.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dressed to save||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dressed-to-save/article31419963.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/some-relief/article31420419.ece
24 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Long wait for Rs. 1,500 COVID-19 relief||The hours-long wait of Jondhade Archana and Lokande Anasuyabai ends in disappointment when the bank teller informs them that the Rs. 1,500 as COVID-19 relief given by the State government has not been credited into their accounts for want of Aadhaar linkage. The teller also disappoints others like Gadewar Lavanya, also from Heerapur village in Indervelli mandal in Adilabad district, by replying in the negative after checking her Aadhaar linked account. Hundreds of bank customers, especially in the Agency areas, flock to respective banks every morning, queuing up in hot sun for their turn at the teller's counter only to be told to come the next day when probably the relief money gets credited into their accounts. The customers, especially women, are losing precious earning by not being able to report for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). According to Additional Collector G. Sandhya Rani, there are nearly 1.89 lakh white ration card holders in the district who are eligible to draw the COVID-19 relief and over 16,600 whose bank accounts are not linked with Aadhaar number. "We have made arrangements to pay the relief money through post offices to all those whose bank accounts are not linked to Aadhaar," she asserted. Some bankers pointed out that the relief money is not getting credited into bank accounts of rural customers which were frozen owing to no transaction over a long period of time. "In such cases we are reviving the account and crediting the money if the customer produces either his or her Aadhaar card or any other valid photo identity card," revealed Nikhil Kumar, manager of Indervelli branch of the Union Bank of India, when asked about frozen accounts. Another factor which results in waste of time is the non linkage of mobile phone number of the customer with given bank account. "The customer/beneficiaries receive a message from the government the moment the amount gets credited in their accounts if it is linked with a mobile number," Mr. Kumar explained. While illiteracy and poverty imposes constraints in the rural areas, only some women active in self-help groups only own a mobile handset. Moreover, even those numbers that are linked to bank accounts are changed constantly by villagers without realising that they need to update it with the bank. The ideal way out, according to bankers is for the government to provide a village-wise list of beneficiaries. This will have all beneficiaries covered as well as prevent waste of precious time of bankers too, one of them opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/long-wait-for-rs-1500-covid-19-relief/article31420262.ece
24 April 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Bhainsa tense over imposition of curfew||There was tension in the communally sensitive Bhainsa town of Nirmal district late on Wednesday night when authorities tried to impose curfew regulations in the old parts of the town. Collector Md. Musharraf Ali Faruqui, who was visiting the town to inspect barricading of the lanes and bylanes, found youth out of their homes without any purpose and asked them go inside their homes. He asked policemen at the nearby picket to do so in order to effectively control the spread of COVID-19 infection.  According to sources, a couple of youths were caned near their house in Kunta area which set their mothers to protest, with people from the locality joining in. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju, who was at Mancherial Chowrasta in Nirmal town, rushed to Bhainsa with force. He and DSP K. Narsing Rao summoned community elders, councillors and others, and impressed upon them that the restrictions were related with controlling COVID-19 spread and they should cooperate with authorities. This resulted in easing of the tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhainsa-tense-over-imposition-of-curfew/article31420253.ece
24 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID test lab launched at ESIC hospital||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launched a first-of-its kind BSL3 Mobile Virology Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (MVRDL) in India, developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), at the ESIC Medical College and Hospital at Sanathnagar. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar and Telangana IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao attended the video conference of the launch. The lab will be used not only for testing coronavirus samples but also for research on the virus, including drug testing, viral genomics and vaccine development. It is estimated that about 1,000 samples can be tested per day in this lab. In record time Mr. K.T. Rama Rao complimented the DRDO for launching the lab in a record time of two weeks though in the normal course it would take at least six months. He said that the Telangana government with the support of the Union government was making all efforts to deal with the virus and hoped this new facility would expedite testing and help the government in its fight. Mr. Kishan Reddy appreciated the efforts of the Dean of ESIC Medical College Srinivas M and the team from DRDO for setting up the lab and taking up the challenges to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. DRDO Chairman Satish Reddy appreciated the industry partners from ‘I-clean’, which fabricated the interiors of the lab, ‘I Comm’, which manufactured the robust containers for the lab and Hitech h\Hydraulics, which provided the base platforms for erection of the containers and other logistic support. Telangana Labour Minister M. Malla Reddy and MSR Prasad DG, MSS, DRDO along with the directors of DRDO, handed over the certificates of appreciation to industry partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-test-lab-launched-at-esic-hospital/article31420227.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Civic projects pick up pace||Gachibowli is witnessing work on a string of civic infrastructure projects at a pace like never before, thanks to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. From work to complete the second, smaller flyover at the Biodiversity junction, erection of a new traffic signal in the busy Indira Nagar to laying of power cable underground, the area has been abuzz with activity. Hardly any hint In the first few days of the lockdown, there hardly was any hint of the works lined up in Gachibowli that over five years has emerged one of the preferred destinations for home buyers as well as commercial establishments and offices. It all began with re-laying of Old Mumbai Highway, using milling or the process of scrapping of the surface, near the University of Hyderabad to Gachibowli flyover. Incidentally, around the same time, a multi-storied sports tower lying idle near the Gachibowli stadium was also readied into a Centre for the COVID-19, as an annex of the Osmania Hospital. As much as the smooth roads, what is bound to take many residents by surprise is a pedestrian crossing facility and a new traffic signal in Indira Nagar, about 100 metres from the flyover. A much-needed facility, it is expected to come as a relief for the hundreds of pedestrians who brave the heavy traffic to cross the road. A Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation personnel at the site said the plan was to activate the traffic signal by evening on Thursday. Traffic signal The civic body is also closing the median from the flyover to the ISB junction, barring the new traffic signal, said a man engaged in the work to put up iron barriers. The lockdown that is helping speed up works is also coming in the way as the barriers being erected on the median are in short supply, he said. Another infrastructure activity under way is on the second arm of the Biodiversity junction flyover that will be for vehicles from Gachibowli towards Raidurgam police station. While one end of the arm is functional, work is apace on the other. Making it happen are scores of migrant workers, one of whom said the flyover was still a few months away from commissioning. A portion of the road near the Gachibowli flyover that was prone to water-logging has been converted into a concrete road. Road for several metres in the area has also been dug up for laying power cables by Telangana State Transco, a work residents would want to be completed early for restoration of the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/civic-projects-pick-up-pace/article31420235.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kondapochamma reservoir: HC seeks evacuation by May 1||Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the government that families — whose houses would be submerged due to construction of Kondapochamma reservoir in Siddipet — should be evacuated by May 1. All families losing their houses due to submergence should be provided alternative accommodation in Rehabilitation and Resettlement colonies or other suitable places, the court said. The order was passed by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy after hearing writ petitions filed by some families belonging to Mamidyala and Bahilampur villages of Mulugu mandal in Siddipet district. They sought compensation under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. Majority of the people losing houses and lands due to construction of Kondapochamma reservoir (as part of Kaleshwaram project) accepted the compensation offered by the government. Some, however, moved the HC stating that the relief was not commensurate with the provisions of the Act. Recently, they filed an interim application seeking a direction to the government not to release water into the reservoir as this would inundate their houses. They contended that their petitions on the compensation matter were still being heard by the HC. After hearing contentions of the petitioners’ lawyer and Advocate General B.S. Prasad, the bench said that release of water cannot be prevented as it would affect interests of larger section of people. However, the affected persons should secure the monetary compensation, house sites and other benefits without any hindrance. The cheques relating to compensation and documents of house site allotments should be handed over to the petitioners’ lawyer. If the petitioners still have any objections over the compensation, they can continue the legal battle, the bench said. Referring to the harvest in the crop fields, the HC said the oustees can take whatever amount of the harvest they need. For the leftover harvest, the government should pay money to the land owners as per the minimum support price, the bench said. On the issue of members of families who attained the age of 18 years and unmarried, the petitioners claimed that such persons should also be given full compensation as per the Act. However, the government was offering them only half the compensation assured in the Act, they contended. The bench posted this matter to Monday for adjudication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kondapochamma-reservoir-hc-seeks-evacuation-by-may-1/article31420257.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus outbreak moves people to donate more||People who are moved by the plight of the poor during lockdown have raised over Rs. 78 crore through the crowd funding platform Milaap in the past one month. The money was generated for food and other resources for the homeless, migrant workers, transgenders and other sections of the society. Around 1,653 people from different parts of the country started online campaigns and 1.4 lakh donors from across the world contributed to the cause. However, over 96% of funds were collected within India. People donated whatever they could afford, starting from Rs. 15 by students through online payment windows. Co-founder and CEO of Milaap Mayukh Choudhury said that people’s willingness to donate and express solidarity spikes during natural disasters or crisis. Recalling past ten years’ observations of responses to online campaigns, Mr. Mayukh said that willingness of people to help each other always existed. For the first time, they observed this behaviour on a large scale when floods ravaged Chennai in 2015. Around Rs. 50 lakh was donated in a span of two days. A similar expression of reaching out was observed when floods hit Kerala and other States over the next few years. “The fundamental behaviour is the same. The (online) medium of expression has become more prominent. In case of COVID-19, unprecedented amount was collected because of the magnitude of crisis and enabling ecosystem — more people accessing Internet and payment system, people’s understanding of crowd funding,” he said. Over the past one month, campaigns for COVID-19 relief work were centred around three themes (a) Individuals, NGOs, private organisations collected money to provide food (b) Money to small group of people from poor background (c) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to healthcare professionals. It is anticipated that campaigns might be floated in May to help micro businesses. Usually, 5% of platform fee is charged on funds raised through the platform. The Milaap team members said that the fee is not charged for campaigns association with COVID-19. They check for authenticity of the fund-raisers, individuals or organisations. To know if funds are utilised for the stated reasons, they ask for bills issued by vendors, PAN cards and account details. The online platform will be the temporary custodian of funds collected so far. While withdrawing the funds, beneficiary details (account details, ID proof) are asked for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coronavirus-outbreak-moves-people-to-donate-more/article31420221.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT sector exploring ways to avert layoffs||IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s recent appeal to industry leaders not to resort to layoffs has evoked mixed response. However, industry bigwigs are exploring various possibilities on how to tackle the situation. The appeal by the Minister on behalf of the government gave some hope to employees in the private sector, particularly IT/ITES companies, who are fearing job losses, even while the company managements facing challenges due to the COVID-19 crisis and lockdown are assessing the impact on their balance sheets. Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) president Murali Bollu said that it was very nice of the IT Minister to make such an appeal as it can make people think twice and explore other options before opting for the last resort of laying off employees. Big companies and companies with deep pockets to reach out to may hold back any proposed layoffs for the next couple of months for various reasons. There was short supply of skilled professionals even before the outbreak resulting in spike in recruitment. But if companies let go of some employees because of the current difficult situation, they may not get back people of required skills later, he said. Generally, the attrition rate in IT/ITES companies is between 18 and 25% and in addition, if companies lay off more people because of the present crisis, the situation may become unsustainable for some companies. Moreover for big companies, the contracts are for three to five years. Their problem however may be in securing new project contracts. However, Mr. Murali said that for small and medium enterprises, it may be tough to not to resort to downsizing as they have to pay rentals even if employees are working from home. There is no US-like payroll protection and SMEs generally have one year or less than one year contracts unless they have clients from domains like insurance, health, and education. In fact technology companies that were catering to domains like hospitality, tourism, airlines, entertainment, ticket booking were already impacted as their client sectors have been hit by COVID crisis and few such IT companies indeed started giving termination notices to their workforce. The companies have two choices - across the board pay cuts or lay off some employees. “This is also performance appraisal time. One may reduce the pay increase but at the cost of losing some good performers,” he said. Even if the SMEs are compelled to layoff some employees, it will not be more than 1 to 2% of the overall IT workforce, he said. The IT and ITES sector is also considering taking legal advice on how it should go about if it resorted to pay cuts, deferments and other cost cutting measures in a way that will be fair to all stakeholders and scheduled a meeting with legal experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-sector-exploring-ways-to-avert-layoffs/article31420223.ece
24 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cleaner Charminar a visual treat||The four roads radiating out of Charminar appear as if they have been scrubbed clean by a high-pressured hosepipe. “We need to sweep it for one hour and we are done. We relax after that,” says K. Amruta, a Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) sanitary worker. She is part of a 15-member team that ensures that the vast quadrangle is kept clean. “Earlier, we used to clean it throughout the day but it stayed dirty as restaurant owners and fruit vendors used to throw waste water near their outlets. Now it is dry and clean,” says the woman sitting and chitchatting with fellow workers just outside Charminar. The filthy water flowing from one end of the lane would get accumulated on the southern side creating an unseemly puddle. There were puddles of filthy water on the Laad Bazaar stretch. Civic officials had to work on the gradient of the area around the monument to solve the problem of water stagnation. “We have taken up an intensive clean-up programme as the pedestrianisation project is nearing completion. Now, the results can be seen due to fewer footfalls in the area,” said a GHMC official. In the absence of milling crowds of tourists, hawkers, beggars and hustlers, Hyderabad’s iconic monument looks radiant and attractive except for hundreds of parked vehicles seized from violators of lockdown. “We have to pick up the broom after lunch time as people leave uneaten food and packets lying around. They even discard tea cups wherever they are sitting,” says Jyotilakshmi, another sanitary worker, near Char Kaman. The workers do three shifts with 15-member teams. One team works late into the night. Among those affected due to drop in garbage in the area are the migrant trash collectors. “By this time, our bags used to be full but now there is hardly any plastic litter. Even the price of plastic waste has dropped from Rs. 20 to Rs. 8 (a kg),” says one of them near Gulzar Houz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cleaner-charminar-a-visual-treat/article31420229.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Journalist tests positive for coronavirus||The first instance of a journalist contracting Coronavirus in the State was reported on Thursday. A TV news channel reporter living in Jogulamba Gadwal district, tested positive for COVID-19. He was already in quarantine in a local post-graduate college centre. He is likely to be shifted to Gandhi Medical College late on Thursday night. With the journalist, who was believed to have interacted with several persons by virtue of his professional work, testing positive for the virus, police began analysing his movements. “He did not get the virus because of professional work. His brother already tested positive for coronavirus. Apparently, he contracted it from the sibling,” a police officer said. Soon after reports confirmed that his brother had COVID-19, the journalist was sent for quarantine. Inquiries indicated that his brother contracted the virus during a personal trip to Kurnool. Interestingly, his brother’s wife tested negative for the virus. As part of reporting developments relating to COVID-19 incidence, the TV journalist was believed to have interacted with many people, politicians and officials. “He had taken basic precautions of wearing mask. But we have to identify all his primary and secondary contacts. His family members being his close contacts are to be quarantined,” the police said. Soon after the journalist was sent for quarantining having learnt that his brother contracted the virus, police sent three more journalists from Mahbubnagar for quarantining in local government medical college there. These three journalists of different TV news channels had come to Gadwal earlier to cover a programme. Police are verifying reports that all of them had gone to a place for lunch. “After completing the work, these three journalists reportedly went to Gadwal journalist’s house for a while before heading to Mahbubnagar. This is being verified,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/journalist-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/article31420258.ece
24 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Poetic tribute to virus frontliners||It is a poetic tribute to people who are battling the COVID-19 pandemic. “My idea is to motivate people through poetry and show solidarity to those who are fighting the disease like doctors and nurses. I released the poems in a video format on social media so that the message reaches the world,” says Ramesh Sunkara, a lecturer of a government college at Qutbullapur. Mr. Sunkara has roped in collaborators to the project from Iran and Canada as a number of people have offered VoiceOver for his poems. “Diane Rusk, Javad Maulai, Krishnaveni Satakopan, Damodar Rao and Tirupathi Reddy recite the Telugu and English poems while a friend did the editing,” says Mr. Sunkara, who plans to add poems on policemen, sanitary workers and others in the frontline battle against the spread of the virus. “I am planning to bring out an anthology of these poems once the pandemic is over,” says Mr. Sunkara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poetic-tribute-to-virus-frontliners/article31420231.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni Colony: home to marauding pigs||Recent incident where a drove of pigs attacked and killed a toddler in Singareni Colony of Saidabad brings focus back to the extremely unhygienic conditions in certain pockets of the city, especially slums. Added to it is the absence of any targeted plan to rehabilitate the pig rearer community. A three-year-old boy, Harshavardhan, was mauled to death by a group of pigs on Tuesday, in Singareni Colony. The boy’s migrant parents have been living in Datru Huts area of Singareni Colony, which is more of a huge slum. The so-called huts were but small makeshift cabins with corrugated tin sheets for walls and roofs. They were lined along an empty plot, which was serving as dump yard for the slum. “There is a graveyard nearby and the pigs come in at will. With garbage piles and sewage overflow everywhere, this area provides ideal breeding ground for them,” says Lingaswamy, a social worker. A Vambay housing colony nearby with broken sewage and water pipelines, and rampant open defecation add to the problems. “A community toilet complex is lying defunct owing to lack of maintenance. Children from the huts defecate in the garbage dump where the pigs attacked the boy,” said an official. GHMC was declared Open Defecation Free as part of the Swachh Survekshan rankings. As per GHMC’s official count, the locality is home to over 30 swines. Locals say the number could be higher. “Residence of the pig rearer falls in the East Zone, while the slum is in the South Zone. We are coordinating so that pig catchers and vehicles can be organised. We have got a case filed against the owner,” an official said. P.Achyutha Rao, founder of Balala Hakkula Sangham, who filed a petition with the State Human Rights Commission about the toddler’s death, terms the incident GHMC’s failure. Officials say they give euthanasia to several pigs every year. Rules say pig rearing cannot be taken up within 5 km of human habitations, and not at all in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-colony-home-to-marauding-pigs/article31420238.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Race Club to donate masks||Hyderabad Race Club, at the initiative of its chairman R. Surender Reddy and the Board of Directors\Stewards of HRC, in continuation of its efforts to support the State government in fighting the dreaded COVID-19, has decided to donate face masks to be used by the Hyderabad city police. Dr Verender Kaja, Chief Operating Officer of HRC, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Vijayender Reddy and Administrative Officer V.Shankar handed over the masks, totalling about 30,000, to Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar here on Thursday. “This is part of our endeavour and resolve to support Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s efforts to eradicate the dreaded virus,” HRC chairman said in a statement. “We are presenting the masks to the police force which should be helpful to them in discharging their duties with a safety cover as they are always out on the streets to help the government,” it is said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/race-club-to-donate-masks/article31420236.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Order issued on rent deferment||As a sequel to the Chief Minister’s announcement on Sunday, the State government on Thursday issued order asking property owners in Telangana to defer rent collection without interest for three months starting from March or face criminal cases. The amount may be collected in instalments after three months, the orders said. GHMC Commissioner and other Municipal Commissioners are to be empowered by the District Disaster Management Authority under the chairmanship of the district collector to implement the order in their respective jurisdictions. Whoever violates these orders will be liable for punishment under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, the orders signed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said. The orders were issued in view of the economic hardships faced by people during the COVID-19 lockdown. A large section of population lives in rented accommodation and rentals constitute a significant portion of monthly income, up to 40 per cent in some cases, the order noted. These people will be adversely affected if payment of timely rent is insisted upon. Further, measures such as eviction would result in displacement and extreme hardships for tenants, especially since there is a ban on inter-state movement of people. It will put them at great risk of getting infected with the virus by exposing them to unknown spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/order-issued-on-rent-deferment/article31420239.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre to come out with more stimulus packages||The Central government, which has already pumped in close to Rs. 5.75 lakh crore into the economy in two different instalments to provide monetary liquidity to the banks and kickstart the economic activities, is holding meetings with various stakeholders to formulate stimulus packages and even tax relief to the industries, said Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao on Thursday. "We are not a rich country to splurge but the fact also is 80% of the population depends on subsidies. The government is thinking of innovative solutions to monetise and kickstart the economy," he said, declining to get into specifics. However, the BJP leader cautioned that there was going to be “lot of pain” ahead due to the disruption in economic activity in all the spheres. Both the Central and State governments are working in a coordinated fashion to handle this unprecedented 'war' like situation where economic challenges are going to be immense, he said, talking to the media through Zoom app video conferencing. There is a likelihood of the current lockdown to be eased in select sectors gradually after May first week but since the COVID-19 spread is 'dynamic', it all depends whether there will be spurt in new cases or a decline during this period before a definite time-table can be arrived at for now, he said. "I don't foresee an extended lockdown. Agriculture and allied activities have already been exempt. Disruption is going to be norm and since coronavirus cannot be wished away in the absence of a confirmed drug or a vaccine, there is bound to be a major change in the way we lead our lives with social distancing, personal hygiene and sanitation being top priorities. There is going to be a major change in how governments policies towards public health and preventive healthcare from primary healthcare centres to the secondary/tertiary hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-to-come-out-with-more-stimulus-packages/article31420248.ece
24 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ryots in distress: Sravan Dasoju||Telangana Congress has said the procurement of agriculture produce in Telangana is moving at a tardy pace due to shortage of procurement centres and charged that the government failed to make a proper estimate of paddy and maize produce, leaving the farmers in distress. AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju in a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that this rabi season various crops have been cultivated in about 53.68 lakh acres in Telangana with an increase of 70%, while normally 31.58 lakh acres are cultivated. Major crops like paddy has been cultivated in 39.24 lakh acres, maize in 6.21 lakh acres, bengalgram (Shenaga) in 3.28 lakh acres, and groundnut in 2.30 lakh acres - leading to a substantial increase. He said though the government claimed to be making all arrangements, the reality at ground-level contradicts government's claims. Though 7,500 procurement centres were needed, only 4,380 procurement centres have been set up and even these are not functioning properly. Farmers are forced to sell at a lesser price to rice millers. Shortage of gunny bags is haunting and the government did little to meet the demand. There is even shortage of paddy cleaners, moisturiser machines, winnowers. He said till now 890 maize procurement centres have been set up but the delayed set up forced farmers to sell the produce to private traders at Rs. 1,300 per quintal though the MSP was Rs. 1,760. A total 18.60 lakh metric tonnes of maize is estimated to have produced but the government has procured just 1.30 lakh tonnes so far. Similar problems are being faced by turmeric, bengalgram and redgram farmers as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryots-in-distress-sravan-dasoju/article31420252.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BJP, Cong. politicising rabi procurement issues’||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy and Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy alleged that the Congress and BJP leaders were resorting to “petty politics” over procurement of rabi crops. Speaking separately here, the two functionaries of the State govt. said that by resorting to petty politics over the ongoing procurement exercise of all rabi crops, the two opposition parties were trying to hurt the confidence of the farming community. Alleging that the BJP leaders were trying to gain some political mileage by planning the protest over procurement, Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy suggested the BJP leaders make a demand for procurement of all crops by the Centre at minimum support price (MSP). Admitting that there was problem of ‘hamalis’ (labourers) in the wake of lockdown for loading and unloading paddy being procured from farmers at the procurement centres and at rice mills/storage points, the RBS Chairman said the movement of paddy was slower than expected due to it. About 20,000 lorries had to move the paddy from procurement centres every day to keep space for new purchases. With a view to help the farming community during the current crisis, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had announced procurement of all rabi crops in the State at MSP, Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy said, adding that there were problems of moisture and chaff content in the paddy being brought to some purchase centres by the farmers. The quality specifications for procurement of paddy fixed by the Centre including keeping the moisture content below 17% were not being followed by farmers sometimes, he pointed out, adding that millers were not accepting the paddy with more than permissible limit of moisture and chaff. He also suggested the BJP leaders to pursue with their Central leadership to convince the Centre to link MGNREGS with agriculture. Stating that there was no State in the country other than Telangana which was procuring agricultural produce by sparing Rs. 30,000 crore, he sought whether any BJP leader from the State demanded the Centre for funds to major irrigation projects or for establishment of turmeric board in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-cong-politicising-rabi-procurement-issues/article31420255.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Inspector’s kind gesture draws wide applaud||Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh Jai Ram Thakur lauded the effort of Kukatpally inspector B Laxminarayan Reddy after he got a migrant from the State admitted to a hospital and paid for his surgery. The man whom Mr Reddy helped was identified as Lalit Kumar. He hails from Lalyar village in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh. It was said that he required immediate appendix surgery. In a letter to Mr Reddy, the HP CM wrote, “In this difficult situation, you not only helped him in admitting him in the hospital but also paid an amount of Rs. 20,000 on account of surgery bill to Omni Hospital out of your own pocket. This act was a great gesture on your part and I appreciate your exemplary effort. Your deed is an inspiration to all the persons involved in the fight against Covid – 19 (sic).” On April 16, COVID-19 control room had received a call in connection with Mr Kumar who needed immediate medical attention. It was later found that he was suffering from appendix pain. The Kukatpally inspector got him admitted and paid for treatment. Mr Reddy’s gesture earned him applause from senior officers. Taking to Twitter, Telangana DGP M Mahender Reddy said, “Your Concern beyond Humanity towards Mr. Lalit who got stranded due to#LockDownreally deserves this appreciation. Admitting him at hospital & supporting financially on your own, proves once again that, police is there to reach every needy. Proud of you Dear SHO Kukatpally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inspectors-kind-gesture-draws-wide-applaud/article31420244.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minor girl raped in Dundigal||Dundigal police booked a case for rape and POCSO Act against four persons for allegedly raping a minor girl. According to police, the 14-year-old minor girl, mentally unsound, had left her house on April 20 after a quarrel with parents. After she did not return, her parents on Thursday approached the police and lodged a complaint. Police managed to trace the missing girl and in due course of the investigation, found that the girl was allegeldy raped by four persons after they forcibly took her to a house at Devender Nagar. The four persons that were booked are identified as Akbar, Zuman, Gayas and Aleem. Police are also investigating the whereabouts of the victim on April 21 and April 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-girl-raped-in-dundigal/article31420246.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contract employee of GHMC assaulted||A contract employee of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation was allegedly assaulted by two men after he went to attend a complaint in the Habeeb Nagar police station limits. According to Habeeb Nagar police, the incident took place on Wednesday night when the victim Mohammed Shareef (34) went to Gokul Nagar. The victim works as an electrician with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and went there after receiving a complaint from Kamal Kishore about non-functioning street lights. Police said that the locals of Gokul Nagar had set up barricades at the road in an attempt to prevent movement on account of the coronavirus pandemic. The victim, after attending to the complaint, was on his way back around 10 pm, when two persons allegedly asked him who he was and picked up a quarrel with him. They later allegedly beat him with a stick, resulting in injuries on his nose and other parts of the body. The accused persons were identified as Bharat and Ravi. According to Habeeb Nagar inspector of police P Shiva Chandra, the two were taken into custody. A case was booked against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contract-employee-of-ghmc-assaulted/article31420243.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR turns all 486 coaches into isolation wards||South Central Railway (SCR) has converted all the targeted 486 coaches into isolation wards for COVID-19 patients. Each isolation coach will have eight coupes and one coupe for medical staff. The coaches have been modified to have one bathroom, three toilets, curtains in between the coupes and all the necessary electrical and medical equipment, as per the advisory issued by the Railway Board (RB). General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Thursday informed that the RB had decided to convert 5,000 non-AC coaches into isolation wards in all zones and despite the lockdown, his personnel ensured that the wards are made available much before the target completion time. The task of procuring essential material for the conversion of the coaches was given to Lallaguda and Tirupati workshops and the officials concerned were told to share the work making use of the coaches available in all the six divisions. This led to Secunderabad division converting 120 coaches; Hyderabad division converting 40 coaches; Vijayawada division converting 50 coaches; Guntakal division converting 61 coaches; Nanded division converting 30 coaches; Guntur division converting 25 coaches; Lallaguda workshop converting 76 coaches and Tirupati workshop converting 84 coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-turns-all-486-coaches-into-isolation-wards/article31420222.ece
24 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EFLU makes short films on coronavirus in 10 languages||Union Minister for Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank launched short films on Twitter on the preventive awareness campaign on coronavirus created by the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU). The university started this campaign against COVID-19 under University Social Responsibility (USR), a unique initiative brought about by Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar. The short films are on ‘Washing Hands’ and maintaining ‘Social Distance’ in Hindi, English, Telugu, Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, and Spanish. Prof. Suresh Kumar said that launching of these short films by the Union Minister was a special recognition and encouragement to the university to reach out to the general public. He said that 13 short films were made in 10 languages to spread awareness. Defining the objectives of USR, Prof. Suresh Kumar said that the university is producing a pool of Open Educational Resources (OERs) in English, Hindi, Sanskrit, and ten foreign languages, to help the general public improve their language proficiency. EnglishPro, a free mobile app, will be launched soon to help users improve their pronunciation in standard Indian English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eflu-makes-short-films-on-coronavirus-in-10-languages/article31420224.ece
24 April 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie on morning walk dies||A 35-year-old techie, who was on morning walk collapsed and died on Thursday, Bachupally police said. Police identified the techie as Somnath Saha, a resident of Nizampet, and was living with his wife. He was from Bengal. He worked in a software company. “He was walking along the jogging track in Lake View building. He had no medical history. He collapsed and died,” Bachupally inspector P Jagadeeshwar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-on-morning-walk-dies/article31420245.ece
24 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||A mission to take masks to rural people||The Prathima Foundation and Prathima Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) in Karimnagar have embarked on an ambitious programme of distributing one crore face masks to protect rural masses from the deadly coronavirus. At the same time, it aims to support several hundreds of women SHG members and tailors secure employment during this lockdown period. Several tailors who were displaced following the lockdown and women SHG members of Karimnagar, Adilabad and Warangal districts are securing employment and supporting their family financially during this lockdown period. Each woman and tailor is earning anywhere between Rs. 350 to Rs. 500 per day by stitching face masks. PIMS chairman Boinapalli Srinivasa Rao and Prathima Foundation founder Dr. B Harini conceived the idea of distributing face masks to the rural masses as masks are not available there and they cannot afford to purchase them also. Accordingly, they specially designed the three-layered reusable face mask measuring 7x8 inches size with two tieable laces and made with high-quality poly cotton cloth for easy breathing and long life. The foundation authorities are purchasing each mask for Rs. 35 and the tailors and the SHG women are procuring the poly-cotton cloth from Hyderabad. The tailor or SHG member would earn Rs. 5 per mask after stitching and packing in pollution-free paper bags. About 125 volunteers of PIMS collect the masks from the women groups and tailors and distribute the same to the villagers in PIMS ambulances along with pamphlets on dos and don’ts about the deadly virus. Already, they had distributed 25 lakh masks in three districts. They had also set up a helpline call centre at PIMS to receive calls from villagers for the supply of masks with the consent of sarpanch. Padmavati, a tailoring cooperative society leader, said that she feels proud to be part of a fight against the deadly virus and provide employment to women tailors by stitching masks. She said that each person was earning Rs. 500 per day by stitching 100 masks. A representative of Prathima Foundation said, “Our motto is to see that the rural people also wear masks, which is mandatory and also provide livelihood support to BPL people during this lockdown period.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-mission-to-take-masks-to-rural-people/article31420233.ece
24 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Harish to rescue of pregnant migrant worker||With the intervention of Minister T. Harish Rao, a pregnant migrant worker from Madhya Pradesh, who was in need of urgent medical care, was admitted to the government medical college hospital at Siddipet and was treated there. Now, her condition is stable. Sushma alias Susmita and Surendra Narner are from Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. Long ago, they migrated to Hyderabad for a living. The lockdown turned their lives upside down, literally. There was no money in hand. In addition, Sushma is three months pregnant. Not seeing any hope in near future, Surendra, his wife and two other women started walking to their native district, about 700 km from Hyderabad. They began their journey on Tuesday and, after walking for about 15 km, a lorry driver agreed to take them to Kamareddy district. However, after sensing a police check post, the driver dropped them at Ramayampet in Medak district. There, Sushma developed bleeding. Seeing her condition, the police shifted her to the government hospital in an ambulance. The doctors conducted scanning for her and felt that she needed treatment immediately . It was about 11 p.m. Coming to know of this through some source, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao got her shifted to the government medical college hospital at Siddipet. “My wife’s bleeding was controlled and she is safe. We request the Minister to send us to our native place at the earliest as my wife is pregnant,” said Surendra. On Thursday, Mr. Harish Rao met Sushma at the medical college hospital and enquired about her health. He promised to give them all support and send them to their native place after the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-to-rescue-of-pregnant-migrant-worker/article31420241.ece
24 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||KTR, Harish to release water to Ranganaiksagar||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao will release water to Ranganaiksagar on Friday. For the first time, Godavari water from Kaleswaram would be flowing here. The project was conceived in 2009 as part of Pranahita-Chevella, and after much much delay till 2015, the project was redesigned, and completed now. This will irrigate more than 1.1 lakh acres in both Siddipet, Sircilla and Warangal districts. Mr. Harish Rao supervised the arrangements on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-harish-to-release-water-to-ranganaiksagar/article31420267.ece
24 April 2020||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||ACP attached to DGP office||Mancherial Assistant Commissioner of Police Ch. Laxmi Narayana was on Thursday temporarily attached to DGP office in Hyderabad following an inquiry into a permission given to an applicant to blow siren for prayers. An applicant had sought permission on April 21 on which the ACP scribbled, permitted, and signed it. The applicant subsequently uploaded the 'permit' in social media and on social messaging platform. The upload went viral and it reached the Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, who ordered an inquiry. The officer in question was not authorised to issue such permission and violated the lockdown regulations. The inquiry also revealed that he failed to seek clear instructions from his higher ups with regard to permitting the use of siren in a place of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acp-attached-to-dgp-office/article31420263.ece
24 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||18 new containment zones declared in Gurugram after fresh virus cases||In view of growing number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram, the local administration on Thursday declared 18 more containment zones in the district taking the total number to 24. It includes 10 in Gurugram block. In late evening orders, Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri announced containment of 18 more places across the district after new cases were reported in these areas. As per the orders, there are 10 containment zones in Gurugram block, 11 in Sohna and three in Pataudi. A total of 47 people have tested positive in Gurugram district so far, and 35 of them have recovered. Only twelve cases are active. As many as 3,953 samples have been taken so far. The results for 116 are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/18-new-containment-zones-declared-in-gurugram-after-fresh-virus-cases/article31420185.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lok Nayak doctor ‘attacked’ by CATS ambulance workers||A woman doctor of Lok Nayak Hospital was allegedly attacked by a worker of CATS ambulance service while she was on duty on Wednesday. The Resident Doctors’ Association has written a complaint to the hospital medical director over the incident. Meanwhile the hospital, in a statement on Thursday, said that the matter has been resolved. “The matter of misunderstanding and consequently ensuing altercation between the CATS ambulance attendants and accident and emergency staff of Lok Nayak Hospital was amicably resolved by the intervention of senior officers of both the organisations, CATS and LNH, after the staff members concerned of both the organisations involved in the incident felt that any and all differences need to be kept aside in view of the ongoing pandemic,” the statement said. “Most of the resident doctors are from different places and they do not want to file an FIR because then they will get summons when they are somewhere else after a year or two. No FIR was filed,” a doctor at the hospital, privy to the development, told The Hindu . “This is to bring to your notice an incident of physical and verbal assault on healthcare workers posted at Lok Nayak Hospital by certain CATS ambulance personnel and vandalism by the same. The incident took place at around 3.45 p.m. when personnel of CATS ambulance started misbehaving with a resident doctor on duty on being asked to wear mask and maintain social distancing. They started abusing the woman doctor on duty, the casualty medical officer and throttled the female guard posted there,” the letter written by the association to the medical director read.  Most of the resident doctors are from different places. They don’t want to file an FIR because then they will get summons when they are somewhere else after a year or two. No FIR was filed. Doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lok-nayak-doctor-attacked-by-cats-ambulance-workers/article31420192.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Mandoli jail to take in more inmates||To implement social distancing inside prisons in the Capital, a high-powered committee (HPC) has decided to transfer 200 prisoners from Rohini jail and 50 prisoners from Tihar to Mandoli jail here. The HPC, constituted under the Supreme Court’s direction, and headed by Justice Hima Kohli said the decision would enable the prison administration to implement “social distancing” amongst the inmates of all the three jail complexes. The committee, which took stock of the ongoing process of decongesting prisons here, was informed by D.G. (Prisons) that a total of 2,962 undertrial prisoners (UTPs) and convicts, were released on either interim bail, parole or remission of sentence during the lockdown period till April 18. Relaxation of criteria Members of the committee have taken into consideration that on the basis of the criteria adopted earlier, till April 18 about 2,700 inmates/ convicts/UTPs have been released on parole/interim bail. The panel also took note of the observations made by the Supreme Court in its subsequent orders, as well as the advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to the effect that persons suffering from acute illness have lesser immunity and are more prone to getting infected by COVID-19. It relaxed the criteria for release during lockdown with respect to those prisoners/UTPs who are suffering from HIV, cancer, chronic kidney dysfunction (UTPs requiring dialysis), Hepatitis B or C, asthma, and TB. Easing jail population D.G (Prisons) said that on the basis of this new criterion, approximately 50 UTPs suffering from various illness(es) would be the beneficiaries and their release would further ease out the jail population. However, those inmates who are undergoing trial for intermediary or large quantity recovery under narcotics drugs, or are facing trial for sexual offences, including those made against children, and acid attack will not be given the benefit of the additional relaxation. Also UTPs who are foreign nationals are excluded from this relaxation. Those convicts who have completed their sentence and could not be released for want of deposit of fine have been given the option to deposit it within “15 days of lifting of lockdown”. DG (Prisons) also assured the committee that before releasing any prisoner, he or she will be medically screened and their transportation will be carried out in full compliance of the norms of social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mandoli-jail-to-take-in-more-inmates/article31420179.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||2 deaths, 128 new COVID-19 cases reported in Capital||Two deaths and 128 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the total number of death to 50 and total number of cases to 2,376, the Delhi government said. The government on Thursday declared three more areas as “containment zones”, taking the total number of such zones in the city to 92. Of the 2,376 cases, 808 people have recovered and there are 1,518 active cases. Dietician tests positive A woman dietician working at Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital tested positive for COVID-19, hospital officials said on Thursday. A kitchen at the hospital has been shut and around 35 people who came into contact with her have been quarantined, an official said. “We used to prepare food for the patients at this canteen. The dietician was asymptomatic and it doesn’t look like she came in contact with the two nurses who had earlier tested positive. We are still looking into the matter,” the official told The Hindu . To “improve interaction with patients” and “reduce anxiety” of them and their relatives, medical director of the hospital, J.C. Passey, issued a set of direction on Thursday, including doctors taking three rounds in COVID-19 wards. 2 more test positive A guard and an administrative employee of Delhi government-run Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri tested COVID-19 positive, taking the total number of infected hospital staff to 16, authorities said. Infant infected Meanwhile, 12 people staying in Jama Masjid area, including a two-month-old infant, were tested positive, officials informed. “They belong to two families and one of them had travelled from Uzbekistan to India. We got to know about it last evening [Wednesday] and shifted all of them to Lok Nayak Hospital. We are doing contact tracing of the families,” a Delhi government source said. Meanwhile, a vegetable hawker in Ward No. 3 Mehrauli was found to be positive, officials said. Grievance cell The grievance cell has also been activated and patients and their attendants can register their grievances and issues through WhatsApp or text messages on COVID-19 services. Also, the Delhi government on Thursday formed a State Level Media Cell (SLMC) to deal with COVID-19 related issues, misinformation, complaints, according to an official order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-deaths-128-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-capital/article31420190.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||11 minors flee from observation home||Eleven juveniles fled from an observation home in central Delhi’s Delhi Gate area after injuring a security guard and three policemen, the police said on Thursday. One minor has been found and brought back, they said. The police said that the incident took place on Wednesday evening when eleven juveniles in conflict with law (JCL) — under the age group of 16 to 18 — escaped from the home. While fleeing, they attacked the security in-charge and three policemen who were deployed at the centre. They were rushed to a nearby hospital where they were treated and discharged. The police said that parents of the minors were informed about the incident and it was found that one of them had fled to his residence in Kailash Nagar from where he was brought back. Also, over the last few days, 32 people have fled from a government school in north West Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar that has been turned into a shelter for the needy during lockdown. The police said that a complaint was received from the school staff on April 21 stating that 32 people had fled from the shelter on different dates and that they could pose a threat to the society. Based on the complaint, the police have registered a first information report under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/11-minors-flee-from-observation-home/article31420186.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police officer tests positive, number of infected personnel rises to 29||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) posted in Delhi Police Crime Branch tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of Delhi police personnel afflicted by the dreaded virus to 29, said a senior police officer. Sample of a family residing in Mansarovar Park area was tested for COVID-19 and six members of the family tested positive. The ASI was their neighbour. A senior police officer said that the 29 policemen and four others, who are among their family members, tested positive, while one policeman has recovered and was discharged from the hospital. “More than 200 policemen are under home quarantine after they came in contact with infected police personnel,” said the officer. Of 29 police personnel, 14 are from Central district and were deployed in Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim and Jama Masjid police station. On Wednesday, a Head Constable of the Special Cell of the Delhi Police tested positive for COVID-19 and 71 personnel of the cell were sent to home quarantine as a preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-officer-tests-positive-number-of-infected-personnel-rises-to-29/article31420195.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Plea claims violations in Food Act implementation||A petition has been filed before the Delhi High Court alleging widespread violations in the implementation of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), including ration shops being shut during working hours, and denial of access to foodgrains to needy during lockdown. Food insecurity The plea by Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan claimed that the lockdown has led to large-scale and sudden loss of livelihood of workers in the informal sector, daily wagers, self-employed persons working as plumbers, carpenters, rickshaw pullers, street hawkers, and has plunged lakhs of people into food insecurity and hunger. “The various food programmes under the NFSA are the only lifeline for a large number of persons and families in Delhi and therefore, it is crucial that these work properly to ensure that every person is able to access the fundamental right to food,” it said. It has sought for proper implementation of necessary grievance redressal and accountability mechanisms under the NFSA. The NGO said information such as list of all ration shops in Delhi, with their phone number, address and GPS location be provided proactively in the public domain on the website of the food department to ensure transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-claims-violations-in-food-act-implementation/article31420181.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- L-G||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday reviewed preparedness for the enforcement of the lockdown and other measures to contain COVID-19 with the Chief Secretary, Police Commissioner and other senior officers. Mr. Baijal directed the Delhi Police to ensure safety and security of frontline health workers while taking all precautions in addition to issuing instruction related to the effective enforcement of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jatin-l-g/article31420187.ece
24 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Tribals in Malkangiri left out of food security and pro-poor schemes||A ground-level investigation by members of the Odisha unit of CPI(M) has hinted that hundreds of tribal families in remote Swabhiman Anchal of Odisha’s Malkangiri district are left out from the food security and other pro-poor government schemes. These poor tribal families are the worst sufferers during the continuing lockdown for COVID-19. CPI(M) members living in villages of Swabhiman Anchal adhered to the norms of social distancing to conduct this investigation in eight villages in Gajalmamudi, Badapada and Deoguda panchayats.  Ground-level inquiry Their ground-level enquiry located 136 extremly poor tribal families, who are left out from the food security and pro-poor schemes of the government. “This small investigation in eight villages is an indicator of hundreds of similar tribal families left out of pro-poor schemes in Swabhiman Anchal”, said State secretary of CPI(M) Ali Kishor Patnaik. Mr. Patnaik has written to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik about the plight of the poor tribals with an request for immediate measures to save them. “We will also provide the list of poor tribal families who are left out for necessary action,” the CPI(M) leader added. Swabhiman Anchal was a cut-off area in Balimela reservoir with over 150 villages that got road connection to mainland Odisha in 2018 with the opening of the Gurupriya bridge. Even now several interior villages of Swabhiman Anchal are not connected by roads. Swabhiman Anchal is the most deprived area in Maoist-infested Malkangiri district. No panchayat polls The hilly terrain of Swabhiman Anchal reduces the scope of cultivation. Due to the Maoist threat, panchayat elections could not be held in the area. Lack of elected panchayat bodies became a stumbling the block in identification and inclusion of tribal families of the region in the list of beneficiaries of government schemes, including food security. The administration has also neglected this region because of Maoist threat and lack of proper communication network. The Swabhiman Anchal tribals are also victims of collateral damage due to continuing fight between Maoists and security forces. Most inhabitants of the area are menial labourers and collectors of forest produce. But they do not get minimum daily wage prescribed by the State government and proper price for their forest produce, said Mr. Patnaik. The CPI(M) has urged the State government to immediately reach out to each and every tribal family in Swabhiman Anchal, so that they are saved from starvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tribals-in-malkangiri-left-out-of-food-security-and-pro-poor-schemes/article31420176.ece
24 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal floriculturists stare at heavy losses||Flower growers in Himachal Pradesh are staring at heavy losses on account of no buyers and lack of transportation amid the lockdown. Baldev Dhiman, a grower at Kalhali, a village near Shimla, who cultivates flowers in around 3,500 square metres, desperately wants the lockdown to end as the peak season is getting over. “The season is at its peak now but there are no buyers. Traders are not placing any orders as they say there’s no demand in the market. Besides, due to the lockdown, the transportation has come to a halt and there’s no way I can transport flowers,” he told The Hindu over phone. “Hotels, offices, marriage places... everything is closed and so the demand has dropped significantly. I cultivate carnation flowers but now I am left with no choice but to feed them to cattle. Even cattle hardly eat them,” said Mr. Dhiman. He said the last consignment he had sent was on March 22, two days before the announcement of the lockdown. “On March 24, when the lockdown was announced, I had prepared a consignment of 10,000 flower bunches [20 flowers in one bunch] to be sent to the wholesale Ghazipur flower market, but I had to destroy them all and since then, there have been no orders,” he said. “Last year during this season [March-April] I had a business of around Rs. 5 lakh.” Mr. Dhiman said around 25 families are actively into flower cultivation in many villages. They are associated with the ‘The Maloothi Fruits Flowers and Vegetable Growers Mkt Co-op Society Ltd”. “Every farmer here is running in loss.” Mr. Dhiman said he is not hopeful of the business reviving anytime soon and hence he has appealed to the State government to financially compensate the flower growers. Kuldeep Thakur in Mahog village of Solan district said the business has taken a severe blow and flowers such as carnations and lilies are rotting in the farms. Harish Chauhan, president of the Himachal Pradesh Fruit, Vegetables and Flowers Growers Association (HPFVFGA), said flower cultivation is primarily being done in Solan, Shimla, Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts and the situation of floriculturists is similar in all the places.  ‘No buyer’ “Floriculturists are at a complete loss in the current situation. There’s no buyer, no transportation. Flowers are perishable. The annual business of flower-related activities is around Rs. 500 crore in the State and in the current scenario, I am afraid, floriculturists could incur a loss of Rs. 200 crore,” said Mr. Chauhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/himachal-floriculturists-stare-at-heavy-losses/article31420165.ece
24 April 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana sends buses to bring back students||The Haryana government on Thursday sent 31 State transport buses to bring back students of the State who are stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to control the spread of COVID-19. The students from Haryana, who were preparing for various competitive examinations, have been stuck at the coaching hub of Kota due to the lockdown. “Thirty-one Haryana Roadways buses have gone to Kota to bring back the students,” Haryana’s Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said. He said the buses were sent from the Rewari and Narnaul depots of Haryana Roadways. Nearly 850 students are expected to travel back to their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-sends-buses-to-bring-back-students/article31420177.ece
24 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Junior doctor tests positive in Aligarh||A junior resident of Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday night, district officials said. “The doctor is a paediatric surgeon and performed surgery on April 20. After she felt feverish, her sample was taken and it was found positive on Wednesday,” said Shafey Kidwai, spokesperson of AMU. He clarified that the doctor was a non-resident and didn’t come in contact of the COVID-19 infected person who passed away in the hospital on April 21. “She was not posted in the isolation ward or fever clinic. The doctor has been admitted to the COVID-19 ward. The five patients of the paediatric ward have been shifted to the isolation ward and their samples have been sent for testing. Twenty persons who have come in her contact, including fellow doctors and paramedical and nursing staff, have been sent to home quarantine and are being screened,” he said. Meanwhile, the Resident Doctors’ Association of JNMC has demanded that the hospital be converted into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital. “The doctor who has tested positive had extensive contacts with healthcare professionals throughout JNMC. So, all the patients should be discharged and no further non-COVID treatment should be entertained,” said Mohd. Hamza Malik, president of RDA in a press statement. He said healthcare workers will work only with designated personal protective equipment (PPE). “If proper actions are not taken, residents will not be able to perform their duties,” he said. Sources in the university administration said changing the nature of hospital would affect the common man adversely as it is a level 3 hospital and one of the few referral hospitals in western Uttar Pradesh. “It is not time to politicise the issue. We should show unity in fighting the virus. Only one COVID -19 infected person is admitted to the hospital. PPEs are in short supply everywhere. We are doing our best. Masks are being distributed to healthcare professionals,” said a source, requesting anonymity.  Six active cases Late on Thursday evening, one more person, related to the deceased COVID-19 infected person, tested positive, taking the tally of active cases in Aligarh to six. The suspended doctor and his wife, in whose hospital the deceased person was allegedly treated before being shifted to the JNMC, have tested negative. In a related development, District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh has directed the district information officer to initiate action against a prominent private satellite channel for misreporting the number of infected doctors in AMU’s JNMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/junior-doctor-tests-positive-in-aligarh/article31420173.ece
24 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP leader, kin booked for lockdown violation||An FIR was registered against a local Bharatiya Janata Party worker, who fought a municipal election, and her three family members in Bulandshahr on Wednesday for violating the rules of lockdown by celebrating her wedding anniversary at the Shikarpur quarantine centre, police said. She, along with her three family members were quarantined after she tested positive for COVID-19. According to an official press note, she had possibly come in contact with an Ayurvedic doctor of Shikarpur who had tested positive in Delhi, and later passed away because of the virus. A former vice-president of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha in the district, she has been shifted to a quarantine centre in the neighbouring Khurja town after the incident. Quarantine centre bash The incident came to light when the photos of her cutting and feeding cake to family members on her 36th wedding anniversary went viral on social media. Her two-year-old granddaughter could also be seen in the photo. She also boasted on her social media account that time and place don’t matter, every moment is a celebration when the family is together. After the incident, the report of her spouse also came positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-leader-kin-booked-for-lockdown-violation/article31420174.ece
24 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Six Muslim families convert in Haryana’s Jind district||Around 35 people belonging to six Muslim families have converted to Hinduism in Haryana’s Jind district this past week. The families claimed they were contemplating about converting for the past several months since their names, customs and rituals were akin to Hindus, but their resolve was strengthened by the recent Nizamuddin congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat which led to targeting of their community. One of those who converted, Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Danoda Kalan village and belonging to the Doom caste, told The Hindu over phone that they had been staying in the village surrounded by Hindus for more than four generations and their names and rituals were akin to them. “My father is Ved Prakash. My brothers are Vikas and Sunil. We always had Hindu names. We have same customs as Hindus and celebrate Holi, Diwali and other Hindu festivals. I bought a home in January this year and held h avan . Even three of the six houses of our families have temples. I had also offered myself as volunteer for the vigil during the lockdown,” said Mr. Kumar, who works as block resource co-ordinator with the Public Health Engineering Department in Sonipat. He said that they regretted the attacks on doctors and healthcare officials reported in the media recently and felt that the misdeeds of a few members of a community had brought a bad name to all. “We thought it was against humanity. The environment had also changed. We, therefore, met the sarpanch and conveyed to him our decision to convert,” said the 35-year-old. When their uncle, Nek Chand, 70, died due to heart attack on April 18, the families decided to cremate him instead of burying. “We also decided to wear the j aneu on the occasion and formally convert,” said Mr. Kumar. He said he had been getting lot of calls from the intelligence agencies since and hoped that it would soon end. Village sarpanch Purshottam Sharma said the families approached him in the first week of April expressing their desire to convert and told him that they were not acting under any pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/six-muslim-families-convert-in-haryanas-jind-district/article31420169.ece
24 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Curbs brighten hope for ostracised family||The lockdown has brightened the hopes of community acceptance for a Meghalaya rural family that was ostracised more than five months ago for questioning the allegedly unfair practices of a local fair price shop dealer. The Dorbar Shnong of Laitniangtlong village had in November 2019 excommunicated the family of Phutborsing Rangslang after they protested against the fair price shop dealer for giving them 32 kg of rice instead of 40 kg according to his wife Aihundalin Mawlong’s ration card. Dorbar Shnong is the Khasi traditional local council and the village in East Khasi Hills district is about 35 km from State capital Shillong. The couple had also objected to overpricing — the dealer was allegedly charging double the rate applicable per item allotted under the public distribution system.  ‘Leaders summoned’ “Though there was no official complaint, we took note of an information provided by an NGO and summoned the leaders of the Dorbar Shnong and advised them to not earn a bad name at a time when we are undergoing the COVID-19 crisis,” an officer of the local Mawngap police station said. He added that the villagers assured him of lifting the “community ban” on the aggrieved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/curbs-brighten-hope-for-ostracised-family/article31420166.ece
24 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. steps in to give regular wages to poor villagers||After a massive slump in the number of labourers engaged at the sites of the rural employment guarantee works during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Rajasthan government has initiated steps to generate labour-intensive opportunities in order to give regular wages to the poor villagers. The flagship scheme’s wages have been revised from Rs. 199 a day to Rs. 220 a day. Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who holds the rural development portfolio, said here on Thursday that 6.08 lakh labourers were engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) across the State during the last four days. Earlier, only 62,000 workers were employed in the scheme till April 17. Mr. Pilot, who visited the MGNREGA sites in Jaipur district’s Chaksu panchayat samiti, said the creation of rural jobs would ensure money in the hands of the poor and help the rural households. “This is our focus area as part of the economic measures being taken during the pandemic. All guidelines of social distancing, washing hands and use of masks will be strictly followed,” he said. The labourers resumed work at Kumhariyawas and Titariya in Chaksu for construction of model ponds. Mr. Pilot said the works such as construction of houses under the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana, cattle shed construction, vermicompost units and fencing and levelling of agricultural fields would be taken up with priority under the MGNREGA, so that permanent assets could be created for villagers.  Wage increase Apart from the hike in wages for unskilled labourers to Rs. 220 a day, the wages of skilled and semi-skilled workers and recordkeepers at the MGNREGA sites have been enhanced from Rs. 213 a day to Rs. 235 a day. The labourers who interacted with Mr. Pilot said the employment guarantee scheme was the main source of their livelihood during the present crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-govt-steps-in-to-give-regular-wages-to-poor-villagers/article31420168.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Ramzan treat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ramzan-treat/article31420171.ece
24 April 2020||Brussels,||EU divided over virus recovery plan||Bitterly divided EU leaders will try Thursday to hammer out a huge coronavirus rescue package, as the WHO warned the pandemic is far from over. While there are signs the COVID-19 outbreak is slowing and some countries have started to ease restrictions affecting billions of people, the world is grappling with how to repair economic damage on a scale not seen for nearly a century. Other nations are still in the early stages of the fight against a disease that has killed more than 1,80,000 people and infected 2.6 million worldwide, even as it appears to be peaking in Europe and the U.S. Oil prices and stocks rallied on Thursday after a virus-induced pounding earlier this week but uncertainty remained, with governments fearing a second wave of coronavirus infections if lockdowns are lifted too fast. In Europe, still the worst-hit continent with 1,10,000 deaths, leaders are set to haggle via videoconference on a giant economic recovery package, but a deep north-south divide threatens to scupper any progress. ‘Spirit of solidarity’ The fight has reopened the wounds of the 2009 economic crisis with debt-laden southern states like Spain and Italy, both badly hit by the disease, demanding help to get back on their feet. “With the pandemic, nobody calls,” says Pedro Oran, a 53-year-old Spaniard who usually works by helping a plumber. But richer northern countries like Germany and the Netherlands, while saying they are ready to help for now, insist they will not take the long-term step of pooling debt with Mediterranean governments they accuse of profligacy. “In the spirit of solidarity, we should be prepared to make completely different, that is to say significantly higher contributions to the European budget over a set period,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said. No joint statement In a sign of how far apart the bloc’s 27 countries are, leaders will not even issue their usual joint statement after the videoconference, a diplomat said. The divisions could not come at a worse time, with the eurozone economy suffering an unprecedented collapse in April due to the pandemic, according to a leading business survey by analysis firm IHS Markit. The pressure on governments everywhere to ease the economic pain is growing by the day, with tens of millions unemployed and several countries at risk of famine. Some EU countries have slightly eased restrictions but bans on large gatherings have been extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-divided-over-virus-recovery-plan/article31419873.ece
24 April 2020||Chennai,||Trump signs executive order restricting immigration||U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Wednesday barring certain categories of immigrants from admission to the U.S. for 60 days, ostensibly to protect Americans’ jobs at risk from the COVID-19 pandemic. The order has several exemptions, including for those who are already in the U.S. seeking to switch their visa status to permanent residency. Mr. Trump had tweeted earlier this week that he would “temporarily suspend immigration”. “In order to protect our great American workers, I've just signed an executive order temporarily suspending immigration into the United States. This will ensure that unemployed Americans of all backgrounds will be first in line for jobs as our economy reopens,” he told a press conference in Washington on Wednesday. He also suggested it could be amended or extended at the appropriate time. The President’s proclamation went into effect shortly before the country’s weekly job report was released, showing that another 4.4 million Americans had declared themselves unemployed in the week ending April 18, taking the total number to some 26 million since the pandemic began. The immigration of the following categories of non-U.S. citizens is restricted for 60 days starting Thursday: those outside the U.S., those who do not already have a valid immigrant visa, those that do not have an official travel document other than a visa that is valid on the effective date of the proclamation “or issued on any date thereafter that permits him or her to travel to the United States and seek entry or admission”. Chain migration The new order, while in effect, will prevent individuals from bringing their parents, adult children, or siblings into the U.S. (Mr. Trump has called this “chain migration”). Entry into the U.S. for individuals who are already legal permanent residents is not suspended. The order also does not apply to spouses of U.S. citizens or those seeking entry on the EB-5 investor visa. Some immigrant visa holders such as doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and COVID-19 researchers and their spouses and minor dependents are exempt from the suspension order “Without intervention, the United States faces a potentially protracted economic recovery with persistently high unemployment,” the presidential order reads. “ …Introducing additional permanent residents when our healthcare resources are limited puts strain on the finite limits of our healthcare system at a time when we need to prioritize Americans and the existing immigrant population,” it said. Last year, just over 1 million people got green cards as per Department of Homeland Security (DHS) data. Some 56% switched visa status from within the U.S. and 44% entered the U.S. on immigrant visas. The proportions for the 53,707 Indians who got green cards in FY2019 (year ending October 2019) were similar —with slightly less than half getting immigrant visas from outside. Mr Trump’s policies have progressively tried to restrict both legal and illegal migration to the U.S. Critics have said his latest policy is to distract from criticisms of his handling of the pandemic. “President Trump now seeks to distract us from his fumbled COVID-19 response by trying to put the blame on immigrants. The truth is that many immigrants are on our front lines, protecting us as doctors, nurses, health aids, farmworkers, and restaurant workers,” Jerrold Nadler, a high ranking Democrat in the House of Representatives said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-signs-executive-order-restricting-immigration/article31419865.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Imams overrule Pakistan’s lockdown as Ramzan approaches||While clerics and governments across the Muslim world will greet Ramzan this week under lockdown, working together to shut mosques and urging worshippers to pray at home, in Pakistan, some of the most prominent imams have rallied their devotees to ignore the anti-pandemic measures. Ramzan, which begins in Pakistan later this week, is the holy month in which Muslims crowd into mosques and fast all day, holding feasts after sundown with family and friends. Those are ripe conditions for the coronavirus to spread, and imams around the world are asking people to stay home. But in Pakistan, pandemic or no pandemic, hard-line clerics are calling the shots, overriding the government’s nationwide virus lockdown, which began late last month. Most clerics complied with the shutdown when it was announced. But some of the most influential ones called on worshippers to attend Friday prayers in even greater numbers. Devotees attacked police officers who tried to get in their way. As Ramzan drew closer, dozens of well-known clerics and leaders of religious parties — including some who had initially obeyed the lockdown orders — signed a letter demanding that the government exempt mosques from the shutdown during the holy month or invite the anger of God and the faithful. 20 rules to be followed On Saturday, the government gave in, signing an agreement that let mosques stay open for Ramzan as long as they followed 20 rules, including forcing congregants to maintain a 6-foot distance, bring their own prayer mats and do their ablutions at home. By the time Prime Minister Imran Khan met with the clerics on Monday, deferentially promising to abide by the deal, critics were demanding to know who was in charge during this national crisis: the government or the mosques. “The state has become totally subservient to these clerics,” said Husnul Amin, an Islamabad-based professor and scholar on Islam and politics. “It is very difficult for the state to implement what’s best for the public good. The larger public interest is always up against the clerics. It’s completely undemocratic.” Pakistan’s imams were empowered by the military during the 1980s when mosques across the country churned out jihadists to fight the Soviet military in Afghanistan with the support of the U.S. While other countries tried to curb hard-line clerics’ influence after the Afghan war, in Pakistan, the powerful military continued to use them as tools of foreign and domestic policy. But their defiance of the lockdown is exposing the limits of the military’s control. Beyond Army’s control The military wanted the shutdown, pressuring Mr. Khan to back the measure at a time when he was reluctant and worried about the economic toll. But when the security forces tried to prevent worshippers from gathering at mosques for prayers, they found themselves under attack. In Karachi, the largest city, scenes emerged of worshippers chasing the police through narrow alleyways, pelting them with rocks and sending several officers to the hospital. “The military has created a monster they can no longer control,” Mr. Amin said. “They are the creation of the military, and only they could handle them. That may no longer be the case.” By the time Ramzan approached, police officers were no longer willing to erect cordons around mosques to stop congregants. While clerics acknowledge that their mosques are perfect vectors for the coronavirus’s spread — worshippers gather to perform ablutions together before cramming into the mosques, shoulder to shoulder in supplication — they say they have to protect their bottom line: money and influence. “We know the pandemic is a global health issue, but religious duties cannot be abandoned,” said Maulana Ataullah Hazravi, a Karachi-based cleric, adding that, “mosques depend largely on the donations collected during Ramzan.”NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imams-overrule-pakistans-lockdown-as-ramzan-approaches/article31419880.ece
24 April 2020||Dhaka,||Bangladesh to turn back Rohingya boats, says Minister||Bangladesh will not accept two boats carrying hundreds of reportedly starving Rohingya refugees, the country’s Foreign Minister said on Thursday as calls grew to rescue the Muslim outcasts. The new controversy over stranded Rohingya blew up just a week after dozens starved to death on a boat that was left at sea for two months before it could land. Activists are fearful that large numbers of Rohingya, a persecuted Muslim minority from mostly Buddhist Myanmar, may be trapped on boats and unable to reach other countries. Rights group Amnesty International has said two fishing trawlers carrying some 500 Rohingya women, men and children are in the Bay of Bengal after being pushed away by Malaysia. Bangladesh has ordered increased patrols in the Bay of Bengal to stop the boats entering, Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen said. “Two boats carrying Rohingya are trying to get into our waters,” he said, adding that the vessels could have come from Myanmar’s Rakhine State following fighting between the military and rebel groups, or “somewhere else”. “Our Navy and coastguard are on alert ,” Mr. Momen said. “No more Rohingya will be allowed in.” About one million Rohingya are in camps on the Bangladesh-Myanmar border having fled decades of persecution in their home region in Rakhine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-to-turn-back-rohingya-boats-says-minister/article31419871.ece
24 April 2020||Sydney,||Give WHO powers to send in inspectors: Australia PM||Australia’s Prime Minister called on Thursday for the World Health Organization to be given powers similar to U.N.-backed weapons inspectors, allowing their experts to enter virus-stricken countries to help prevent future pandemics. WHO member countries should be required to allow independent health inspectors to investigate new virus outbreaks within their borders as a condition of membership, Scott Morrison said. Enabling these officials to mobilise quickly and carry out assessments like “weapons inspectors” could help save lives, he added. “If you’re going to be a member of a club like the World Health Organization, there should be obligations and responsibilities attached to that,” he said. Mr. Morrison reportedly raised the issue with several world leaders this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/give-who-powers-to-send-in-inspectors-australia-pm/article31419869.ece
24 April 2020||Washington,||4.4. mn seek U.S. jobless aid||More than 4.4 million laid-off workers applied for U.S. unemployment benefits last week as job cuts escalated across an economy that remains all but shut down, the government has said. Roughly 26 million people have now filed for jobless since the pandemic began forcing employers to shut their doors. About one in six American workers have lost their jobs in the past five weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/44-mn-seek-us-jobless-aid/article31419866.ece
24 April 2020||Koblenz,||Syrian torture trial opens in Germany||Two alleged former Syrian intelligence officers went on trial in Germany on Thursday accused of crimes against humanity in the first court case worldwide over state-sponsored torture by Bashar al-Assad's regime. Prime suspect Anwar Raslan, 57, an alleged former Colonel, stands accused of carrying out crimes against humanity while in charge of the Al-Khatib detention centre in Damascus. Fellow defendant Eyad al-Gharib, 43, is accused of being an accomplice to crimes against humanity, having helped to arrest protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/syrian-torture-trial-opens-in-germany/article31419874.ece
24 April 2020||Rome,||Italy launches antibody tests||Italy began conducting antibody tests in the northern region of Lombardy on Thursday, seeking information about coronavirus immunity to help guide authorities as they reopen the locked-down country. Lombardy, which was the worst-hit by the crisis, is betting that the science about “herd immunity” derived from the blood tests will help the region return to work faster and safer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/italy-launches-antibody-tests/article31419877.ece
24 April 2020||Washington,||‘U.S. goals will not change on North Korea’||The U.S. will keep seeking North Korea’s denuclearisation no matter who is in charge in Pyongyang, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Wednesday, amid speculation about leader Kim Jong-un’s health. U.S. officials, including President Donald Trump, have declined to discuss Mr. Kim’s condition after a report, downplayed by South Korea, that the reclusive authoritarian was ailing. But asked in an interview, Mr. Pompeo said he had met Mr. Kim’s powerful sister, Kim Yo-jong, whose recent elevation in the hierarchy raised pundits’ view that she could be a successor. “I did have a chance to meet her a couple of times, but the challenge remains the same whoever is leading North Korea,” Mr. Pompeo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-goals-will-not-change-on-north-korea/article31419878.ece
24 April 2020||Maputo,||Maputo, April 23, 2020 (AFP) -||Mozambique’s main opposition Renamo party on Thursday accused security forces of killing 14 civilians in the northern Cabo Delgado province, which has been repeatedly attacked by jihadists. The former rebel movement-turned-political party named all the 14 alleged victims it said died in three recent incidents.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maputo-april-23-2020-afp/article31419868.ece
24 April 2020||Washington,||Washington, April 23, 2020 (AFP) -||Google said on Thursday it would expand its programme of verification of advertisers on its platform as part of an effort to weed out fraud and “bad actors.” The internet giant said it would start by verifying advertisers in phases in the United States and expand the programme globally.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-april-23-2020-afp/article31419876.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The COVID-19 paradox in South Asia||The oldest and largest democracies in the world are often compared. This time is different. The first person tested positive for COVID-19 on January 21 in the United States and on January 30 in India. Roughly three months later, on April 20, the total number of infections was 7,23,605 in the U.S. and 17,265 in India, accounting for 31.2% and 0.75% of the world total, while the number of COVID-19 deaths was 34,203 in the U.S. and 543 in India, making up 21.7% and 0.33% of the world total. The share of the two countries in world population, by contrast, is about 4% and 18%, respectively. A puzzling situation It is even more surprising that a comparison with South Asia — Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka — yields similar results. In Nepal too, it was in late January that the first person tested positive for COVID-19, though it was end-February or early-March in the other countries. On April 20, South Asia, with a share of 23.4% in world population, accounted for 1.25% of infections and 0.5% of COVID-19 deaths in the world.  Before the pandemic, it would have been impossible to predict, let alone imagine, such a reality. Income per capita in South Asia is just 16% that of the world, and a mere 4% of that in industrialised countries. One-third of the world’s poor live in South Asia, so absolute poverty is high and nutrition levels are low. Population density in the subcontinent is among the highest in the world. The poor, who live cheek by jowl in urban slums and in cramped spaces in rural areas, are most susceptible to a virus that is contagious. Public health systems and facilities are perhaps the worst in the world. The outcome, then, is puzzling, if not paradoxical. Compared with North America, Western Europe and East Asia, or their own population size, the number of infections and deaths in South Asia is far lower. Of course, it is plausible to argue that, unlike those parts of the world, South Asian countries are in the early stages where community transmission has not gathered momentum. An explosive growth in infection numbers could yet surface later, or in a second round. But it is simply not possible to assess probabilities or make predictions. However, evidence available so far does suggest some flattening of the curve in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka. Infection numbers in Maldives and Nepal are in double-digits and Bhutan’s infection numbers are in single digits. Two possible explanations How can we explain this situation in which, so far, South Asia has fared better than many other parts of the world? Past experience of the Spanish influenza in 1918, when India accounted for 18-20 million of the estimated 50 million deaths in the world, or conventional thinking even now, would have led to the opposite conclusion. There are two possible explanations. First, the reality might be much worse than the statistics suggest because the total number of infections is almost certainly underestimated, as testing has been nowhere near enough, given the scarcity of testing kits and the massive size of populations. Improved statistics might change the numbers but cannot transform the asymmetry emerging from the above comparisons. Second, the lockdowns imposed by governments in India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal, which started in the last week of March and continue until April 27 or longer, have clearly made a difference. The lockdown in India, straddling its vast geography, is perhaps among the most stringent in the world. The common purpose was to break the chain of transmission through physical distancing, which has two dimensions. For one, it confined people to their homes. But this created physical distancing only for the privileged living in homes that have spaces and doors. It was impossible for people in urban slums in mega-cities, where migrant workers lived in cramped spaces, often as many as 10 to a room. For another, it meant that people could not move within cities or across States. Migrant workers could not return to their villages, and citizens or foreigners who might carry the virus could not come from abroad. It did strangle potential chains of community transmission, reducing the geographical spread of the virus through contagion, and flattening the curve compared with what it would have been without a lockdown. This obvious explanation is necessary but not sufficient because other countries which have imposed lockdowns, say in Western Europe, with public health systems that are far superior, have not managed to slow down the phenomenal spread in the number of infections as much. The impact of diseases can and does differ across countries, possibly attributable to differences in cultures, immunities, or even climates. I am not an epidemiologist or a virologist. But as a social scientist, it is possible to observe an association of attributes. A possible hypothesis It has been suggested that countries which have mandatory BCG vaccinations against tuberculosis are less susceptible to COVID-19 morbidity and mortality. Compare, for example, the Iberian Peninsula countries, Spain and Portugal. On April 20, the former had around 1,96,000 infections and 20,500 deaths, whereas the latter 20,200 infections and 700 deaths. Is it only a coincidence that BCG vaccinations are mandatory in Portugal but not in Spain, or that the U.S. and Italy, both ravaged by COVID-19, never had universal BCG vaccination programmes? Obviously, it is only scientific investigation that can establish cause and effect. But the BCG vaccine seems to have a stimulating effect on the immune system that goes well beyond tuberculosis. For that reason, perhaps, some countries are running trials of BCG against COVID-19, or thinking of it as a means of protecting health workers. Similarly, countries are buying hydroxychloroquine in large quantities from India, as a prophylactic for health workers and for treatment of COVID-19 patients. In South Asian countries, universal BCG vaccination is mandatory, while immune systems of people have a lifelong exposure to malaria. These could provide possible explanations for the relatively limited spread of COVID-19 in South Asia so far.  Lives and livelihoods Obviously, lockdowns have also mitigated the spread. In doing so, they have saved lives, but at the same time, they have also taken away livelihoods. In South Asian countries, almost 90% of the workforce is made up of the self-employed, casual labour on daily wages, and informal workers without any social protection. The lockdowns have meant that hundreds of millions of people who have lost their jobs, hence incomes, have been deprived of their livelihoods, imposing a disproportionate burden on the poor and those who survive just above the poverty line. For them, the trade-off between getting sick and going hungry is no choice. Livelihoods are an imperative for preserving lives. The problem will not vanish after lockdowns are lifted. Economies that have been shut down for six weeks or longer will be close to collapse. In the short-run, it will be a matter of survival for households and firms and stabilisation for the economy. Economic growth will be zero or negative this year. In the medium-term, it will be about recovery. That will take time. Rapid economic growth in the past 25 years had enabled South Asian countries to bring about a significant reduction in absolute poverty, even though it was associated with rising inequality. Alas, absolute poverty will increase once again, while economic inequality will rise further. Deepak Nayyar is Emeritus Professor of Economics at JNU and former Vice Chancellor of the University of Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-covid-19-paradox-in-south-asia/article31419846.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||How will India emerge out of the lockdown?||After a 39-day lockdown, what will be the shape of things to come? How should one strike a balance between ensuring livelihoods, minimising strife, and maintaining social distancing? In a discussion moderated by G. Ananthakrishnan , Reetika Khera, and Giridhar R. Babu examine the options. Edited excerpts:  With less than a fortnight left for the lockdown to be lifted, there are seemingly conflicting requirements of having to prevent group activity, and restarting economic activity...  Reetika Khera (RK):We need to keep our socioeconomic conditions firmly in focus while deciding on a health strategy to deal with the epidemic. Only 17% of the employed have salaried jobs; one-third are casual labourers. According to the World Bank, 76% are in ‘vulnerable employment’ in India. There is no provision for unemployment doles. Overall, what we should try to minimise is hardship and deaths from the pandemic. In the past few weeks, we have seen reports of hunger, homelessness, vagrancy — even deaths — from the lockdown, coupled with government apathy to these issues. We, therefore, need to ensure that the poor are not forgotten or abandoned as we protect ourselves, roughly the top 30%, from the viral infection. For the poor, an extended lockdown poses a health risk because they live in cramped spaces and may not have running water to wash their hands; it is also economically disastrous, because they do not have savings or an assured monthly income to keep themselves going. Greater sensitivity and better planning are urgently required. Giridhar R. Babu (GB):I do not see any conflict in continuing physical distancing and measures to prevent large congregations in the near future. In most circumstances, such as in the IT sector, work from home options should be made mandatory for the next few months. Similarly, annual fair, marathon events, and all such events which require large gatherings for non-essential purposes should be postponed until we have a drug or a vaccine. When it comes to essential activities such as public transport, ensuring physical distancing, face mask use, and enforcing respiratory hygiene such as cough etiquette is essential. There is a view that the lockdown cannot be lifted completely. What happens to the self-employed and migrant labourers? RK:The lockdown will probably be partially lifted allowing some activities and [then] gradually phased out, red zones remaining locked. But it must be accompanied by a massive increase in the relief budget, currently at about 0.5% of GDP, for the most vulnerable. Existing programmes of social support, such as the Public Distribution System (PDS), the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), and pensions need more financial allocations. The PDS today only covers about 60% of the population, even though the legally mandated coverage under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) is two-thirds of the population. This is because the government is using population figures from the 2011 census to determine coverage. Due to the lockdown, a significant portion of those who would not have been covered anyway — the one-third outside the NFSA — now need support; workers in the gig economy, taxi drivers, delivery boys, etc., for instance. This under-coverage is especially criminal today because at the moment, the government is hoarding grains on an unprecedented scale: three-and-a-half times the buffer stock norms, before wheat procurement has even started. The first step should be to universalise the PDS, for up to a year, by allowing anyone from the 40% without ration card the opportunity to apply for a temporary card. The Centre needs to make grain available to the States and they can do the rest. As far as the NREGA is concerned, there are two issues. One, whether such works can be opened without increasing the risk of community transmission at worksites. Two, how to make payments in a convenient manner? Density of bank branches is very low in rural areas and, even in normal circumstances, they are very crowded and far from people. Banking correspondents, who could have eased these pressures, are unsafe at the moment because they use biometric authentication at the time of disbursal of wages. For this reason, the government needs to allow greater flexibility to States in deciding how to disburse cash. Several States have successfully disbursed cash in hand in the past, and have done so without much corruption. Odisha pays pensions through panchayat secretaries; Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu used to pay NREGA wages at the worksite before 2009. For migrants, the government must provide transport, assisting them to return home, just as it flew back Indians stuck abroad and helped the students stuck in Kota. Those who are willing to stay, must be provided dignified shelter in schools, community halls, along with cooked food. GB:While their healthcare needs are to be addressed by the public health system, the government has to ensure their subsistence by providing necessary ration and medicines. The situation has exacerbated distress in the informal sector, which constitutes around 303 million people. The nutritional issues around food quality are significant. If these are addressed, a scientific decision tree can be developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to guide the deployment and lifting of lockdowns in the future. Taking the NREGA as a workfare programme rather than welfare, can it be used to scale up health infrastructure, such as by building primary health centres? RK:I believe that as far as health is concerned, the really big crunch is the availability of medical personnel. As far as physical infrastructure is concerned, we need hospital beds, personal protective equipment (PPE), ventilators, etc. But more than physical infrastructure, we need to ensure more frontline workers in the health system — ASHA workers, anganwadi workers, auxiliary nurses and midwives — and to employ them on fair terms. For instance, ASHA workers get honorarium and ‘incentives’, rather than a salary. They earn less than Rs. 2,000 per month generally. Similarly, anganwadi workers are still underpaid in many States. GB:More often than not, most health system-strengthening efforts are used for activities such as constructing buildings. As a result, there are buildings which are vacant and equipment kept unused. For any meaningful change, significant investments will have to be made in strengthening human resources. Investments should primarily address the public health challenges such as [those linked to] nutrition, ensuring behavioural modifications to prevent non-communicable diseases, screening, early diagnosis, and timely treatment. The feeder pipe of illness is filled with people of several risk factors for infectious as well as non-communicable diseases. Instead of addressing this, most money is spent on curing only part of the resulting conditions. Inaccessible healthcare, in combination with an unhealthy lifestyle, is a deadly cocktail; no amount of healthcare through reimbursing costs can alleviate the disease burden. Nearly 80% of all healthcare expenditure should be on preventive services. Like Aadhaar, there is emphasis on getting people to accept the Aarogya Setu app. There are fears of lost privacy, stigma and discrimination... RK:Many people have already warned about over-reliance on technology. One, the app needs smartphones. Less than one-fifth of Indians own smartphones. Two, the reliability of the technology [using bluetooth to detect contacts] has been questioned by computer scientists in India. Three, it entails an unnecessary and unjustified privacy invasion, which nevertheless is projected as necessary. Authoritarian governments across the world are using the pandemic as an opportunity to normalise unprecedented levels of mass surveillance. Finally, Kerala shows us that contact tracing can be done, and possibly better, by utilising human resources. We must guard against techno-solutionism as well as privacy invasions. GB:Any effort to track the cases or their contacts should involve strengthening the human resources, including [through] capacity building. Technology should complement health system strengthening and not [be used] as a shortcut. How can we prepare for a future pandemic? RK:I feel that we must understand that we have been cheated for more than 70 years by the political class, that used every possible excuse to underspend on health. Today, public spending on health in India is barely 1% of GDP, compared with more than 10% in countries like France and Germany. There needs to be a serious discussion on resetting our priorities — not focusing on overall GDP growth only, but also on where GDP growth is coming from. Expenditure on health (nurses, doctors, hospital beds etc.) adds to GDP as much as roads and fighter jets do. There also needs to be a serious rethink about the health system. At the very least, we should be regulating the (for-profit) private health sector, in a similar manner as Germany and Japan. These countries do not have socialised healthcare like the National Health Service of the U.K. But Germany has not-for-profit social insurance funds; in Japan, the government regulates what private practitioners can charge patients. In India, the private health providers seem to dictate terms to the government, as happened recently with respect to pricing for the COVID-19 test. This must change right now. GB:It is time that we start investing in strengthening the public health system. There is disproportionate spending on curative services and heavy reliance on insurance. Pandemic preparedness is a small component of health system strengthening. Public health is the art and science of preventing diseases and promoting health through the organised social efforts. Any aspirations for an increase in GDP allocation should, therefore, be prioritised for the public health system, towards preventing diseases and promoting health. Preventing the disease includes addressing behavioural changes, adequate nutrition, improved living conditions, screening, early diagnosis, and treatment. A significant portion of this should be towards prevention, including strengthening disease surveillance. Public health should be managed by a specialist cadre —_epidemiologists, social scientists, economists, bio-statisticians, behavioural scientists. Our response has been mostly reactive — in terms of measures such as scaling up purchase of equipment during a crisis. The full version can be accessed on www.thehindu.com  Public health is the art and science of preventing diseases and promoting health through the organised social efforts Giridhar R. Babu, Epidemiologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-will-india-emerge-out-of-the-lockdown/article31419863.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Fishing in troubled waters during a pandemic||Even as several countries struggle to cope with the challenges posed by COVID-19, Beijing’s military moves in the contested South China Sea continue to take place unabated. In recent days, China has conducted military drills and deployed large-scale military assets to the maritime area, while officially celebrating strides made in exploiting disputed energy resources in the sea. Strategy for expansion The Vietnamese Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported early this month that a Chinese Coast Guard vessel “rammed and sunk” a Vietnamese fishing boat carrying eight Vietnamese fishermen in the Paracel Islands in the South China Sea. It maintained that this violates “Vietnam’s sovereignty over the Paracel Islands, causes property losses and endangers the lives, safety and legitimate interests of the Vietnamese fishermen”. It underlined that Chinese actions “also run counter to agreements reached by Hanoi and Beijing’s leaders and the proposed Code of Conduct that would govern all interested parties in the South China Sea dispute.” The Vietnamese government lodged a diplomatic protest with China’s embassy in Hanoi, requesting the Chinese side to investigate the incident, strictly discipline the officers aboard the Chinese vessel aforementioned, prevent the recurrence of similar actions, and make adequate compensation for the losses of the Vietnamese fishermen. There have been incidents involving Chinese fishing vessels and the Chinese Coast Guard with Indonesian fishing vessels in waters around the Natuna Sea as well. In February, Chinese fishing boats flanked by Chinese Coast Guard vessels dropped their trawl nets yet again. China’s illegal fishing near the Natuna Sea carries global consequences, reminding regional governments of Beijing’s expanding claims to the South China Sea through which one-third of the world’s maritime trade flows. Besides these incidents, there were satellite images showing a Chinese military plane landing on Kagitingan Reef in the West Philippine Sea in late March. There are also reports that China recently opened a research station on Kagitingan and Zamora Reef, also in the West Philippine Sea, to gather data on the ecology, geology, and environment in the Spratlys. It seems as though the COVID-19 outbreak in China did little to diminish the country’s strategy of regional expansion. Routine operations of transport aircraft in the South China Sea indicate that the Chinese military is hardly affected by the country’s health crisis. Other claimant countries such as the Philippines have condemned the sinking of the Vietnamese fishing vessel. The Foreign Ministry of the Philippines issued a statement that said, “Such incidents undermine relations between Southeast Asian nations and Beijing.” Meanwhile, the U.S. State Department also published a statement, “We call on the PRC to remain focused on supporting international efforts to combat the global pandemic, and to stop exploiting the distraction or vulnerability of other states to expand its unlawful claims in the South China Sea.” These encroachments and advances by China in the South China Sea not only dampen China’s image globally, and affect its relations with its Southeast Asian neighbours, but also raise questions on why it continues its assertiveness in the disputed waters when most of the claimant states are having to contend with the challenges posed by COVID-19. Window of opportunity While a military policy of expansion in the neighbourhood can be one way of shoring up the credibility of the Chinese Communist Party, which has been bruised by its handling of the COVID-19 outbreak, it is also a response to what many in the party would view as a rare window of opportunity as the U.S. is grappling with the pandemic. American ties with Vietnam have been on an upward trajectory in recent times. Vietnam has been an ardent supporter of the U.S.’s freedom of navigation operations (FONOPS) carried out in the South China Sea. China has always taken a strong stand against these FONOPS of the U.S. It has flexed its muscles to match up to these operations. In that direction, China also recently conducted anti-submarine drills in the disputed areas soon after the Pentagon deployed the U.S.-guided missile destroyer USS McCampbell in a FONOP in the South China Sea before the pandemic hit the U.S. mainland with full force. At present, Vietnam is the chair of the ASEAN and will be presiding over the discussions on the Code of Conduct which has been a work in progress for long. Vietnam has always been in favour of non-claimant countries or external players having an active voice and calling out China for its growing assertiveness in these contested waters. Among all the claimant countries, Vietnam has always taken a strong stand against Chinese actions in the South China Sea. Unlike the Philippines, which has changed its stance quite often with respect to Chinese activities in the South China Sea, and Indonesia, which recognised the Chinese threat in the Natuna Sea rather late, Vietnam has held a firm stand against the China. Even with regard to its COVID-19 response, Vietnam was the first country in the ASEAN to suspend all flights to and from China as early as February. Hence, China has always kept a watch on Vietnamese manoeuvres in the South China Sea dispute. As China seeks to restore its global credibility, creating tensions in the South China Sea should be the least of its priorities. A more generous China during a global pandemic might go a long way in ensuring its global ascent. But that’s a hope that has been belied many a times in the past and it’s unlikely that the Chinese Communist Party would let go of its regional security agenda of expansion. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi, and Professor of International Relations, King's College London; Premesha Saha is an Associate Fellow with the ORF’s Strategic Studies Programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fishing-in-troubled-waters-during-a-pandemic/article31419852.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Making doctors wash hands||Ignaz Philipp Semmelweis, a Hungarian-born doctor came to Vienna in 1846 to work at the city’s General Hospital. Semmelweis noticed that women delivered by doctors had three times higher mortality rate than women delivered by midwives. He spotted a link between the lack of hygiene of the doctors and the mortality rate of the mothers. After he initiated a mandatory hand-washing policy, the mortality rate for women delivered by doctors fell from 18% to about 1%. Despite such a brilliant outcome, the idea of hand washing was rejected by the medical community. Doctors were offended by the suggestion that they could be causing infections. Semmelweis’s practice earned widespread acceptance only two decades after his death, when Louis Pasteur, of pasteurisation fame, raised awareness of pathogens. From the 1850s to 2020, hand washing has been advocated as a simple way of reducing the risk of infection. But, studies find that doctors still do not wash their hands often. A systematic review of studies on compliance with hand hygiene in hospitals, done by researchers Vicki Erasmus et al, found that only 32% of doctors and 48% of nurses wash their hands between seeing patients. Another study by researcher Didier Pittet, an infection control expert with the University of Geneva Hospitals, Switzerland found that compliance rates for hand washing amongst doctors and nurses was only 57%, and years of awareness programmes had little effect. A study amongst Indian doctors by researchers S. K. Ansari et al, found that only 49% of doctors and 56% of nurses washed their hands with soap between patients. Modifying behaviour If India needs to contain the spread of COVID-19, everybody ought to be washing our hands, especially doctors and nurses. But how can we change their hand-washing behaviour? The traditional approach of changing behaviour is to educate doctors and nurses on the importance of hand washing. It seems like the rational and logical thing to do, but even though doctors and nurses know that they should be washing their hands, they forget to do so. That’s why we need to apply behavioural design. Behavioural design is about creating subconscious nudges right at the moment where the desired action is to be performed. A simple intervention Behavioural scientists piloted a low-cost experiment in rural schools in Bangladesh where nudges were used to guide hand washing with soap after toilet use. Hand-washing stations were built in visible and easy to reach locations, brightly coloured paths were painted from toilets to the hand-washing station, and footprints and handprints were painted on the path and at the hand-washing station. Hand washing with soap after using the toilet went up from 4% before these behavioural design nudges were created, to 74% six weeks after they were introduced. No other hygiene education was communicated. Similarly, in hospitals where wash basins and hand sanitisers are placed, stickers of brightly coloured footsteps should be placed so that doctors and nurses get attracted by them, which subconsciously directs them to the wash basin or the hand sanitiser. Such behavioural design nudges influence doctors and nurses to wash their hands with soap or sanitiser without making a conscious decision to do so. Hand washing is often done as a relatively subconscious habitual action, and can be easily triggered by contextual cues, so hand washing lends itself well to such behavioural design nudging. An experiment done at the Gentofte Hospital in Denmark has found that sanitiser usage increased from 3% to 67% when the hand sanitiser was placed at a prominent location with bright signage that caught people’s attention. Not bad for such a simple and low-cost intervention. Anand Damani is behavioural scientist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-doctors-wash-hands/article31419857.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Rapid failures||Rapid testing kits that State governments have been using to detect antibodies to the novel coronavirus have proved unreliable, making the shift to normal life after the lockdown ends on May 3 more difficult. Governments around the world have been looking for an accurate blood test that can tell people if they have immunity through past COVID-19 infection, and can therefore return to their duties to kickstart the economy. While the diagnostic RT-PCR test to confirm the presence of the virus using a nasal swab in a laboratory setting is considered reliable, attempts to design a rapid test that uses a blood sample to find antibodies after past infection have thrown up errors in as much as a third of cases: a study in the U.K. showed that they were high on specificity — accurate in cases that they found to be antibody positive. But they still missed about 30% of positive cases, showing low sensitivity. This is the phenomenon worrying India, which has imported several hundred thousand rapid testing kits, and its experience is shared by the U.S., U.K., Spain and other countries. Rajasthan had laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 positive cases not being detected by rapid testing kits. Several States have independently ordered thousands of kits, mainly from China, and are in a quandary. The ICMR has advised States, to whom it distributed kits, that they could be used for surveillance testing, rather than to make medically important decisions. Narrowing down the test to reliable methods is the challenge, and the WHO along with its collaborating centres is working to identify them. The results will be crucial and all countries, including the U.S. White House Coronavirus Task Force, are looking at serosurveillance, the process that will determine the status of the population on COVID-19. An exit from lockdown and other public health measures depend on such testing. India should remain focused on identifying tests that work well. This requires close integration with efforts launched by diagnostics regulators in the U.S., Europe and China who have used emergency provisions to allow early use of kits; the kits themselves are under evaluation. There are reports indicating that some vendors of rapid testing devices in China have run afoul of regulators in that country since they have no prior expertise in the field. Making purchase decisions, therefore, calls for rigorous review. In the immediate context, the message should go out to States that rapid tests cannot substitute for RT-PCR to diagnose infection. It is by no means clear that antibodies developed in response to COVID-19 provide long-term protection against reinfection. Yet, a good test to certify a large section of the population as having developed immunity seems to be a promising tool to reopen the economy with some confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rapid-failures/article31419848.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Protection for protectors||Since the first case of novel coronavirus infection in India was reported in end-January, many healthcare workers have been subjected to abuse and violence in the line of duty. Most of the attacks have been on healthcare personnel sent to localities to collect samples from people who are suspected to have been infected or have come in contact with those who have tested positive for the virus. Some doctors returning home from duty have been prevented from entering their homes and, in some cases, even asked to vacate their premises. While such acts have been widely condemned, nothing much changed on the ground. The dastardly act of a few people in Chennai who not only attacked healthcare workers but also prevented a decent burial of a neurosurgeon who died of COVID-19 complications on April 19 shook the nation’s conscience. Though belated, the Union Cabinet’s decision to promulgate an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to make acts of violence against medical personnel a cognisable and non-bailable offence and also provide compensation in case of injury or damage or loss to property is thus commendable. Very often, the abuse and violence against healthcare workers after the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country has been due to fear and ignorance. The communal colour given to the COVID-19 epidemic after the large religious congregation was held in mid-March by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi initially led many in the community to avoid coming forward to get tested. In many cases, the fear of stigma and isolation resulted in attacks on healthcare workers who had gone to collect samples from those who were part of this congregation. In other instances, the wrong messaging that getting infected by the virus meant certain death, in order to achieve maximum compliance with the shutdown, unwittingly led to a fear psychosis. Negative messaging, especially of the kind that induces fear and stigma, has always been counterproductive, as seen in the early days of the HIV/AIDS awareness campaign in the country. Awareness-building exercises became easier and more effective when negative messaging and stereotyping about HIV/AIDS was shunned. Doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers who are forced to work long hours treating patients infected with the highly infectious virus, and even when protective gear in the form of gloves, face mask and personal protective equipment are scarce, need more empathy, compassion, unmitigated support and cooperation from the society. Symbolic gestures such as clapping hands and lighting candles in recognition of their selfless service during these trying times do not bolster their morale as much as understanding and support does.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/protection-for-protectors/article31419847.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Locked out of cities, homes and livelihoods||The defining images of the migrant worker exodus that followed the lockdown may comprise of the long lines of men, women and children trudging down the highways under the scorching sun, leaving Delhi with their belongings on their backs. But I didn't have to head out of the city to report on the plight of migrant workers; I just had to step out of my front door. The unorganised colony of Jal Vihar lies barely five minutes from my home, crammed between Lajpat Nagar and the railway line that divides it from Jangpura. About a week after the lockdown began, a colleague and I headed to the Jal Vihar bus terminal to meet a migrant worker. The streets of Lajpat Nagar, usually bustling with shoppers and traffic jams, were empty. We were met by Mohammed Hakim, who led us to a small gate behind the bus terminal and through a maze of small alleys into the heart of Jal Vihar. With hundreds of families crowded into tiny homes and narrow streets, social distancing was impossible. Kavitha*, who works at my home, lives here in Jal Vihar with her family. She is a migrant herself, having come from a village south of Chennai to marry a Tamil man who grew up here in Jal Vihar, who in turn is son of migrants brought to the capital in the 1980s to build infrastructure for the Asian Games. In fact, most of the cleaners and cooks working in my upper-middle class neighbourhood live here in Jal Vihar. So do the young men who clean my neighbours' cars every morning, or tend the civic gardens scattered through the area.  Mohammed Hakim and about 180 other men from Bihar’s Katihar district ply the autos and cycle-rickshaws. The migrants at Jal Vihar had been entwined into the daily rhythms of life in Lajpat Nagar, until the lockdown brought that to a crashing halt. Hungry and stranded Mr. Hakim introduced us to about 40 other men from his village. They had not eaten for more than a day, having been deprived of their ability to work and earn a living due to the lockdown. Their ration cards were with their families in Bihar. They still had to pay rent for the windowless shanties they shared, and many had to pay leases or mortgages on their vehicles as well. Most of the men did not think of themselves as poor. They felt that in normal times, they earned enough for a decent life here in Delhi and send back money to their families as well. But now, reduced to begging from philanthropists for food, their self-esteem had taken a hit. For them, hunger was a bigger spectre than the virus. The streets of Lajpat Nagar that they ruled as auto rickshaw drivers, were now forbidden and dangerous spaces, with police lathi-charging them if they dared to step out of the colony. A few weeks later, after the Prime Minister announced an extension to the lockdown, I called Mr. Hakim again. He and his friends had already left Delhi, joining the exodus on the highways. At home in Katihar, fellow villagers were scared that he had brought the virus with him, and forced him into a quarantine outside the village. Still, he has food and a roof over his head, and for now, that’s enough. But once the lockdown ends, he knows that the city and its wages will lure him back. “I will take you in my autorickshaw again,” he vowed. (*name changed)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/locked-out-of-cities-homes-and-livelihoods/article31419859.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Computerise?||(From an editorial) A study team on automation headed by Mr. N. M. Tidke, Labour Minister of Maharashtra, has reiterated, in its report submitted recently to the State Assembly that, without selective introduction of automated techniques of production, the ground will not have been prepared for creating job opportunities in the dimension warranted by the country’s long-term needs of employment. The team is aware that a suggestion of this sort will not be welcomed by those who are crying hoarse for a deliberate bias towards labour-intensive techniques. It has, therefore, emphasised the point that “it is, on advanced technology that we depend for the realization of the fruits of civilisation and it is for us to convert the same into an instrument of economic growth and social progress.” Much of the opposition to computers, for instance, has arisen from a misconception of their role. The benefit from these instruments does not consist in large-scale displacement of clerical and other labour, force but in their superior computational ability in terms of both quality and quantity, which helps to expand investment and therefore employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-computerise/article31419858.ece
24 April 2020||MUMBAI,||No spectators, no energy: Tendulkar||With the world in a sombre mood due to the COVID-19 outbreak, Sachin Tendulkar is in no mood to celebrate his 47th birthday on Friday. The Bharat Ratna opened up to The Hindu about the biggest challenge for the sporting fraternity in the post-pandemic world. Excerpts:  Is this going to be the most unusual birthday for you? I won’t be celebrating my birthday this year. Given the circumstances, I don’t think it’s a right time to celebrate anything. How do you see sport in general, cricket in particular, in the post-pandemic scenario? Whenever it opens up, it’s going to be a fresh start. It’s not physical but mental adjustment for all the sportspersons. The players are training at home and trying to keep themselves in good shape. As and when we overcome this challenge, sport will be back to being competitive. I believe once a sportsman, always a sportsman, so you would want to go out and compete hard. For that, you’ll require physical as well as mental preparation, which will happen. The question I am hearing a lot about is whether the matches would be the same with empty stands. And empty stands will surely lack energy in the stadium because players are used to crowd’s response. When it’s a packed stadium and a batsman hits a cracking shot or a bowler picks up a wicket, you are kicked with the roar of the crowd celebrating that boundary or a six or the crucial wicket. That element of energy will be missing without any doubt. How challenging will it be, especially for an Indian cricketer, to make the mental adjustment of going back to the days of domestic cricket while playing without spectators? It’s easier said than done because you are used to playing cricket in a certain style, with certain response. That response is also important. Imagine if India is playing some nation and we have done well and you want to celebrate that victory, that occasion. For that, you need a full house. If there are no people to celebrate, that moment’s importance won’t be as much. Can you imagine a match between Federer and Nadal on an empty Centre Court at Wimbledon? It’s going to be a very very different experience which no one is used to. With no live sport on TV, fans have been forced to watch replays of some of your epic innings. Do you watch re-runs of those games? I sometimes watch. Those are some great memories and I enjoy it. Right since my starting days, me and my brother (Ajit) would sit down and watch those video tapes to analyse. Be it a hundred or an early dismissal, we always wanted to find some areas to improve on. Nowadays, since the brother is not here, sometimes I just sit back and cherish those memories. Which is your most favourite innings to revisit? I would say the 2003 World Cup match versus Pakistan. It was a high-voltage game, with the kind of build-up it had had. It’s a wonderful match to revisit and I enjoy playing it back sometimes.  Tendulkar turns 47 on Friday (April 24, 2020)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-spectators-no-energy-tendulkar/article31420009.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Following a routine important: Amit||He is best known as the mentor to Abhinav Bindra but Amit Bhattacharjee has helped many more overcome limitations of the mind on the field. The renowned mental conditioning coach believes individual sportspersons would find it easier to recover from the ongoing lockdown provided they continue to follow a routine through this period. “Lockdown has a different conditioning of the mind in individual and team games. Besides the 4-5 hours of daily practice in their respective sports, people in individual events generally stay indoors, spending almost 5-6 hours while working on their mind. Their training is very separate from those in teams, they are already used to staying inside for long periods and are mentally very strong. So it will be easier for them to come out of the lockdown,” Bhatttacharjee told The Hindu . Besides Bindra, Bhattacharjee has worked with cricketers Siddarth Kaul and Manan Vohra, golfers Ajitesh Sandhu and Abhijit Chadha, shooter Ayushi Poddar, East Bengal and Minerva Punjab FC. “When we do meditation we tell the players that ‘fame is a bubble, honour is a shadow’ and that you have to rise above it. You have to understand your inner power and we do it through breathing patterns, visualisation and most importantly, learning to balance the left and right brains. Different with teams Teams, he said, worked differently. “There is psyche (body) and soma (mind) and they work in bundles, controlled by our subconscious mind. To ensure co-ordination, we work on linear mind mapping with the players using meditation techniques including sound vibrations, breathing pattern, energy management and visualisations related to nature. All players visualise the same game situation and proceed at the same rhythm,” he said. Asked about the post-lockdown challenges he said, “An empty mind will lead to sleeping disorders, depression and negativity. The circadian (sleep-wake) cycle must be maintained. Those not practising these techniques may end up struggling to get mind-body coordination and suffer injury if practice at high intensity immediately. “Also, there will a lot of pent up aggression which will have to be channelled in the right direction,” he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/following-a-routine-important-amit/article31420141.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Kumble’s jumbo act for BKF||The Bangalore Kidney Foundation (BKF), with cricket great Anil Kumble as its Brand Ambassador, is contributing silently by funding the dialysis facility for the economically backward sections of the society. It has taken upon itself the task of providing dialysis to 130 kidney patients every day. “I have been associated with the BKF for a long time. I have an old friend (Kartik Sriram) who is handling the Centre and doing an excellent job in these testing times when the patients from the lower financial strata of the society can’t afford to pay for the treatment,” Kumble told The Hindu.  According to Kartik, “BKF is a 40-year-old charitable trust providing low-cost, high-quality renal treatment for patients whose kidneys have failed. While the average cost in Bengaluru is Rs. 3000-5000 per dialysis, we charge our patients only Rs. 750.” Free treatment Most of the patients at the BKF are daily-wage earners. “The lockdown has hit them hard since there is no work. We are treating them for free during this tough phase, but at some point we would need donations from people. The fund requirement has increased because of COVID-19. We are raising money through our COVID-19 Relief Fund,” said Kartik. Kumble has been a huge inspiration for the BKF patients. “Apart from making a generous contribution, Kumble has visited us many times, and spoken to the patients and volunteers of the BKF Centre. The patients look up to him for inspiration. Kumble has played an iconic role for us,” said Kartik. Looking at the challenges for the KBF in its pursuit of giving free treatment, Kartik noted, “We would use the funds for transportation of patients and health-care workers to and from the centre. We would continue these efforts until the patients get back on their feet. Our Centre is COVID free and we are dedicated to taking care of our patients.” “It is a noble venture and I am too happy to be associated with the BKF. I am sure they are the torch-bearers of the caring side of our society,” said Kumble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kumbles-jumbo-act-for-bkf/article31420007.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad’s glorious Ranji chapter||They played the game when match fee for a player was just Rs. 350 and with no professional support staff or high-tech gadgets in place. Yet, the M.V. Narasimha Rao-led Hyderabad shocked fancied Delhi exactly 33 years ago to win the Ranji Trophy by virtue of first innings lead. Hyderabad scored 457 in the first innings, Delhi finished at 433 and in the second essay Hyderabad scored 480 for seven in Delhi. Now settled in Northern Ireland, Bobjee — as Rao is popularly known — recalled the memorable journey to that final (March 21-26, 1987) in a chat with The Hindu on Wednesday. “The credit goes to each member of the team. I have never in my 16-year stint with the State team seen such passion, camaraderie and commitment from the players,” said the former India player who donned the role of coach and mentor to enable Hyderabad win the trophy only for the second time ever. Turning point Bobjee felt the turning point of the campaign was the league game against Goa which Hyderabad had to win to qualify. He recalled how former India off-spinner Arshad Ayub picked up the last wicket in the dying moments of the contest at the Gymkhana Ground. “Every member of that team was a captain’s delight, responding to the team’s cause in style under pressure,” he said. “Frankly, in the final we had the belief that we can do it. Thanks to Abdul Azeem (114 & 43), Arshad Ayub (174 & 80) and Vijay Mohan Raj (11 & 211 n.o.) in batting on a green-top and Rajesh Yadav (5/114 in first innings) and Shivlal Yadav (3/74) in bowling, we pulled off a great win. Decisive moment “The decisive moment in the final was Ayub’s smart catch to send back the well-set Mohinder Amarnath (85) off Rajesh Yadav as that helped us clinch the lead even as K.P. Bhaskar held one end up (160 n.o.). “It was an emotional homecoming at Secunderabad Railway Station and great to see such a big crowd,” said a nostalgic Bobjee. All that the winning team got then was Rs. 5000 each from the then Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabads-glorious-ranji-chapter/article31420216.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Staying motivated, the Rutuja way||Rutuja Bhosale, who played a significant role in helping India qualify for the Fed Cup World Group play-offs before the world went into lockdown, is watching a lot of tennis on the internet to stay motivated. “It is easy to be motivated for me! I am watching a lot of Grand Slam matches on the net, all my favourite players. It will hopefully help me,” said the 24-year-old Rutuja, the former Asian junior champion and national women’s champion. Rutuja has also read a few books in the last few weeks, apart from doing her regular fitness routine home. Staying calm “I stay calm, doing yoga and meditation. I love colouring,” she said, adding that her mom, Neeta — a certified yoga teacher — has been making her do household work too. While Rutuja is proud of her Fed Cup performance, she takes greater pride in her police inspector father Sampatrao, who has been working through this tough time. “He has to go out and do his work. He loves his job. At home we maintain a distance. He is doing so much for people. Am amazed and super proud of him,” Rutuja said.  Going live on Facebook, Rutuja answered a lot of questions and helped young players and their parents get a perspective about education and sports. “It was easy for me to choose tennis, as I was good at it. My parents let me go to the US on scholarship and study,” said Rutuja, about combining sports and education for a bright career. “It is not important to get 90% in education, but the effort matters.” She was also all praise for her coaches Sandeep Kirtane and Hemant Bendrey, who have helped her make rapid strides after a relatively late start. Rutuja’s mantra is simple — “keep your head high, and keep working hard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/staying-motivated-the-rutuja-way/article31420145.ece
24 April 2020||Coimbatore,||‘Human race is resilient’||R. Ashwin has got the ability to thrive in crunch situations. But, this probably is the first time he has seen the entire world being rattled. The pandemic has made life miserable for many, but the star off-spinner says the human race has got the resilience to fight back. “We are known for that and it’s in the history,” he told The Hindu in an exclusive chat on Thursday. Stay indoors! “Whatever is happening at the moment is quite strange. It’s not a desirable situation for sports. There are not going to be many sporting events for some time. So, it’s good to stay indoors,” he added. Ashwin, who always loves to experiment with his bowling, has been among the most vocal of the cricketers during the pandemic. He is also finding new ways to tackle each day and the rough road ahead of him. “There’s a lot that you can do indoors. I do a lot of playing inside the house. I bat and bowl and it’s basically to keep myself fit. It may not give you a great outdoor feeling but it’s still good enough,” he said. His advice when working in isolation: “Break your game, whatever it could be, into smaller aspects. Along with that, train your subconscious mind on how it can work on these aspects.” Vital tips It has worked well for the Chennai-based spin ace, who is engaging directly with young cricketers and is sharing online some vital tips on the art of bowling. “Stay connected with the game,” he said. When asked about sports behind closed doors, Ashwin revealed the stage is very important. “Without the spectators, for the elite sportsmen, it might be an empty feeling.” He quickly added even that is a long way to go. Happy Birthday, Sachin! Ashwin also had a birthday message for Sachin Tendulkar, who turns 47 on Friday. “Happy Birthday Sachin, Sachin!!! Like the chorus in the crowd, from being one amongst the chorus to have played and cherished historic cricket moments fills me with pride. God bless you paaji .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/human-race-is-resilient/article31420056.ece
24 April 2020||CHENNAI,||MRC steps up for the beach horses||The forlorn horses on the Marina have something to neigh about, thanks to the philanthropic gesture from the Madras Race Club (MRC). MRC chairman M.A.M.R. Muthiah and his team of Management Committee members unanimously decided to donate horse-feed (wheat bran) worth rupees five lakh to the horses and ponies on the beach following a request from the People For Animals (Chennai) organisation. As a start, one truck load of horse-feed was handed over to the PFA officials on Thursday. Through a note, PFA thanked MRC for its ‘prompt and generous donation of 500 bags containing wheat bran flakes to the 117 starving beach horses on the Marina’. On behalf of PFA, Dr. Shiranee Pereira expressed her gratitude to the MRC for the noble gesture that touched ‘the lives of these voiceless animals’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mrc-steps-up-for-the-beach-horses/article31420059.ece
24 April 2020||Chennai,||Sathiyan stresses the importance of footwork||India’s star paddler G. Sathiyan was at ease explaining his game during a one-hour session on footwork and technique organised by the Sports Authority of India and Table Tennis Federation of India. Speaking in a video conference call on Thursday, Sathiyan said footwork was not taken seriously during a player’s formative years in India. “We neglect it, don’t work on footwork technique. But table tennis is played more with the legs, much like boxing. The hands come into play in the execution, but the whole process starts with the legs. So we should start early, that will only help us compete with the best,” said Sathiyan, who is coached by former Olympian S. Raman. The current World No. 32 put his point in context citing some of his big wins over higher-ranked players in the last few years. Explaining how he used the pivot movement to get on top of Harimoto Tomakazu — who was World No. 5 then — at the Asian Championships last year, Sathiyan said: “By using the pivot movement from the backhand corner, I could play my forehands and get him off his game. I knew I couldn't beat him playing backhand-to-backhand. The pivot movement is important to play with the forehand because often you can't finish the point/stroke with a backhand.” He also illustrated his win over Youth Olympic champion and then World No. 17 Wang Chuqin of China in the ITTF Austrian Open in 2018 where he varied the pace a bit. “Pace variation tests the forward and backward movement of the player and that is what I did. I was aggressive by going in and trying to finish the point early,” he said. During the one-hour session, Sathiyan explained the various movements with a short video tutorial and suggested various drills. “I had issues with lateral movement where the hand goes first and you are then off-balance. So one of the best ways to practice footwork is to do it without a bat in hand and just follow the ball to be in the right position,” he advised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-stresses-the-importance-of-footwork/article31420061.ece
24 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Dingko to undergo chemo-radiation||Dingko Singh, who won a boxing gold at the 1998 Asian Games, will go undergo chemo-radiation therapy for recurrence of cancer at a Delhi hospital from Saturday. According to information received from the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) secretary Jay Kowli on Thursday, BFI president Ajay Singh, who is also the chairman and managing director of Spicejet airlines, has provided air ambulance facility to airlift Dingko from Manipur to Delhi. Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju and the BFI staff in Delhi have arranged for the 41-year-old’s hospitalisation. Dingko was diagnosed with bile duct cancer and had a surgery in January 2017. He recovered well to take up the role of a boxing coach and guided the Manipur team in the Nationals last year. However, he was admitted to the hospital with ‘suspected recurrence’ of the disease in February and underwent treatment for inflammation of the bile duct system. He was now required to undergo chemo-radiation therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dingko-to-undergo-chemo-radiation/article31420143.ece
24 April 2020||London,||‘Players were jealous of Pietersen’s IPL contract’||Former captain Michael Vaughan has claimed that many England players were jealous of their then-teammate Kevin Pietersen after the maverick batsman landed a “massive contract” in the IPL. In 2009, Pietersen, now retired, became one of the highest paid IPL players when Royal Challengers Bangalore bought him for a whopping Rs. 9.8 crore. But with the money came the jealousy of the team, according to Vaughan. “I think there was a lot of jealousy. And the players will completely deny it now, but I think there was at the time when Kevin was on a massive contract,” Vaughan told Fox Sports . Pietersen also had a major fallout with then-captain Andrew Strauss due to their differences with regards to the England and Wales Cricket Board’s (ECB) reluctance to allow participation in the IPL. “It wasn’t anything other than that Kev around that time wanted to go to the IPL. That’s how it all started to blow up and that’s when those factions came into play,” he said. According to Vaughan, Pietersen believed playing in the IPL with other top international players would help in the development of the ODI team. “He was saying to the team he wanted to play because it would further the development of the one-day team and all the one-day players would get the chance to play there and improve their game,” he added. However, several members of the team felt Pietersen was only after the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-were-jealous-of-pietersens-ipl-contract/article31420005.ece
24 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||TTC contributes to CMDRF||The Trivandrum Tennis Club (TTC) has contributed Rs. 2.5 lakh to the Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) here on Thursday. The cheque was handed over to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his office by TTC office bearers. Athlete M. Sreeshankar and footballer P.K. Danish also made contributions to the fund. Sreeshankar, the national record holder in long jump, contributed Rs. 50,000. The second year BSC student of Government Victoria College, Palakkad, contributed two months of his scholarship money from Kerala State Sports Council to the fund. Ten-year-old footballer P.K. Danish, who grabbed the attention of netizens with a zero angle goal during the final of all-Kerala kids football tournament in February, contributed Rs. 31,500. The fifth standard student of Presentation School, Kozhikode, made the contribution from the prize money he received from various organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttc-contributes-to-cmdrf/article31420268.ece
24 April 2020||Paris,||Federer’s ATP-WTA merger gets solid backing||WTA founder Billie Jean King and Rafael Nadal led a wave of support on Thursday for Roger Federer's suggestion that “now is the time” to merge the men’s and women’s governing bodies, while tennis is at a standstill because of the coronavirus pandemic. Federer, winner of a record 20 men’s Grand Slam crowns, said a merger of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) and the men’s Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) “probably should have happened a long time ago” in a series of tweets. The Swiss great’s idea for one “stronger body” received an enthusiastic response from King, Nadal and leading women’s players such as former Wimbledon champions Simona Halep, Petra Kvitova and Garbine Muguruza, but controversial Australian Nick Kyrgios expressed reservations. “Just wondering... am I the only one thinking that now is the time for men’s and women’s tennis to be united and come together as one?” Federer posed to his 12.7 million Twitter followers. Trailblazer King, who was instrumental in establishing the WTA in 1973, said such a merger “has long been my vision for tennis”. “I agree, and have been saying so since the early 1970s. One voice, women and men together... Let's make it happen,” she tweeted. Nadal, who has 19 Grand Slam titles, posted: “I completely agree that it would be great to get out of this world crisis with the union of men’s and women’s tennis in one only organisation.” “It probably should have happened a long time ago, but maybe now is really the time,” Federer wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federers-atp-wta-merger-gets-solid-backing/article31419995.ece
24 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aravindh, Pratyusha win titles||Aravindh Chithambaram and B. Pratyusha claimed the men’s and women’s titles respectively in the first Play2Help online chess tournament, which was organised by international player Raghava Srivastava here. Raising funds The event is being held to raise funds for the PM Cares Fund and the organisers said they raised Rs. 12,612 including contributions from GM Pravin Thipsay, GM G.A. Stany and WGM Bodda Pratyusha. The tournament will be held on all Sundays till May 31 and on chess.com website. Interested may also visit play2help64.blogspot.com or call 81870 93036 for more details.  Final placings: Men: 1. Aravindh Chithambaram; 2. Anwesh Upadhyaya; 3. G.A. Stany; 4. Diptayan Ghosh; 5. M.G. Gahan. Boys, u-15: 1. Sreeshwan.   Women: 1. B. Pratyusha; 2. Ch. Sahajasri.   Girls, u-15: 1. Vyshnavi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aravindh-pratyusha-win-titles/article31420213.ece
24 April 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC panel explores rescheduling of FTP||The Chief Executives’ Committee (CEC) of the International Cricket Council (ICC), on Thursday, discussed possibilities of rescheduling the Future Tours Programme (FTP) till 2023. According to a statement released by the ICC, the CEC was briefed about “the continuing contingency planning for all ICC global events, including the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2020 and the ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup 2021.” The CEC also discussed possible deferment of the World Test Championship (WTC) and the ODI Super League, both affected by the pandemic. Collective review “There was agreement that the disrupted FTP programme would need to be collectively reviewed through to 2023 with a view to rescheduling as much of the cricket that has been postponed due to the COVID-19 as possible,” the statement read. “Discussions and decisions on this and the future of both the World Test Championship and the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League will be held at a later date when there is a greater understanding of the impact of the cricket that has been lost on the competitions.” In a month’s time  The Hindu understands that, with the dynamic nature of the pandemic and almost six months remaining for the start of the T20 World Cup, the CEC decided to discuss the situation in around a month. The CEC will then forward its recommendations to the ICC which is scheduled to meet in June. While Manu Sawhney, the ICC CEO, stated “the health and safety of everyone involved (in ICC events) will be carefully considered before any decisions are arrived at in the best interests of the game,” Cricket Australia chief executive Kevin Roberts said the members are “ jointly exploring all other options in relation to staging the event.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-panel-explores-rescheduling-of-ftp/article31419989.ece
24 April 2020||Chennai,||Dhoni named IPL’s GOAT captain||With three Indian Premier League titles with Chennai Super Kings, M.S. Dhoni was named IPL’s Greatest of All Time (GOAT) captain by a Star Sports jury on the 13th anniversary of the league. ‘Captain Cool’, who has a staggering win percentage of 60.11, pipped Rohit Sharma, who has led Mumbai Indians to a record four titles.  Dhoni has led CSK to eight finals, the most by any captain in the IPL. Besides Rohit, Dhoni also faced stiff competition from Gautam Gambhir who helped KKR bag two titles. Shane Warne, Adam Gilchrist and David Warner were also a part of the elite nominee list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhoni-named-ipls-goat-captain/article31419991.ece
24 April 2020||TOKYO:,||‘No further Olympics postponement’||There are no plans in place for a second postponement of the Tokyo Olympics, Games organisers have said. Several health experts have questioned if it will be possible to hold the Games even next year.IANS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-further-olympics-postponement/article31420214.ece
24 April 2020||Bengaluru,||ISRO invites technology proposals for human space flight missions||The Directorate of Human Space Programme of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has invited proposals to develop indigenous technologies for its future human space flight missions. The concepts can range from food and medicine eaten by astronauts during low-earth space trips; to anti-radiation and thermal protection technologies for the spacecraft, life support systems for astronauts, and inflatable habitats to robotic interfaces during more complex missions. The announcement of opportunity (AO) issued this week suggests 17 potential areas of work for national research and academic agencies. The directorate of HSP has sought the proposals by July 15. A selection committee will be formed to scrutinise the proposals. The AO said there was a need to develop affordable local technologies that could support human survival in low-earth orbits initially, and in bigger explorations later. “This opportunity will enable national research/academic institutions to harness their expertise and capabilities towards development of technologies for space exploration,” the announcement said. In the long term, the country’s emerging human space programme will need to establish research facilities and develop human resources. In August 2018, ISRO announced its first human space trip slated for around 2022, the Rs. 10,000-crore Gaganyaan. It plans to send three astronauts to a distance of 400 km in space in a special spacecraft. They will circle earth over three to seven days. Four pilots of the Indian Air Force are currently training in Moscow to be the first set of potential candidates for Gaganyaan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/isro-invites-technology-proposals-for-human-space-flight-missions/article31419987.ece
24 April 2020||MUMBAI,||MAMI’s year-round programme comes home||It continues to rain goodies for binge watchers during the lockdown. With the launch of the “home theatre” on Friday, April 24, one of India’s front-ranking film festivals, Jio Mami Mumbai Film Festival with Star, is making one of its arms — the popular year-round film programme — go digital while tiding over COVID-19. An extension — and not a replacement — of the year-round programme, the online avtaar will be open to viewers from across India. While registration will be free, a nominal fee per film will have to be paid directly to the filmmaker, after which the web link will be made available to the member for a limited period of time. “The idea is to have filmmakers become theatre owners and bring their films to premiere in your homes,” said Smriti Kiran, Artistic Director, Mumbai Film Festival, adding, “It empowers filmmakers and we help them find an audience not just in the city but across the country.” The festival’s role, as a not-for-profit entity, is of championing the films and the filmmakers and help in outreach and promotion. Wide reach The idea is to make it a functional, easy and effective viewing experience online. Unlike the limited seats in the theatre, there won’t be any capacity issues here, ensuring a wide reach. “Thousands can watch it. It also empowers the audience,” said Ms. Smriti. The titles will include those not available on streaming platforms. “There are a considerable number of incredible films sitting with producers and filmmakers that are not available on any platform,” said Ms. Smriti. In fact, the idea to begin MAMI home theatre came to her while making a list of titles from the festival’s past editions for someone who had asked for it. A goldmine She realised that they were sitting on a literal goldmine that hadn’t found a way to reach the people. The online programme kicks off with Tanuja Chandra’s delightful documentary Aunty Sudha , Aunty Radha , about her two aunts, aged 86 and 93, spending the sunset years of their lives together in Lahra village, near Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The charge per viewing will be Rs. 55 and the producer, in this case, has decided to put the proceeds towards COVID-19 charity. What next? For now it’s one step at a time. “We have already started working on a portal. We are also in conversation with a few platforms for a potential tie-up with this initiative. But till we can hone the pipeline, we request everyone for their patience and support with regard to the tech involved. We will get to a place that is systemically smooth soon,” said Ms. Smriti. While stressing that “home theatre” will not be a replacement for the year-round programme, she also underlined that going forward, it would be “an arm that would need to be built stronger”. They may be trying something new for now but are committed to it for the long term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/mamis-year-round-programme-comes-home/article31419988.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||How the ‘lock’ designed its own keys||As we move through another month of the global pandemic, over 1.3 billion people in our country are under lockdown hoping to curb the spread of the COVID 19 virus. We have all retreated into isolation, many grappling with uncertainty and stress, wondering what is in store next! Is this going to be our new ‘normal’? Will we have a Marghazhi season this year? Will our children grow up in environmental instability for the next few years? While we wrestle with these questions and look to each other for answers, it is also important that we don’t forget the fact that even in such a necessary period of social distancing and isolation, we still need each other. It feels so surreal to look back and reflect on the difference that one month of our lives can make. Just one month ago, I was in Kerala, performing in Kottayam and the neighbouring town. Could I have envisioned that all of my plans moving forward would disappear within four weeks? I should have completed singing in the Cleveland Thyagaraja Aradhana on April 12 and moved into Detroit for a master class on the 18th and 19th. None of us could have predicted then where we were headed…we could not have known then just how much our minds, bodies and souls would crave for normalcy again. These unprecedented times call for us to take stock of what we have and who we are as individuals and as a collective. What do we need to do right now to take care of ourselves so that, in turn, we may be able to care for others? How can we use this time wisely to plant the seeds that will yield fruit later? At this time, it should be our greatest commitment to stay strong physically and mentally so that our family, friends and community may also stay healthy — not just physically and mentally but emotionally as well. This is also the time to focus our efforts on giving — to those who need our support and are not as privileged and fortunate. We must revisit the big plans we make for ourselves and our lives. Those weren’t a guarantee anyway! We must learn to cherish the smallest and sweetest moments we are blessed with. For me, that was being on a conference call with 10 participants from the U.S. and India, some of whom I was supposed to be with at this time before my trip to the U.S. was cancelled. Small pleasures – to still be able to do those very things, albeit in a more humble way! I also cook to my heart’s content, write, read, dig into the treasure trove of forgotten compositions and much more! We must take a vow that we treat these small fleeting opportunities as precious moments that give us the gift we need, to lead our lives in the best manner right now, with a whole lot of new lessons learnt! Unique period This kind of a hiatus – being physically away from what I love doing most, I have had only during the time when my two children Kaushik and Malavika were born. In 2015, I abstained by choice, to recover from the acid reflux health issue, but then I was really not so tied down. This is a very unique period of standstill imposed with no warning. Such is life and its unpredictability. I have just covered facets of myself which I might never have, had I been just on my own journey without this locked down ‘stay at home’ phase. Truly! So much introspection, so much gratitude and so much thinking differently to stay tuned to reality! Finding solutions is indeed the ‘key’ to the lock(down) that has opened new vistas! I also wondered how the situation would have impacted my colleagues and other members in the fraternity and what their thought process could be. This made me connect with a few of them and what I heard was interesting. Amritha Murali, who has been a part of my concert project at Government schools, looks at the lockdown period very philosophically. She says, “I feel we often get into this complacent space of thinking that we are in control of everything in life. The lockdown re-iterates my belief that we can't take anything for granted in this world.” “One small invisible virus has put the entire world under duress, with lives lost, livelihoods lost, and so much more.” R.K. Shriram Kumar, who has accompanied me in so many concerts, and my guru MLV Amma as well, echoes her sentiments. “It has actually triggered the mind, body and soul to introspect on many things — to understand, approach, recognise and analyse many things that we take for granted.” Bharat Sundar adds, “The lockdown has certainly given some space for musicians to think and introspect, something which hardly ever happens as we are constantly travelling. If this time is used really well in learning and reinventing one’s music, the future is definitely going to be more vibrant.” Sowmya, however, does not feel that it has brought about any great change in her lifestyle except for the fact that she remains indoors and safe, certainly missing the concerts though! So how are they utilising this abundance of time, apart from the introspection aspect? Says Amritha: “The first few days were a little unsettling. But then things soon fell into place and I could do all of these — yoga, voice exercises, practice without an agenda, learning, refreshing some old songs, teaching, reading, sketching, domestic chores, trying my hand at baking, listening to old recordings, sudoku, crossword and watching movies.” Whew! An exhaustive list but she could do all of them — that’s really making the most of it, I would say! Shriram Kumar’s daily routine has not really changed much. He continues his religious activities in more detail. He allots more time for music practice, keeps in touch with his students over phone, revising old compositions for them — because there is more time, the mind gets more creative in teaching as well, he says! I couldn’t agree more on that. For Bharat Sundar, cooking has always been a passion. He cooks almost every day, trying out new dishes too. Procrastinating on two things — cleaning the house and arranging his books, finally got done! To an extent that he was able to catalogue his entire collection of books. So, now we know where to browse for good collections next! So how do they all feel about social distancing in the context of concerts? Sowmya expresses: “The current pandemic will definitely affect the concert scene. Hopefully hygiene will take precedence — cleaner carpets, green rooms and restrooms — a different sort of space at the concert venues.” Amritha adds, “It is extremely difficult to find the perfect solution for physical distancing in such a huge country.” Shriram Kumar looks at a larger perspective: “Uncertainty is the biggest hurdle we have to cross. Until the curve flattens and the chain is broken, it will be an unanswered question on everyone's mind about hosting and attending concerts. Financial support from corporates may take a while to pick up, the result being that it may take longer for many organisations to start hosting concerts. Offshore concerts will be a question mark.” When it comes to audience mindsets, Bharat Sundar does not foresee any change. “Virtual concerts may not last for long. The personal connect is being missed by us here. We are all used to a certain ambience while performing. We miss our accompanying artistes as well, the only respite being that one can avoid travel.” And then he concludes: “Virtual concerts are like bread. You can use it to survive a drought situation but certainly cannot live on it. As Indians, we need rice!” A good comparison I would say. All of them sign off on the same note — saluting the medical and para-medical staff, the police, the field workers, the volunteers and organisations, the good Samaritans and the silent heroes for their unstinted support in overcoming this situation that we are all in. So, the music world, like every other industry misses the normalcy. Let us hope that the pandemic releases the world from its clutches soon and may our City resound with music, dance and discourses as ever before!  Sowmyadoes not feel that it has brought about any great change in her lifestyle except that she remains indoors and safe   ForBharat Sundar,cooking has always been a passion. He cooks almost every day, trying out new dishes too   The lockdown re-iteratesAmritha’sbelief that we can't take anything for granted in this world   Sudhais cooking away to her heart’s content, besides writing, reading and digging into the music treasure trove   Shriram Kumarallots more time for music practice, keeps in touch with his students over phone, revising old compositions for them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/how-the-lock-designed-its-own-keys/article31419827.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||How to sing with Karaoke Tracks||(This is the second in the series of a three-part article on Karaoke)  A lay singer now has the comfort, convenience and improved confidence to attempt a song, and fulfil a long cherished desire and dream, thanks to Karaoke. More important, one can indulge in this new-found hobby in the comfort of one’s home! And with practice and perseverance, one can step into the Stage as well! However, singing with karaoke has its own set of challenges. And some advantages to boot. Here are some simple technicalities: 1. Unlike as in an Orchestra, where the accompanists can adjust and adapt to the scale and tempo of the singer (and his/her comfort), a Karaoke track is like a running train. It force-fits the singer into itself. One has to run with the train, sorry the track, to get onto it! 2. Secondly, the quality of the track makes a huge difference. It is important to pick a good quality track, with the BGM accurately reproduced, having the right (or rather original) scale and tempo. There are tracks and tracks, not all of them are really good, in terms of these parameters. 3. Next, it is an important pre-requisite for the aspiring singer to be familiar and thorough with the original song. Having said that, the track has to match the right scale and tempo, the right sequence of the lyrical stanzas, have good quality and fidelity of the BGM, with the least or nil noise and disturbance. Some tracks do not have the complete song lyrics — for example, if the song has three stanzas, the track will have only two, but the overall quality will be good. 4. If the Track selected is jarring, noisy and loud, the performance will severely suffer. Hence while playing such tracks in public, one must be aware of its impact on the audience. 5. On-line software Apps are to be carefully selected. Some of them may not suit film music orchestration, particularly Indian film music. 6. Using On-line Software Apps is a smart way to enhance quality and performance. These Apps require you to import the track for dabbling with various features and parameters to enhance the effects and output. On the other side, if the singer wishes to lower or increase the scale or tempo, such Apps are particularly useful. However, from a puritan viewpoint, the scale and tempo of the original song must not be altered. One must stick to and sing the original song. For the benefit of amateur artistes, there are two key terms — scale and tempo — which are always referred to in Karaoke conversations. Scale of a song is more properly called the key, the set of sharps or flats that are used by default when playing the song. It will usually have the same name as the first and the last chord played (although there are exceptions). Tempo of a piece of music is the speed of the underlying beat. Tempo is measured in BPM, or beats per minute. One beat every second is 60 BPM. Sometimes the tempo is written at the beginning of the music, and is called a metronome marking. Points to remember Having pioneered Karaoke-based shows in Chennai from the early 2010, I wish to propose the following points which have been very well received by those whom I tutor: 1. Select a Song that you are comfortable with. This is the prime Mantra since a song requires producing and projecting the right feel and emotion (Bhaav), sticking to the Scale (Sruti) and keeping to the Beat/Tempo (Taal). While doing all the above, one has to sing from the Naabhi and exercise breath control. 2. Remember the next Mantra — the song which one likes is not necessarily the song that one should sing. There are songs and songs which we like to listen to. Some of them have very high notes, or some are fast paced and some are very technical (as in the nuances and twists and turns are complicated). Yes, they are all very soothing, melodious or sentimental to hear. Ask yourself — Can I sing this like the original with Sukham (comfort and enjoyment) and Sthiram (stability and poise)? Choosing what one thinks is the right song can be completely wrong in the singer’s case, and can spell disaster on stage. 3. For a singer, the voice is the prime vehicle or tool, as one wishes to look at it. Understanding one’s voice, its range, capability and texture combined with breath control are some key considerations to bear in mind. This will, to a great extent, determine the song selection. 4. Nurturing your voice by regular hydration (warm water intake) is a valuable tip that I received very early in my singing career. 5. Voice-culture is a winning proposition. Exercising the vocal chords is a discipline that a serious singer-to-be must adhere to. There are several good channels in YouTube where the host helps us understand and carry out these exercises by way of Tutorial. 6. Practice is a must. In Hindustani music, it is referred to as Riyaaz , and as Sadhana in Carnatic music, meaning regular practice with a lot of dedication, interest and involvement. In other words, no pain, no gain. 7. Seeking feedback for constant improvement. Peer-level feedback and random check with a discerning listener can vastly help enhance our quality of singing. Recording and listening to our own singing will also throw up areas of improvement and correction. 8. Lastly, it is a worthwhile practice to keep listening repeatedly to the original song. Carefully listening to the singer’s modulations and approach to singing can provide us useful and effective insights. On the net, one can find the same song sung by other notable singers. Listening to these versions also will provide us new perspectives. So, Karaoke is a boon to amateurs, who aspire to demonstrate their latent talent for singing. A sincere, passionate and hardworking amateur can transform into a Stage singer, with Karaoke as a vehicle. But there are no shortcuts to success. Technology has given us this gift and it is for us to make the best out of this, to bring out the best in us. Happy Singing…  (The author is a veteran HR Professional and founder-lead singer of his troupe, ‘Geet Gaata Chal.’ He lives in Chennai and can be reached at geetgaatachalchennai@gmail.com)   The song which one likes is not necessarily the song that one should sing. Ask yourself — can I sing this like the original with Sukham and Sthiram?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/how-to-sing-with-karaoke-tracks/article31419800.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||How real is the Virtual?||Rare is that dancer today who doesn’t have a Facebook page, a Twitter account, an Instagram account and is NOT using all of it to the optimum. The journey of the dance from ritual spaces to proscenium arches of the secular stage may have taken a couple of centuries but its transference to the slim confines of the browser has been nothing short of a blitzkrieg — all in the space of half a decade. Just as a duck takes to water, the dancer is only too happy to find a window of opportunity in all that life and technology lay at her door. In these troubled timses, it is perhaps social media that has helped many stay connected, stay creative and admittedly according to quite a few, the only way they have remained sane. Amid constraints posed by the lockdown, there are instances of dancers who have embraced the medium like never before and are taking to online teaching and performing via this interfacing. But, hasn’t the world seen worse situations? For instance, during the Second World War, dancers such as Ninette de Valois and her troupe of ballet dancers toured Europe and native Britain, often risking their lives, performing to build ‘morale’ while every second there was the threat of a buzz bomb, or a doodlebug as it was called those days, hovering overhead. These were truly times of isolation and real threat, unaided by anything akin to the social media, yet the world somehow did get by. Today, however, when we are captive to an increasingly clued-in world, where everybody has something to say about everything all the time with remarkable sameness and uniformity, one does wonder how the world got by all these years without this information force-feed. It wouldn’t be wrong to say that purely from a sociological perspective nothing has redefined our lives so completely and irreversibly as social media. It is time then to hold off the dizzying onslaught of posts for just a moment and reflect on how this phenomenon has impacted our lives. Particularly the dance world. The nature of dance is such that it begs an audience and requires patronage. Without an audience, the dance withers away. In the days of yore, the devadasi did not have to go seeking patrons for her art. They were embedded in the system. Devotees thronged the temple anyway and watched the dance that was part of the ritual, a quotidian performance of sacred duty. When she was invited to the court to perform, she had an assured audience. In the West, operas were often presented at the behest of the courts. Over time, dance moved to a more secular stage, delinked from both temples and courts where gradually a niche viewership evolved — a regular stream of connoisseurs or rasikas, just as there were balletomanes in the western world. However, the world has changed much since and with competing platforms of entertainment making demands on people’s attention and time, mounting work pressures and distances involved in travelling from one place to another, it is no surprise that the already niche viewership of classical dance is being reduced to a trickle. We are in a peculiar situation where practitioners are mushrooming everywhere but the audience is a vanishing tribe. This is where social media platforms, hitherto the playground of the young, intended primarily to be tools of recreational engagement, have become mediums for building profiles — both artistic and personal — and hunting grounds for a virtual viewership. Of course, the positives are all too obvious. These apparent benefits are also often sounded out by younger dancers. For instance, Akshiti Roychowdhury, an Odissi dancer from Nrityagram, points out that for dancers who are starting out on their solo careers, this is a very enabling medium that helps them get the word out about themselves. Kankana Singh, a young Manipuri dancer who has a public Instagram account among others, feels that this affords her the opportunity to interact with a wide range of people who often fruitfully engage with her regarding her dance. No doubt, the platforms too are learning and improving alongside an entire generation that has gone from Orkut to Snapchat. There are now features that help artistes connect more easily, across continents, without expense! Facebook Live and Instagram Live are examples of these modifications that allow people to stream live content. Shweta Prachande, a Bharatanatyam dancer from Chennai, asserts that these features do make it easier, especially in times like these, for teachers of dance especially to continue interacting with their students or facilitate direct interaction. There are artistes, who perform live and share their performances online via Facebook or even have live classes and talks that enable anyone to join in the sessions. Campaigns tend to catch on pretty fast too. Last year, as a run up to the 39th edition of the Natya Kala Conference, young Bharatanatyam dancers were invited to share on Facebook their own choreographic visualisations to a pre-composed musical phrase under the banner of ‘nirikshana.’ Without a doubt, it did drum up a lot of buzz among young sprightly dancers. That said, there is more to it than meets the eye. Functioning as equalisers, these platforms have obliterated boundaries between the personal and the professional and in fact, that may be the reason for their popularity. While there are dancers of the old school who haven’t quite understood the potency of social media and whose posts are in keeping with the original intent of social networking sites, that of engaging with friends, family and acquaintances, the younger, emerging breed of dancers, who have grown up with social media as an extension of their identity and persona, are defining the new normal. Posts — images and videos — are strategically designed to draw maximum views and likes, and these can range from the mundane to the ultra-glamorous. Facebook jargon too has been tweaked with time: ‘Friends’ are now ‘Followers,’ especially when one has a public account. ‘Followers’ then could range from a close circle of friends and family to rank outsiders, strangers even. They are thus privy to not just the dance related posts of the dancer but also moments that may otherwise fall under the realm of ‘personal space.’ This uninhibited mixing of the two worlds would have been unthinkable a few years ago but today it’s de rigueur . “Gone are the days of the star dancer or a celebrity dancer, today anyone can become their own star. Social Media empowers you in that sense,” says Dr Katyayani Ganti, a Hyderabad-based Kuchipudi dancer, “but, I feel that there is also the danger of creative stagnation as an artiste, the moment one has a certain following one may feel that one has arrived, so to speak.” Some reservations To be sure, there is scepticism among artistes of the older generation as well. As a senior and renowned choreographer and dancer of the country, Sharmila Biswas is not altogether gung-ho on the subject. She has her reservations with respect to indiscriminate posting of exceedingly private moments or irresponsible comments, all of which may be damaging to the dignity of art and artists. She also makes mention of ‘cleverly edited’ videos that can often be misleading. Ultimately, she says that ‘virtual dance’ has the danger of making audiences and dancers lazy. “Accessiblity is a boon but also a curse. I see a few young students today who are full of information. They are walking telephone directories with no in depth knowledge, wisdom or creativity,” she says. Similar misgivings are expressed by Dr. Anupama Kylash, senior academician and Vilasini Natyam dancer from Hyderabad who wonders, given the laissez faire nature of a Facebook or Instagram, where memes are the order of the day, where are the checks and balances to vet the veracity of the claims being put out: ‘There is a lot of content uploaded by the dancing community. It is difficult to sift the good from the not so good. A carefully cultivated and nurtured profile may hold out a lot of promise when viewed through embellished posts, thus leading to a build-up of expectations but the proof of the pudding is in its eating. Ultimately, does the reality match up to the dazzling window display?’ Social media in effect is the mouthpiece of the dancer, and so effective a mouth piece it is that one can say whatever it is one wants to say about oneself and everybody else too and what you say will, in all probability, be ‘liked’ — remember there is no feature on any of the social media platforms to ‘dislike’ anything. So there is little fear of being reproved. Social media in fact obligates approval. “I underuse social media as I feel it can disturb my mental peace. I feel the exclusiveness and richness in a dance can only come from real communications, physically, not virtually,” says Sharmila Biswas. Since moderation is key to everything, we could do well by taking a leaf from her book.  We are in a peculiar situation where practitioners are mushrooming everywhere but the audience is a vanishing tribe. This is where social media platforms enter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/how-real-is-the-virtual/article31419815.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Shift in Paradigm||Is it a Wednesday? Is it a Sunday? Most of us are unable to keep track of what day it is, much less how we’re spending our time. Last Saturday, however, was different for Bharatanatyam rasikas — four hours of eight well-known artistes, each an Instagram Live performer, for half an hour. Aalaap, an arts management company, had organised an Abhinaya marathon festival, titled, ‘Through his Lens.’ It was quite interesting to watch the dancers perform pieces that they had not explored on stage. They wove in a personal narrative of experiences and beliefs through the choice of pieces that they presented. Beginning with an ode to Siva, one of whose forms is Dakshinamurthy, Vaibhav Arekar described Abhinaya as an act of communication which mirrored what he felt deep within himself. ‘Krishna Nee Begane,’ the Yamuna Kalyani melody was the highlight of Arekar’s performance. “The poet says that there is a search for the little Krishna till the end. I think the quest is not only for him, but the innocence of a child. In this piece, I search for that Krishna. At least for me, there is no final answer to this piece, but an effort to look within ourselves,” Arekar explained. A simple blend of raw emotion and fascination for the little one, who doubles as the Lord of the Universe, Arekar journeyed through butter baiting, describing marvellous feats and a longing for a lost sense of childhood, unlike the love of Yasoda that we are used to watching. Arekar concluded on a lighter and happier note through ‘Rusali Radha,’ the celebrated Marathi piece, a tug between the passive-agressive tensions Radha and Krishna pull through, which Arekar had not performed on stage before. Describing the piece as his personal favourite, Christopher Gurusamy opened with ‘Yaarukaagilum Bayama’ in Begada, where he aimed to show how Abhinaya was a way to connect to himself. “Much like the protagonist, whom I love is my own business. I’ll live my life the way I want to live it,” he stated as he immediately fixed the context: “Right now it’s representative of my fridge and my puppies judging me every time I walk over to snack on chocolate. It’s my own business.” He presented the heart-wrenching Ashtapathi, ‘Naata hare Jaganaata hare,’ which he had presented at the Music Academy’s dance festival, earlier this year. The sakhi of a lovelorn Radha narrates to Krishna the suffering in his desertion, saying, “You are the Lord of the three worlds, will you not be with her? Do you not know how she suffers, waiting for you?” To embellish a failed persuasion attempt, Christopher ended with ‘Oh my lovely, Lalana’ in Kharaharapriya giving it a touch of the modern.  Kasi Aysola brought forth a different repertoire, unfolding with the first segment of the Thanjavur Quartet varnam — Sami Ninne Kori Naanu Ra. Through the combination of nritta and abhinaya, Kasi described how the Trikala jathi was a precursor to tapping the essence of the varnam. “It lets you think about how rhythm, technique and physical movement can lend themselves to the concept of Abhinaya,” he pointed out. Inspired by the cyclic qualities in nature, Kasi drew an excerpt from Sangam poetry dealing with the water cycle as metaphor for the continuous movement from day to night. Describing it as an experiment and a personal reflection through choreography, Kasi presented the Hindi bhajan, ‘Maili Chadar Odh Ke Kaise.’ An interesting piece, it followed a journey charred through a dirty cloth, i.e., the physical form, where the protagonist asked how they must shed the form to reach the divine. “I’ve done so many things that are selfish. You gave me a beautiful body, voice and eyes — did I really use them for good,” he said, adding, “We often think about the things we lose, but do we really think about what our higher purpose is?” Reorienting pieces in an impromptu session, Shijith Nambiar chose to explore compositions he had always wanted to present. Set against a red curtain background and an aesthetic lamp ( vilakku ) to his side, he presented a Kannada viruttam in Bhairavi — a call to the Lord, ‘Madhava baro, Vittala’ its ending request to present himself. Resonating through Bombay Jayashree’s mesmerising voice, he went on to present ‘Irakkam varamal’ in Behag, a composition of Gopalakrishna Bharati. The poet here asks, “What is the reason that you have no compassion for me,” holding his/her compassion as a right, adding, “I have come to you having heard and believed that you are an ocean of compassion.” Holding a mirror Lyrics set by K.C. Kesava Pillai, ‘Ival Tan Ival Tan’ in raag Jog was the next piece. Briefly holding a mirror unto himself, Nambiar interprets the lines, “It is you that resides in my heart,” through the degrees of a lover, a reflection of himself and nature. The warmth and endearment from these pieces wrapped up with a Malayalam prayer on Lord Narayana, an appeal to remove sufferings and embrace peace and well-being — ‘Vande Mukunda hare.’ “If you stay back in the house, I’ll give you fresh butter and sweets,” Praveen Kumar humours through Purandaradasa’s Devaranama. A direct reflection of today’s situation, he refashioned the traditional piece from a male perspective. A beautiful song that captures the relationship between Krishna and Yashodha, he explained how the parallel narrative of the modern world was an intriguing reflection of this simple piece. “You see all over social media, everybody is testing their own cooking skills trying to find a sense of balance with themselves,” he expressed. Drawing inspiration from the observations he made and stored — an excerpt someone read or a distinct smell, Praveen Kumar said that Abhinaya is through evocative multi-layered interpretations. “It’s like when you observe something, you naturally emote and respond to it. Communication becomes easy when these are adapted to abhinaya,” he explained. “Society does not usually encourage a man to show his emotions. Male love is usually attributed to physical pleasure, but I would like to draw your attention to the plethora of male composers, who brought to the fore emotions akin to that of the nayikas,” said Bhavajan Kumar proving a point with ‘Aananda Natamidum Paadam’ by Papanasam Sivan. “Bhavam is something that finds resonance within you, it can be compared to the inner flame within us. Sometimes we feel something deeply but are unable to express it. The act of expressing that inner resonance is what I have understood to be Abhinaya,” he expanded. He concluded with the Ashtapadi ‘Mamiyam chalita,’ an expression of how the Purusha needs the Prakruthi to reach himself. A Hamirkalyani melody, it presented Krishna pining for Radha and her forgiveness. A vibrant Bhaktaamara stotra through Maanatunga Acharya’s verses, Parshwanath Upadhye elucidated how this composition was believed to have taken form. Forced shut inside a cell of 48 walls, Maanatunga acharya who refused to stay in the court of a king who demanded his presence, composed this beautiful slokam. In a musical monologue of expression and singing the verses of a folk tale, Parshwanath presented an excerpt from a Gigi pada, also inspired from Girish Karnad’s ‘Nagamandala’ and adapted into an Abhinaya piece. The story of a bride just married to Annappa, it follows her dissatisfaction in an unloved marriage and prepares a love potion for her husband’s lunch. In a hurry, he rushes out and locks her in, her frustration making her throw the potion away. It falls upon an ant hill, within which resides a snake with the capacity to transfigure itself. Now in love, the reptile takes the form of her husband and comes to live with her. “While there’s a sense of absurdity in this story, it has meaningful undertones. Annappa and the snake are not two different entities, they're the same person. The perspective varies depending on one’s perspective,” explained Parshwanath. An excerpt from the ‘Abhirami Andhadhi’ — a string of verses, which turn the dark new moon sky bright, lit by a luminous full moon. Pavithra Krishna Bhat presented a small episode from the story. Followed by a sringara padam, a composition of Balamuralikrishna, ‘Maralukonnane,’ Bhat reflected on how this sudden pause in work offered an opportunity to revisit earlier pieces and perform on online forums. Aalaap’s founder Akhila Krishnamurthy shared: “For a long time now, I have been meaning to present a festival exclusively with male artistes with the focus on abhinaya. We also wanted to curate a festival that would help audiences feel like they are in an auditorium.” In uncertainty and isolation, it serves as a ray of hope in creating a sense of familiarity within the digital space. Aalaap’s Live Instagram handle - @aalaap_concepts or via https://www.instagram.com/aalaap_concepts/  The dancers wove in their personal experiences and beliefs as they probed for new layers and interpretations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/shift-in-paradigm/article31419820.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘He was as much India’s sun’||Though Pt. Ravi Shankar wrote two autobiographies, Oliver Craske’s biography on him is being eagerly awaited by the world of classical music. It took six years to write the voluminous Indian Sun: The Life and Music of Ravi Shankar spread over 650 pages. Extensively covering every aspect of the maestro’s career, in exhaustive detail, the biography also deals with his turbulent personal life and analyses what contributed to making him the man he was. Written with insight and compassion, the book presents the maestro as he was, warts and all. Incidentally, the author has been a family friend of the Shankars for over 18 years and was the editor of Raga Mala , Pt Ravi Shankar’s second book. Engaging and affable, it was a pleasure chatting on the phone with the London-based Oliver. The book is yet to release in India due to the pandemic but Oliver is optimistic that it will soon happen. Excerpts from an interview:  Who commissioned this biography? It was my own decision to write it. After Ravi ji died, I was sure that there was more to say about him. I immediately approached Sukanya Shankar to ask if she would cooperate. Before I had even voiced my request, she said, ‘You must write something more about him.’ I spent about four years doing new interviews and archival research. Sukanya has a wonderful, healthy attitude to the past and she encouraged me to discover whatever I could and make my own judgments. It was a very positive process and I am so grateful for her cooperation. I should make it clear that no money changed hands between us. Both Ravi ji’s daughters, Norah Jones and Anoushka Shankar, also gave me interviews, as well as about 125 other colleagues and acquaintances. You clearly had access to a lot of private stuff... While Ravi ji was alive, I had been allowed to see quite a lot of letters, documents, scrapbooks, and photos. But most of the research took place after he died in 2012. Sukanya kindly granted me access to the family collections, which I believe are of international significance — for example, his letters to his disciple, Harihar Rao, give a wonderful insight into his early career in India, those years of turmoil and new possibilities in the late 1940s and 1950s.   The book starts with your quoting an article of 1997 where he is called “The Sun that rose in the West.” But the book seems to contradict this perspective...   This is a key conclusion of my book. I think India has forgotten Ravi Shankar’s achievements in India before he started touring internationally in the mid-1950s. It’s understandable because it was a long time ago, and his later international fame was on such a stratospheric level. As director of music at All India Radio from 1949 to 1956, Ravi Shankar became a national star just as radio was exploding in its reach and popularity. For the first time, Indian classical musicians became stars on a national level; he was the key musician in that process. By the late 1950s, he was the only classical musician with a profile like a film star. Many of his later achievements had their roots in his earlier work. He was always fascinated by percussion, a master of taal , and had been inspired by Carnatic rhythms from the late 1940s. Long before he wrote his first sitar concerto in 1970, he was obsessed with pioneering orchestras of Indian instruments. I discovered an amazing memo from 1961 where he explained that one big reason he wanted to open his Kinnara music school in Mumbai was because there were not enough Indian musicians trained to work in orchestras! Orchestral music was always on his mind.   This book is as much for the West as it is for the East. Do you feel his legacy is as much for the West as for the East?   Very much so. I saw that both sides are key to understanding him. He also charted the map for all the Indian musicians who have gone on to tour the world — he showed them what was possible, opened up audiences, took many of them with him on tour. He is still a wonderful example for Indian musicians, and India should be proud of him.   What, according to you, was his most praiseworthy quality?    It’s impossible to single out one quality for a man of such range and depth but, if pushed, I would identify his open mind — his endlessly curious, childlike, energetic, generous outlook on the world that made everything possible, musically and made him such a magnetic personality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/he-was-as-much-indias-sun/article31419840.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||At the service of Arunachala||Subbaramaiah, a Bhagawan devotee has recorded an instance in Bhagavan’s life. A visitor, afflicted with paralysis, was escorted to his presence. After half an hour or so he stood up on his own, walked up to Bhagawan and showed a note-book, where it was written that the handicap of the person would be cured when a Mahan looked at him with compassion. The visitor then walked out leaving behind a stunned gathering. A pictorial biography of Bhagawan published by Sri Ramanasramam narrates a moving incident that happened in April 1950 when Bhagavan was seriously ill. Visitors were restricted and asked to form a queue. A timid devotee picked up courage and threw a piece of paper at the feet of Bhagawan and quickly slipped out. Bhagawan saw it all despite his discomfort, looked for the piece of paper and wanted the visitor to be brought before him. The visibly shaken devotee was fetched. Bhagavan looked into his eyes for a few moments, smiled and nodded assent. The devotee had written in the paper “Bhagawan, save me” and needless to say, he was saved. Bhagawan’s first few words when he stood in the sanctum sanctorum of Arunachala, after he reached Tiruvannamalai, were: “I have come to thee at thy behest. Thy will be done.” The Lord used his presence for the remaining 57-odd years making sure that Sri Ramana kept that promise When Kunjuswami was accompanied by a devotee at Pavalakundru, the new comer was not seemingly impressed by the appearance of Bhagawan. Kunjuswami asked him to stay for some time in the tiny room near the mother’s shrine. The new comer came out in five minutes sweating profusely and panting for breath. Kunjuswami said: “You could not stay inside for even five minutes and Bhagavan was staying here for months.” Presented with love Bhagawan wore only a simple loin cloth and kaubinam throughout his ascetic life. During special occasions like his Jayanthi, people lovingly presented him with new towels and loin cloths and he obliged by changing four times in a day. He smilingly remarked: “Because I did not want anything, see how much I am getting. Even a washer-man will not have such a huge collection.” The day was April 14, 1950. Bhagawan, who spread peace and bliss through his life, thanked his attendant Sivanandaswami, who was pressing his legs. Perhaps that was his parting word to the man, who had served him with devotion, in the final months of his mortal life. “Santhosham,” Bhagawan said and added: “The English say ‘Thank you,’ and we say ‘Santhosham.’” The attendant, tears streaming down his cheeks, understood. That evening Bhagawan merged with Arunachala.  Awareness is All — the seer and seen, the real and apparent... Any sincere worship eventually leads to Realisation - Bhagavan in Ulladu Narpadu (from Who Am I ?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/at-the-service-of-arunachala/article31419835.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Life has come a full circle’||Rajesh, veteran actor, has other interesting facets. Making his debut as hero in Kanni Paruvathile , he matured into an excellent character actor. Tackling both silver and small screens with equal felicity, he has authored books and has a knowledge of astrology. A voracious reader, his knowledge of world affairs and history is amazing. YouTube is another channel he is using productively. Excerpts from a chat with the actor, who made imprints with many memorable performances, and continues to be busy with 150 films and a dozen serials under his belt.  About entering the small screen? I was one of the first cinema actors, to step into television, through serials like ‘Thagam’ and ‘Tholainthu Ponavargal.’ I don’t apply different yardsticks. I give what the director wants. Well, if you have experience as an actor and not camera-shy, things perhaps become easy. Right now, I’m doing the pivotal role of Tiger Manikam in ‘Roja,’ a serial produced by Saregama for Sun TV — as the heroine Roja's biological father, who is a famous criminal lawyer. The serial was started with my character only. How comfortable are you straddling two fields at the same time?  I am enjoying every day — in both. I am 71. In English you say it is ‘running.’ In Tamil we say it is ‘walking,’ ( Nadakirathu ). I am ‘walking’ in a healthy way. The years I live now are a bonus, which I wish to spend in peace. I give what the directors want, be it cinema or television. Not many are aware that I was also a dubbing artiste. I dubbed for Muralidheran Pillai (popularly known in Malayam films as Murali) in Dum Dum Dum , Majaa and Ullam Ketkume and for another Malayalam actor Nedumudi Venu in Poi Solla Porom . I do everything with complete dedication so that there is all round happiness. About your writing stint...  I have written nine books, all in Tamil. Muran Suvai is one of them. It is about irony and was serialised in Dinamani. I wrote in response to the request of the editor Mr. Vaithiyanathan. I always thought of the irony of protectors becoming killers in the case of the late Indira Gandhi. So starting with that I covered several eminent personalities — Hitler, Tolstoy, Kamarajar, Chellamma Bharathi and Einstein — for nearly 52 weeks. Other books include Ulaga Sirappana Thiraipadangal , similar ones on directors and actors, a book on actor Audrey Hepburn and one on astrology titled, Jothidam — Puriyatha Puthir . Can you name three as your favourite among the 150 films in which you have acted?  Tough question (laughs). Anyway, since you say three, for any artiste, first is the best. So I’d choose Kanni Paruvathile in which I was the leading actor. Then ‘Antha 7 Natkal,’ the climax of which is still talked about. Director-actor K. Bhagyaraj was simply superb. The doyen K. Balachander got the best out of me in ‘Achamillai Achamillai.’ But then I can say something special about each film. You think you have found an outlet for all your skills?  I think I’m actually fortunate. Let me explain. Right now, the Corona virus is playing havoc across the globe. Since I read a lot, my family suggested that I share whatever knowledge I have with people. My connection with YouTube, where I talk on different subjects, came in handy. Recently, some people, 18 of them Tamils, were stuck in a ship in Cairo. They have since returned safely to Tamil Nadu. One of them is Vanitha Rangaraj, whom I know. She runs two homes for senior citizens besides several social service organisations in Coimbatore. She told me that my YouTube channel talks were educative and kept them in good cheer. I felt happy for two reasons. One, they are back safely and two I contributed in a small way in easing their stress. At another level, I was a teacher for seven years and an actor for 47 years. Now at 71, I seem to have gone back to my root. The other day, a friend told me casually that I was teaching good things to people. I was very happy to hear that. Life seems to have come a full circle for me.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/life-has-come-a-full-circle/article31419804.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Playing Veeravali was an emotional journey’||“It was a Wednesday,” says Kiran Joneja Sippy recalling her memories of ‘Buniyaad’. “I had returned to Bombay after attending the birthday party of my nephew in Delhi. At the airport, my secretary said, ‘we have to rush to Film City as Mr. Ramesh Sippy, the director of Sholay, is waiting for us.’ What’s the hurry, I retorted. He wouldn’t listen and on the way explained how much effort is being taken to mount a television serial.” Coming from a non-film background, her father was a doctor, Kiran hardly got to watch films. “I had heard of Sholay, but didn’t know its true value till then.” Well, they reached the set and Kiran was made to sit on a manjhi (a cot used in rural areas of North India). “Wearing a skirt and top, I flaunted my modelling background in that village setting. Years later, Rameshji told me how I walked in, in an all-white ensemble, though I really didn’t remember,” laughs Kiran. Talking about getting a role in the popular serial, she says, “’Amit Khanna, a well-known name in the media and entertainment world, noticed me in ‘Wah Janab’, the comedy series I did with Shekhar Suman. In the show, I wore salwar suits and delivered dialogues in chaste Hindi. He recommended my name to Rameshji, who had cast somebody else in the role of Veeravali and had shot a couple of episodes with her. Not happy with the result, he had stopped shooting those episodes.” So, Ramesh Sippy was still looking for his Veeravali and that Wednesday he found her. “He asked my name and age. Like most women, I was not comfortable answering the second question. I said I am as old as I look. He kept quiet, but said the character might have a journey from the young to the old and that whether I would be comfortable. Not aware of things like typecasting, I said, of course, thinking it would be a challenge.” She was asked to join the shoot the following Monday. “ Meanwhile, I was supposed to get my salwar-suits ready with the costume director.” Kiran says she struggled with the Punjabi of the pre-Partition era for a few days. “At home, we usually conversed in English, but I had done Hindi plays such as ‘Aashad Ka Ek Din’ in Delhi. Those days actors worked as a close-knit family. So there was Alok Nath and Vijeyandra Ghatge helping me with the lines and then there was Rameshji, who clearly knew what he wanted from his actors.” The difficult part, she says, was when she began realising that she was reliving the story of her grandparents. “My grandparents were refugees and had come from the Mianwali area of Pakistan. My maternal grandfather was a zamindar but used to teach as a hobby. He was called Masterji. He stayed back in Pakistan after the Partition for a year and so and saved the lives of many girls. My grandfather was called Lalaji and my aunt, Veeravali, as she had three brothers. So, in a way, I was reliving the memories of my parents and grandparents, the horror stories of the Partition they used to tell us. It was cathartic,” says Kiran trying to hold back her tears. “It still hurts,” she says, her voice choked with emotion. Her comeback in the serial as an old woman was not part of the original plan. “It was just a thought but it had to be done on public demand. Same happened with my role of Ganga in the Mahabharat. It was not part of the original script. But she was brought back on public demand.” These small screen roles would have impacted her film career, but for Kiran the rewards were much more than the loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/playing-veeravali-was-an-emotional-journey/article31419818.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Online Kathak conference||The second edition of the ‘Maya Rao Kathak and Choreography Conference’, presented by Natya and STEM Dance Kampni, goes digital this year. It will be live streamed on Facebook (https://m.facebook.com/pg/NatyaStemDanceKampni/community/), on May 1 and 2, 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. The conference will raise funds for the folk and ritualistic performers of rural Karnataka. Day One will begin with Anita Ratnam’s inaugural address followed by a special dance feature by Aditi Mangaldas and a panel discussion, ‘Reimagining Resilience - Live arts post Covid-19’ featuring Lynee Fernandez, Mahesh Dattani and Shivani Wazir Pasrich with Madhu Nataraj as the moderator. The day’s session concludes with the screening of the film ‘Rare Folk and Ritualistic Forms of Karnataka,’ by Sneha Kapanna. Day Two will begin with ‘Maya to Matter,’ a retrospective dance feature on renowned guru Maya Rao. This will be followed by a panel discussion - ‘Looking, Watching, Seeing — Changing Dance Optics.’ The speakers are Rajiv Menon, Sivarajah Natarajan and Shreedevi Deshpande Puri. Anita Ratnam is the moderator. The conference will end with the screening of ‘Dancing Wheels- Choreographing for the Handi-capable,’ by Syed Sallauddin Pasha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/online-kathak-conference/article31419831.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Venture into the mystical world with Alice||Who knew that chasing an unusual rabbit would lead a teenage girl into the topsy-turvy alternate and magical world of Wonderland! Sounds familiar? Watch the academy-winning film ‘Alice in Wonderland’ on @PriveHD, today, 9 p.m.,  that follows the story of young Alice (Mia Wasikowska) whose dreams and nightmares turn into reality. The film opens with Alice, who inadvertently makes her way to a strange yet surreal place called ‘Underland’ where she reunites with her friends Mad Hatter (Johnny Depp), the Cheshire Cat and others. It is here that Alice learns it is her destiny to end the Red Queen’s (Helena Bonham Carter) reign of terror and restore the rightful White Queen (Anne Hathaway) to her throne. Will young Alice succeed in her mission?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/venture-into-the-mystical-world-with-alice/article31419806.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Nrisimha Jayanti festivals postponed||The annual Bhagavatamela festivals, held in connection with Nrisimha Jayanti at Saliyamangalam and Melattur, in Thanjavur, have been deferred until further notice. In a press release, Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Bhagavatha Mela Bhaktha Samajam, Saliyamangalam, informs that the 375-year-old festival, scheduled to be held on May 3-8, has been postponed. The festival of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Jayanti Bhagavatamela Natya Nataka Sangam, Melattur, was slated to begin on May 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/nrisimha-jayanti-festivals-postponed/article31419821.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘May I help you?’||Y. Gee. Mahendra is yet another frontline Tamil stage artiste, who has used the social media to entertain theatre buffs. ‘Udavikku Varalama’ is a short skit with a message appropriate for the period in which humanity is locked. With wife Sudha as an apt foil, he communicates the anxiousness of a senior citizen awaiting his provident fund to be credited to his account. Written by YGM, the seven-minute skit is directed by Rathnam Koothapiran, who also stars in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/may-i-help-you/article31419828.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The enduring legacy||Oliver has divided the book into sections, each dealing with the main focus at the time. Thus the first section is about his joining his brother Uday Shankar’s group and travelling abroad (a period which impacted his subsequent life and music significantly). The next period is equally significant in shaping his life from 1944 to 1956, the period which covers his musical training, marriage and wanting to establish himself in the world of music. The next period deals with the years of struggle, trying to establish himself in the West, and lasts till 1965. The next chapters cover his years of superstardom with George Harrison, ending in 1970. The years of living parallel lives — until his heart attack — extend till 1987. The concluding years are a separate period from 1987 till his death in 2012. Each period is detailed with almost diary-like details; however the ultimate legacy of Pt Ravi Shankar’s life remains elusive and out of reach, much like the man himself. Was it, as Oliver writes “his life’s mission to spread understanding and love of Indian classical music” or was it “in creating for the first time a mass-market inside India for Indian classical music” (through radio, his record releases, concerts, film scores, and theatrical productions)? No doubt his legacy was a mixed one; he has been accused of Westernising Indian Classical music, of being “lightweight, too showbiz.” In the maestro’s own words “everyone thinks Ravi Shankar has got a lot of roses, but they do not know he was showered with an equal number of thorns.” But what is without doubt is, as Oliver says, he was “probably India’s most important cultural figure of the era, and certainly its most enduring.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-enduring-legacy/article31419836.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Endearing dimensions||The book, Who Am I? — Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi, released recently by The Hindu Group of Publications, captures the life and philosophy of Bhagavan Ramana Maharishi, saint of Arunachala. Through visuals — including two arresting posters — and illuminating articles, the volume throws light on the various facets of the Enlightened Soul that the Maharishi was. People, who had the opportunity to be associated with Bhagavan during his life time share their experiences. A good part of the photo collection is exclusive, courtesy Sri Ramanasramam. His compassion for all living beings, the unique bond that existed between him and animals give Bhagavan an endearing dimension. The well-known aspects of his life such as his Death experience, arrival at Arunachala, which became his adopted abode, the solace his presence offered, including to some foreigners in quest, his concept of silence, the wry sense of humour, his works of Vedanta and bhakti, the legacy maintained at Sri Ramanasramam and so on have all been woven into sumptuous reading material.  The Hindu Editorial Excerpts from the Editorial, published on April 17, 1950: “The news of the passing of Sri Ramana Maharshi will be received with profound sorrow by his countrymen; millions of them who had never seen the sage in flesh reverenced him as jivan-mukta . And many earnest and sensitive souls all over the world for whom he posed the eternal values will mourn the loss of a living link with the ancient wisdom of India... “It was no new doctrine that the sage of Arunachala taught. ‘Know Thyself’ is a teaching as old as humanity... What was new was the quiet confidence the Maharshi felt, and apparently succeeded in communicating to those en rapport with him, that the hardest way also was the simplest... The conditions of modern life are not very favourable to tapas ... It is at any rate part of the common Indian tradition that, in the difficult act of self-transcendence, the guru can lend a helping hand. And the Maharshi’s followers have testified that the help and succour from him, though it might not always be extended at the conscious level, was positive and continuous... “There are no limits to the saving power of a good man’s thought. The age of the atom bomb will also go down into history as the age of the Mahatma and the Maharshi. If humanity is not to be submerged in the chaos of its own making, it must give more heed to its sages and seers.” (The book carries the editorial in full)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/endearing-dimensions/article31419841.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Life with a restless explorer||For the past three years, Sukanya Shankar had been planning hard, along with daughter Anoushka, to make her late husband and iconic musician, Pt. Ravi Shankar’s birth centenary (April 7) a memorable affair for music lovers, especially his many admirers across the globe. Though disappointed that the events had to be cancelled due to the pandemic, she is delighted to talk about life spent with "one of the most charming men with exceptional musical insights and a great sense of humour." In the 40 years she knew him, Sukanya believes there never was a dull moment, since the ace sitarist was a restless explorer. “My journey with him was without any bumps and crashes. It was smooth, beautiful and magical.” Sukanya met Pt. Ravi Shankar for the first time in 1973, when she accompanied him on the tanpura at his concert at the Royal Albert Hall, London. Fascinated as much by him as his music, she married him in 1989, becoming an integral part of his art that transcended culture and geography. “Yes, he was a pioneer of collaborative music and a peerless one at that. Always ahead of his time, he has composed three concertos for sitar, a symphony, a music theatre and an opera. He even composed for Western instruments and musicians. He experimented with electronic music. Whatever musicians are doing today, he had done 20 years ago. I have seen him work with Yehudi Menuhin, Jean Pierre Rampal, Philip Glass, George Harrison, Rostropovich, Herbie Hancock and more. Sitar was just a medium for him to engage with people around the world.” Being in awe of his genius, Sukanya enjoyed observing him when he worked on his multiple musical projects. “But whenever I am asked to talk about his music, I find it difficult to sum up his passion and a lifetime work in a few sentences,” she says. “He introduced ragas into the Western consciousness. Panditji could do that because he was truly liberated. There was an aura of spirituality in the concert hall when he performed. He took the music and the tradition of his country to the rest of the world and in the process, touched millions of souls.” Taking extreme care to keep his legacy alive, Sukanya was elated when Anoushka began to share the stage with her father. “We both wanted her to do what she desired to. Of course, we wanted to expose her to music. She studied the sitar, the Western classical piano and did well academically too. I am grateful to God for what she is today, not just a fantastic musician, but a responsible and caring human being,” says Sukanya, now a doting grandmother to Anoushka’s sons, Zubin and Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/life-with-a-restless-explorer/article31419843.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Stay indoor, stay calm||93.5 Red FM has come up with an on-air and digital initiative to help people stay calm during the lockdown with spiritual guide and educationist, Sri M. The new segment ‘ Mind Detox with Sri M ’ will feature motivational speeches and inspirational stories. The segment will be aired on weekdays and is also available as a podcast on the RED FM app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/stay-indoor-stay-calm/article31419807.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Snapdeal collaborates with Hungama||Snapdeal, an online retail store, has partnered with Hungama Play, owned by Hungama Digital Media, to offer video streaming service to its users. The association is aimed at offering Snapdeal users an easy way to order their essentials and entertain themselves using the same app from the safety of their homes. Hungama Play has curated a library especially for Snapdeal users giving them easy access to over 41,500 short-format videos across various categories including comedy, filmy bytes, spiritual, fashion and lifestyle. Subscribers can watch short films, explore a library of long-format videos consisting of more than 400 films, various TV shows and Hungama Originals. Hungama Play’s content can be accessed through Snapdeal app, website or m-site without any extra payment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/snapdeal-collaborates-with-hungama/article31419810.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Soothing strains||Artistes are working in earnest to engage their locked-in audience by uploading cameos, full-fledged performances and so on. In an effort to spread positive vibrations, about 60 Carnatic musicians — all playing instruments — have come together to present ‘Amba Kamakshi,’ Syama Sastri’s Bhairavi Swarajati. Through veena, violin, flute and various other instruments, the musicians immerse the listener in waves of melody, touching a chord. Violin exponent A. Kanyakumari, whose brainchild it is, says: “In this testing period, people would look for meditative methods to find solace. What better way than music? And instruments have the potential to arrest the listeners’ attention and soothe their minds. Syama Sastri poured out his feelings in front of Bangaru Kamakshi and his tone is one of appeal. This Swarajati is like a powerful mantra, which can relieve stress, cleanse surroundings and cure ailments. It is noteworthy that all the musicians, including myself, have played the instruments after completing our morning ablutions, in keeping with the divine nature of Syama Sastri’s composition. The six-minute ensemble is called ‘Nadha Dhanvantari’ and it is a way of giving back to society, which has supported and encouraged practitioners of music.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/soothing-strains/article31419813.ece
24 April 2020||April 24 2020 00:00 IST,||24fr_tubewatch||Sony Pix Hellboy 2: The Golden Army  Hellboy (Ron Perlman), his pyrokinetic girlfriend, Liz (Selma Blair), and aquatic empath, Abe Sapien (Doug Jones), face their biggest battle when an underworld prince (Luke Goss) plans to reclaim Earth for his magical kindred. Tired of living in the shadow of humans, Prince Nuada tries to awaken an ancient army of killing machines to clear the way for fantasy creatures to roam free. Only Hellboy can stop the dark prince and prevent humanity’s annihilation. Today, 8.30 p.m. Fast and Furious  Dominic Toretto is forced to come out of hiding when a loved one is brutally murdered. Heading to LA to track down the culprit, he crosses paths with Brian O’Connor, the FBI agent whose undercover infiltration of Torett’s gang led to the motorised miscrean’s exile across the border. The two men temporarily put their differences aside as they investigate the killing. Tomorrow, 9 p.m. Justice League  Fuelled by his restored faith in humanity, and inspired by Superman’s selfless act, Bruce Wayne enlists new-found ally Diana Prince to face an even greater threat. Together, Batman and Wonder Woman work quickly to recruit a team to stand against this newly-awakened enemy. Despite the formation of an unprecedented league of heroes in Batman, Wonder Woman, Aquaman, Cyborg and the Flash, it may be too late to save the planet from an assault of catastrophic proportions. Sunday, 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/24frtubewatch/article31419796.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi pollution halved during first phase of lockdown: CPCB||The first phase of the lockdown, from March 25 to April 15, reduced particulate matter pollution by nearly half in Delhi, according to a report by the Central Pollution Control Board. “Overall, 46% reduction in PM2.5 and 50% reduction in PM10 was observed during the lockdown period,” the body noted. This led to nearly a week-long run of the air quality index remaining in the ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ categories, as opposed to the unhealthy and hazardous categories the city is more accustomed to. The stint was broken by a dust storm and subsequent change in temperature and dry weather heralding summer. The improvement in air was due to a reduction in combustion and industrial sources which are common to both the categories of particulate matter. As 81% of Delhi’s nitrous oxide emissions came from the transport sector, restrictions on vehicular activity led to a 56% reduction in NO2 levels and over 37% reduction in carbon monoxide levels during the lockdown period, compared to pre-lockdown times. There was also a 47% reduction in benzene levels while sulphur dioxide levels reduced only by 20%. This was because 70% of Delhi’s SO2 originates from power plants located around Delhi and power plants continue to operate. Other sources of SO2 were restaurants and some industries, which were operational during the lockdown period along with biomass/refuse burning in some areas in and around Delhi. Less than average Moreover, 24-hourly average PM2.5 and PM10 were within National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for 20 and 15 days respectively, while NO2 levels were 75% less than their 24-hourly standard. Also, 24 hourly average levels of PM10, PM2.5 , NO2 and SO2 dropped as low as 24 g/m3, 39g/m3, 15 g/m3 and 10 g/m3 respectively, the report noted. While significant reduction in NO2 levels was observed in Noida (68%), Ghaziabad (60%) and Gurugram (40%), the same was not observed in Faridabad (17%), where NO2 emissions were found higher during a few days during lockdown. This was likely due to the gas-based power plants in and around Faridabad. Significant reduction in SO2 levels was only seen in Faridabad (47%) and Ghaziabad (22%), while Gurugram (14%) and Noida (10%) recorded relatively limited reductions during the lockdown phase. As much as 78% of cities in the country that are monitored by the CPCB had their AQI in the good and satisfactory categories, increasing from the average of 44% seen in the pre-lockdown phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-pollution-halved-during-first-phase-of-lockdown-cpcb/article31420152.ece
24 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Maruti not to resume production despite government’s go-ahead||Exactly a month after the Maruti Suzuki India Limited shut down its production and office operations across Haryana on March 22, the company’s Manesar plant was on Wednesday granted the permission to resume operations in a single shift with restricted number of staff and vehicles. The company’s chairman R.C. Bhargava, however, ruled out actual production unless the vendors and the retail outlets were open. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Bhargava said it was good that the government granted permission and that it would help them prepare for the future, but there “is no way we can start production”. He said that it was not known as to how long it might take for the production to start as the situation changed every day. “Cars cannot be produced until all components are produced on a steady and regular basis. And this means thousands of vendors have to start production. It is not likely to happen today because many of them are in red zones or containment zones. We cannot get the complete set of components. The retail outlets have not been opened yet. There is no permission. So you cannot produce unless you can sell,” said Mr. Bhargava. He said the permission from the government was only one part of the problem, and the company could not start producing cars only because it had the permission to do so. Earlier, the Haryana government issued a permission certificate to the company saying the “authorised strength” of the company during the lockdown period would be 4,696 people and 50 vehicles. However, the certificate also said the application was recommended for permission to operate for 600 employees. Additional Chief Secretary V.S. Kundu said the company could resume operations after they put in place all measures for social distancing and safe management of the workers. However, Maruti Suzuki’s decision to not to start production would be a big blow to the plans of several micro, small and medium enterprises, mostly vendors of the company, to resume operations. Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind said in case the Maruti Suzuki and the Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Limited did not start production, the other factories down the chain would have no reason to resume production because they are dedicated suppliers to them. He said it would defeat the whole idea of starting things in a small way that the Union government wanted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maruti-not-to-resume-production-despite-governments-go-ahead/article31420153.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi/Ghaziabad,||Tabligh chief’s farmhouse ‘raided’||The Delhi Police Crime Branch ‘raided’ the farmhouse of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, who was booked for holding a religious congregation in the national capital during the lockdown, at Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, officials said on Thursday. The presence of more than half-a-dozen policemen in PPE kits created a flutter in the sleepy town, but Delhi Police had no other choice, revealed sources. “We were informed about the action beforehand and the Uttar Pradesh police provided the local support,” a source said. But those who witnessed the incident remarked that the police wanted to create a mahaul [atmosphere] for the media, as they came in uniform. However, Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal clarified that it was the lockdown-enforced protocol. As Mr. Kandhalvi was not in Shamli, where 17 people have been tested positive for COVID 19 cases, the police might have raided the farmhouse to scour some documents. “We know he is not in Shamli. They might have gone to check some documents. Since the Nizamuddin incident, we have visited the farmhouse thrice. Apart from his three-member staff, there are some relatives who live in the vicinity. Out of them, some had a travel history to Nizamuddin, not necessarily the markaz. They have been tested and their reports have come out to be negative,” he explained.  Appeal to followers On Monday, Kandhalvi had urged the followers of the organisation to pray at home in the month of Ramzan. “I request all, both in India and abroad, to strictly follow the guidelines and instructions of the local or national governments and till the time restrictions are in place, please observe prayers at home. And even in this, we should not invite people from outside,” he said. In an audio message released earlier this month, Kandhalvi had said he was exercising self-quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tabligh-chiefs-farmhouse-raided/article31420155.ece
24 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man injured in Farooqia Masjid attack held for ‘rioting’||A 22-year-old man was arrested on April 19 in connection with the riots in north-east Delhi in February. His family claimed that he had lodged a complaint with the police about being attacked inside a mosque in Brijpuri on February 25 and was called to the police station on the pretext of identifying the accused in the case. Javed, a resident of Mustafabad who is pursuing BA from open school, was arrested at Dayalpur police station, his father Shokeen Ahmed, 45, said. A senior police officer from North-East district said, “He [Javed] has been carefully examined. He was found involved in rioting. Hence, has been arrested.” Mr. Shokeen, who runs a milk business, said Javed had gone to Brijpuri on February 25 to collect money from a relative. From there he went to Farooqia Masjid to offer prayers. “While they were praying, some men in uniform entered [the mosque] wearing helmets and handkerchiefs and attacked everyone with sticks. Javed’s head and foot were injured in the attack. Whether they were real policemen or not, we don’t know,” he said. MLC prepared When Javed reached home in an injured condition, he was rushed to Al Hind Hospital where many injured were being treated at that time, said the family. Javed received 10 stitches in his head and was sent home. On suggestions of lawyers, who were active in the area providing legal aid to victims, his medico-legal certificate (MLC) was prepared from Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital on March 5. A copy of the MLC was seen by The Hindu . About 20 days ago, the family members said they were approached by police officers who first asked them about the MLC and then about how Javed got injured. “They asked whether we want legal action and we said yes. They tried to dissuade us from pursuing but we still insisted. They then agreed and took a written statement,” Mr. Shokeen said. On April 19, Javed allegedly received a call from the police station and was asked to come to identify the accused. “We went and they asked Javed what he does. He told them he studies. They asked him to bring his education-related documents. The officer who initially questioned us let us go but then we were taken to a senior officer who asked Javed if he was involved. Javed said he was in Brijpuri to collect payment. The officer took details of the relative and called him,” Mr. Shokeen said. The relative allegedly got scared and fumbled while answering a few questions and Javed was arrested, said the family. He was sent to Mandoli jail the next day. Police sources in a unit tasked to probe the riots said they have started examining MLCs and are speaking to those who were injured. “There’s a possibility that those who got injured were rioting,” a source said. Javed’s lawyer Deeksha Dwivedi said that he has been arrested in an unnamed FIR on charges of rioting, vandalism and theft. She also said that “it’s an arbitrary arrest” after he went to file an FIR for the injuries he received during the riots for which an MLC was done. “The family wasn’t informed of the charges. We will file a plea for interim bail,” she said. The father said, “They have not shown us any video footage. They haven’t spoken to the imam of the Masjid. The arrest has been made only because we got the MLC done and they got to know about Javed.”  They have not shown us any video footage. They haven’t spoken to the imam of the Masjid. The arrest has been made only because we got the MLC done Shokeen Ahmed Javed’s father||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-injured-in-farooqia-masjid-attack-held-for-rioting/article31420150.ece
24 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Defer all charges except tuition fees: Haryana govt. to pvt. schools||The Haryana government on Thursday directed the private schools to defer all charges like building and maintenance funds except tuition fees and also told not to include any hidden charges in the monthly fee. The parents' associations, however, demanded that the tuition fee be reduced by half in view of the grim economic situation due to lockdown. The Directorate of Secondary Education, in its directions, said certain guidelines had been issued to the private schools on April 12 regarding fees but it had been brought to their notice that the management was seeking charges other than the tuition fees from the parents. Issuing seven-point directions, the government categorically said the schools should only charge the monthly fees and not enhance it. The order said the charges such as building and maintenance funds and entry and computer fees be deferred in view of the unprecedented situation emerging out of COVID-19. Reiterating its earlier order to not charge the transport fee during the lockdown period, the government directed the schools to ensure that no hidden charges were added to the monthly fee. The government directed the schools not to change the uniform, textbooks, notebooks etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/defer-all-charges-except-tuition-fees-haryana-govt-to-pvt-schools/article31420148.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||DCW – domestic violence helpline||The DCW on Thursday said they have received over 30 calls in three days on a WhatsApp helpline number launched by it to address complaints pertaining to domestic violence during the ongoing lockdown. It said the number of calls received on its 181 helpline number had reduced since the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dcw-domestic-violence-helpline/article31420147.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Saurabh- Migrants||Eight persons were caught on Thursday for allegedly trying to go to Bihar from here on fake curfew pass, the police said. The officers intercepted a car on Thursday at 12 a.m. on Rani Jhansi Road. There were five men, one woman and two children inside the vehicle, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/saurabh-migrants/article31420154.ece
24 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- Funds||North Delhi Mayor Avtar Singh wrote to the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday demanding the release of funds — due to the civic body — in order to disburse salaries to employees. The civic body staffhave not been paid for the last two months and sanitation workers have not received salaries for March, Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-funds/article31420156.ece
