27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM reviews LAC standoff with NSA, CDS and 3 Service Chiefs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed the current situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the ongoing standoff with China with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat and the three Service Chiefs, multiple sources said. The meeting comes a day before the biannual Army Commanders conference. Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane made a detailed presentation on the standoff at various points of the LAC in eastern Ladakh, it has been learnt. Several rounds of talks on the ground up to the level of Division Commanders have failed to break the impasse. Earlier in the day, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, at a meeting to review ongoing military reforms with the CDS, the three Service Chiefs and other officials of the Ministry, also discussed the situation along the LAC, sources said. The meeting was to review the implementation of the recommendations of the Shekatkar Committee but the Ladakh standoff was discussed, sources said, without stating the specifics of the discussion. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) denied reports that Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla had been asked to brief the meeting as well. Thus far, the MEA has issued only one statement on the tensions at LAC, in which it said Chinese troops were “hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns,” and denied Chinese accusations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-reviews-lac-standoff-with-nsa-cds-and-3-service-chiefs/article31683175.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No WHO bar on India testing HCQ as preventive’||The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) moratorium on testing hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the controversial anti-malarial drug, for treating COVID-19, which was announced on Monday, doesn't imply that India should pause testing the drug as a preventive, Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, WHO, told The Hindu in an email. However. she stressed that India ought to be doing stricter trials to test the drug’s efficacy in staving off infection in asymptomatic people at high-risk of contracting the virus. HCQ was one of four drug-combinations being tested in a global clinical trial, called Solidarity Trial, coordinated by the WHO. Four hundred hospitals in 35 countries would be comparing the benefits to COVID patients from taking either Remdesivir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir with Interferon beta-1a; and hydroxychloroquine. They are all drugs for other diseases but have shown varying degrees of promise in blunting COVID-19 infection. To objectively assess the benefit of these drugs over standard-of-care treatments, clinicians would be assessing these drugs in Randomised Clinical Trial (RCT) — the most medically legitimate approach — whereby some groups of patients, unknown to the administering doctors and recipient patients — would get the drug and some wouldn't. While these studies are in progress and still actively recruiting patients, a spate of studies have shown that HCQ shows no benefit — in fact, it puts patients at greater harm. The latest such study published in the medical journal Lancet found that in 96,000 hospitalised SARS-CoV-2 patients across six continents, there was no benefit — even additional harm of cardiac arrhythmia — in those being treated with HCQ. However, this study wasn't a clinical trial and was an observational study in which all participants get the treatment. Right decision However, officials in the Health Ministry said India’s stance — recommending the drug as a preventive for groups that were at high risk of contracting the infection — was based on internal studies and laboratory experiments that showed the drug had anti-viral properties. “India has so far made the right decision on HCQ and that this decision has been based on evidence,” Preeti Sudan, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, told The Hindu . “WHO is not advising stopping all HCQ trials... the suspension of enrolment applies only to the Solidarity trial. Many prophylaxis trials using HCQ are ongoing or about to start,” Dr Swaminathan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-who-bar-on-india-testing-hcq-as-preventive/article31683177.ece
27 May 2020||HUBBALLI,||Govt. has three options in case GP polls are not held: Eshwarappa||The State government is considering various options, including nominating administrative committees for gram panchayats, if elections were not held on expiry of their tenure in the backdrop of COVID-19, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has said. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Eshwarappa said that in view of the uncertainty over gram panchayat elections, the government is considering three options — appointing administrators, extending the tenure of the existing bodies and nominating administrative committees. The third option has been favoured by many during deliberations at the government level. But a final decision is yet to be taken in the matter, he said. He said that the tenure of 2,600 gram panchayats would expire in June and the tenure of the remaining village bodies would expire in phases till December. It is for the Election Commission to decide on holding elections. They are gathering opinion from the district administrations. The government is ready to hold elections if the Election Commission gives the green signal. Otherwise, one of these three options need to be explored, he said. About MGNREGA works, he said that the State is in number two position at the national level in implementing this project. A record number of 9.16 lakh workers were enrolled under MGNREGA this Monday alone. It has been decided to take up groundwater augmentation works under this scheme. All applicants, excluding government servants, elected members and income tax payees, would be issued job cards, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-has-three-options-in-case-gp-polls-are-not-held-eshwarappa/article31683433.ece
27 May 2020||SIDDIPET,||Kondapochammasagar launch on Friday||The 15 tmc ft Kondapochammasagar at Murkook mandal in Siddipet district is all set for inauguration on May 29 by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The project, last in the series in the district, was constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,600 crore. As much as 4,636 acres was acquired by the government for the project with three villages and one tanda — Mamidyala, Bahilampur, Thanedarpally and Thanedarpally tanda — getting submerged in the reservoir. The full reservoir level (FRL) at Medigadda, the starting point of Kaleshwaram, is 100 metres whereas the FRL at Kondapochamma is 618 metres, when compared to the zero point at Medigadda. This means water will be lifted to 518 metres (more than half a kilometre vertically) comparing with Medigadda, though in phased manner — reservoir after reservoir. For instance, the FRL at Mid-Manair is 381 metres, followed by 397 at Annapurna, 490 at Ranganaiksagar and 557 at Mallannasagar. The Kondapochamma project is estimated to irrigate 2.85 lakh acres and also provide drinking water for the twin cities. The Godavari water will be sent down the line to Gandhamalla and Baswapur also from Kondapochamma. Water for Singur project would also be diverted from here through the Sangareddy canal. As much as 3.75 crore cubic metres of earth work was completed during the construction of the reservoir. “We have completed the project within a record time of eight working months. The project was entrusted to us in January 2018 and we have completed it before the end of the year. We waited for months to get official clearance to close two roads connecting Mamidyala, Bahilampur, Thanedarpally and Thanedarpally tanda. Once these roads were closed, the project work was completed recently,” T. Venu, Superintendent Engineer, Kondapochamma told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kondapochammasagar-launch-on-friday/article31683460.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Inspections to curb quarantine violators||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the police would conduct surprise inspections at the household level to check quarantine violations. The government would raise a voluntary force to assist the police in carrying out random checks. The volunteers would sport badges and accompany the police on patrol in their respective neighbourhoods. A meeting of MLAs and MPs, through videoconferencing, warned that the COVID-19 caseload could shoot up if citizens took the lockdown relaxations for granted. The police and civilian patrols would ensure that the people and businesses adhered to physical-distancing measures. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy attended the videoconference. (Meanwhile, State Police Chief Loknath Behera issued directions to district-level police officers to use bike patrols and shadow teams for surveillance and carry out surprise inspections to discourage violation of home quarantine. Those found skipping home quarantine will be shifted to government-run quarantine facilities. They will also have to face legal action. The decision was taken after ward-level monitoring committees, police patrol teams, and Janamaithri police reported an increase in the number of persons flouting home quarantine regulations and visiting public places. Family members of those under home quarantine were also found to be visiting other households.) Mr. Vijayan said it was illegal to serve tea and juice. Using the same set of glasses to serve citizens was a cause for transmission. The curve of infections Kerala had struggled hard to curb could rise again if citizens behaved rashly. Restricted gatherings He said the number of guests at weddings and mourners at funerals far exceeded the allowed capacity. Moreover, people were entering the State by dodging authorities and thermal scans at points of entry. The government would suspend the licence of drivers who admit passengers more than the permitted capacity. The government would prosecute those who entered the State without the authorisation of the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA). They have to be in mandatory institutional quarantine for 28 days. The influx of expatriates required a higher level of vigilance. The government could no more afford to underwrite the board and lodging of arrivals from within the country and abroad. They have to pay for the quarantine period irrespective of their income status. Mandatory quarantine Domestic air travel seemed poised to pick up. However, 14-day quarantine was mandatory for those arriving by flight from other regions except for business travellers on short trips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inspections-to-curb-quarantine-violators/article31683523.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Over 50 lakh households with vulnerable people identified||The State government has so far identified over 50.73 lakh households in the State as having people ‘vulnerable’ during the COVID-19 outbreak and plans to monitor them closely. The household survey conducted by Department of Health and Family Welfare reveals that 67% of the survey has been completed so far. Of the 1.68 crore households in the State, data has been collected from 1.13 crore households. The survey is being carried out to monitor the health condition of the population that is most vulnerable and would need assistance. Those identified as ‘vulnerable’ includes senior citizens, those with comorbidities, pregnant and lactating women, those with Influenza like Illnesses (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) and those with COVID-19 symptoms. A majority of the vulnerable are senior citizens in 48.35 lakh households. Pregnant women and lactating mothers were found in 4.14 lakh households, while those with comorbidities were in 1.37 lakh households. “The most vulnerable group, however, are those with SARI, ILI or COVID-19 symptoms. So far, we have identified 13,341 households with such patients,” an official in the department said. Some households have more than one person from the vulnerable category. The highest number of people with SARI, ILI and COVID-19 symptoms so far have been identified in Kalaburagi district. As many as 1,902 of the 13,341 households identified so far are from that district. Speaking at a press conference, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said that once the survey was completed, the department would monitor their health through the State government’s Apthamitra app. “All of them may not need intervention. The idea is to monitor the health status of these groups and ensure that timely medical help is given to them when required,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-50-lakh-households-with-vulnerable-people-identified/article31683221.ece
27 May 2020||GUNTUR,||Polavaram project will be a reality by the end of 2021, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday asserted that the Polavaram multi-purpose national project would be completed by the end of 2021. Addressing an interactive session on agriculture and allied activities as part of ‘Mana Palana-Mee Suchana’ at his camp office at Tadepalli, Mr. Jagan said the other major and minor irrigation projects were on track. The Chief Minister said the government was able to save Rs. 1,095 crore by reverse tendering . “Our government will also complete Phase 2 of the Vamsadhara project, Vamsadhara-Nagavali interlinking, Veligonda tunnel Phase 1, and the Nellore and Sangam barrages by the year-end. We will go ahead in spite of financial constraints and complete the projects,” he said. The Chief Minister also spoke about the Pothireddypadu project and the difficulties in drawing 40,000 cusecs from the Srisailam project.  Pothireddypadu “Unless the level reaches 881 feet at Srisailam, we cannot draw water for the Pothireddypadu scheme designed to provide drinking water to the parched Rayalaseema region. With the Karnataka government raising the height of the Almatti dam from 519 feet to 524 feet, we have only a few days of flood in the river Krishna. How can Srisailam ever fill to its capacity and how can we release water into Pothireddypadu? Hence, we have decided to have pumps at 800 feet level at Srisailam so that we and Telangana can draw equal amount of water?’’ the Chief Minister said. “Equal justice will be done to both States,’’ Mr. Jagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polavaram-project-will-be-a-reality-by-the-end-of-2021-says-jagan/article31683168.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||In continued spike, State reports 67 cases||In continued spike in COVID-19 cases in Kerala on Tuesday, 67 persons tested positive for the disease. While 60 cases were detected in expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites from other parts of the country who had returned to their home State, seven cases were indigenous infections with unknown sources. Of the 60 imported cases, 27 were people who had returned from abroad and the rest were persons who had come from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka, Delhi and Pondycherry. Of the seven cases of contacts, four are in Kannur, two in Palakkad and one case is in Kottayam. Of the new cases, 29 are in Palakkad, eight in Kannur, six in Kottayam, five each in Ernakulam and Malappuram, four each in Kollam and Thrissur, and three each in Alappuzha and Kasaragod. The State recorded the recovery of 10 persons on Tuesday. The total number of persons currently undergoing treatment in the State is 415. Of the total of 963 cases reported so far, 542 have recovered. There have been six deaths. The State also put over-a-lakh people on quarantine. Of the 1,04,336 persons under surveillance, 1,03,528 persons are on home or institutional quarantine. while 808 persons have been admitted for observation in hospitals. Kerala has so far tested 56,704 persons for COVID-19, of whom, 54,836 have been negative. As part of the sentinel surveillance, another 8,599 random samples from the community too have been tested, of which 8,174 have been negative. Nine more regions in Kannur, Palakkad, Kottayam and Idukki have been designated as hotspots, taking the total number of hotspots in the State to 68. CM calls for more vigil Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that violation of home quarantine and other safety protocols by the public could make community transmission a reality and that more vigil should be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-continued-spike-state-reports-67-cases/article31683527.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||Russian team rectifies Kudankulam reactor||Power generation in the second reactor of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project resumed on Tuesday after a team of Russian engineers, who reached the KKNPP site recently by a chartered flight, fixed the abnormal vibrations in the generator section of the reactor that was preventing generation of 1,000 MWe power, the reactor’s maximum capacity. “As the unusual vibrations noticed in the generator section of the second reactor have been rectified, thanks to the tireless and sustained efforts put in by the visiting Russian engineers, the reactor started generating electricity again at 9.30 a.m. It was generating 300 MWe at 3 p.m.,” highly placed sources in KKNPP said. While the first reactor that attained criticality in July 2013 is generating 1,000 MWe power, the quantum of power being supplied by the second reactor could not be increased to its capacity, though this reactor too generated 1,000 MWe electricity in the past owing to “some unusual vibrations” noticed in the generator section.  Technical glitches To address these technical glitches, the KKNPP sought the help of Russians in setting up the nuclear park at Kudankulam with six reactors for the NPCIL. The Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL) is operating 2 x 1,000 MWe VVER reactors at Kudankulam with Russian assistance on an outlay of Rs. 17,270 crore. The first reactor is generating power since July 2013 even as the construction of 3rd and the 4th reactors of the KKNPP is under way at a cost of Rs. 39,747 crore. Excavation Excavation for the construction of the 5th and the 6th reactors is in progress ahead of schedule. The ‘first pouring of concrete’ for these last two reactors, to be built at an outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore, is likely to happen any time decided by the NPCIL, the project proponent, said KKNPP sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/russian-engineers-rectify-second-reactor-at-kudankulam/article31683309.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Virtual courts will benefit masses’||Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court on Tuesday said judiciary could not but fulfil its special responsibility of adapting technological advancements and creating a robust infrastructure required to meet the expectations of highly tech-savvy youngsters. Inaugurating virtual courts in Tamil Nadu for adjudicating petty offences and traffic challan cases, he congratulated Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam for leading the State towards digital dispensation of justice. Live streaming The inauguration too was held virtually through videoconferencing from New Delhi and the event was streamed live. In his address, the Chief Justice said any innovation was bound to face resistance from a section of people and initial hitches in implementation. However, those challenges could always be overcome by dispelling the fears, the Chief Justice said. Since almost everyone in the country used smart mobile phones these days, it was essential to establish virtual courts for the benefit of masses, he said. Justice Sivagnanam, the chairman of the computer committee of the High Court, said the State judiciary had been a pioneer in adapting technology. He said e-filing of cases, digitisation of old court documents and many other works were under way at a brisk pace. Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana, M. Sundar, A.D. Jagadish Chandira and C. Saravanan, members of the computer committee, were present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virtual-courts-will-benefit-masses-says-sc-judge/article31683310.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ensure transport, food for migrants: SC to Centre, States||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court on Tuesday said there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses” on the part of the Central and State governments in dealing with the migrant workers’ crisis during the COVID-19 lockdown. The court ordered the Centre and the States to immediately provide transport, food and shelter free of cost to the stranded migrant workers. The suo motu cognisance of media reports and representations from senior lawyers to step in to protect the fundamental rights of the migrant workers were taken by the judges in their chambers. The court admitted that the “crisis is even continuing today with large sections of migrant labourers still stranded on roads, highways, railway stations and State borders”. Effective concentrated efforts were required to redeem the situation, it noted. The Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said in a written order, “Adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters are immediately to be provided by the Centre and the State governments free of cost. Although the Government of India and the State governments have taken measures yet there have been inadequacies and certain lapses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-transport-food-for-migrants-sc-to-centre-states/article31683178.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Contempt notices to 49, including Bapatla MP||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday issued contempt notices to 49 persons, including Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh, former MLA Amanchi Krishna Mohan and several noted YSR Congress Party leaders, for attributing caste and other motives, making corruption allegations and posting intimidating messages in the social media on some Supreme Court and High Court Judges for delivering orders and judgments in certain important cases recently. Taking up the issue suo motu , Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice C. Praveen Kumar observed that the interviews, speeches and postings appear to be part of a conspiracy to scandalise and lower the image of the Judges and the High Court itself and that there was a fabrication of material to cause incitement, disaffection and ill-will against the High Court and its Judges. Justice Maheswari and Justice Kumar said that the High Court received e-mails containing videos and postings on the social media platforms and the Registrar-General had filed a report in this regard on May 24, and reports on previous postings against Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy. The Judges took objection to a comment by Nandigam Suresh that the High Court was being managed by the former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. The court ordered that contempt notices be sent to the respondents through e-mail, WhatsApp or any other mode and posted the hearing to June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/contempt-notices-to-49-including-bapatla-mp/article31683171.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||High Court puts brakes on sale of govt. land||The Andhra Pradesh High Court put the brakes on the proposed sale of government land in Guntur and Visakhapatnam under ‘Mission Build Andhra Pradesh’ by directing that the e-auction should be subject to its orders, and posted the matter for May 28 when the first lot of properties are likely to go under the hammer. Hearing a PIL filed by Thota Suresh Babu of Guntur, Justices Rakesh Kumar and K. Suresh Reddy questioned the urgency in conducting the e-auction from May 28 to 30 when the lockdown was in force and whether the government was in such a precarious financial position to sell off its land parcels (six in Visakhapatnam and three in Guntur) to meet its requirements. Representing the petitioner, N. Srinivasa Rao said the government was under the obligation to explain what forced it to sell its properties while acquiring land for constructing houses for economically weaker sections, and other projects. He argued that selling government land for garnering funds for programmes was not legally tenable and suggested the land in Visakhapatnam be used for development of ‘capital city.’ The court ordered Additional Advocate General P. Sudhakar Reddy to file a counter-affidavit by Thursday. Mr. Sudhakar Reddy claimed there was nothing unconstitutional about land sale and that several State governments and even the Centre have sold their properties as part of their economic policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-puts-brakes-on-sale-of-govt-land/article31683117.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hottest May day in 18 years||It was the hottest day in May in 18 years with the maximum temperature in the Capital settling six degrees above normal at 46 degrees Celsius on Tuesday under the influence of a severe heat wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hottest-may-day-in-18-years/article31683391.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Leap for joy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leap-for-joy/article31683389.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||82 foreigners chargesheeted||After two months of investigation, the Delhi police on Tuesday filed chargesheets against 82 foreigners for attending a religious congregation at a Nizamuddin centre in violation of visa conditions, and indulging in missionary activities amid the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/82-foreigners-chargesheeted/article31683390.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||71 new COVID cases in Telangana||Another spike in the number of COVID-19 cases was observed as 71 more samples from Telangana tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. This is the third highest number of cases reported in a day in the State from March 2. The highest of 79 were recorded on May 11, and 75 on April 3. Significantly, 120 people were discharged on May 26, the highest number in a day till date. One more COVID-19 patient died taking the toll to 57. Of the 71 new cases, 38 are from GHMC area. There are also 12 migrants and 4 foreign evacuees among the new cases. Till May 26, a total of 1,991 cases were reported, which is 9 short of 2,000. Of the total, 650 are active cases, 1,284 were discharged, and 57 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/71-new-covid-cases-in-telangana/article31683454.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Woman dies in rain-related incident in city||Heavy rain that lashed the city on Tuesday claimed the life of a 21-year-old woman after bricks from the compound wall of a neighbouring under-construction building fell on her. The incident took place at Ramanna Block in Lakshmidevi Nagar ward on Tuesday evening. The woman has been identified as Shilipa S. Her 13-year-old brother Dhanush who was with her also sustained injuries. They were reportedly clearing water outside the house when the incident took place. Both of them were rushed to a hospital in the area, where Shilpa succumbed to her injuries, according to the authorities. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar directed officials to collect details about the incident and said that the civic body would provide compensation to the victim’s family. “We will register a case against the building owner,” he said. Shilpa had recently started working at an information and technology service and consulting company after completing her education. Her father is an autorickshaw driver. The family, which hails from Chitradurga, had rented a house in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-dies-in-rain-related-incident-in-city/article31683217.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||A shorter stay in hospital now for patients||With the State government changing its discharge protocol, it will be a shorter stay in hospital for COVID-19 patients. Symptomatic patients in an isolation facility will now be discharged 10 days after admission if they show no symptoms on the last three consecutive days and test negative. Repeat test will be done after 72 hours if they test positive. Asymptomatic patients in an isolation facility will be discharged following a test seven days after admission if the report is negative. Earlier, all patients had to spend a minimum of 14 days in hospital. Also, a patient had to undergo two tests in 24 hours before discharge. Sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that the new discharge policy was framed to ensure that there are enough resources in hospitals to accommodate patients who test positive. “Even after one tests negative, he/she will have to undergo home quarantine and we will issue strict orders to patients,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-shorter-stay-in-hospital-now-for-patients/article31683218.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Nine more die as T.N. reports 646 new cases||The COVID-19 toll went up to 127 in Tamil Nadu, with nine more fatalities reported on Tuesday. This, even as the State added 646 patients, taking its tally of positive cases to 17,728*. For the seventh consecutive day, Chennai reported more than 500 cases. It accounted for 510 of the 646 fresh cases, taking its total to 11,640. Among the nine persons who died was a 45-year-old woman from Chennai. She had diabetes, systemic hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and bullous pemphigoid and was referred from a private hospital to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH)l on May 24. She died two hours after admission of COVID-19 pneumonia and cardiopulmonary arrest. An 80-year-old man from Chengalpattu died at Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital due to respiratory failure, septicemia, metabolic encephalopathy and aspiration pneumonia, while a 57-year-old man from Chennai, who was referred from ICF Hospital to Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, died on Tuesday. A 55-year-old woman, who was referred from Railway Hospital, Perambur to RGGGH, died due to systemic hypertension, COVID-19 pneumonia and cardiopulmonary arrest, while a 70-year-old woman and 75-year-old man also died at RGGGH. Three patients — a 53-year-old woman, a 65-year-old man and 76-year-old man — died at private hospitals. Meanwhile, 611 persons were discharged from hospitals. With this, the total number of persons discharged after treatment increased to 9,342, while the number of active cases stood at 8,256. The State’s recovery rate was 52%. While Chennai continued to top the table, there were 25 new cases in Tiruvallur, 22 in Chengalpattu, 13 in Kancheepuram, six in Tiruvannamalai, four in Cuddalore, three in Vellore, two each in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Madurai, and one each in Kanniyakumari, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Thoothukudi. Apart from these cases that were reported within the State, 54 persons who returned from other States tested positive for COVID-19. Among them were 35 persons who returned from Maharashtra. They tested positive in districts such as Thoothukudi, Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi and Salem. Five persons, who had returned from Dubai, tested positive during the exit test on Tuesday. After domestic flights resumed operations on Monday, a total of 840 persons returned to Chennai on 15 flights. This included 116 persons who arrived on Tuesday. A total of 10,289 samples were tested on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 4,31,739. A total of 4,12,357 persons have been tested till date. Testing of 556 samples is under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-more-die-as-tn-reports-646-new-cases/article31683277.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||India adds 6,017 cases||India registered 6,017 fresh COVID-19 cases and 175 fatalities on Tuesday, according to data from the State Health Departments. The overall tally now stands at 1,50,775 cases, including 82,171 active ones, and 4,345 deaths.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-adds-6017-cases/article31683165.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Be prepared, says Xi Jinping||Chinese President Xi Jinping called on the military “to think about worst-case scenarios” and “scale up battle preparedness”. He made the remarks during his annual meeting with the People’s Liberation Army’s representatives attending the National People’s Congress in Beijing.Page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/be-prepared-says-xi-jinping/article31683166.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||412 new cases, 12 deaths reported in the Capital||Delhi reported 412 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,465, according to a government health bulletin. Also, 12 more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 288. All the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 6,954 have recovered and there are 7,223 active cases. A total of 1,78,579 COVID-19 tests have been done in the city till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/412-new-cases-12-deaths-reported-in-the-capital/article31683393.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Four more held for vandalising film set||The Ernakulam Rural police are gearing up to slap the accused in the demolition of a film set in Kalady with KAAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-more-held-for-vandalising-film-set/article31683528.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Trade unions, industries dig their heels in on VDA||Trade unions said on Tuesday that any deferment of VDA is illegal and will hit more than 60 lakh workers identified under the Minimum Wages Act. Industry bodies, on the other hand, pitched for four-month deferment of VDA from May this year, citing industrial distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trade-unions-industries-dig-their-heels-in-on-vda/article31683223.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC seeks permission to operate AC buses||As Bengaluru begins to get its groove back, the BMTC, which is currently running limited services, hopes to expand operations. On Tuesday, it approached the government for permission to run its luxury air-conditioned buses and extend timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmtc-seeks-permission-to-operate-ac-buses/article31683222.ece
27 May 2020||UDUPI,||Three test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as three persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that these three are a nine-year-old girl, a 30-year-old woman and a 27-year-old man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-udupi/article31683434.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI:,||Expert panel holds meeting with CM||A team of public health and medical experts, constituted by the State government to provide advice on containing COVID-19, held a meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Discussions were held on how testing and quarantine measures could be consolidated. At the next meeting on May 30, the panel is expected to provide its recommendation on whether the lockdown should be extended beyond May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expert-panel-holds-meeting-with-cm/article31683279.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,||40% of shops reopen on Ritchie Street||Shops on Ritchie Street in the city re-opened on Tuesday after two months due to the lockdown. Only 40% of the more than 2,000 shops were kept open, but hundreds of people thronged the place. To ensure physical distancing, only alternate shops were opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/40-of-shops-reopen-on-ritchie-street/article31683280.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Returnees push up cases across southern States||Kerala recorded a major spike in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with 67 persons testing positive. While 60 cases were detected in expatriates and non-resident Keralites from other parts of the country, seven cases are indigenous infections from unknown sources. Of the 60 imported cases, 27 were people returning from overseas while the rest were from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka, Delhi and Puducherry. Of the seven cases of “contacts”, four are in Kannur, two in Palakkad and one case is in Kottayam. Of the new cases, 29 are in Palakkad, eight in Kannur, six in Kottayam, five each in Ernakulam and Malappuram, four each in Kollam and Thrissur and three each in Alapuzha and Kasaragod The State also recorded the recovery of 10 persons on Tuesday. The total number of persons currently undergoing COVID 19 treatment in the State is 415. Of the total of 963 cases reported so far in Kerala, 542 have recovered. There have been six deaths. Koyambedu link in A.P Andhra Pradesh reported one more death and 97 fresh cases since Monday. More than half of the fresh cases are returnees from the Gulf countries. While 44 new cases are of persons who returned from Kuwait, three are from Abu Dhabi and two are from Qatar. So far, 111 persons who returned as part of the Vande Bharat Mission have tested positive for COVID-19. The remaining 48 new infections, four have links to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. The total tally has gone up to 2,983 with 917 active patients. One more death was reported in East Godavari district taking the toll to 57. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the A.P. government’s proposal to conduct Convalescent Plasma therapy at the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences in Tirupati, Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy said. Telangana recorded another 71 positive cases — the third highest number of cases reported in a day since March 2. The highest of 79 was recorded on May 11. One more fatality was recorded, taking the State’s toll to 57. The COVID-19 toll went up to 127 in Tamil Nadu, with nine more fatalities reported on Tuesday. The State recorded another 646 cases, taking its tally of positive cases to 17,728*. For the seventh consecutive day, Chennai reported more than 500 cases with 510 fresh cases, taking its total to 11,640. Among the nine persons who died was a 45-year-old woman from Chennai and an 80-year-old man from Chengalpattu.Three patients — a 53-year-old woman, a 65-year-old man and 76-year-old man — died at private hospitals. 20 cases in Chitradurga A total of 101 new cases were reported in Karnataka over 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,283. Of these, 81 were persons from other States — a majority from Maharashtra — while four patients have international travel history. The highest number of cases was reported from Chitradurga district at 20. This was followed by Yadgir with 14 cases. Of the 1,489 active cases in the State currently, 18 are in ICUs. The total number of discharges on Tuesday was 43, taking the total number to 748. The State government has tested 2.28 lakh samples. On Tuesday, 9,020 samples were tested. A total of 25,852 people are under observation.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijaywada and Chennai Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/returnees-push-up-cases-across-southern-states/article31683131.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||A day after domestic flights resumed, seats go abegging||Weak demand for air travel continued to haunt airlines on the second day of domestic flight operations on Tuesday as most flights saw only 25%-50% seats occupied by passengers, and in some cases this was as low as 7%. However, flights to Mumbai saw a slight improvement in sales as the State government on Monday relaxed quarantine norms for short-term travel, it is learnt. Passengers travelling to the city for less than seven days have been exempted from isolation, provided they don’t travel to Mumbai’s hotspots. 600 flights operated Over 600 flights ferried more than 41,673 passengers on the second day of the reopening of domestic travel, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said. Tuesday also saw flights to the Vijaywada and Visakhapatnam airports in Andhra Pradesh restart. Both airports saw four flights each. Some airlines also cancelled their flights in order to reduce frequencies on a given route because of the large number of seats that remained unsold. They accommodated their passengers on flights scheduled later in the day. Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, which saw 267 arrivals and departures, witnessed 25 cancellations. Smaller airports like Goa, which had a mere five flights scheduled, too saw cancellations. The International Air Transport Association (IATA), a global body of airlines, said on Tuesday that quarantine norms were proving to be an obstacle to airlines restarting operations. “We think we should avoid (putting in place quarantine measures). We will advocate to states or governments to not put quarantine if they want air travel to restart,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director General and Chief Executive Officer, said during a conference call with the global media. He added that IATA did not think that general quarantine was right. Though the industry is opposed to quarantine protocols, a passenger travelling on an IndiGo flight from Chennai to Coimbatore tested positive for COVID-19 upon arrival on Monday. Air India's poor customer care service proved to be a nightmare for many passengers, who stormed the airline’s time line on Twitter, demanding refunds for cancelled flights and complaining about a lack of response from the airline’s customer care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-day-after-domestic-flights-resumed-seats-go-abegging/article31683135.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recovery rate up, says Health Ministry||India’s COVID recovery rate has improved from 26.59 % on May 2 to 41.61% on May 26, according to figures released by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The Ministry, however, maintained that this improved recovery rate should not allow complacency to set in. “The war against COVID-19 is a long-drawn one and we are far from safe,”, it said. The case fatality rate was showing a downward trend from 3.30% (as on April 15) to around 2.87% at present, which is among the lowest in the world. The global average is presently around 6.45%. “An analysis of case mortality per lakh population indicates that India has about 0.3 deaths per lakh population, which is also amongst the lowest in the world against the statistics of 4.4 deaths per lakh population for the world. The relatively low death figures, both in terms of mortality per lakh population and case fatality rate, represent timely case identification and clinical management of the cases,’’ Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said at a press conference. On Tuesday, the country reported 6,535 new cases and 146 deaths in a span of 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the country to 1,45,380, including 80,722 active ones; 60,490 recovered/discharged and 4,167 deaths, according to Health Ministry data. According to data from State health departments, the total number of cases is 1,50,775, including 82,171 active ones; 64,259 recovered and 4,345 deaths. There were 6,017 new cases on Tuesday and 175 deaths. Mr. Agarwal warned that the improved recovery rate and the low fatality rate should not “make us relaxed”. “We can easily slide back on our gains if community support isn’t continued. More so now than ever before we need to maintain hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and effective sanitation along with social distancing and use of masks,” he said. Health Secretary Preeti Sudan held a high-level review meeting with senior officials of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, the States which are witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases in the past three weeks as lockdown rules have been eased and inter-State migration allowed. “The States were briefed on mapping individual case trajectory with respect to case fatality rate, doubling time, testing per million and confirmation percentage. Also, factors that need to be focused for effective containment strategy were pointed out such as perimeter control, diligent house-to-house survey through special surveillance teams, testing, active contact tracing and effective clinical management,” said a release issued by the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recovery-rate-up-says-health-ministry/article31683156.ece
27 May 2020||South 24 Parganas/Kolkata,||Cyclone evacuees and migrants under one roof||Before Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20, officials of the Achintyanagar gram panchayat in Pathapratima block of South 24 Parganas in West Bengal tried to move as many people as possible to cyclone shelters. The panchayat, with a population of 30,000, is close to the sea and over 100 km from Kolkata. The impact of the cyclone was expected to be severe in this part of the Sunderbans. A newly built multi-purpose cyclone shelter near the panchayat office, which was serving as a quarantine centre for migrant workers returning from Haryana and Delhi, was also assigned to shelter hundreds of villagers from the cyclone. “On the day of the cyclone, the situation was really bad. We had to put villagers in the cyclone shelter along with the quarantined people,” Gauri Halder, deputy pradhan of the gram panchayat, said. ‘No option’ In remote areas, particularly in South 24 Parganas and the islands of Sunderbans, cyclone shelters were turned into quarantine shelters for migrant workers returning from different parts of the country. But when the administration had to evacuate people from low-lying areas because of cyclone Amphan’s trajectory, they had little option but to put locals into the same shelters. ‘To prevent deaths’ Dulal Sith, the pradhan of the gram panchayat, also admitted that locals were housed with quarantined persons, and added that many people under quarantine are now pressurising authorities that they should be allowed to go home. “We had evacuated about 7,000-8,000 people and kept them in cyclone shelters. In the panchayat office alone, there were 200 people. This was the only way to prevent deaths and injuries [when the cyclone made landfall],” the pradhan said. Panchayat officials have been successful to the extent that nobody died in Achintyanagar gram panchayat, located at a distance of only 10 km from the Bay of Bengal. However, the social distancing and quarantine measures could not be followed. In the three-storey cyclone shelter of Achintyanagar about 100 migrant workers, mostly returned from Haryana and Delhi, remained in quarantine on Monday afternoon, while the villagers returned to their homes. In gram panachayats like Achintyanagar, the number of people returning from outside is as high as 10% of the population. About 3,000 migrant workers have returned here so far. State’s Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, while speaking to journalists at the State Secretariat on Tuesday, admitted that the infrastructure, particularly the road transportation sector and the health apparatus in the State, was “stressed” because of the cyclone. Mr. Bandyopadhyay said that in such circumstances, the return of migrants should be organised in “a planned and staggered” manner. From May 26, trains carrying migrant workers of the State from different parts of the country will start their journey to West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyclone-evacuees-and-migrants-under-one-roof/article31683162.ece
27 May 2020||Jaipur,||Marauding locust swarms killed in Dausa with insecticide spray||The huge locust swarms, which appeared in the skies of Jaipur on Monday, were killed in Rajasthan’s Dausa district on Tuesday with the spray of high-intensity insecticide by the Agriculture Department officials. The swarms came from Didwana in Nagaur district and entered Jaipur through Kishangarh Renwal and Jobner. They moved towards Dausa without settling at any green patch, though a few groups landed on the roofs of some high-rise buildings. State Agriculture Commissioner Om Prakash said since there was a lack of vegetation in the agricultural fields after the harvesting of rabi crops, the tropical grasshoppers were short of food and were moving fast towards other areas. People in Jaipur clanged utensils and burst firecrackers to drive away the locusts. The Agriculture Department has been trying hard to kill the insects by spraying pesticides on trees where they settle during night, but the height of the trees and their location have posed a difficulty. Mr. Prakash said the locusts perched on high trees move towards other areas during the day. Agriculture Minister Lal Chand Kataria said his department had controlled locusts in an area measuring 61,725 acres across the State in coordination with Jodhpur-based Locust Warning Organisation of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. “Wherever we get the information about the arrival of locust swarms, we take up survey and launch action for control,” said Mr. Kataria. The operation to kill locusts in Dausa district’s Kota Patti village, around 53 km from Jaipur, was started after midnight when the swarms arrived from the State capital. Mr. Kataria said the spray of high-intensity malathion insecticide helped in killing almost the entire swarm of insects at the pasture land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marauding-locust-swarms-killed-in-dausa-with-insecticide-spray/article31683398.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SOP for reopening of museums||When museums, monuments and archaeological sites reopen to the public, visitors may have to buy tickets online, wear masks and follow social distancing norms, according to Union Culture Ministry officials who are preparing a post-COVID-19 lockdown standard operating procedure (SOP). The Culture Ministry had closed its museums and monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to the public from March 17 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While a decision on re-opening and the rules to be followed for that would be notified by the National Disaster Management Authority under the Ministry of Home Affairs, a senior Culture Ministry official said an SOP was being drafted for safe opening of museums and monuments. The official said online-only ticketing system, mandatory wearing of masks by all, and placement of hand sanitisers to maintain hygiene were being considered as a part of the SOP. Tourism sector Limiting the number of visitors at a given time was also being considered, the official said. Another official said guidelines for the tourism sector, including hotels, would also be drawn up as a large number of visitors to the cultural sites are tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sop-for-reopening-of-museums/article31683158.ece
27 May 2020||Kozhikode,||Robotic swab sample collection arm developed||An incubatee start-up based at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode, (IIM-K), has developed a functional prototype of a robotic swab sample collection arm that can be remotely controlled for safe and speedy swab sample collection. The start-up ispAgro specialises in drone and robotics technology and is one of the start-ups mentored by the IIM-K’s business incubator and entrepreneurship development centre LIVE, a statement on Tuesday said. Collaborative move The start-up, seed-funded by a collaborative initiative between the IIM-K LIVE and Mangalore Refineries and Petrochemicals Limited, developed the robot to replace the manual swab collection process and thereby reduce the COVID-19 threat to front-line health workers involved in sample collection. The robot, armed with a 180-degree-rotation gripper, is extendable up to one metre in length. With an android app, a technician can easily operate it and regulate its movement behind a safe physical barrier. Indigenous talent Professor Debashis Chatterjee, Director, IIM-K, said the resolve shown by this start-up to come up with this robotic intervention in a short time spoke volumes about how indigenous talent nurtured in a cultivable, creative environment could lead the way in an hour of crisis. Adapting to the emergent situation is also a key trait that would hold a start up in good stead not only for its commercial success but also for its role in greater societal good. Avinash Rao, founder – ispAgro Robotics, said the company was planning to enhance the prototype by including Artificial Intelligence-based operator-less control so that the robot could be deployed at the level of primary health centres (PHCs). Camera and Infrared integration for better and faster sampling, microphone and speaker integration for two-way communication are also on the cards in addition to an automatic sanitation unit for its arm grippers to ensure complete safety of the person whose sample is being collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/robotic-swab-sample-collection-arm-developed/article31683530.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre’s lockdown strategy has failed: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that all the four stages of lockdown had “failed”, and claimed that India was the only country that was opening up when the coronavirus infection was rising “exponentially”. At an online press conference, he cautioned the government of “devastation and a second wave of infection if it opens up haphazardly”, and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out his government’s Plan B. Mr. Gandhi also distanced his party from Maharashtra’s high COVID-19 case load by stating his party is not a decision maker in the State. He reiterated the party’s demand to go in for direct cash injection to help poor families, migrant labourers and small and medium businesses. Not doing so would be “fatal” for the economy, he said. ‘PM low key’ “We are the only country in the world where the virus is rising exponentially and we are removing a lockdown. So, it is pretty clear that the aim and the purpose of the lockdown has failed,” he said. The four-stage lockdown failed to produce the result that the Prime Minister had expected. He urged “Mr. Modi to once again to come on the front foot instead of being low key.” “We want to ask the government what is their strategy as far as India’s opening up is concerned, and what are the precautions they are going to take to curb the disease now? How are they going to support the migrants, State governments and the small and medium businesses,” he asked. Mr. Gandhi said the Congress-ruled States were offering direct cash to farmers and labourers but they were not getting any support from the Centre and the Rs. 20 lakh crore package was actually merely “1% of India’s GDP”. “The Central government must infuse cash into the hands of people and it will be fatal if they do not do it. A dangerous situation will arise if financial support to people and industry is not provided,” he said. Asked if India made a mistake by prioritising health over livelihood issues, he said, “I don’t think it is either health or economics. We are smart enough to work a path through that will create a successful compromise between health and economics.” Asked about the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, where the Congress is a partner in the government, he said a State that had multiple connectivity was likely to see a high growth rate in COVID-19 cases. “We are supporting the Maharashtra government but we are not a key decision-maker here... Maharashtra is one of the most important assets that India has; it is the centre of business. It needs full support from the Government of India,” he said. On a reported comment by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that other States would now have to seek his government’s permission if they wanted to employ labour from U.P., he said, “These people are not his personal property or the property of U.P. They are Indian citizens and have a right to decide what they want to do.” Responding to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment that his interaction with migrant workers was dramebaazi (theatrics) , Mr. Gandhi said, “That’s her view... If they allow me, I can walk down to U.P. and help migrants on the way.” On border tensions with China and Nepal, he urged the Centre to be transparent on what was happening in Ladakh and Nepal but refrained from commenting.  A dangerous situation will arise if financial support to people and industry is not provided||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-lockdown-strategy-has-failed-rahul-gandhi/article31683149.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aarogya Setu app is now open source, says govt.||Amid concerns over privacy of data being collected by its COVID-19 contact tracing app, the government on Tuesday said it was open-sourcing Aarogya Setu. The government has also launched a “Bug Bounty” programme wherein financial rewards will be given to security researchers for finding any vulnerability in the application or suggesting improvements to the source code. “With the release of the source code in the public domain, we are looking to expanding collaboration and to leverage the expertise of top technical brains amongst the talented youth and citizens of our nation and to collectively build a robust and secure technology solution to help support the work of frontline health workers in fighting this pandemic together,” the government said. While the source code for the Android version of the application will be available for review on GitHub, the iOS version of the application will be released as open source within the next two weeks, the Ministry of Electronics and IT said in a statement. Almost 98% of over 11.4 crore users of Aarogya Setu users are on Android platform. “...the step will have a positive impact on the privacy of Indian users. This will improve transparency on how the data is used, improve security by minimising bugs and empower experts to improve the app via public contributions,” said Udbhav Tiwari, Policy Adviser, Mozilla Corporation. The “Bug Bounty” programme will be open to Indian and foreign nationals, but only Indians will be eligible for rewards offered under the scheme. Anyone who points out a security vulnerability in the app source code will be eligible for a reward of up to Rs. 3 lakh, and up to Rs. 1 lakh for pointing out a suggestion or improvement in the source code. Mishi Choudhary, technology lawyer, said, “The government of India has an amazing policy on adoption of open source software that encourages formal adoption and use of open source software in government organisations. We will be verifying that all code is open source and global best practices are followed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aarogya-setu-app-is-now-open-source-says-govt/article31683152.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||Migrants sell goats, ring to pay airfare||Three migrant labourers from West Bengal living in Diva near Thane sold their goats and a gold ring and borrowed money to buy air tickets. But they were left high and dry because the flight was cancelled. Sona Mullah, Raheema Khatum and Farid Mullah, who hail from three nearby villages in Murshidabad, have been working in Mumbai for varied durations over the past decade. They reached the airport here, paying Rs. 2,000 for a taxi. Then, they came to know that the aircraft was not taking off any time soon. As a video of the May 25 incident went viral on social media, thanks to a journalist of an English daily and several others, IndiGo offered to carry them on a different flight. IndiGo said in a tweet, “We’ve re-accommodated the 3 passengers who were unable to travel to Kolkata. Their original booking had to be cancelled as the government of West Bengal has prohibited flights until May 28. We had offered to rebook them on the first service on May 28, but they have now decided to travel on June 1, and we have accommodated their travel plans at no additional charge.” Mr. Sona Mullah broke down while speaking to this reporter. “We have no income since the lockdown. We tried repeatedly for train tickets and then heard about the resumption of flight services. My wife sold three goats back home in Murshidabad. It fetched us Rs. 9,600. She then borrowed Rs. 1,000 and we purchased this ticket,” he said. Mr. Sona Mullah works as a helper in an air-conditioner repair shop. He knows the rules in times of COVID-19 are strict and there are the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to follow. “Staying here won’t help. I have been in Mumbai working for the last 20 months at a stretch. My three daughters and wife want me back,” he said. He plans to look for a job in Murshidabad. “I have a daughter who needs to be married off. If not for this pandemic, my family would have been focusing on the wedding,” he said. While Ms. Khatum sold her ring to purchase the ticket, Farid Mullah borrowed and used his savings to get his ticket. After the shock from the flight cancellation subsided and a few helped to make a video, the three made the trip back to Diva, paying another Rs. 2,000. They will return to board their 11.55 a.m. flight on June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrants-sell-goats-ring-to-pay-airfare/article31683154.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Goyal blames Maharashtra for cancellation of 55 trains||The political slugfest over running of Shramik Special trains continued with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal taking to Twitter to allege that the Maharashtra government failed to provide passenger details due to which at least 55 such trains could not be run on Tuesday. Mr. Goyal tweeted that on a request from the Maharashtra government, the Railways had scheduled 145 Shramik Special trains for Tuesday, of which 85 were scheduled to operate till 6 p.m. However, only 27 trains could be run due to lack of passengers. Meanwhile, with 41 of these 145 trains scheduled to terminate in West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress accused the Railway Ministry of bulldozing the State government’s rights, even as the State has expressed inability to receive the trains following Cyclone Amphan. “We gave them as many trains as the Maharashtra government asked for, but the trains returned from there without passengers because they could not bring passengers. Last evening, the Maharashtra government asked for 145 trains from the Railways, after reviewing the entire night, we planned 145 trains to Maharashtra,” Mr. Goyal tweeted. Amid migrant workers struggling to go back to their homes, the Centre and non-BJP State governments have been engaged in constant to and fro over the running of Sharamik Special trains. According to the Railways, of the 145 trains, 68 were planned to depart for Uttar Pradesh, 27 to Bihar, 41 to West Bengal, one each to Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Kerala and two each to Odisha and Tamil Nadu. The 41 trains were scheduled for West Bengal despite the State government conveying its inability to receive any trains since the State is still coming to terms with the destruction. Maharashtra and West Bengal spoke to each other and the trains have been halted for now. Taking a dig at Mr. Goyal, Trinamool national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien said, “PM Narendra Modi and his Ministers are more busy tweeting rather than speaking to the State governments and co-ordinating during this crisis.” He said the State followed a certain protocol with the Shramik Special trains — screening them at the platform, government-monitored home quarantine for asymptomatic patients and institutional quarantine for others, all of which was not possible at present for the State government. Mr. O’Brien said the West Bengal and Maharashtra governments were in touch with each other and the Railway Minister should not play politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goyal-blames-maharashtra-for-cancellation-of-55-trains/article31683144.ece
27 May 2020||Kochi,||Bev Q gets Google green light||Bringing cheers to thousands of tipplers across the State, Google has accorded its much awaited approval to the mobile virtual queue management app Bev Q, thus clearing the decks for the reopening of liquor outlets in compliance with physical distancing norms. The approval came in the early morning hours on Tuesday and has cleared the way for making the app available for download on Google Play Store. The app, developed by the Kochi-based startup Faircode Technologies Private Limited, was submitted for the approval of Google on Friday night after two-level testing, ironing out the chinks by a testing agency accredited with the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team. “We are in the process of wrapping up the remaining process before making it available for download. Apart from the back-end technical process for the seamless operation of the app, some mandatory processes such as training the staff at liquor outlets to deal with potential hitches also need to be done,” said M.G.K. Vishnu, CEO, Faircode Technologies. Steps are already under way for extending training to the staff through online and video tutorials in coordination with the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. Much anticipated The app has been much anticipated ever since the government made it clear that liquor outlets, remaining closed for over two months, will not be reopened unless the virtual queue management app for ensuring physical distancing was up and running. Impatient tipplers have been bombarding the social media pages of the start-up with witty and sarcastic comments ever since they were chosen for developing the app. Faircode Technologies was chosen by a committee from among 26 start-ups registered with the Kerala Startup Mission based on technical and financial feasibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bev-q-gets-google-green-light/article31683115.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||10-year RI for ex-Kerala DSP, three others for murder bid||A special CBI court convicted a former Deputy SP and three others in Kerala of a murder bid on a police officer on suspicion of him leaking the news of a party organised by liquor barons attended by the police officers. Apart from then Deputy SP Santhosh Nair, the Special Judge, Thiruvananthapuram, has also sentenced Jinda Ani, Container Santhosh and Penty Edwin (all private persons) to 10 years RI, CBI spokesperson R.K. Gaur said here. The court also ordered the convicts to pay Rs. 25,000 each (total Rs. 1 lakh) to the complainant, head constable Babu Kumar, who was stabbed multiple times in 2010 in Kollam with an intent to kill him. The accused had suspected him of leaking information about the party which became a massive scandal because of the attendance of the four police officers and film stars in it. The journalist who published the story in a Malayalam daily was also allegedly attacked. This case is under a separate trial. The agency took over the case of the head constable on September 12, 2013, on the orders of the Kerala High Court on a writ petition filed by him. “It was alleged that the accused entered into a criminal conspiracy in and around 2010 and in continuation of the same, attempted to murder Babu Kumar, head constable, Kerala police, by causing multiple stab injuries with a knife as revenge, as the victim reported about the alleged activities by police officials and cine stars, in the media,” Mr. Gaur said. He said it was further alleged that one of the accused also manipulated the records and concealed/destroyed the knife, which was recovered through him. The agency filed a chargesheet on November 21, 2014. The court has acquitted two accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-year-ri-for-ex-kerala-dsp-three-others-for-murder-bid/article31683122.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pradhan’s fuel pricing explanation conflicting’||Former Union Minister M. Veerappa Moily, reacting to The Hindu ’s interview with Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday, termed the latter’s explanation over fuel pricing as “conflicting”. He said the government should have been more sensitive to the plight of the people in the time of a pandemic and passed on the benefits of a global price cut to the consumer. “The interview of Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan, stating that the Union government has taken a ‘cautious and conscious’ decision to use the saving for the welfare of the people, is very conflicting. He himself admits ‘the reduction in demand has led to a peculiar situation where the product prices are less than the price of crude’,” Mr. Moily said in a written statement . He said the UPA-II government had taken a “conscious decision to do away with the administered price regime and to fix the prices of diesel and petroleum in accordance to the market price of crude. The idea was to pass the benefit/liability in accordance with the market trend. “This is a sound principle of economics and also done in the interest of the consumers and the economy. In the days of crisis in the economy, such as the onset of COVID-19, the government should have been more sensitive to the plight of the people and consumers as they are in great distress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pradhans-fuel-pricing-explanation-conflicting/article31683138.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Hospital staff developed neutralising antibodies: study||Virtually all hospital staff sampled from 13 days after the onset of mild COVID-19 symptoms in eastern France showed antibodies capable of neutralising the SARS-CoV-2 virus, a non peer-reviewed article published in medrxiv has claimed. This may be associated with immunity against further infection with the same virus, the authors have argued. The paper “Serologic responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection among hospital staff with mild disease in eastern France” by Samira FAFI-KREMER et al, showed that neutralising antibodies were found in 91% of the individuals of the Strasbourg University Hospitals who participated in the study. Hospital staff who had recovered from mild forms of PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection were tested for anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies using two assays: a rapid test and the S-Flow assay. The authors state: “We further report that the neutralisation activity of the serum increases with time, reaching 97% four weeks after the onset of symptoms. Therefore, it is a fair assumption that the majority of individuals with mild COVID-19 generate neutralising antibodies within a month after onset of symptoms.” They go on to add: “Although not yet demonstrated, several lines of evidence suggest that the presence of neutralising antibodies may be associated with protective immunity for SARS-CoV-2 infection.” High neutralising activity was associated with time since onset of symptoms, in subjects having a dry cough, male participants, those with a high BMI, and high blood pressure. All these characteristics remained independently associated with high neutralising activity in multivariable analysis except for high blood pressure, the paper said. “Antibody titres are generally higher in patients with severe or critical diseases. Interestingly, in our study, individuals with factors associated with more severe disease (e.g., male sex, high body mass index and high blood pressure), were more likely to have high titres [required volume] of neutralising antibodies compared to others,” the authors observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-staff-developed-neutralising-antibodies-study/article31683147.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fisheries scheme has no relief component||Though the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) was announced as part of the Centre’s economic stimulus package in response to COVID-19, it does not seem to contain any components aimed at relief or financial assistance to provide immediate help for the hard-hit fisheries sector. The PMMSY will increase fish production by 9%, double incomes of fishers and double export earnings by 2024-25, Fisheries Minister Giriraj Singh said at a press conference on Tuesday to announce the details of the scheme. It involves investments of more than Rs. 20,000 crore from Centre, the States and beneficiaries over a five-year period. However, he dismissed the demand for immediate financial assistance for fish workers, especially in light of huge losses during the lockdown, through cash benefit transfer. “This scheme is focused on infrastructure investments that will help fish workers to boost their incomes,” he said. “Due to coronavirus restrictions and previous climate reasons, fishers have not been able to go to sea for several months. Now Cyclone Amphan has also hit fish workers on the east coast and the annual monsoon fishing ban will come into effect in a few days. Given the huge loss of income, we had asked the Centre to give a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000-15,000 a month for each fish worker family,” said T. Peter, general secretary of the National Fishworkers Forum (NFF). In late March, in the early stages of the lockdown, the Fisheries Ministry responded to the NFF’s demand by sending letters to the State governments asking for estimates on losses to fishworkers, leading to hopes that the stimulus package would provide such support. “We have heard nothing further from the Ministry after those initial discussions and the package announced by the Finance Minister has nothing much for small and traditional fishers,” said Mr. Peter. Anil T. Varghese from the secretariat of NFF in Delhi said, “The Ministry itself put out a statistics handbook in 2019 with clear estimates of number of fish workers in each State and their average earnings.” Fishing ban On Monday, the Ministry reduced the duration of the annual fishing ban in the monsoon season from 61 days to 47 on the demand of mechanised fishing boat owners, saying it was to provide COVID-19 relief. “The ban is there for important environmental reasons to ensure that fish spawning can take place during the monsoon and regeneration of fish stock,” Mr. Peter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fisheries-scheme-has-no-relief-component/article31683164.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||AirAsia flight makes emergency landing||An AirAsia India flight from Jaipur to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) developed a technical snag just before landing, giving anxious moments to about 76 passengers, including six infants, and six crew members on Tuesday afternoon. The entire airport got into full alert putting into motion all the safety protocols needed to tackle an emergency. The flight arriving from Jaipur in Rajasthan was supposed to arrive at about 1.40 p.m. but had come in 10 minutes early when the pilot had noticed fuel leakage in the engine and immediately alerted the Air Traffic Control (ATC) authorities. The airport security got geared up on receipt of the information when the pilot managed to land the plane safely switching off the engine, according to airport sources, who pleaded not to be named. ‘Detailed inspection’ An official spokesperson later in a statement released to the media informed that the aircraft VT-IXC operating from Jaipur to Hyderabad encountered a "technical issue and carried out a precautionary engine shut-down'. Handling the situation calmly in a professional manner, the crew landed at RGIA". “We are carrying out a detailed inspection of the aircraft, having informed Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). We are assisting in the investigation to establish the cause,” the spokesperson said. ‘Experienced pilots’ “The pilots and crew are experienced and well trained to manage these situations. We apologise for the delay on the subsequent flight and confirm that our guests have been re-accommodated,” the statement added. The passengers bound for Bengaluru by this flight from Hyderabad were accommodated in another flight, airport sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airasia-flight-makes-emergency-landing/article31683481.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Maharashtra CM urged to release Vara Vara Rao||Daughters of the imprisoned revolutionary poet Vara Vara Rao have appealed to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, requesting him to release their father by granting temporary bail or parole on the grounds of age, health and COVID-19 spread. They brought to his notice, the instance of a prisoner dying of COVID-19 in the jail where Mr. Vara Vara Rao was lodged. In a letter to Mr. Thackeray on Tuesday, daughters P. Sahaja, P. Anala and P. Pavana, also sought permission for family members to visit him personally in jail to ensure his safety and well-being. They also appealed for more frequent phone calls and letters, and permission for advocates to meet him. Mr. Vara Vara Rao was arrested in November 2018 on charges pertaining to Bhima-Koregaon violence and an alleged Maoist conspiracy to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier, he had been kept under house arrest for three months. After arrest, he was first shifted to Yerawada Jail, Pune, and later transferred to Taloja Jail, Navi Mumbai. Calling the cases ‘fabricated’, his daughters said it was perturbing to see news that a prisoner died in Taloja Jail due to COVID-19, which was admitted by the government during the hearing of a PIL in Mumbai Court on Monday. Citing his 80 years of age, and multiple health issues, the letter said he is highly vulnerable to coronavirus. Yet, during the eight weeks of lock down, the authorities have not allowed even the usual correspondence, let alone visits by family. His lawyers too were not allowed to visit him. “We have been extremely anxious to find out his well being, and during these eight weeks, he was allowed to make phone calls three times to speak to our mother, who is also ailing and 70 plus. Even the phone conversation was allowed only for two minutes,” the letter said. Prison authorities were unresponsive when Mr.Rao’s advocate called them to enquire about his health condition, which has left the family members very worried and anxious, it said. Contesting that Mr.Rao is only an under trial prisoner, his daughters said his right to life guaranteed by Article 21 cannot be put to risk. He was earlier acquitted as not guilty in 25 cases, they said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cm-urged-to-release-vara-vara-rao-on-bail/article31683112.ece
27 May 2020||KOLLAM,||Uthra’s son handed over to her parents||Following an order of the Child Welfare Committee, the one-year-old son of Uthra, who died in a snakebite incident at her house at Anchal in the district, was handed over to her parents on Tuesday. The child was living with his paternal grandparents after the demise of his mother. Though the order was issued on Monday, the family of Sooraj, Uthra’s husband and first accused in the murder case, was not willing to hand over the child. They reportedly shifted the child to a relative’s house, forcing the police to intervene. The child was later brought to Uthra’s house accompanied by her father-in-law. Post-mortem of snake Meanwhile, a post-mortem examination on the snake that bit Uthra was conducted in the presence of officials from the Animal Husbandry, Forest and Police Departments and forensic experts. “It was mainly for cross-checking certain facts, including whether it was the same snake that bit Uthra and if it was venomous. Since the carcass was buried some 20 days ago, our initial plan was to extract and check the DNA. But its outer skin was found intact, including its scales, fangs and hood, making it easy to infer the reptile was a cobra. At present everything matches with the investigation report, but we have collected enough samples and preserved the carcass,” said Jacob Alexander, senior zoo veterinary surgeon, who was part of the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uthras-son-handed-over-to-her-parents/article31683118.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Modi reviews LAC standoff with NSA, CDS||In contrast, in three separate sets of remarks last week, the Chinese MFA had accused Indian troops of “crossing the line” across Ladakh and Sikkim, of “infringement activities” and of “attempting to unilaterally change the status of border control.” MEA officials have also said “established mechanisms” are in place to resolve the issue, indicating their relative silence on the issue is to enable talks between military commanders and diplomatic channels to proceed. However, sources on the ground have indicated that the situation on the ground is far more serious, with a faceoff between troops at atleast three points in Ladakh and Nakula Pass in Sikkim, increased numbers of Chinese troops at the LAC in areas where India patrols, including the Galwan river valley, and Chinese troops blocking Indian patrols in the finger areas on the Pangong Tso (lake). Meanwhile, defence sources denied reports of a major buildup by Chinese troops across the LAC in Uttarakhand (also called the middle sector of the LAC), particularly in the Joshimath-Harsil area, where Indian troops have been moved to more forward positions. The sources said these were routine “local movements”. In Delhi, the Chinese Embassy also denied reports that flights arranged to repatriate citizens were connected to the ongoing tensions at the LAC in any way. “In consideration of the development of the epidemic situation in India, the Chinese side is planning to dispatch temporary flights to India to bring back students, tourists and business inspectors who are facing difficulties in India,” Embassy Spokesperson Ji Rong said. On Tuesday, the Chinese Communist Party-owned newspaper Global Times published an editorial cautioning against misreading the move. “China clearly has no intention of escalating the border disputes with India, so its assistance to its citizens should not be over-interpreted,” the editorial said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-reviews-lac-standoff-with-nsa-cds/article31683123.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Ensure transport, food for migrants, says SC||It asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to assist the court and produce on record by day after tomorrow (May 28) measures taken by the Centre so far to alleviate the migrants’ sufferings. It referred to newspaper and media reports on helpless migrants forced to travel thousands of miles on foot or bicycles during the lockdown. “Newspaper reports and other media reports have been continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers walking on foot and cycling for long distances. They have also been complaining of not being provided food and water by the administration at places where they were stranded or in the way i.e. highways from which they proceeded on foot, cycles or other modes of transport,” the court stated. It issued formal notice to the Centre, the States and the Union Territories and asked them to file their responses by May 28. It said the case was urgent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-transport-food-for-migrants-says-sc/article31683128.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No WHO bar on India testing HCQ as preventive’||On May 4, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) formally published plans for a clinical trial — again an observational trial — that will check if 2,000 doctors, healthcare and sanitation workers who work in five dedicated COVID-19 hospitals across the country were afforded any protection while taking a prescribed course of HCQ. WHO for RCT testing Dr. Swaminathan said HCQ, even for testing its potency as a prophylactic, ought to be tested via the RCT method. “WHO has consistently said that the best way of proving the efficacy of a drug for prevention or treatment is throughwell-conducted randomised clinical trials. Observational studies are always subject to the risk of bias and can sometimes produce misleading results. In the case of HCQ, there is no clear evidence from RCTs on either safety or efficacy, so that would be the best way to proceed,” she said. It was “very rare,” for a drug to fail at treating moderate or severe disease but to be effective in working as a preventive, added Dr Swaminathan, who was formerly Director-General of the ICMR. Director-General of ICMR Balram Bhargava said at a press conference on Tuesday that while several studies were ongoing in India, there “was evidence” that the drug worked as prophylactic. “It is difficult to do a randomised trial for a drug that may be working. We’ve got some observational data. A more detailed study will be available soon. We’ve weighed the risks and benefits and concluded that we can’t as of now deny this to our frontline workers battling COVID-19.” The government late last week extended the use of HCQ for paramilitary and police personnel involved in COVID-19 management, besides direct health care providers for positive patients. It cited three separate studies that claimed benefits but hasn’t publicised details of these studies. Two trials in patients — again, not RCTs and in small groups — in France and South Korea found that the drug reduced viral loads as well as protected hospitalised patients and healthcare workers exposed to the virus and appears to be prime source of optimism about its prophylactic potency. On the other hand, it has also been linked to retinopathy and cardiac malfunction which is why it evokes deep scepticism among doctors and medical experts on India’s faith in the drug. “We know that HCQ has been used for over four decades for immuno-modulation... . Some patients have been on lifelong therapy of one tablet every day. The reason some people are now talking against HCQS is the “potential serious side effects” of this drug. Of special concern is it’s effect on the heart. But the fact of the matter is that this drug is extremely safe and side effects are mild and extremely rare and are being blown out of proportion in today’s scenario” said Dr. Yash Gulati, orthopedic surgeon, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi. Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said the recovery rate for COVID-19 cases in the country has seen an upwards trend. The recovery rate in the country continues to improve and is presently 41.61%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-who-bar-on-india-testing-hcq-as-preventive/article31683124.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Navlakha taken to Mumbai a day before bail hearing||Civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha was taken to a Mumbai jail by the National Investigation Agency on Tuesday, a day before his interim bail plea was to come up in the Delhi High Court. Mr. Navlakha, 67, surrendered before the NIA on April 14 in New Delhi for his alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon riots of 2018. He was sent to judicial custody in Tihar jail by a city court on May 23. His partner Sahba Hussain said she received a call from Mr. Navlakha at 1.15 p.m. on Tuesday from a court in Mumbai where he was produced. His partner Sahba Husain said she received a call from Mr. Navlakha at 1.15 pm on Tuesday from a court in Mumbai where he was produced. “I was completely shocked. We could speak barely for two minutes as the magistrate was kind enough to allow him the call,” she said. Ms. Husain said Mr. Navlakha was taken on a train by an NIA team on Monday evening, exposing him to all kinds of infection, including COVID-19. “He told me his blood pressure had shot up to more than 200. Is this the way to treat an [undertrial] prisoner? What was the tearing hurry to shift him to a Mumbai jail when the NIA knew about the bail hearing in High Court,” she asked. She said none of the family members or lawyers was informed by the NIA before he was moved ‘secretly’ to Mumbai. After concerns over his health were raised, he was shifted to solitary confinement in Tihar on May 24 from a cell with 3-4 others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navlakha-taken-to-mumbai-a-day-before-bail-hearing/article31683396.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Prasthana Traya texts||Vedanta philosophy accepts the Prasthana Traya texts, the Upanishads, The Bhagavad Gita and the Brahma Sutra as authoritative and primary sources that teach the means to strive for salvation. No study of Vedanta is considered complete without a close examination of the Prasthana Traya texts. The Vedas and the Upanishads are Sruti Prasthana, that is, revealed texts. ‘Sruti’ literally means that which is heard, and is considered as sacred knowledge that has been handed down from days of yore through the oral tradition of communication. The Bhagavad Gita, the Puranas, etc, are known as Smriti Prasthana. These are the compositions of sages based on their understanding of the valuable insights in the Vedas and their ability to remember and recall these. The Brahma Sutra compiled by Vyasa is known as Nyaya Prasthana or Sutra Prasthana, wherein the philosophical doctrines are analysed logically and systematically. Just as the various river ghats help people to have a dip in the deep waters these texts guide the spiritual aspirant to enter the river of jnana, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. All Vedanta texts speak in one voice about the one and only Brahman who is the sole cause of the universe and of His nature as the essence of eternal consciousness and bliss, sat-chit-ananda. In the Brahma Sutra this is reinforced to show that there is no scriptural text that can be effectively used against the Vedanta teachings. There is no way by which the validity of any system that is opposed to the Vedas can be established in a foolproof manner. Vedanta system makes extensive use of Smriti texts such as Manu Smriti, Vishnu Purana, etc, to argue convincingly about Brahman as the intelligent primary cause of the universe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prasthana-traya-texts/article31683145.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Awareness campaign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/awareness-campaign/article31683532.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/testing-times/article31683120.ece
27 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Panel should probe hospital conditions: HC||Days after criticising the health authorities for the deplorable conditions at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital where almost 400 COVID-19 patients have died, the Gujarat High Court on Tuesday directed the State to form a committee of independent doctors to probe the conditions at the hospital. A Division Bench also said the judges would like to pay a surprise visit to the hospital. “The Superintendent of the Civil Hospital and other authorities of the Health Department shall keep themselves ready to find our presence one fine morning on a given day in the civil hospital. This would put an end to all the controversies with regard to the functioning of the civil hospital,” Justice J.B. Pardiwala said. The number of COVID-19 cases in the State jumped to 14,829, with 361 cases reported on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 915 with 27 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-should-probe-hospital-conditions-hc/article31683142.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Hotels told to refund foreign returnees||The Union Home Ministry has asked the States to issue directions to hotels to refund passengers returning from foreign countries the quarantine charges of seven days, as the period of institutional quarantine had been reduced from 14 days to seven. In a letter to the States, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said, “It has been brought to the notice of this Ministry that Indian nationals quarantined in hotels on return from abroad were made to pay advance for 14 days. Since they can now leave for home quarantine after seven days, the amount paid by them for the remaining days needs to be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to do.” The quarantine charges are borne by passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hotels-told-to-refund-foreign-returnees/article31683150.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre: order on full wages withdrawn||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that it had withdrawn a contentious March 29 order requiring private employers to pay full wages to workers during lockdown. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan in a virtual court hearing, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal said the May 17 order of the government extending the lockdown also saw the withdrawal of the condition requiring private establishments to pay full wages to workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-order-on-full-wages-withdrawn/article31683160.ece
27 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Channel gets notice for sacking woman||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has issued a show-cause notice to a Guwahati-based satellite news channel for allegedly forcing a journalist to resign because she was pregnant. The NCW issued a statement condemning the “insensitive attitude” of Prag News for sacking Ranjita Rabha, who had put in 14 years with the channel. Reports said Ms. Rabha was told to quit as her pregnancy “restricted her agility” that the channel required of its journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channel-gets-notice-for-sacking-woman/article31683159.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Direct booking for Vande Bharat||Indians stranded around the world may soon be able to book Vande Bharat flights directly on Air India’s website, according to a senior official of the Ministry of External Affairs. “We are doing this as a trial, but the airline will continue to be assisted by our foreign missions and the criteria for identifying passengers in distress will also apply,” the source explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/direct-booking-for-vande-bharat/article31683141.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||No immediate SC relief for Sharjeel||Anti-Citizenship Amendment Act activist Sharjeel Imam failed to get any immediate relief from the Supreme Court on Tuesday despite arguing that the FIRs registered against him in different States are politically coloured and a ruse to silence his right to dissent. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate Siddharth Dave, for Mr. Imam, urged the court to club the cases against his client and transfer them to Delhi. The Bench adjourned the hearing for another two weeks. It sought replies from Delhi, U.P., Assam and Arunachal Pradesh on the appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-immediate-sc-relief-for-sharjeel/article31683395.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,||High Court tells govt. to collect samples from COVID victims||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to collect samples from bodies of all persons, who died at government and private hospitals, for conducting COVID confirmation tests. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the interim directions while hearing five PIL petitions relating to COVID-19. The bench set aside an order of the government directing authorities not to conduct coronavirus tests by collecting samples from bodies of persons who died while undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the State. After hearing contentions of the petitioners and Advocate General B.S. Prasad, the bench instructed the government to furnish a report with all details pertaining to the number of COVID-19 diagnostic tests conducted from May 1 to May 25 in the State. Precise information about the tests conducted on asymptomatic, high risk and confirmed cases should be incorporated in the report, the HC said. The bench also wanted the government to furnish information about the diagnostic tests conducted on all migrant workers who came back to the State. It sought details of on number of migrant labourers who tested positive for the virus and if all of them were quarantined or not. “Why Telangana government is doing less number of diagnostic tests for COVID-19. It cannot cite financial constraints as human lives are more important,” the bench observed. The State government should control further spread of the virus, the HC said. The bench said the government should continue the diagnostic tests and step up their numbers. It asked the government to explain the guidelines or parameters based on which red zones were changed into orange and orange into green zones. The HC directed Collectors of Suryapet and Nirmal districts to furnish details of the influx of migrant workers during the current month, number of tests conducted on them and how many tested positive for the virus. It asked the government to file the report by June 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-tells-govt-to-collect-samples-from-covid-victims/article31683455.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,||Use electronic platforms to produce accused: HC||The Kerala High Court has directed magistrates and special judges to allow production of accused through an electronic video linkage or an appropriate electronic medium in view of the reported instances of many accused produced before courts testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 later. The High Court on Tuesday directed State Police Chief Loknath Behera to ask the police personnel to produce the accused before the magistrates through electronic video linkage facilities, even if they were brought for the first time. Testing positive In an order, the High Court Registrar (Subordinate Judiciary) P.G. Ajithkumar said it was reported from several parts of the State that the accused presented before the courts had later tested positive. As a result, the magistrates concerned were forced to go into quarantine. Besides, the magistrates and court staff were becoming more and more vulnerable to the disease. Registrar’s directive The Registrar made it clear that the police could be allowed to produce the accused through electronic linkages using desktop/ laptop/ mobile or any such electronic linkage as may be available. In fact, three magistrates and several police personnel had recently gone into quarantine in two districts after three remand prisoners had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-electronic-platforms-to-produce-accused-hc/article31683113.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,||2 tmcft water released to NS Right Canal||Release of 2 tmcft water to Andhra Pradesh through Nagarjunasagar Right Canal, as directed by Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), for meeting the drinking water needs in Gutur and Prakasam districts has been completed by engineers of the project on Tuesday evening. According to the Irrigation Department officials, release of water to the Right Canal at its Head Regulator was commenced on May 23 at 5.30 a.m. and completed on May 26 6 p.m. Before closing the head regulator, the two power units on the Right Canal were also stopped in the afternoon. With this , the total water released to the right canal this water year has reached 160.255 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-tmcft-water-released-to-ns-right-canal/article31683508.ece
27 May 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,||BRF||TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar approached the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday over the arrest of Congress leaders in Rajanna-Sircilla district. In a memorandum submitted to the SHRC, Mr. Prabhakar stated that the district police had arrested several Congress leaders in the wake of visit by ministers K. Taraka Rama Rao, S. Niranjan Reddy and TS Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar. Police had also arrested Mid Manair Dam land oustees’ protection committee leaders. He said that the Congress leaders and land oustees did not stage any protest during their visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brf/article31683505.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||VVIP chopper case: ED questions Christian Michel in jail||The Enforcement Directorate has questioned British national Christian Michel at the Tihar jail in the Rs. 3,700-crore AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal case. The agency had earlier approached a Delhi special court for permission to quiz the accused in the light of fresh evidence. The court said that considering the requirement of investigation and the sensitive nature of the case, it was appropriate to allow probe officials to question the accused on Monday and Tuesday in the jail, where he is lodged in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vvip-chopper-case-ed-questions-christian-michel-in-jail/article31683133.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Moratorium: SC fiat to Centre, RBI||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Central government and the Reserve Bank of India to file their formal response to a petition challenging the charging of interest rate on loans even during the three-month moratorium declared amid the COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued formal notice to the RBI and the Centre. It asked them to file their counter-affidavits in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moratorium-sc-fiat-to-centre-rbi/article31683136.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||BRO achieves breakthrough in building Chardham tunnel||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has achieved a milestone in the construction of a 440-m tunnel below the densely populated Chamba town on the Rishikesh-Dharasuroad National Highway in Uttarakhand. In a statement, it said, “Breakthrough and perfect linkup of construction teams from north and south portals was accomplished amid challenges of COVID-19 and restrictions due to the lockdown.” The tunnel is part of the efforts to boost the annual Chardham yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bro-achieves-breakthrough-in-building-chardham-tunnel/article31683140.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navlakha taken to Mumbai a day before his bail hearing in Delhi HC||Civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha was taken to a Mumbai jail by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday, a day before his interim bail petition is to come up in the Delhi High Court. Mr. Navlakha, 67, surrendered before the NIA on April 14 in New Delhi for his alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon riots of 2018. He was sent to judicial custody in Tihar jail by a city court on May 23. His partner Sahba Hussain said she received a call from Mr. Navlakha at 1.15 p.m. on Tuesday from a court in Mumbai where he was produced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navlakha-taken-to-mumbai-a-day-before-his-bail-hearing-in-delhi-hc/article31683139.ece
27 May 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two killed as truck rams lorry||Two persons were killed when a vegetable-laden lorry collided with a stationary truck on the Madurai-Thoothukudi highway in Kariyapatti near here early on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as S. Rajangam (40) of Kalayarkoil in Sivaganga district and P. Marimuthu (25) of Kamudhi in Ramanathapuram district. The police said that a lorry carrying bricks got a flat tyre on the highway. The driver, M. Prabhakaran (30) of Abiramam along with loadmen, Marimuthu, Murali, Ramesh, Rajangam and Pandi were trying to change the tyre. A vegetable-laden truck that was coming from Madurai crashed into the parked truck at around 3.30 a.m. While Rajangam was killed on the spot, Marimuthu, who was referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital subsequently succumbed to injuries. Murali and Prabhakaran who were injured were admitted to the Government hospital in Kariyapatti. The Kariyapatti police are on the lookout for the driver of the vegetable lorry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-as-truck-rams-lorry/article31683295.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Expert panel to meet CM again on May 30||The team of public health and medical experts, constituted by the State government to provide advice on containing COVID-19, took part in a meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday. Their next meeting is scheduled for May 30, when the panel is expected to provide its recommendation on whether the lockdown should be extended beyond May 31. “We did not discuss the lockdown during the meeting with the Chief Minister today (Tuesday). But we are meeting again on Saturday,” a member of the panel said. Tuesday’s meeting featured discussions on the ways in which testing and quarantine measures could be consolidated, since many persons arriving here from other States were testing positive for COVID-19, he said. An official press release said the Chief Minister issued instructions to officials on prevention and containment activities in the State. Discussions on various testing strategies to be undertaken, treatment protocols to be followed, steps needed to reduce the number of deaths, identification of vulnerable groups and ensuring preparedness in hospitals were held during Tuesday’s meeting, it added. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation G. Prakash, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan (via videoconference) and senior medical experts participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-panel-to-meet-cm-again-on-may-30/article31683319.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancellations continue to ground flyers||On day two of domestic flight operations resuming from Chennai airport, about 100 flights were cancelled, inconveniencing hundreds of passengers. The airport handled an estimated 2,700 passengers on Tuesday, across the 40 flights that arrived and departed, according to officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Till June 1, the airport is likely to handle only about 40-50 flights a day, after which the number is expected to increase gradually, sources said. On Wednesday, there will be a total of 42 flights and AAI officials expect passenger traffic to be lean. “Until the cap on the number of arrival flights is lifted or increased to over 25, the aircraft movement at the airport will continue to be poor. Every day, we receive numerous calls from passengers about flights that are confirmed and the ones cancelled. Everyone is anxious to return home,” an official said. So far, so good All incoming and outgoing passengers go through thermal screening at Chennai airport. “So far, we haven’t found any symptomatic passenger among those who arrived from other cities. We have been constantly monitoring the movement of passengers inside the terminal to see that they maintain physical distancing. This has to continue till they get used to the process. So far, we have had no issues,” another official said. Some of those trying to reach Chennai have posted on Twitter that it is difficult to get an e-pass through the portal. Rahul Sarda posted: “I have booked a flight for my wife from Chennai to Coimbatore for 28th. I stay in Erode but T.N. e-pass website is showing errors while applying for a pass for travel by flight within Tamil Nadu... please help urgently.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellations-continue-to-ground-flyers/article31683289.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. loses 85% of GST revenue in April due to lockdown||The Tamil Nadu government suffered an 85% fall in revenue collection of Goods and Services Tax (GST) in April, which was the first full month after the imposition of the COVID-19 lockdown since March 24. This figure has been arrived at by comparing this year’s collections in April with those of the corresponding month in the previous year. There was around 70% erosion in the overall revenue collection of commercial taxes (CT), including non-GST taxes such as State-level Value Added Tax on liquor, according to data available with the CT and Registration Department. The CT collections are critical to the financial health of the State government as they are the largest contributor to the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR), which, accounts for around 70% of the State’s total revenue receipts. Big dip In respect of collections through registration of documents, the situation was much worse, as the degree of reduction was about 96%. An important aspect to be kept in mind here is that sub-registrar offices all over the State were allowed to function from April 20. In May, there has not been any significant improvement in the collections of Commercial Taxes, says a senior official in the Finance department. It is against this backdrop that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who was recently apprised of the finances of the government, went on record saying that the State might incur an additional fiscal deficit of  Rs. 35,000 crore this year. This would be over and above the estimated fiscal deficit of around Rs. 59,346 crore. This means that the total fiscal deficit for 2020-21 would be about Rs. 94,346 crore. In such an eventuality, the fiscal deficit to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) ratio would go up to 4.5% from the original 2.84%. For bridging the gap between revenue and expenditure, borrowing becomes inevitable, despite undertaking expenditure control measures, the official clarifies. The lockdown came at a time when the State government struggled to have a minimum positive growth in the collections of commercial taxes and registration, both of which were hit by the general economic slowdown. While the State managed to post a growth rate of 1.12% in CT, its performance in the collections of registration in terms of revenue saw a negative growth rate of (–) 0.39%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-loses-85-of-gst-revenue-in-april-due-to-lockdown/article31683327.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyclists urge Palaniswami to promote cycling in Chennai||Cyclists have written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and the Greater Chennai Corporation to promote cycling in the city and to expedite the dedicated cycling lane project. The Corporation has set up a cycle lane of 17 km in two stretches. However, the lanes are mostly occupied by cars and other vehicles. ‘We are Chennai Cycling Group’ (WCCG) and Felix John, the bicycle mayor of Chennai, have sent letters to the Chief Minister and the GCC stating that this is the right time to promote cycling in the city. “I have requested the Chief Minister to dedicate neighbourhood shopping streets as walking/cycling only, create temporary pop-up lanes using cones and expand the city’s bicycle-sharing system with regular sanitizing strategies,” said Mr. John, who was made the Bicycle Mayor of Chennai byBYCS Amsterdam, a social enterprise, to promote cycling in Chennai. The WCCG has also made similar requests in its letter. “Kerala and Bengaluru have taken steps to promote cycling. Due to the lockdown, pollution levels are low in Chennai, and this is the right time to promote cycling and decrease traffic as well as maintain low pollution levels in future too,” said Divagaran. T, founding member, WCCG. Aswathy Dilip, senior programme manager of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), said cities in Tamil Nadu can create quick “pop-up” cycle lanes along public transport networks as an option for small and medium distance trips. She said that close to 30% of households in Tamil Nadu had access to cycles. A GCC official said it would be good to promote cycling post the lockdown period and to ensure social distancing. “Cycle sharing is also gaining popularity in Chennai. It will also be beneficial for people with lifestyle diseases. Cycle lanes will also be part of Mega Streets project,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyclists-urge-palaniswami-to-promote-cycling-in-chennai/article31683297.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancer Institute seeks funds||Highlighting unforeseen problems and consequent financial burden faced by it due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Cancer Institute (WIA) in Adyar has made an open appeal for donations and funding. In a statement issued on Monday, V. Shanta, chairperson of the institute, said that the outbreak of the pandemic has created several financial challenges. These included procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) for doctors, nurses, sanitary workers and other staff. She said that the institute had to test all patients for COVID-19, apart from arranging transport for the 1,000 staff members. Stating that the institute was committed to serving underprivileged cancer patients over the last six decades, Dr. Shanta highlighted that that institute needed Rs. 1.5 crore per month for anti-cancer drugs and another Rs. 9 crore per month for all other expenses, including staff salaries. She said the institute was in dire need of financial support until normalcy was restored and expressed hope that more people will contribute money. Those interested in making contributions can emailfinance@cancer institutewia.orgor contact the following numbers: 044-24437302, 9445026152.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-institute-seeks-funds/article31683304.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several containment zones go||The Greater Chennai Corporation has reported a sudden decrease in COVID-19 containment zones in the city. The number of containment zones was reduced to 420 on Tuesday from more than 1,150 in all the 15 zones. Officials in Tondiarpet zone, which reported more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases in the past few weeks, have delineated just three COVID-19 containment zones. Most containment zones have been removed from the list after no positive cases were reported for 14 days. Civic officials have compiled a list of 730 streets that had been dropped from the list of containment zones in the 15 zones. Even as the survey of COVID-19 symptoms has been taken up in all houses, no cases were reported from the 730 streets in 14 days. In the initial days of the pandemic, the Corporation delineated 2,500 houses in the area after a resident tested positive for COVID-19. At present, the civic body has stopped the practice of drawing a cordon, cutting off the entire area after COVID-19 cases were reported. The civic body has started creating containment zones only on specific premises where positive cases are reported.  Freedom of movement The reduction in containment zones has led to relaxation of movement for residents. The number of residents in containment zones has been reduced to less than one lakh on Tuesday. The largest number of 125 containment zones have been removed from Royapuram zone. Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar zone has also seen 125 containment zones removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-containment-zones-go/article31683283.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to assess lockdown impact on school education||To ascertain the impact of lockdown on teaching and learning as well as to focus on aspects once schools reopen, the Forum for Child Friendly Schools (FCFS) and Unicef are carrying out a Statewide review. Teachers can take part in the review, which has been envisioned as a participatory planning exercise, through the FCFS app. “So far, around 4,600 teachers from the government as well as private schools have taken this up. The review has been designed by teachers and coordinators, who are a part of the FCFS, since they will have a better understanding of how COVID-19 and the lockdown impacted school education,” said Shyam Sundar, Director, Solar Trust, an NGO, which is a part of the forum. The review has around 41 questions for teachers, such as how many students they were able to contact, whether they were able to teach them, when they think schools should reopen, what sort of awareness needs to be given to the parents and teachers before schools reopen and how students will travel to school among others. App for teachers Additionally, it aims to ascertain the aspects with regard to infrastructure, sanitation, physical and mental health and learning that would need focus once schools reopen. The teachers will have to log in to the FCFS app, which also has content to sensitise them about the measures they can adopt to educate students about preventing the spread of COVID-19. “Since the State government has now constituted an expert group to look into academic and teaching issues arising due to COVID-19, we will hand over our inputs to it,” said Akila Radhakrishnan, Social Policy Specialist, UNICEF-Tamil Nadu. The expert group, constituted by the government, is headed by the School Education Commissioner and is in the process of holding stakeholder consultations and examining the steps that need to be taken. Teachers associations as well as activists have been submitting recommendations to the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-assess-lockdown-impact-on-school-education/article31683291.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child with hyper-inflammatory syndrome treated in city||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, doctors are calling for increased awareness on a new multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. Associated with COVID-19, doctors of Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital (KKCTH) recently treated an eight-year-old boy with “hyper-inflammatory syndrome”, while another child with similar presentation is improving with treatment at the hospital, doctors say. The case of the boy was documented and published in Indian Paediatrics . He had fever, cough and throat pain and was admitted to a hospital on day four of illness. He tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. He continued to have high fever, worsening respiratory symptoms and was referred to KKCTH. The child had skin rash, cracked lips, fluid retention in limbs and an enlarged abdomen. He was shifted to the paediatric intensive unit. A repeat nasopharyngal swab returned positive for COVID-19. “We started administering intravenous immunoglobulin and tocilizumab, a drug used in certain rheumatological conditions,” said Bala Ramachandran, head of the department, Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine, KKCTH. Global alert Twelve hours later, the boy’s fever spikes settled and inflammatory parameters rapidly decreased. “It is a new condition that we are learning about. It was first reported in the U.K. after which the paediatric intensive care society sent out a warning. Then, a large number of children were admitted in New York and the CDC issued a similar warning,” he said. S. Balasubramanian, Medical Director of KKCTH, said, “Today, in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic, if any child reports with Kawasaki disease-like presentation, doctors have to think of the possibility of COVID-19 induced hyper-inflammatory syndrome. Paediatricians should start suspecting if a child has fever, rash, abdominal pain, is very ill and has low blood pressure,” he said. This should be kept in mind during the dengue season too, he added. While COVID-19 is largely benign in children, increasingly this new syndrome affecting children has been identified in Europe and the U.S., A.V. Ramanan, consultant paediatric rheumatologist, Bristol Royal Hospital for Children and Royal National Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases, U.K., said. Some of these children have severe abdominal pain which mimics appendicitis, he added.  Paediatricians should start suspecting if a child has fever, rash, abdominal pain, is very ill and has low blood pressure  S. BalasubramanianMedical Director, Kanchi Kamakodi CHILDS Trust Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-with-hyper-inflammatory-syndrome-treated-in-city/article31683285.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC verdict today on plea of Jaya’s nephew on her properties||The Madras High Court is all set to deliver its judgment on Wednesday on an application made by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak to permit him and his sister J. Deepa to administer the properties left behind by their aunt. Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose would pronounce their verdict through videoconferencing. The judgment would impact an ordinance promulgated by the State government last week to acquire Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence and convert it into a memorial. The judges would also be passing orders on yet another contesting application filed by two AIADMK functionaries K. Pugazhenthi and P. Janakiraman for administration of the properties through the Administrator General and Official Trustee of Tamil Nadu. Jayalalithaa died on December 5, 2016, and in 2017, it was the two AIADMK functionaries who approached the court first seeking a Letter of Administration in their favour. They later amended their prayer seeking a direction to the Administrator General. A single judge of the High Court rejected their plea on January 9, 2018 and hence they preferred an appeal before the Division Bench. In the meantime, Mr. Deepak too filed an application, through his counsel S.L. Sudarsanam, and made his sister J. Deepa, a respondent. Later both the cases were clubbed and heard by the Division Bench, led by Justice Kirubakaran, who wanted to know how many properties of Jayalalithaa had been attached by the Income Tax department, the Directorate of Enforcement and others. A.P. Srinivas, senior panel counsel for I-T department, told the court that many properties, including Veda Nilayam, her Poes Garden residence, were under attachment for non-payment of tax dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-verdict-today-on-plea-of-jayas-nephew-on-her-properties/article31683298.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only symptomatic pregnant women to be screened; doctors in a fix||A change in the testing guidelines for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has left obstetricians and gynaecologists in a fix. Earlier, pregnant women were being screened at least a week before their expected date of delivery (EDD). But now, the State will follow the latest guidelines laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research and test only symptomatic expectant mothers for COVID-19. While health officials have confirmed that only pregnant women with symptoms will be tested for COVID-19, doctors in government maternity institutions are worried that this will result in patient-to-patient transmission of infection in the labour wards. “Earlier, we were screening pregnant women five to 10 days before their EDD. Now, the guidelines for testing have been revised. But it is better to screen all pregnant women for COVID-19,” a government doctor said. This (new norm) is not advisable, another doctor said, on the condition of anonymity, adding: “The government is telling us to treat every patient as COVID-19 positive. That means we will have to continuously wear personal protective equipment while treating pregnant women. But what about transmission from one patient to another? We are not going to screen all pregnant women and separate those who test positive for COVID-19 from those who test negative. If an expectant mother is screened and tests positive, we can deal with her separately and provide more care. If we are not going to screen [them], and if we are going to keep them side by side, it is going to be a risk.” Neglected area Another government doctor said that obstetrics was a neglected area amid the COVID-19 pandemic. “There is a risk of cross-infection in a labour room that could spread to newborns too. Already, government maternity hospitals don’t have adequate manpower. We are overcrowded now and physical distancing is difficult,” he said. A senior doctor said all antenatal women were being screened at the Government RSRM Lying-in Hospital as it was in a COVID-19 hotspot. “We were [initially] told to screen pregnant women one week before EDD. Then, we were told to screen those coming from containment zones. Now, we are being told to screen symptomatic women and follow all universal precautions. We should not postpone any procedure for want of COVID-19 test results. Obstetricians and gynaecologists in the hospital are free to decide on the screening of pregnant women,” a doctor at another government hospital said. A paediatrician noted that the infection had been transmitted to a number of newborns too, raising the need to screen all pregnant women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-symptomatic-pregnant-women-to-be-screened-doctors-in-a-fix/article31683321.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revamped AIADMK IT wing begins work||With the revamped Information Technology wing of the ruling AIADMK started functioning, representatives said the focus would be on publicising the achievements of the State government and messages of its leadership, especially in their tackling of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The AIADMK has pioneered the concept of the use of innovative technology, and we have reached out to voters in multiple ways in the past and we would continue to leverage technologies to ensure the achievements and messages of our leadership reach the last mile,” said ‘Aspire’ K. Swaminathan, who has been given charge of the Chennai zone. Mr. Swaminathan pointed out that there were about 26% of voters in the 18-30 years age group and 52.25% in the 18-40 age group, which means more than three-fourth of the people are connected to the internet or social media in some form or the other. The Chennai zone has launched a video campaign highlighting that the State leads in the number of COVID-19 tests done. Mr. Swaminathan said more initiatives are lined up. M. Kovai Sathyan, the party’s spokesperson and in-charge of Vellore, pointed out that the aim is to focus on the overall strategy of the party as well as on region-specific messages. “ The representatives of IT Wing of the Coimbatore and Madurai Zones were not reachable for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revamped-aiadmk-it-wing-begins-work/article31683325.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unleashing the power of imagination in the time of a pandemic and lockdown||The lockdown seems to have widened Tamil writer Jayamohan’s window of imagination. He has written 69 short stories — almost one every day — till May 22. From an extremely skilful cook to Velu Thampi, the powerful Dalawa of Travancore, the myriad characters and the style of narration in Mr. Jayamohan’s literary works conjure up the people, as well as the period in which the stories have been set, in front of the reader. While discussing the stories in his afterword on his website, the writer said he had recreated the people he knew about and fictionalised those he didn’t. The stories were packed with powerful proverbs long forgotten in public memory. “First, I wrote an article on the COVID-19 pandemic. We are normally in a state of tension and anxiety [during such times]. It is difficult to differentiate false news from the truth. I suggested that we should steer clear of electronic media and the internet, and read stories. I originally intended to write fantasy and comedy [stories], but once I started working on it, I delved into other genres as well,” Mr. Jayamohan told The Hindu.  In fact, he had also invited his fans to send in their stories so that they could be published along with his own works. “But most of the stories sent by them followed the same template. They were realistic in nature, and death figured in almost all the stories. So, I decided to write more stories. One story led to another,” he explained. Mr. Jayamohan and his friends had earlier planned to travel to the border of Tibet through Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. But the lockdown put paid to their plan, and he made use of this period to write the short stories. “The important aspect of my writing is that I write mostly for myself: to come out of mental stagnation and enter the world of dreams. The lockdown had also caused physical stagnation. The stories brought me out [of it] and made me relive [sic] in the land where I lived while allowing me to enter my dream lands,” Mr. Jayamohan said in the afterword published on his website. He said though he had covered different genres, all of his stories were underpinned by the myths of the land. When asked about the massacre of women and children in Kalakkadu — a practice avoided by the Travancore kings and their armies — by Velu Thampi Dalawa to bring the burglars of the region to their knees, the writer said this was again a myth. “The stories were for those who consciously had deep connections with the myths. I could see that most of the readers had the sensitivity, and the stories had touched them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unleashing-the-power-of-imagination-in-the-time-of-a-pandemic-and-lockdown/article31683323.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adambakkam police help pregnant woman||A police patrol team came to the rescue of a pregnant woman who was stranded on the road in Adambakkam unable to reach a hospital. At 2.30 a.m. Tuesday, a 27-year-old resident of Ram Nagar, Adambakkam, had labour pain and her family tried to hail an autorickshaw or a taxi at the unearthly hour. They were stranded on the road and were struggling to reach a hospital. By then, a patrol team attached to the Adambakkam police station reached the spot on instruction from police inspector V. Balan. The team took the woman in the patrol vehicle to a private hospital at Pazhavanthangal. The woman was delivered of a baby boy on Tuesday afternoon. The family thanked the police for their timely help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adambakkam-police-help-pregnant-woman/article31683284.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ritchie Street, city’s electronics hub, reopens||Hundreds thronged Ritchie Street, the city's electronics market, where shops reopened on Tuesday after two months. Only 40% of the over 2,000 shops opened for business. To ensure compliance with physical distancing norms, only alternate shops were opened. Red and green labels have been pasted on shop entrances. Those with red labels would open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while those with green labels would operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. “We were given permission to open shops on Monday [May 25]. Since it was a holiday on account of Id, there were hardly any customers and shopowners spent the day cleaning, disinfecting and arranging stocks. Business began only on Tuesday,” said R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders Association, Ritchie Street. As a precautionary measure, all entrances to the electronics hub were barricaded. Customers had to park their vehicles on Anna Salai. "There are two options that have been worked out for parking vehicles. One, there is a paid parking inside Casino Theatre. The second option is a free parking space at a ground close to the F1 police station," Mr. Chandalia said.  Pact signed To ensure strict compliance with the rules, all shopowners in the electronics market which spans across Narasingapuram Street, Wallers Street, Meeran Sahib Street, Mohammed Hussain Sahib Street and Guruappa Road, and employs close to 8,000 workers, have signed a memorandum. The document contains norms that stipulate, among other things, opening and closing times and parking restrictions. It also bars loading and unloading of consignments between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Mukesh Khubchandani, president of the All India Electronics Association, Chennai, said, “We have told shops that disinfecting the place every two hours is a must. They must not entertain customers who walk in without wearing masks. We will be sending volunteers to each shop at regular intervals and if shops are found not following the guidelines, we will seal the premises immediately.”  Pent-up demand In the afternoon, hundreds of college students were spotted at the market picking up spares and accessories. Vijay Anand, a student of an engineering college, had come with four of his friends to buy screws, batteries and wires for an aeronautics project. “We need to submit the project by August and it's not easy to source online,” he said. Shopkeepers said that many of the customers had come to get their mobile phones and laptops repaired as well as to change screen protectors on their phones. “We had over 40 customers today who came in to get their laptops fixed. Since we want to avoid crowding, we have taken the laptops and given them slots to collect them over the next two days,” said a shopkeeper who did not want to be named. “With people working from home, there was good demand for power banks, emergency lamps and extension cables as well,” he added. Ritchie Street is the second largest market for electronics in India after Nehru Palace in New Delhi. The market sells a range of products that span TVs, laptops, home theatre systems, mobiles, LED panels and lights. It also sells spare parts like capacitors, integrated circuits and cables, which are used by various manufacturing units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ritchie-street-citys-electronics-hub-reopens/article31683287.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC demands report on policeman abusing soldier||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognisance of a report published in Hindu Tamil Thisai about a policeman using derogatory words against an Army soldier and has called for a report. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss called for the report from the Superintendent of Police in Kanniyakumari district within two weeks. According to the report that appeared in the daily    on May 26, an audio recording of a conversation between Sub-Inspector Sureshkumar of Arumanai police station and an Army soldier Kings had gone viral. The soldier called the policeman in connection with a domestic violence case and sought action against a man, who allegedly harassed his aunt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-sought-on-policeman-abusing-soldier/article31683305.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Builders given more time to complete registered real-estate projects||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority has extended the deadline for the completion of registered projects by a month, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequential force majeure. This is on top of the five-month extension it had granted earlier. “All registrations which are valid as on February 1 are extended automatically up to June 30. The validity of the registration will also be coterminous with the revised completion date,” the Authority had said in a circular issued earlier. Now, based on an advisory from the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the validity of the registration and the deadline for completion of all registered projects have been further extended by a month, the Authority said. The revised deadline is July 31. However, S. Sridharan, chairman - CREDAI Tamil Nadu, said there may be further delays in project completions, with migrant workers going back to their native places. “We will get to know the actual situation when we kick-start full-fledged operations in one or two months’ time,” Mr. Sridharan added.  We will get to know the actual situation when we kick-start full-fledged operations in one or two months’ timeS. SridharanChairman - CREDAI Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builders-given-more-time-to-complete-registered-real-estate-projects/article31683312.ece
27 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday ordered release of water for irrigation in Kanniyakumari district from June 8. In a statement, he said he ordered the release of water from Pechipparai, Perunchani, Chittar Dam-I and Chittar Dam-II following representations from farmers. He said water would be released between June 8 this year and February 28 next year. The Chief Miniter said the release would benefit cultivation of over 79,000 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-orders-release-of-water/article31683331.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Help people on Kalaignar’s birthday, Stalin urges cadre||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said fulfilling the basic requirements of the people, especially in the time of the pandemic, alone would be appropriate on the 96th birth anniversary of its leader M. Karunanidhi coming up on June 3. In a statement, he said ‘Kalaignar’ would have been happy to see the way the DMK leaders and functionaries dedicated themselves to provide relief to the people. “He would have happily ordered us to work for the people. He would have rushed to the forefront. We should mark his birthday by offering more help and relief,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the livelihood of the people had been severely affected by the lockdown and the DMK had not remained silent after it issued a timely warning to the government about the pandemic. “We distributed help to lakhs of people and set up kitchens to feed people. The party’s MPs and MLAs stand with the party cadre in the field,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-people-on-kalaignars-birthday-stalin-urges-cadre/article31683329.ece
27 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violations near 5 lakh in State||As many as 4.98 lakh violations have been reported across the State so far during the COVID-19 lockdown which began on March 24. According to the police, 4,98,995 violations have been reported so far. Over 5,31,179 persons were arrested for violating prohibitory orders and venturing out without any valid reason. They were later released. Their vehicles were seized and fines collected from them. As many as 4,22,867 vehicles were seized from violators and 4,98,955 FIRs were registered. A total of Rs. 7.85 crore has been collected as fines from violators so far. The lockdown was implemented, invoking Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, by police commissioners and district authorities in the State to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The police have been enforcing prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-violations-near-5-lakh-in-state/article31683320.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure LPG deliverymen have masks, sanitisers: HC||The Madras High Court has directed public sector oil corporations in the country to conduct surprise inspections to ensure that Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) distributors provide masks, hand sanitisers and other safety gear to those who deliver cylinders. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and Pushpa Sathyanarayana issued the direction while disposing of a public interest litigation petition, which sought insurance coverage of Rs. 25 lakh to every deliveryman since they face the risk of contracting COVID-19. Advocate V. Anantha Natarajan, representing the oil corporations, informed the court that instructions had already been issued to LPG distributors across the country to provide safety gear, such as masks and sanitisers to the deliverymen. Ex gratia The court was also told that the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to family members of every deliveryman in the event of death due to COVID-19, besides providing insurance coverage of Rs. 1 lakh for medical treatment. After expressing satisfaction over the steps taken to safeguard the interests of the labourers, the judges ordered periodic inspections to make sure that safety gears were provided to all and that they were also utilising them properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-lpg-deliverymen-have-masks-sanitisers-hc/article31683324.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crime Branch CID gets new chief||The Tamil Nadu Government on Tuesday posted Director-General of Police Prateep V. Philip as the new Head of the Crime Branch CID in place of M.S. Jaffar Sait, who is posted as DGP, Civil Supplies CID, Chennai. CBCID is presently investigating some scams that have rocked the State, including the tampering of answer scripts during the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) recruitment and the impersonation/appearance of proxy writers in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-branch-cid-gets-new-chief/article31683281.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves orders||The Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved orders on an anticipatory bail petition filed by DMK MLA V. Senthil Balaji in a criminal intimidation case booked against him on the basis of a complaint lodged by Karur Collector T. Anbalagan on May 16. Complaint motivated Justice M. Nirmal Kumar deferred his verdict after hearing arguments advanced by senior counsel S. Prabakaran, who claimed the complaint was motivated and State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan who accused the MLA of continuously acting in a high-handed manner. The petition, originally filed before the Madurai Bench, was transferred to the principal seat of the High Court in Chennai and Justice Kumar had on Thursday granted time till Tuesday for the Thanthoni Malai police in Karur district to respond to the plea for advance bail. In his complaint, the Collector had accused the MLA of barging into his office with around 25 people on May 12 despite being informed that only four people would be permitted inside in view of the physical distancing norms to be followed to fight COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-orders/article31683328.ece
27 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mudichur RWA ropes in SHGs||The Mudichur Residents Welfare Association has been taking preventive steps to control COVID-19. It has involved women SHGs in spraying turmeric water to disinfect streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mudichur-rwa-ropes-in-shgs/article31683293.ece
27 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Evaluation of Class XII answer scripts begins today||A total of 11 evaluation camps in Coimbatore district and five in Tiruppur district have been set up to evaluate answer scripts of Class XII public examination that will start on Wednesday. In Coimbatore district, five camps will be located in Coimbatore educational district, four in Pollachi educational district and two in S.S. Kulam educational district. A total of 3,200 members comprising 375 chief examiners, 375 scrutiny officers, 2,250 assistant examiners and 200 non-teaching staff will be involved in the evaluation process, an official press release said. With COVID-19 precautionary measures to be put in place, a team of six officials will be present at all the evaluation camps to ensure compliance. The district administration has sought police protection for all the camps from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani and Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha inspected one of the centres in Coimbatore on Tuesday. In Tiruppur district, three camps will be set up in Tiruppur educational district and one camp each in Dharapuram and Udumalpet educational districts. A total of 1,687 members comprising 200 chief examiners, 200 scrutiny officers, 1,200 assistant examiners and 87 non-teaching staff will be involved in the evaluation process. Masks will be provided at the evaluation camps, according to a release. On Tuesday, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Tiruppur CEO R. Ramesh inspected the arrangements at a school in Tiruppur educational district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evaluation-of-class-xii-answer-scripts-begins-today/article31683341.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Experts call for full-fledged resumption of childhood vaccinations||Devika*, a housewife from Coimbatore, is worried these days, as the vaccination schedule of her four-month-old baby has been deferred in the light of the COVID-19 lockdown. She was apprehensive about taking her child to a hospital during the initial few weeks of the lockdown, and her’s is not an isolated case. Like in many other areas of public health, the pandemic has disrupted childhood immunisation services. A recent report of the World Health Organisation warned that 80 million children under the age of one were at risk of diphtheria, measles and polio, as routine immunisation services all over the world were being hindered by the pandemic. Medical practitioners said that vaccination schedules of several children, especially those aged below one, were deferred in March and April due to the pandemic’s impact, including lockdown restrictions and minimal functioning of healthcare facilities in the private sector. Fear among the public of going to hospitals was also a factor. K. Kolandaswamy, who retired from the long-served post of Director of Public Health in Tamil Nadu recently, said, “It is high time to resume childhood vaccination services in full scale.” According to Coimbatore-based senior paediatrician M. Ramaswamy, disruption of childhood vaccination services could leave vulnerable segments of children susceptible to diseases that have a higher mortality rate than that of COVID-19. “Vaccinations for children aged zero to one and one to six can be continued,” he added. Dr. Kolandaswamy said the government and the Indian Academy of Pediatrics had issued instructions at the very beginning of the pandemic, stating that vaccination services can be continued. “People aged above 60 and those with comorbidity were advised to avoid non-emergency hospital visits,” he said. To address the gap, the government is now conducting outreach sessions through hospitals in the government sector. While vaccination services were available on Wednesdays, extended sessions are now being held on Fridays in several government hospitals. Small medical care facilities in the private sector are said to be facing a huge backlog, as many of them remained closed or were only partially functional during March-end, April and early May. “We gave video consultations to several parents who could not bring their children. Now, we are covering deferred schedules of DTP (diphtheria, tetanus toxoids and pertussis), MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) and flu vaccines on a priority basis. Parents who missed schedules can consult the respective paediatricians for a catch-up schedule,” said Karthik Balasubramanian, Consultant Neonatologist and Paediatrician with Women's Center by Motherhood, Coimbatore. As vaccinations such as those for BCG, hepatitis B and zero dose polio are given at birth, their schedules have not been impacted. In the government sector, disruption of vaccination schedules was not as severe as in the private sector as all government medical facilities, from primary health centre to medical college hospitals, functioned in a full-fledged manner during the lockdown. According to V. Booma, Head of the Department of Paediatrics at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the number of births per month at the facility ranged from 800 to 900 during the lockdown, as against 650 to 750 per month before the lockdown.  (*Name changed on request)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-call-for-full-fledged-resumption-of-childhood-vaccinations/article31683315.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro units seek financial support from State and Central governments||As many as 19 industrial associations, representing the micro and small-scale industries in Coimbatore district, came together and urged the State and Central Governments to come out with support measures for these units. The relief measures announced by the Union Finance Minister recently will benefit only the medium and large-scale industries and not the micro units, said the association heads at a press meet here on Tuesday. Part of the Rs. 3 lakh crore financial support announced by the Minister should be allocated separately for micro units and small-scale units. The measures announced by the government were largely through banks. But the bank branches here say they have not received any guidelines regarding the support to be extended. Hence, the units that have restarted production are unable to take up jobs. The banks should extend loans without asking for any documents to these units at 6 % interest, they said. “For all the job-working micro and small-scale industries that take up work for pumpset units, the peak season is over without any work,” said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. The moratorium period should be extended for existing loans and should be provided for a longer period. “We are asking for waiver of interest,” he said. The penalty paid by micro units for delay in GST remittances should be reimbursed. The new MSME definition should be kept in abeyance till the industry recovers from COVID-19 impact. The views of the micro and small-scale units should be taken into consideration, the associations said. The associations demanded the State Government to not collect electricity charges from the micro and small-scale units for the lockdown period. Several States had announced electricity tariff concessions, they pointed out. Thousands of workers come to Coimbatore for work from other districts in the State. They are facing difficulties in getting e-passes to return from their home towns to Coimbatore. All the hurdles should be removed so that the workers can come back. The State Government should also extend financial support to the micro and small-scale units, the associations said. Meanwhile, the Joint Council of Associations of Coimbatore appealed to the Union Finance Minister to initiate steps that will help the MSME sector. Listing out four measures announced by the Minister, the Council sought changes in those so that more MSMEs can benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-units-seek-financial-support-from-state-and-central-governments/article31683365.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 4.5 crore to create corridors for cyclists, pedestrians in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation has earmarked Rs. 4.5 crore to create non-motorised transport (NMT) corridors in the city, Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said at a webinar here on Tuesday. Non-government agency ITDP had in association with the Smart Cities Mission, World Bank and German agency GIZ organised the webinar, urbanlogue, on “Instant street interventions to expand space for walking and cycling”. After the spread of COVID-19, the Corporation had quickened the process of creating the NMT stretches and had identified street stretches measuring a total of 30 km. It had also initiated the process of floating tenders for the Rs. 4.5 crore project. The Corporation’s decision to go ahead with the NMT corridor was a result of the tactical urbanism experiment it had taken up in December 2019-January 2020 by painting a few stretches of Big Bazaar Street, Raja Street and the area around Town Hall. Feedback The feedback the Corporation had received from the 15-day experiment was that people, by and large, welcomed such interventions. “Initially, the Corporation had a tough time convincing the stakeholders. But, after the experiment got off, the vehement opposers became vocal advocates of such interventions.” The Commissioner said a bicycling track proposed under the Smart Cities Mission would cover all the nine lakes (tanks) that the Corporation had taken up for development under the Area Based Component of the Smart Cities Mission project. The Smart Cities Mission Director Kunal Kumar told participants that cities selected under the Smart Cities Mission project had the freedom to make the interventions as they thought necessary to promote bicycling and walking. Nupur Gupta, Senior Transport Specialist, World Bank, said it was important to create the necessary infrastructure with minimum investment on streets to encourage people to either walk or bicycle and not push them towards private vehicles in the wake of the physical distance to be maintained to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-45-crore-to-create-corridors-for-cyclists-pedestrians-in-coimbatore-city/article31683334.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hotels modify services for flight travellers to quarantine||Several hotels in the Coimbatore district have opened their doors to passengers, who land in the city by flight, for a day’s quarantine. The hotels, many of the international brands and those in the brand category, have also modified their systems to offer contactless service.  Checking temperature, use of sanitisers and disinfectants, and staff wearing masks and gloves have all become mandatory at these hotels. At Fairfield by Marriott, one wing has been allocated for air passengers. Meals are served to customers at the doorstep of the room. Enough stock of tea bags, soaps, garbage bags, etc are provided at these rooms so that the guests do not have to come out. “All necessary precautions have been taken and a dedicated team will serve the guests who quarantine at the hotel,” says JP Menon, General Manager of the hotel, here. Any passenger who arrives at the Coimbatore International Airport is given the list of hotels that they can choose to stay (paid stay) for a day. If they test negative for COVID-19 they can go home and if they test positive, they are shifted to hospital for treatment. If a passenger chooses Marriott, the hotel’s vehicle at the airport brings the guest to the hotel. Disinfectants are sprayed on the bags and the guest checks in at a separate counter. The welcome letter lists the precautions, dos and don’ts, he adds. At The Residency Towers, “All facilities are provided to the guests but there is no room service,” says its General Manager Charles Fabian. Plates, spoons and forks are all available at the room and meals are served at the room’s door step. The staff are also trained and the required precautions are taken, he adds. From Oyo rooms to star hotels, the flight travellers have a wide choice of hotels where they can quarantine for a day. However, some hotels closed down completely from March 25 when the nationwide lockdown came into effect and these do not accept guests. The hotels are all working towards contactless services to build confidence among travellers that they can go to another city and stay safe, hotel industry sources say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-modify-services-for-flight-travellers-to-quarantine/article31683349.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people share waterholes with animals||As many as 37 Kadar families of Erumaiparai tribal settlement, within the limits of Ulandi range of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), are depending on two waterholes for their water needs which wild animals ranging from tiger to elephant also use to quench thirst. The situation was different until two years ago when they were getting water in pipeline at the settlement itself as Vettaikaranpudur town panchayat was providing free fuel to draw water from a deep well, almost 400 metre away from the huts, using a diesel motor. According to V.S. Paramasivam, Coimbatore district president of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association, the town panchayat stopped two years ago free provision of 30 to 40 litres of free diesel a month following an argument between Forest Department staff and the staff of the local body. “The argument broke out when Forest Department staff blocked the vehicles of the local body officials who wanted to visit the tribal settlement. The town panchayat stopped supplying free fuel since then, following which the tribal people dug two waterholes close to a stream, around 200 metre away from the settlement,” said Mr. Paramasivam who has been taking the issue with the authorities for a solution since then. With no water source at the settlement, more than 130 of its residents are using the same waterholes to take bath and wash clothes. Women and men have time slots to take bath, that too during hours when animal movement is low. “Animals including, wild boar, Gaur, bear, tiger and elephant also use the two waterholes. Animals like elephant leave dungs in the waterhole which makes the water unsafe to drink,” said K. Thanalakshmi, a resident of the settlement. According to her, there are around 15 children in the settlement. Mr. Paramasivam said that receipts issued for vehicle parking and other passes at Topslip elephant camp bear the name Erumaparai Pazhangudiyinar Nala Membattu Kuzhu which means that a share of the money charged from visitors was to be spent for the welfare of the settlement. The Kadar settlement, like many other settlements in ATR, also lack public toilet and electricity supply. The residents squat near bushes close to the settlement to attend nature’s call and many were injured in the attacks of animals like Gaur. An official from Vettaikaranpudur town panchayat told The Hindu that it had sponsored the motor and diesel following recommendation of the then MLA years back. However, it could not continue monthly provision of diesel due to lack of funds. When contacted, Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Filed Director of ATR, said that he has directed Ulandi forest range officer for immediate temporary arrangement for fuel to operate the motor. “For official supply of diesel for the motor, the matter should be presented in the next meeting of ATR Foundation. There are 27 such tribal settlements in ATR that require facilities including toilet. A proposal has been sent seeking funds for the implementation these requirements under Special Area Development Programme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-people-share-waterholes-with-animals/article31683347.ece
27 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Contacts of COVID-19 patient test negative in the Nilgiris||Fifty-two primary and secondary contacts of a COVID-19-positive woman in the Nilgiris have tested negative, District Collector J. Innocent Divya said on Tuesday. The 21-year-old pregnant woman had tested positive upon returning from Chennai recently. The woman, who was staying with her family at Khandal near Fingerpost in Udhagamandalam, has been admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI hospital in Coimbatore. A 100 houses in the area, surrounding the one she had been staying in for two days after returning from Chennai, is now a containment zone. The Collector said volunteers would provide essential supplies to the people living in the zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contacts-of-covid-19-patient-test-negative-in-the-nilgiris/article31683353.ece
27 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary held on harassment charge||The Saravanampatti police on Tuesday arrested Ramamoorthy, a functionary of DMK’s agriculture wing, on various charges, including woman harassment based on a complaint filed by a woman from Malumichampatti. The police said that a case was registered against Ramamoorthy on May 21 and his arrest in the case was recorded on Tuesday in a prison where he was lodged in connection with another case. Rs. 20,000 fine imposed Forest Department imposed fine to the tune of Rs. 20,000 on a man who procured venison from a deer that was found dead in the attack of dogs on Monday. Frontline staff of Karamadai forest range found S. Vasanth (24) of Thimmampalayam Pudur with venison during a patrol. The man confessed to the staff that he found a deer that was killed in the attack of dogs at Kurunthamalai near Maruthoor village and he procured a portion of the meat. The fine was imposed on the man as he took the meat for consumption without informing the Forest Department about the dead deer. Woman dies of burns A woman died of burns, allegedly in a scuffle she had with her husband at their house near Podanur on Tuesday. The police said that a woman aged around 35, a resident of Vinayagar Kovil Street and a native of northern State, died in the quarrel with her husband who was in inebriated state. The police said that the man aged around 40 poured kerosene on the woman and she caught fire during the quarrel. The man also suffered injury when he tried to save her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-functionary-held-on-harassment-charge/article31683368.ece
27 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco to start works on sub-station||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) plans to start works for a sub-station on the Anna University, Coimbatore, campus from next week. An official of Tangedco said the saplings planted by Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) on the plot identified for the sub-station will be replanted on an alternative site. The University is expected to provide the required approvals shortly. Pending for three years The sub-station work is pending for three years and when the works start, it will be completed soon. A few days ago Tangedco tried starting the works by cutting down some of the saplings planted on the site and since there were objections to it, the works were stopped. Revenue officials inspected the site and afted discussions with the University, NGOs, and Tangedco, it was decided that the saplings will be shifted to another site and the sub-station works will be taken up on the plot alloted to Tangedco, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-to-start-works-on-sub-station/article31683339.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chennai returnee tests positive for COVID-19||A 24-year-old man from Rathinapuri, who came to Coimbatore on a flight from Chennai, on Monday and tested positive for COVID-19 has been admitted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, said Health Department officials. The patient's count was included in the list of Chennai, said officials and the number of active cases in Coimbatore was zero on Tuesday as per Health Department's COVID-19 media bulletin. Swab samples Health Department staff had taken swab samples of 93 passengers, including the 24-year-old, on arrival at Coimbatore International Airport on the Indigo flight 6E 381 around 8 p.m. on Monday. He was asymptomatic when Health Department staff screened him. After lifting the swab sample, the man chose paid institutional quarantine at a hotel here. He tested positive early on Tuesday, following which he was shifted to ESI Hospital. Workers of the Health Wing of Coimbatore Corporation fumigated the room where he stayed while his co-passengers, whose test results returned negative, were put under observation, said sources. According to a statement issued by IndiGo, the passenger who tested positive was seated on-board the aircraft with all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, as were the other passengers.  No one else was seated in his vicinity, significantly reducing the possibility of transmission, it said. The release said that all of its aircraft were regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure and the aircraft travelled by the patient was also immediately disinfected as per protocol. It added that the crew of the aircraft was grounded for 14 days and the airline was in the process of notifying other passengers to ensure their safety as per the government guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-year-old-tests-positive-in-coimbatore/article31683300.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Roadside vendors seek permission to resume business||Members of the Coimbatore Mavatta Salaiyora Matrum Nadaipathai Vyabarigal Sangam on Tuesday petitioned the Coimbatore Corporation seeking permission to resume business. More than 50 vendors who went to the Corporation said that during the lockdown, though they lost their business and livelihood, they managed to pull through because of the State Government’s assistance. Now after the Government eased quite a lot of restrictions, they had been petitioning the Corporation for permission to resume business but were not getting it, the vendors said. From May 14 to 26, they had been approaching the Corporation but were yet to get permission. If the Corporation were to grant permission, they would be able to make their ends meet, the traders reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roadside-vendors-seek-permission-to-resume-business/article31683356.ece
27 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore airport sees three inbound, outbound flights on Day 2||The Coimbatore International Airport had three inbound and outbound flights on the second day of resumption of domestic services on Tuesday. It had four inbound and outbound services on Monday. Sources said that IndiGo operated services on Delhi – Coimbatore – Delhi and Chennai - Coimbatore – Chennai sectors. SpiceJet had a single service on Chennai - Coimbatore – Chennai sector. A service that IndiGo operated on Bengaluru – Coimbatore – Bengaluru sector on Monday stood cancelled on Tuesday. Similarly, IndiGo’s services on two more sectors that were announced earlier, connecting Mumbai and Hyderabad, also did not operate on Tuesday. Sources at the airport said that 62 passengers from Delhi and 241  passengers from Chennai landed at the airport on Tuesday. Health Department staff took swab samples from these passengers and sent them to government arranged institutional quarantine or paid quarantine in select hotels where they were to stay till the test results return. Outbound passengers included 123 to Delhi and 101  to Chennai. Sources with the airlines said that arrangements including credit shell and rescheduling of journey were followed for cancelled flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-airport-sees-three-inbound-outbound-flights-on-day-2/article31683360.ece
27 May 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Two Cuddalore prison inmates test positive||Two inmates of the Cuddalore Central Prison at Keppar Malai near here have tested positive for COVID-19. According to Prison Department sources, “The two were life convicts who were shifted to the isolation ward in the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital in Chidambaram for quarantine and treatment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-cuddalore-prison-inmates-test-positive/article31683306.ece
27 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Froth in Pitchaikaran canal not from industries, says TNPCB||With residents claiming that presence of froth in Pitchaikaran Canal is due to textile processing units releasing untreated effluents into the canal, officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has clarified that formation of froth is due to discharge of waste from households and commercial establishments and not from industries. Residents of B.P. Agraharam noticed abundant froth in the canal, opposite to a private school, who claimed that effluents from processing units are released into the canal and urged officials to initiate action against the units. When contacted, a senior engineer at the TNPCB told The Hindu that sewage water from households and commercial establishments located in 30 wards in the corporation limits are let into the canal which finally enter River Cauvery at Vairapalayam. He said that the water flows freely in smooth surfaces and when falls from five feet near the school, bubbles and froth are formed. We have lifted water samples and tested on the spot that shows the Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) was 860 to 890 mg per litre. “If it is industrial effluent, TDS could be from 4,000 to 6,500 mg per litre”, he said. The official said that the upper limit of TDS level in drinking water is 500 mg per litre and samples lifted from River Cauvery and Kalingarayan Canal show TDS is 300 and 230 mg per litre respectively. There are around 500 small and tiny units involved in dyeing, bleaching and leather processing in the Erode Corporation limits and power connection was disconnected to 25 units in the past six months for discharging effluents into drains, he said added that they continue to monitor the unit even during night hours to check violations. Of the 60 wards in the corporation limits, Underground Sewerage Scheme (UGSS) has been completed in 30 wards and the sewage water is processed and the water is let into river. UGSS in the remaining 30 wards is expected to take over two years for completion after which the problem of pollution is expected to be solved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/froth-in-pitchaikaran-canal-not-from-industries-says-tnpcb/article31683336.ece
27 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani demands reopening of temples||Urging the State government to reopen the temples, members of Hindu Munnani performed squats in front of various temples here on Tuesday. The protest was held at Periya Mariamman Temple, Kottai Perumal Temple, Thindal Murugan Temple, Veerappanchatiram Mariamman Temple and at Surampatti Mariamman Temple. Members said that when the government can open Tasmac outlets for its customers and provide police protection to ensure personal distancing, temples can also be opened during the lockdown. During crisis, people need belief and they offer prayers at temples seeking protection. “There is an urgent needs to reopen the temples that were closed for over two months”, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-demands-reopening-of-temples/article31683338.ece
27 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works in the electric lines, there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May 28, Thursday.  Vendipalayam sub-station : Roja Nagar, LIC Nagar, Pudukalli Valasu, Kumaran Nagar and Shastri Nagar (Full area)  Elumathur sub-station: Elumathur, Mangaradu, Sellathampalayam, Pandipalayam, Ellakadai, Kadakinaru, Kulavilakku, Modakurichi, Kulur, Vadugapatti, 60 Velampalayam, Maniyampalayam, Vellapethampalayam, V. Pudur, Ganapathipalayam, Anandampalayam, Erappampalayam, Minnankattu Valasu, Veppili and 24 Velampalayam.  Kaspapettai sub-station: Kaspapettai, Mullamparappu, Chinniyampalayam, Velangattu Valasu, Veerapampalayam, 46 Pudur, Rangampalayam, Kurikaranpalayam, Chellapampalayam, Govindanaickenpalayam, Nanjai Uthukuli, Sankaranpalayam, T. Mettupalayam, Anakalpalayam, E.B. Nagar, K.S. Nagar, Indian Nagar, Telephone Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Chettipalayam, Sadayampalayam, Muthugoundanpalayam, Karundevanpalayam, Chavadipalayam Pudur, Keliyampatti, Ragupathi Naickenpalayam and Kagathanvalasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31683337.ece
27 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Waiting for the elusive train to head home in Bastar||Bali Ram had given up hope. “I have stopped calling up people to ask if there will ever be a train to take us back home,” he says with a tinge of impatience. As the trains leave Hosur station to return migrants in thousands to their home states, the Gondi tribal people of Sirisguda village in Jagdalpur division of Bastar district in Chhattisgarh working the granite quarries of Kelamangalam here are inching towards desolation. There are 52 of them working in the granite quarries. And unlike the migrants from the other states, their numbers don’t add up to flag a train. On May 15, this group of people hailing from the left-wing extremism hit district of Chhattisgarh, marched 25 km from their quarry to Hosur hoping to leave home. They had trekked to Hosur after the supervisor of ‘7 Hills quarry’ allegedly ill-treated them – a charge denied by the latter. “We are not used to being treated like that. He threw us out and locked up our rooms. So, we left,” says Bali Ram, recounting the time they reached the railway station only to be chased out by the railway police. That was when the local media came to know of them. Over the last week, Bali Ram was persistently calling people back home and also this Correspondent, to ask if there was a train to Chhattisgarh. As the past week witnessed a steady departure of trains ferrying not less than 1,500 migrants each day to their home states, it was slowly sinking in that these tribal people hardly stood a chance to demand a train from their home State. Theirs is a seasonal migration for work. But, now was the time to leave. Back home, their lands await them to till and cultivate. “We grow paddy and corn,” says 22-year-old Munna. “We cultivate our own land, we eat from it. We sell our produce to buy some other produce,” says Bali Ram, trying to explain why they had to leave before the farming season began. Our families are worried. We are the labour for our family-owned farms,” says Munna. Sambarthi, along with six other young women, had travelled down with the men for the job at the quarry in February. While the men drilled, these young women stuffed the drilled holes in the stone quarries with chemicals to explode the rock face. The men got paid Rs. 700, while women got paid Rs. 300 per day. Asked if he will ever come back, Bali Ram says, “never”. But they also know, they will never see the money they make here. They make between Rs. 17,000 and Rs. 22,000 a month. The quarry supervisor Venkatachalapathy, however, says he treated them well. “Ask them if I had cut down on food or supplies during the lockdown. Last night, they called to tell me the cooking gas was over. I sent a cylinder through someone at night,” he says. “They wanted to walk 1,500 km and I told them it was a bad idea.” For now, the workers want a transport back home. “This is a moral responsibility and should be borne by the granite quarries association and the industries association,” says Sridharan, district president, Democratic Youth Federation of India. “Workers are sourced as labour from the country’s deep interiors by the contractors for the sake of the industry. When the government is unable to find a train, the industries association should help fund the transport,” he contends. Similarly, there are a few hundred workers from Tripura and Assam. There should be ways to send them home, despite their small numbers, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waiting-for-the-elusive-train-to-head-home-in-bastar/article31683352.ece
27 May 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple robbed in Ulundurpet||Unidentified persons broke into the house of an elderly couple in Koovagam, near Ulundurpet, during the early hours of Tuesday, and gagged them, before decamping with gold jewellery and cash. The police said that the robbery took place at the residence of Ramaswamy, 62. Six masked men entered the house by breaking open the main door. They gagged Mr. Ramaswamy and his wife Rajakumari, 50, and took away 16 sovereigns of gold jewellery, and Rs. 2.80 lakh in cash. After they left, the couple managed to untie themselves and alerted the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-robbed-in-ulundurpet/article31683311.ece
27 May 2020||Krishangiri,TAMIL NADU||Four detained under Goondas Act||Four persons, who were involved in robbery, were arrested and booked under the Goondas Act by the police. The accused Rajkumar, Radha, Sivashakti alias Shaktivel and Herin Alosyius were arrested for thefts and robbery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-detained-under-goondas-act/article31683333.ece
27 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Three including nurse test positive in Krishnagiri||A 32-year-old nurse at the Hosur Government Hospital and two others tested positive for COVID-19 here on Tuesday. Travel history The nurse reportedly travelled back from Nagercoil with her husband last week. She had assisted in swab collection of the last COVID-19 positive patient, a call-taxi driver, who had returned from Bengaluru. Deputy Director of Health V.Govindan told The Hindu the nurse had her PPE on, while collecting the swab. “But we do not know, if it was the travel history to Nagercoil.” A second person, who was in contact with the call-taxi driver, also tested positive on Tuesday. The person was the apartment owner, where the call-taxi driver was staying. The third positive case is that of a lorry driver from Vanniyambadi. The driver had delivered goods from Bengaluru to Chennai and had returned to his mother’s house in Hosur. He had tested positive on Tuesday. With three fresh cases, the number of active cases in the district had gone up to 7 as of Tuesday. Isolated The infected persons have been admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward at the ESI Hospital in Hosur. Incidentally, a majority of cases have been reported from Hosur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-including-nurse-test-positive-in-krishnagiri/article31683361.ece
27 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Elevated highway work hit as migrant workers leave||With many migrant workers going back home following the COVID-19 lockdown, work on constructing the first elevated highway of Madurai district on New Natham Road has suffered a setback. Out of around 400 migrant workers hired, only 60 have stayed back in Madurai. The workers, who were kept at the camps by contractors until a few days ago, have started going back to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha after Shramik special train services began in the State. “Our contractors took care of them very well with food and accommodation. But the workers were swept by fear of COVID-19 and the overall sentiments of people from all over the country, who are going back to their native villages,” said an officer from the National Highways Authority of India. When the mass movement of migrant workers started across the country, people in Madurai district too wanted to go back home. Many workers said that their family members were concerned about their well being and wanted them back home. The workers were confident of finding jobs in agriculture back at home with the farming season likely to start soon in many States. The migrant workers were preferred by contractors as they would work for longer hours and their speed of work. “Being residential workers, they would start their work early in the morning. They would not complain even if they had to work in late nights,” said an engineer. “Though all those skilled workers involved in various work process are still available, the lack of these unskilled workers is slowing down the work,” said NHAI Project Director, Saravanan. While over 40 days of work were lost in lockdown, on resumption, the work -- envisaging construction of the elevated highway for 7.3 km on the New Natham Road -- has not gained the usual momentum in the last month due to the lack of migrant workers. Migrant workers are expected to return only after normality returns, upon the complete lifting of lockdown and resumption of train services. “Meanwhile, the Centre has sought our workforce requirement. We are hopeful of getting some more strength by pooling in the available manpower resources in the neighbourhood,” Mr. Saravanan said. While over 40% work of elevated highway has been completed, around 60% of the road-widening work for 29 km has been completed so far. The work was originally scheduled to be completed by November 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elevated-highway-work-hit-as-migrant-workers-leave/article31683619.ece
27 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. combs social media for violators of wildlife laws||With hundreds of people logging on to social media platforms like TikTok, Facebook and Instagram during the lockdown, the Forest Department in Madurai has created a dedicated wing to monitor videos to find instances of hunting and mismanagement of animals. District Forest Officer, S. Anand, said that two foresters have been appointed by the Department to look through thousands of videos on these platforms. This is part of a State-wide initiative to expand the Forest Department’s surveillance on social media. He says that with ample time during the lockdown, many people are forthcoming about posting pictures and videos of capturing Schedule 3 and Schedule 4 animals, and keeping them captive. “The two foresters have joined TikTok and are looking through several hundred videos. This is apart from the several tip-offs we get from volunteers and concerned citizens,” he says. Since the beginning of the lockdown two months ago, a total of seven cases have been registered by the Forest Department purely based on videos found on social media, the DFO said. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau has been aiding the department in tracking offenders through posts, screenshots of their pictures and videos and interaction in the comments section of the posts. “It is new for us to foray into this platform but we have realised that a handful of people have been taking advantage of these platforms to engage in trade,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-combs-social-media-for-violators-of-wildlife-laws/article31683610.ece
27 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court disposes of petitions filed by spinning mills||Disposing of a batch of writ petitions filed by spinning mills, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has permitted the petitioners to approach the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity to resolve the issue on electricity charges for high tension (HT) consumers. The spinning mills had moved the High Court Bench stating that the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (TNERC) suo motu order directing Tangedco to collect reduced electricity charges in view of the COVID-19 pandemic was not followed. The petitioners had argued that in view of the nationwide lockdown, all mills had stopped their operations and their consumption of electricity was only minimal to the extent of maintenance for safety and security purposes. The State on Tuesday informed Justice C.V. Karthikeyan that the order of the TNERC was stayed by the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity. The court observed that the petitioners could very well join the appellate proceedings. Taking into account the plight of the HT consumers, the court said that they could give a representation to Tangedco to extend the period for payment, to pay the charges as stipulated by the appellate tribunal and to participate in the appeal proceedings. The court directed the Superintending Engineers concerned to the collect the data on the consumption of electricity by the individual petitioners during the lockdown and issue the necessary certificate in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-disposes-of-petitions-filed-by-spinning-mills/article31683631.ece
27 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Constitute panel to probe Visakhapatnam gas leak’||All India People’s Science Network (AIPSN), Madurai, has demanded a detailed and impartial inquiry by an expert committee, to be appointed by the National Green Tribunal, into the Visakhapatnam gas leak incident. At least 11 people were killed and over 350 admitted to hospitals after styrene monomer gas leaked from a chemical plant belonging to LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram in Visakhapatnam on May 7. It is said that the plant was operating without the mandatory environment clearance from the Central government. In a press statement released here, the members of the AIPSN said the inquiry committee should identify the direct and proximate causes for the gas leak. The lapses and negligence that led to the leakage must be identified and responsibility fixed for failure to take precautionary measures, they said. They pointed out that there was failure on the part of the plant to sound the siren, which would have alerted the people to the danger. There was also violation of various regulations governing hazardous materials, they said. The committee should look into the impact of the leak on human health, animals, poultry, plants, vegetables, waterbodies and soil with the assistance of medical, scientific and technical experts, they said. The Network members urged that the inquiry committee should recommend compensation to be paid by LG Polymers to the affected people. Also suitable costs must be imposed on the company for remedial action, health monitoring and treatment, they stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constitute-panel-to-probe-visakhapatnam-gas-leak/article31683613.ece
27 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays transfer of conservancy worker||Bringing relief to a conservancy worker who questioned the State for not providing adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) to the workers in Ramanathapuram district, Justice J. Nisha Banu of the Madras High Court on Tuesday stayed his transfer. The petitioner, K. Balu (55), moved the High Court Bench in Madurai challenging his transfer from Ramanathapuram Municipality to Usilampatti Municipality. He alleged that he was being transferred because he had questioned the municipality. He said though the conservancy workers were regularly engaged in work by Ramanathapuram Municipality, they were not provided with sufficient protective gear following COVID-19 pandemic. On April 26, the workers staged a demonstration against the municipality. Subsequently, he said he was transferred to Usilampatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-transfer-of-conservancy-worker/article31683622.ece
27 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||1,068 migrants leave for M.P. from Madurai||A total of 1,068 people, who were brought from 12 districts, left for Madhya Pradesh on a special train from Madurai at 8.05 p.m. on Tuesday. As many as 167 of them were staying in Madurai district. The others were brought from Kanniyakumari, Karur, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Dindigul and Pudukkottai districts. A majority of them were migrant workers. A total of 426 people are expected to board the special train at Erode, according to a press release from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1068-migrants-leave-for-mp-from-madurai/article31683632.ece
27 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SSI alleges assault by gang||Three police complaints have been registered in Sindupatti police station about an alleged assault on a Special Sub-Inspector of Police, C. Vasimalai, at Kangeyanatham since Sunday night. Vasimalai lodged a complaint against eight persons, including R. Arunachalam (23), that the SSI, attached to Vikkiramangalam police station, was returning home on Sunday night following a wordy quarrel. However, the next day, his brother-in-law, Dhanasekaran (55), lodged another complaint against Arunachalam and three others of having attacked him. In a counter complaint, Arunachalam said that Vasimalai, his wife, Pandiammal, son Sridhar and brother-in-law Dhanasekaran had assaulted him. Police said Arunachalam and Dhanasekaran were held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-alleges-assault-by-gang/article31683624.ece
27 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishers rule out getting into the sea on June 1||Fearing weak market conditions and citing their unreadiness due to non-maintenance of boats so far, heads of the 64 fishing hamlets in Nagapattinam-Karaikal region have collectively decided not to go for fishing from June 1, in the wake of the government's announcement curtailing the fishing ban period by a fortnight. In a meeting with Collector Praveen P. Nair and senior officals of Fisheries Department, representatives of the fishing hamlets rejected the permission granted by the Ministry of Fisheries to permit motoried boats to enter into the sea a fortnight before June 15 when the annual 61-day ban period was to end, apprehending that resumption of fishing activities from June 1 would only worsen their economic condition. Market condition “Getting into the sea without creating the proper market conditions is meaningless. We have asked the district administration to prevail upon the Government to issue instructions to buyers and exporters that the entire fish catches will be procured. In any case, repairs have not been carried out so far for a good number of motorised boats,” Rajendran Nattar of Akkaraipettai, a participant of the meeting, said. “There was indeed a bright possibility for netting large catches after the gap in fishing, in the event of the mechanised boats that are in good condition entering into the sea. But what if there is a glut situation and the fish catches are not procured?” Mr. Rajendran questioned. The COVID- 19 lockdown has crippled the fishing economy, and the onus was on the Central and State Governments to revive the sector that earns huge foreign exchange. While Andhra, Puducherry and Kerala governments provide grants and interest-free loans to the fishermen for undertaking repairs of the motorised boats during the fishing ban period, there was no such scheme in Tamil Nadu, the heads of the fishing hamelts complained. ‘Extend scheme’  They urged the government to take effective steps to extend the scheme similar to Kisan Card for the economic uplift of the fisher community. The Collector instructed the Fisheries officials to take up the concerns expressed by the representatives of the fishing hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-rule-out-getting-into-the-sea-on-june-1/article31683655.ece
27 May 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Isolation of Iran returnees discussed||Collector Prashant M. Wadnere and Tamil Nadu Government’s Special Representative for Delhi N. Thalavai Sundaram on Tuesday had a discussion with Roman Catholic priests of coastal parishes on keeping in home isolation 700-odd fishermen to return shortly to the district from Iran for 14 days as all these fishermen are RC Christians. They were stranded after the lockdown. Since they have to be screened and kept in home quarantine for two weeks even though they test negative for COVID-, Mr. Prashant and Mr. Sundaram discussed it with Rev. Fr. Stephen, director, Coastal Peace and Development Centre. Mr. Sundaram had already completed the preliminary discussion with Bishop of Kottar Diocese Most Rev. Soosai Nazarene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolation-of-iran-returnees-discussed/article31683614.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||Hold LS proceedings in Central Hall: DMK MP||Pushing for resumption of Parliamentary sittings, Rajya Sabha MP and DMK leader Tiruchi Siva has suggested that both the Houses move into roomier spaces so that Parliament could meet adhering to social distancing norms. Mr. Siva has written to Vice-President and Chairman of the Rajya Sabha Venkaiah Naidu in this regard. “The issue of space constraint for the seating of the members to maintain social distancing will be one of the matters of serious concern to be resolved . In this context, my suggestion is that till this menace is over Lok Sabha proceedings can be held in the Central Hall by making necessary alterations and Rajya Sabha proceedings could be in the LS hall, which would help members to sit at required distance,” he said. The iconic Central Hall is used for joint sittings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The monsoon session of Parliament usually begins by the first week of July. However, there is no clarity on whether the schedule will be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hold-ls-proceedings-in-central-hall-dmk-mp/article31683330.ece
27 May 2020||P.A.Narayani,TAMIL NADU||‘Post-lockdown, tourism industry will need multi-stage action plan’||Tourism industry in Madurai, which provides jobs to hundreds of people, will take at least a year for revival. For that to happen, a multi-stage action plan to promote Madurai as a safe tourist spot is needed, say stakeholders. Different stakeholders – autorickshaw drivers, bus operators, travel agents, hoteliers, tour guides and vendors around tourist spots – have been severely affected due to COVID-19 pandemic. “In recent years, food tourism has exponentially grown in Madurai. The delay in revival of the industry would affect hundreds of small eateries, including those selling jigarthanda ,” says a Tourism department official. Post-lockdown, bus and flight fares are expected to increase exponentially, further worsening the prospects of tourism industry, says M. Rajesh, secretary, South Tamil Nadu Association of Travel and Tourism. “The need to maintain personal distancing and frequent disinfection of buses will increase fares, resulting in lower patronage,” he adds. G. Raveendran, who runs ‘Skywing, a firm arranging travel packages, says due to Covid-19 outbreak, visa norms have been changed in several countries. “Even if relaxations are offered and safety measures are adopted, people won’t have money for trips in the near future,” he says. In the coming months the government must focus on domestic tourism and promote Madurai as a safe tourist spot to help revive the sector, says Chitra Ganapathy, president, Travel Club, Madurai. She says tourism is expected to revive in five stages. In the first stage, people will start visiting local restaurants and subsequently visit nearby tourist spots. Then they will travel to other districts by car. Then, they will take inter-State train or flight journeys. In the final stage, international tourists will start coming in – probably in October 2021, she adds. “The focus must be to instil confidence among tourists of safety and hygiene that will be in place at tourist spots,” she says. Personal distancing, hand washing and wearing of masks must be enforced in all spots, including temples, she adds. K.P. Bharathi, Programme Leader, Dhan Foundation, stresses identification and promotion of lesser-known destinations. “Several tourist spots in Madurai are untapped. There are Jain sculptures at around 18 locations in the district; several villages with historical significance along the Vaigai; and traditional trade routes,” he adds. The Tourism department official says disinfection of all major tourist spots is under way, and measures to ensure personal distancing after the opening of the spots are also taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-lockdown-tourism-industry-will-need-multi-stage-action-plan/article31683626.ece
27 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Free rice for yellow ration cardholders||The Puducherry government will soon start distribution of 20 kg free rice to yellow ration cardholders, to compensate for the livelihood loss due to the COVID- 19 lockdown. “The Lt. Governor has given financial sanction for the procurement of rice from the Food Corporation of India. A sum of Rs. 5.28 crore will be paid to FCI in a day. We are planning to distribute the rice by end of this week,” Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy told The Hindu.  The rice would be distributed after eliminating government servants and income tax payees from among the list of beneficiaries, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-rice-for-yellow-ration-cardholders/article31683301.ece
27 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen want to go to sea only by June 15||The announcement from the Union and State governments permitting fishermen to commence operations from June 1 has not been welcomed by the their associations. At a meeting here, representatives of various fishermen’s associations appealed to the governments to postpone the commencement at least by 14 days. Speaking to reporters, fishermen association leader P. Sesuraja said all the fishermen remained indoors till date due to the lockdown. Due to Amphan cyclone, many boats were damaged in the heavy winds in Rameswaram, Thangachimadam and Pamban. Hence, fishermen and boat owners had to ascertain the damage, arrange for funds and get the repairs done. Also, many fishermen had to get the fish nets ready as they were off sea since March 20. Moreover, the workers had to be mobilised to carry out the repairs on the sea shore, where the boats have been anchored, Mr. Sesuraja said and added that the fish exporters too had expressed inability to keep their shops open from June 1. The exporters have said that the workers have left for their native places. Hence, they may not be in a position to function immediately and sought time for normal functioning. Considering the situation that had arisen due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the association members said that though they had requested the government to lift the lockdown earlier, the events that took place during the last 30 to 45 days had only aggravated the issues. The members, through a resolution, urged the governments to announce the date of fishing from June 15. They also thanked the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for announcing Rs. 20,000 crore as relief to the fishermen and the State government for giving them Rs. 5,000 for two months and another Rs. 1,000 as COVID-19 relief. Last week, District Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao and fisheries department officials made spot visits to assess the damages caused to the boats during Amphan cyclone. At least, 70 to 90 boats were damaged either partially or suffered minor damages. The former minister and MLA Manikandan too visited the hamlets and the damaged boats. He promised to take it up the issue with the State government for necessary relief, a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-want-to-go-to-sea-only-by-june-15/article31683612.ece
27 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special wards set up at three UPHCs to treat COVID-19 cases||The Salem Corporation has set up special wards at three of its Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) here to treat COVID-19 cases reported within the Corporation limits. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh, along with City Health Officer K. Parthibhan, and other officials, reviewed the arrangements at the UPHC in Kumarasamipatti here. Mr.Sadheesh said that the special wards were set up at the UPHCs in Kumarasamipatti, Anadhanapatti and Anna Hospital as part of COVID-19 precautionary measures. “If COVID-19 positive cases are reported within Salem Corporation limits, they could be treated at these facilities,” he said. He added that medical equipment were bought for Rs. 30 lakh from the State Disaster Relief Fund to be used in these special wards. Mr. Sadheesh said that no new positive case was reported within the Salem Corporation limits in the last 33 days. Nine checkposts have been set up at the city borders to screen persons coming from other places and they are quarantined at facilities here until their test results are known. He added that till date, they would have screened about 4,000 persons within Corporation limits. City Health officials said that three four-member teams have been formed to work in these special wards. According to officials, 30 beds have been set up at each of these special wards and 252 medical equipment including multi para monitor, EG machine, Ambu bag, intravenous infusion pump, pulse oximeter, BP apparatus and others have been procured for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-wards-set-up-at-three-uphcs-to-treat-covid-19-cases/article31683363.ece
27 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Six centres set up in Salem||The evaluation of Plus-Two answer scripts would be held at six in the district between May 27 and June 26. According to officials, two centres each has been set up at Salem, Attur and Edapaddi education districts. As many as 266 chief examiners, 266 scrutiny officers, 1,544 assistant examiners and 275 other staff would be involved in the evaluation process. As a precaution against COVID-19 disease, District Collector S.A. Raman said in a release that the centres would be disinfected before and after the correction process and the rest rooms would be disinfected once in two hours. According to officials, 26 buses would be operated in 23 routes for bringing the staff to the centres and each person would be provided with reusable masks and sanitisers. Officials said that only eight persons, including one chief examiner, one scrutiny officer and six assistant examiners would be allowed in a room to ensure physical distance. According to officials, as many as 3,20,266 answer scripts would be evaluated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-centres-set-up-in-salem/article31683342.ece
27 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||13 persons recover from COVID-19 in Salem||Thirteen persons who were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for COVID-19 disease were discharged on Tuesday. The patients -- 11 men and two women -- had returned from Maharashtra and were admitted to the hospital by May 16. While being discharged, they were provided with hand sanitisers, masks, and an immunity-building concoction by doctors. They were advised to be in home quarantine for 14 days and contact the doctors in case of any illness.  10 new cases  Ten new cases, including a woman, were admitted to the medical college hospital on Tuesday. They had come to Salem from Delhi, Maharashtra, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh recently, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-persons-recover-from-covid-19-in-salem/article31683354.ece
27 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Case against over 50 persons for conducting group prayers||Salem City police has registered case against 57 persons at two stations in its limits for defying prohibitory orders and conducting prayers on Ramzan. According to police, the case has been registered against 36 persons at Kitchipalayam police station and 21 persons at Salem Town police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-over-50-persons-for-conducting-group-prayers/article31683367.ece
27 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Gymnasiums seek permission to operate||Members of the Salem District Amateur Body-building Association petitioned District Collector on Tuesday seeking permission to reopen gymnasiums. The petitioners said that their gymnasiums were remaining closed for over two months, ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced. They said that the livelihood of gym owners and trainers were hit and they were unable to even pay the rent for their gym premises. The petitioners requested the district administration to allow them resume operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gymnasiums-seek-permission-to-operate/article31683358.ece
27 May 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Teen stabbed to death near Sivaganga||Rajesh (18), son of Velmurugan of Vaniyankudi near Sivaganga, was murdered by an armed gang on Tuesday. Preliminary inquiry suggested that a property dispute between Mr. Velmurugan and one Sekar of the same area led to the murder. It is said that in December 2019, Rajesh had attacked Sekar, and his murder was a retaliation. When Rajesh spotted a seven-member gang, he attempted to escape from the spot, but the assailants chased and stabbed him to death, eye witnesses said. Additional Superintendent of Police Mangaleswaran, Deputy Superintendent of Police Abdul Gafoor and Inspector Mohan inspected the scene of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teen-stabbed-to-death/article31683633.ece
27 May 2020||THANJAVUR/tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Congress protests move to amend Electricity Bill||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S.Alagiri on Tuesday alleged that free farm power supply scheme could come to an end soon as the State government was not strong enough to thwart the ulterior motives with which the Union government has brought out the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill. Talking to reporters after attending a demonstration organized by the Thanjavur District North Congress Committee at Kumbakonam on Tuesday, Mr.Alagiri said the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister should come out in public and register his protest against the Centre’s move just as the Opposition parties were doing. The Modi government would definitely ensure that Tamil Nadu government falls in line with the move to pull the curtains down on the free farm power supply scheme as it had done in the NEET examinations. The NEET examinations were being conducted in Tamil Nadu despite the resolutions passed by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly twice opposing the examination. The Union Government was exploiting the poor financial situation in which the State governments were in by laying condition that they should wind up free schemes so as to be eligible to draw more funds from the Central pool, he charged. Since it was evident that AIADMK government was not trustworthy, Mr.Alagiri said the TNCC would embark on `jail bharo’ movement if the Union and State governments fail to withdraw the amendment aimed to wipe out the free farm power supply scheme. Tiruchi A group of Congress cadre staged a demonstration here on Tuesday demanding the Central government to withdraw the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The party functionaries led by its urban district president Jawahar came in a procession and staged a demonstration in front of the Teppakulam post office holding black flags to express their opposition to the ruling Central government's move. The party men alleged that the ruling BJP government was working in a manner to withdraw free electricity that was benefitting the poor farmers, those living in slums, poorer sections and weavers. They said the farmers, weavers and poorer sections had fought hard to get free electricity. Police sources said the Fort Police had registered a case against the protesting Congress functionaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-protests-move-to-amend-electricity-bill/article31683657.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||31 board flight to Chennai, as more migrant workers leave by train||IndiGo airline resumed its operation on the Chennai – Tiruchi – Chennai sector on Tuesday a day after it operated services in the Bengaluru – Tiruchi – Bengaluru sector during the lockdown. The incoming ATR flight from Chennai that landed here in the morning had only 17 passengers on board. Airline sources said all 17 passengers from Chennai were subjected to screening using thermal scanners as per standard operating protocol. The passengers were advised to remain in home quarantine for a period of 14 days, a senior district administration official said. The same flight later left for Chennai carrying 31 passengers on board. The specified protocols were followed for the passengers leaving from here, the sources further said. The airline, however, cancelled its night flight to Chennai on Tuesday. The airline which had a couple of days ago announced the resumption of its services on the Chennai – Tiruchi – Chennai sector from May 25 cancelled it at all of a sudden and resumed its first service on the Bengaluru- Tiruchi – Bengaluru sector. The airport has had limited domestic connectivity - one to Chennai and another to Bengaluru – both operated by IndiGo. Meanwhile, Spice Jet operated an all cargo Boeing 737/800 flight to Singapore from here in the late hours on Monday. Airport sources said it was a passenger flight which carried cargo. The flight transported 12 numbers of export perishable cargo shipments consisting of assorted vegetables, fruits, flowers and leaves weighing 14,938 kg besides one export shipment of general cargo (mask) weighing 264 kilograms to Singapore. This is the fifth flight operated by Spice Jet from Tiruchi to Singapore during the COVID-19 lockdown period transporting perishables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-board-flight-to-chennai-as-more-migrant-workers-leave-by-train/article31683663.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bus stand remodelling project, historic canal take a major hit||Acute labour shortage has hit the remodelling of Chathiram Bus Stand in the city. Construction of a multi- level complex, creation of two terminals for buses with each having a capacity to accommodate 15 buses at a time, provision of a two-wheeler parking lot, construction of a food court, luggage safety counter, footpath, feeding room for lactating mothers, passenger waiting hall, construction of 28 shops are among the components of the project. In addition to it, there is also a plan to build eight sanitary complexes. The project being implemented at a cost of Rs. 17.34 crore under the Smart City Initiative is aimed at providing modern amenities to passengers as well as ensuring trouble-free operation of about 300 bus services a day to various destinations in the city limit and neighbouring villages. Tiruchi Corporation began construction in June last. But there was hardly any progress in the initial five months and the delay was attributed to the problem over devising a strategy to provide temporary space to the buses being operated from Chathiram Bus Stand. In November, corporation officials, in association with city police, earmarked the site along St. Joseph’s College and Shrimati Indira Gandhi College for buses bound for various destinations. It was only after this move that construction work actually began. The contractor, who bagged the project, engaged migrant workers mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for the construction work. By the time they were about to complete the foundation of the multi-level complex, the Centre clamped the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19 virus, forcing the contractor to halt work on March 25. After a gap of about two months, construction work began about two weeks ago. But the work is moving at a snail’s pace as most migrant workers returned to their native States. Only a few workers are engaged in the project site now and efforts are on to engage local workers. But it is said that they demand higher wages. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian, who reviewed the progress of the project with officials, told The Hindu that the contractor had been asked to expedite work. “Workers are in demand as most of the migrant workers have gone home. It has been decided to engage as many local workers as possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-stand-remodelling-project-historic-canal-take-a-major-hit/article31683674.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rising CUTN stature draws several applicants for VC post||There are many aspirants from amongst senior and retired professors of Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi, for the post of Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruvarur, that falls vacant later this year. As the tenure of the current Vice-Chancellor, A.P. Dash, is coming to an end during August, the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) released an advertisement on May 17, inviting applications for the post in order to complete the appointment process beforehand. Last time, there were at least 20 applicants from Bharthidasan University. This time, the number could be much more, it is learnt. The requirements specified for applicants constitute the highest level of competence, integrity, morals and institutional commitment; a distinguished academician, with a minimum 10 years of experience as Professor in a University or 10 years of experience in a reputed research and/or academic administrative organisation with proof of having demonstrated academic leadership; and preferably not more than 65 years of age as on June 17, 2020. The choice of the candidate will be made from a panel of names recommended by a committee constituted under the provisions of the Central Universities Act, 2009. The progress made by the CUTN since its inception in 2009 is stated to be a driving factor for attracting many applications for the top post. The CUTN, in its 11th year now, has registered significant progress in teaching and research in the disciplines of social sciences and humanities, basic and applied sciences, mathematics and computer sciences, behavioural sciences, commerce and business management, communication, education and training, technology, and performing arts. The uniqueness of CUTN is the great opportunity for students for increased cross-cultural understanding, say faculties. Last year, the university received over 80,000 applications for the 1,100-odd seats. The varsity has also made its mark in research with several flagship publications in high-impact peer-reviewed international journals such asNatureandLancet. CUTN’s citation track is also strong, with some of the faculty members having over 8,000 citations and an h-index of 47. CUTN has managed to secure over 447 publications in Scopus-indexed journals, with over 3,800 citations and an h-index of 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-cutn-stature-draws-several-applicants-for-vc-post/article31683669.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||They are quick to point fingers at each other||Garbage continues to be dumped into Uyyakondan canal near Palakkarai flyover even amid the lockdown. Officials responsible for the cleaning complain of public apathy. As the fallout of urbanisation, the seven-km urban stretch of the canal, which is an irrigation channel, has been subject to heavy pollution, with several open drains and sewage from houses being let directly into it. It is a historic canal which has been reduced to a dumping ground, some say. People residing near the flyover complain that mosquitoes are rampant, even during the day. “With COVID-19 already a major threat, we do not want to be concerned with malaria and dengue too. We have had to spend thousands to make mesh doors and cover all our windows too. It is unbearable,” said S. Muthusamy, a resident. “People have been dumping plastic bags into the drain and the numbers have only continued to increase during the lockdown, he said. “They come as though they are walking after dinner at night and toss a bag or two in,” he added. Another section of the public claim that the Corporation, responsible for making underground drainage systems for residents in the area, has not ensured that all houses are connected to it. Therefore, sewage from households and apartments run straight into the canal, turning it into a foul-smelling, brackish water body. Water hyacinth adds to the problem by tangling with plastic waste and also providing a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Citizens of Uyyakondan, a citizens’ action group working with the aim of restoring the century-old river, say that they have several plans in place for redevelopment of the river. The group has a plan in place for sewage control and has also managed to rope in sponsors for the same. They are also looking to install a sewage treatment plant and the Collector has also allotted land for it, they claim. “We require a no-objection certificate from the Public Works Department, and the officials are not responsive,” a volunteer with CFU said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-are-quick-to-point-fingers-at-each-other/article31683668.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Open Uzhavar Sandhai, Tiruchi residents urge Collector||With the State government gradually relaxing restrictions on business and trade activities, local residents have urged the district administration to reopen the farmer’s market ( Uzhavar Sandhai ). There are eight of them in the district and three in the city. The markets at Anna Nagar, K.K. Nagar and Subramaniapuram are popular and receive good patronage from customers and farmers. Since farmers directly market their produce at these places, the prices are fixed by the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business and they are usually on a par with the rates at Gandhi Market. The Anna Nagar market receives about 2,500 to 3,000 customers on a daily average. The number swells to about 5,000 on Sundays. Since March 20, all have downed shutters following the lockdown enforced in view of the viral pandemic. Gandhi Market too closed down subsequently as it drew huge crowds. To ensure availability of vegetables, the district administration opened temporary retail markets at various places including Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Stand. Farmers, who usually bring their produce to Anna Nagar market, were asked to sell them at Central Bus Stand. Only a handful complied. Many await the reopening of the markets. Residents have also urged the Collector to take steps to reopen them immediately. “Since their closure, we have been forced to spend heavily on vegetables. Hence, they should be opened immediately,” says I. Sahabudeen of Pattabiraman Pillai Street. The existing infrastructure at the Uzhavar Sandhai in Anna Nagar is suitable to ensure social distancing norms. If needed, customers can be allowed in batches similar to the system in force in grocery shops, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-uzhavar-sandhai-tiruchi-residents-urge-collector/article31683671.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No fresh cases in six districts||No fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported from six districts in the central region on Tuesday. Ariyalur and Tiruchi were the only districts that reported one positive case each. Karur, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts reported no fresh cases. According to a press release by Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu, five patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Tuesday after recovery. Of them, two each were from Tiruchi and Perambalur districts. The number of patients, who were under treatment at MGMGH, stood at 11. Ten were from Tiruchi district, while one was from Perambalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-fresh-cases-in-six-districts/article31683661.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Homebound||As many as 1,374 migrant labourers left by a Shramik special train to Jharkhand from the railway junction in Tiurchi on Tuesday. Special buses were operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation to bring the migrant labourers from districts such as Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Cuddalore, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Kallakurichi and Namakkal to the railway junction for their onward journey to their home State. Tiruchi district accounted for 341 migrant labourers. Official sources said personal distancing was ensured at the station and the labourers were provided with food, water bottle and biscuits before boarding the coaches. Revenue and transport officials were present at the station when the migrant labourers left by train around 6.40 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homebound/article31683664.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Father, sons arrested for murder||A 36-year–old mason was fatally stabbed allegedly by a man and his three sons at Navalpat on the outskirts of the city on Monday. The victim, T. Lakshmanan, a resident of Burma Colony area, succumbed to the injuries at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in the late hours. His elder brother, Shanmugam, who was also injured in the attack, was undergoing treatment, police said. G. Gopalakrishnan, 55, and his three sons, G. Damodaran, 19, G. Dinesh Kumar, 20, and G. Sathyanarayanan,18, were arrested for the murder. They were neighbours of the victim. Shanmugam demanded liquor from Damodaran on seeing the latter returning home after buying a bottle. Damodaran refused and abused him, police said. Shanmugam and Lakshmanan assaulted Damodaran with sticks. The youth’s father and brothers intervened and the four allegedly stabbed Lakshmanan and Shanmugam. Lakshmanan succumbed to injuries in hospital. Navalpat police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-sons-arrested-for-murder/article31683675.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Open Hindu temples’||Members of the Hindu Munnani performedthopukaranamsin front of temples in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts on Tuesday demanding that devotees be allowed to havedharshanof deities. Maintaining social distancing, they assembled in front of temples such as Sirrangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Tiruchi and Sri Brahadeeswarar temple in Thanjavur. The activists performed the squatting exercise while raising slogans urging that the gates of the temples be thrown open to allow devotees to offer their prayers. Pointing out that Hindu devotees had to stay away from their places of worship following the State government’s decision to deny access to the devotees to offer their prayers at the temple in order to avoid congregation of people from March 25, the demonstrators raised slogans urging the government to allow the devotees to enter the temples as the State had succeeded in preventing the COVID-19 pandemic assuming the ‘social spreading’ stage. The demonstrators also performedarathisby lighting camphor in front of temples at Punnainallur, Kumbakonam and other places in the district. In Pudukottai, the Hindu Munnani members staged the protest in front of Sri Muthumariamman Temple, Tiruvappur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-hindu-temples/article31683660.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two paper evaluation begins today||Evaluation of Plus Two answer papers, which got delayed due to COVID – 19 induced lockdown, is to commence at 7 centres in Tirunelveli district from Wednesday onwards. Around 1,000 teachers are involved in this exercise. “Each room with better ventilation will have only eight persons – a Chief Examiner, a Scrutiny Officer and six Assistant Examiners – so that physical distancing can be ensured in every hall. All of them have been asked to wear mask while sanitizer will be kept in every room,” said Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish after inspecting the facilities made in one of the schools for smooth evaluation of answer scripts. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, S. Saravanan, Chief Educational Officer Bhoopathi and other senior officials accompanied the Collector. Evaluation is expected to be completed before second week of June and hence the results will be available before June-end, sources in the Department of School Education said. Dindigul Elaborate arrangements were in place for evaluation, said Collector M. Vijayalakshmi. Speaking to reporters, she said that the plus two exams were held from March 2 to 24. From the district, 20,917 students including boys and girls and private students appeared in 84 centres from 205 schools. All the 1396 teachers earmarked for the purpose would be present at the centres from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m., the Collector said. Earlier, at a review meeting with senior officials, Ms. Vijayalakshmi held discussions on the arrangements made for the tenth public examinations which would begin from June 15 to 25. The officials said that 12,956 girls and 12,924 boys would appear for the examinations from 352 centres in Dindigul, Palani and two other educational districts. The Collector asked for the number of teachers and students who would come from containment zones to the exam halls and the special arrangements made for such people. Similarly, the officials said that students coming from other districts to write examinations shall display the identity cards issued by the schools instead of e-pass for travel, they clarified. The Corporation Commissioner Sendil Murugan, DRO R. Govindaraj, CEO Manivannan, PA (General) R. Rajkumar, PO DRDA Kavita and other officers participated in the meeting.  Theni Collector M Pallavi Baldev told reporters that 887 teachers would be engaged in the district. After inspecting arrangements at a school in Muthuthevanpatti, she said 99,131 papers would be valued. Ramanathapuram  Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that valuation of 99,528 answer scripts would be carried out in four centres - two in Ramanathapuram and two centres in Paramakudi from Wednesday. A total of 928 teachers would be engaged in the exercise. He inspected the facilities at a school in Ramanathapuram accompanied by officials. Madurai All safety measures are in place at the six centres in Madurai district, say officials from the School Education Department. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that around 1,800 teachers will evaluate the Class 12 examinations. The evaluation will take place at six centres. He said that every day, the halls will be thoroughly disinfected twice. The teachers have to compulsorily wear face masks. “The department is also providing three face masks to every teacher,” he said. The teachers will be screened using thermal scanners before entering the hall. A sanitiser will be placed for every two halls, he added. Buses have been arranged for 18 routes across the district to facilitate the transport of teachers to the evaluation centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plus-two-paper-evaluation-begins-today/article31683617.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Thoothukudi flight service resumes||After two months, the Chennai-Thoothukudi flight landed at Thoothukudi airport with 42 passengers on Tuesday. As COVID – 19-induced lockdown led to the suspension of all flight services across the country, Thoothukudi lost its air connectivity with Chennai with the suspension of 5 services a day. Moreover, the port town also lost its lone flight service to Bengaluru. Though the government had announced that the flight service would resume from May 25 when the lockdown was relaxed, the Chennai – Thoothukudi service for Monday was cancelled in the eleventh hour, much to the agony of the passengers. Against this backdrop, Indigo’s flight that left Chennai at 11 a.m. landed at Thoothukudi on Tuesday at 12.40 p.m. with 42 passengers, who were screened at the airport itself by a medical team. After stamping ‘isolation’ marker seal on their hands, 41 passengers were allowed to go home with ‘kabasura kudineer’ concoction powder. All of them have been advised to be in ‘home-quarantine’ for two weeks. Blood and throat swab samples were collected from the lone passenger from Gujarat, who was taken to the isolation ward after preliminary screening. Following medical screening, 52 passengers boarded the Chennai-bound flight at 1.25 p.m. under the supervision of Collector Sandeep Nanduri and Thoothukudi Airport Director N. Subramanian. Mr. Sandeep, before leaving the airport, said there would be flight service between Chennai and Thoothukudi on alternate days till May 31 and this schedule would be revised from June 1 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-thoothukudi-flight-service-resumes/article31683615.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi adds 10 more COVID-19 positive cases||While Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts did not record any fresh Covid–19 positive cases on Tuesday, Thoothukudi district reported 10 fresh cases. Eight of the 10 cases were from Maharashtra and one was from Uttar Pradesh. The last case was from the district, which now has 128 cases under treatment. Kanniyakumari district, which recorded four fresh cases to take its tally to 58, had three of them from Maharashtra. The district now has 30 active cases. Meanwhile, 22 patients, who were undergoing treatment at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, were discharged. Though sources in the Department of Public Health claimed that Tirunelveli district had 32 new cases on Tuesday and released a list of new patients for the day, it did not reflect in the medical bulletin released by the State government in the evening. “These cases may be included in tomorrow’s medical bulletin,” the sources said. While Tirunelveli has 115 patients under treatment now, Tenkasi has 32 patients. Madurai Two persons – a 47-year-old man from Sellur and an eight-year-old girl from Tirupparankundram – tested positive in Madurai, taking its toll to 233. Collector T.G. Vinay said apart from the two local cases, a 28-year-old man who had travelled from Ahmedabad to Madurai by train also tested positive. He had been quarantined at a separate facility. All the three persons did not show any symptoms and did not have any comorbidities, he added. Meanwhile, two persons were discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital and the active number of cases now is 109.  Virudhunagar  district reported one fresh case. The person, had come from Maharastra by bus and was kept in a quarantine facility in Madurai. Two patients from Virudhunagar district were discharged on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases in the district is 116 and active cases 70. While one new case was reported in Dindigul and Ramanathapuram each, Theni and Sivaganga did not record any new cases on Tuesday. According to health officials, a person who returned from Maharashtra tested positive in Dindigul, and a person from Kerala tested positive in Ramanathapuram. Nine persons were discharged from hospital in Theni district, according to the medical bulletin. Two patients were discharged in Dindigul and one was discharged in Ramanathapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-adds-10-more-covid-19-positive-cases/article31683621.ece
27 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department chips in for kin of deceased watcher||Two weeks after the death of forest watcher C. Santhru, who was washed away on May 9 at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district while retrieving the carcass of an elephant in Contour Canal, Forest Department officials are continuing to pool in money from across the State for the family members. Forest officials visited Santhru’s residence in Keeramangalam in Alangudi, Pudukkottai district on May 21, which would have been his 26th birthday and donated Rs. 4.31 lakh to his family members. “We are collecting some more money and will hand it over next week,” said C. Dhanabalan, Udumalpet Forest Range Officer. The collection from hundreds of officials and personnel from across the State is coordinated through a WhatsApp group. All the money will be donated to the bank account of a coordinator, who will transfer the money to the account of Santhru’s mother, he explained. Santhru was part of a 15-member team from Udumalpet Forest Range who were sent to rescue a seven-year-old male elephant that accidentally fell into the Contour Canal near Pollachi in Coimbatore district on May 9. During the operation, he jumped into the canal in hopes of rescuing the elephant alive and was washed away. His body was rescued the next day and was handed over to the family members in his home town. Compensation The Forest Department will provide a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to those personnel who died on duty, which will be provided to Santhru’s kin after the completion of certain legal procedures, according to Mr. Dhanabalan. The forest watcher is survived by his parents and an elder brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-chips-in-for-kin-of-deceased-watcher/article31683302.ece
27 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||3 special trains operated from Tiruppur||The Salem Division of the Southern Railway operated three Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction for the migrant workers in Tiruppur district on Tuesday. The trains were bound for Balangir, Odisha, Muzaffarpur, Bihar, and Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, and left the Tiruppur Junction at 1 p.m., 4 p.m. and 8 p.m., respectively. Each train ferried 1,600 passengers, railway officials said. The special trains were operated from Tiruppur Junction after a gap of five days. On Monday night, a special train from Coimbatore Junction bound for Korba, Chhattisgarh, halted at Tiruppur, where 800 migrant workers boarded the train. As of Tuesday, 12 Shramik special trains were operated from Tiruppur Junction, which comprised seven trains for Bihar, two trains for Odisha and Uttar Pradesh each and one train for Jharkhand. Around 18,000 migrant workers were sent to their home towns via trains and around 9,000 workers were sent through buses from Tiruppur district so far, according to the district administration officials.  Coimbatore Coimbatore Junction on Tuesday saw the operation of the 30th Shramik special train. The train to Dibrugarh, Assam, ferried 1,600 passengers and left the Junction at around 3 p.m., railway officials said. The 30 special trains were operated to nine States namely Bihar (10), Uttar Pradesh (6), Odisha (5), Jharkhand (3), Assam (2) and one each for Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-special-trains-operated-from-tiruppur/article31683357.ece
27 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for murder attempt||Tiruppur North police arrested five persons, including four minors, on Tuesday on charges of attempting to murder. The police said that Stephen Raj, 21 along with two 16-year-old boys and two 17-year-old boys, attacked Rajesh (26) with a sickle at Palayakadu on Monday. Rash driving The gang members were allegedly driving their two-wheelers in a rash manner and creating unwarranted noise in the area. When Rajesh asked them to not drive in such a manner, he was attacked, according to the police. Rajesh, who suffered head injuries, was admitted at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Based on his complaint, Tiruppur North police booked the five accused under section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and they were remanded in judicial custody. The four minors will be sent to the Juvenile Observation Home in Coimbatore, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-for-murder-attempt/article31683366.ece
27 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Congress stages protest||Members of Congress Tiruppur District (North) on Tuesday staged a protest in nearly 100 locations opposing the Central government’s alleged proposal to scrap the free electricity to farmers. The protests took place at Kangeyam, Palladam and Avinashi. The protests were carried out by maintaining physical distancing and avoiding crowds, said P. Gopi, President of District Congress Committee. In Salem also Congress staged a protest at various parts of city on Tuesday opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill and cancellation of free electricity schemes A few cadres of the party gathered at various points in the city maintaining physical distance and staged the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-stages-protest/article31683345.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Schedule for revenue audit announced||The annual jamabandhi meetings of the Revenue Department will be held from the first week of June. The annual audit of revenue records will begin in Tiruvarur district on June 5. The jamabandhi at Kudavasal taluk will be chaired by the Collector from June 5 to 17. Other jamabandhis : Needamangalam taluk by District Revenue Officer (June 5 to 16); Valangaiman (June 5 to 17) by Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Tiruvarur; Mannargudi (June 5 to 25) by RDO, Mannargudi; Tiruvarur (June 5 to 17) by District Adhi Dravidar Welfare Officer; Nannilam (June 5 to 18) by Additional Special Tahsildar (Social Security Schemes); Thiruthuraipoondi (June 5 to 17) by Personal Assistant to Collector (Land Acquisition) and Koothanallur (June 5 to 16) by Assistant Commissioner (Excise). The meetings will be held on all working days except on government holidays (Saturdays and Sundays) and on Mondays, Collector T. Anand said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schedule-for-revenue-audit-announced/article31683658.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop Mettur surplus water scheme’||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has urged the Cauvery Water Management Authority to intervene and prevent the implementation of the Mettur Surplus Water Scheme proposed by the state government. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the association general secretary, P.R. Pandian around 18 lakh acres of agriculture lands in delta districts depend on the Cauvery for irrigation and also remain as the lifeline for more than 50 lakh people in this region. The delta contributed a production of around 40 % of the total agriculture produces harvested in Tamil Nadu. The State government had recently launched a project to tap the “surplus water” from Mettur dam to irrigate thousands of acres of land in Salem district and was going ahead with the project. Pointing out that the riparian States of Cauvery could not take up such projects without the permission of the CWMA, he said even the CWMA could not express its consent to such projects without eliciting the views of the farmers in the lower riparian region. The government seems to have overlooked the orders and directions issued by the Cauvery Tribunal and the Supreme Court. Hence, the CWMA should intervene immediately and stop the State government from carrying out the work. Else, the association would be forced to file a case against the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-mettur-surplus-water-scheme/article31683659.ece
27 May 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,000 migrants given a warm send off from Vellore||Migrant people including patients, caregivers and workers, who were staying in Vellore district, were sent home by various Shramik special trains operated from Katpadi and Chennai. So far, 10,637 persons have left for north and north eastern States, said Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10000-migrants-given-a-warm-send-off-from-vellore/article31683299.ece
27 May 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Mask vending machine installed at Gudiyatham Municipality||The Gudiyatham Municipality in Vellore district has made available affordable face masks at Rs. 5 per piece in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. The masks are dispensed through a vending machine placed at the Municipality office. Vellore District Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram inaugurated the event on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-vending-machine-installed-at-gudiyatham-municipality/article31683307.ece
27 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Privatisation of power distribution will hit common man: Virudhunagar MP||Centre’s move to privatise power distribution will not just hit the free power scheme for farmers, but affect the common man with immediate steep hike in tariff, warned Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore. Stating a protest against the move, in front of the Virudhunagar railway station here on Tuesday, the Congress MP said that at the first look, it would like that only farmers would be affected. “When power distribution was privatised in New Delhi in 2012, there was multi-fold increase in power tariff and people suffered,” he said. Stating that only corporate companies will come forward for power distribution, he said they will be only interested only on profits and not bothered about common man. When asked that the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, has written to the Centre asking it to give up the new move, he said similar letters that were written for NEET met with a negative reply. “It is high time that all opposed this move vehemently to stop this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/privatisation-of-power-distribution-will-hit-common-man-virudhunagar-mp/article31683629.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds of bullock carts line up at Cauvery after sand quarry opens||The Public Works Department on Tuesday reopened an exclusive sand quarry for bullock cart operators on the Cauvery at Keezha Mullaikudi village on the outskirts of the city. The sand quarry, which was opened last year, was closed after enforcement of the lockdown norms in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the reopening of the quarry came as a huge relief for hundreds of bullock cart operators deprived of their livelihood, they, however, feared that their happiness could be shortlived unless such quarries were opened on the Kollidam as Mettur Dam is set to be opened on June 12. Once the water reached the Cauvery here, the Keezha Mullaikudi quarry would have to be closed again. “The quarry was closed in March after the lockdown was announced, rendering over 5,000 bullock cart operators and labourers jobless. All these workers have been eking a living out of lifting sand on bullock carts from the Cauvery and the Kollidam for several years,” said G.K. Ramar, president, Tiruchi District Sand Bullock Cart Labourers Association, affiliated to CITU. Mr. Ramar said that many of the bullock cart operators were not even able to buy cattle feed during the lockdown. They did not get any other government support and were in penury. “We made a representation to the Collector regarding their plight and sought the reopening of the quarry and we are happy that our request has been conceded,” Mr.Ramar said. However, the workers could be rendered jobless again soon once the Mettur water reached here. So, the district authorities and the Public Works Department should take steps to open exclusive quarries for bullock cart operators on the Kollidam at Madhawaperumal Kovil, Koogur and Thalakudi, as already agreed upon during peace talks held earlier, he added. Sand bullock cart operators largely hail from Manchanallur, Lalgudi, Tiruverumbur and Srirangam taluks in the district. However, stiff competition and high demand for sand led to a clash at Keezha Mullaikudi last year. Following the incident, the district administration introduced online system under which operators had to register themselves. Under the system, the operators would be intimated of the time allotted to them for loading sand at the quarry through SMS sent to their registered mobile numbers. Only those who received the SMS would be allowed to load sand at the quarry. According to sand cart operators, there would be only about 800-900 permanent operators doing the job down the years. But the high demand for sand over the past few years had resulted in all and sundry, from politicians to retired officials, operating bullock carts to get a share in the pie, they alleged. A bullock cart operator got to lift only one load a week on paying Rs. 105 to the government and would manage to sell it, depending on the distance of the delivery point, at a maximum of Rs. 3,000, the operators added.  PWD should take steps to open exclusive quarries for bullock cart operators on the Kollidam at Madhawaperumal Kovil, Koogur and Thalakudi G.K. Ramar President, Tiruchi District Sand Bullock Cart Labourers Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hundreds-of-bullock-carts-line-up-at-cauvery-after-sand-quarry-opens/article31683680.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nine more die as T.N. reports 646 fresh cases||With this, the total number of persons discharged after treatment increased to 9,342, while the number of active cases stood at 8,256. The State’s recovery rate was 52%. While Chennai continued to top the table, there were 25 new cases in Tiruvallur, 22 in Chengalpattu, 13 in Kancheepuram, six in Tiruvannamalai, four in Cuddalore, three in Vellore, two each in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Madurai, and one each in Kanniyakumari, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Thoothukudi. Apart from these cases that were reported within the State, 54 persons who returned from other States tested positive for COVID-19. Among them were 35 persons who returned from Maharashtra. They tested positive in districts such as Thoothukudi, Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi and Salem. Five persons, who had returned from Dubai, tested positive during the exit test on Tuesday. After domestic flights resumed operations on Monday, a total of 840 persons returned to Chennai on 15 flights. This included 116 persons who arrived on Tuesday. A total of 10,289 samples were tested on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 4,31,739. A total of 4,12,357 persons have been tested till date. Testing of 556 samples is under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-more-die-as-tn-reports-646-fresh-cases/article31683313.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Educationist opposes Class X exam schedule||Acclaimed educationist V. Vasanthi Devi, 81, has moved the Madras High Court against the State government’s decision to conduct board examinations for Class X from June 15. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and Anita Sumanth on Tuesday, senior counsel R. Vaigai, representing Ms. Devi, said that out of 9.44 lakh students who were slated to write the exams this year, 4.07 lakh were from government schools; 1.38 lakh from fully aided schools; and 91,918 from partially aided private schools. “Thus, 6.38 lakh students are from State-funded schools having only basic minimum infrastructure with no fancy trappings for their education,” she said, adding that these students, hailing from poor backgrounds, would be at a disadvantage when compared to others who could afford to attend online classes, refresher courses and so on. Further, many students who were residing in hostels run by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare department had left their books behind when they rushed to their residences before the lockdown came into force. Similarly, students residing in hilly areas and other difficult terrains were not even aware of the government’s decision to conduct examinations from June 15. Accusing the government of having ignored these ground realities, the senior counsel said the only way out was to cancel the board examinations for Class X this year and promote students based on their performance in pre-board examinations, as had been done in Punjab and Chhattisgarh, or to conduct the examinations after the threat of COVID-19 subsides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educationist-opposes-class-x-exam-schedule/article31683316.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lifer lodged in Tiruchi Central Prison tests positive||A life convict, who went to Chennai to attend a free legal aid programme, tested positive on Tuesday. The lifer went to attend the programme held at the Central Prison in Puzhal in Chennai last month along with three other prisoners from here. The 40-year-old lifer returned to Tiruchi Central Prison on May 22 and complained of fever thereafter. He was taken to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here for examination and the test results turned out to be positive on Tuesday, the sources further said. The convict hails from Dindigul district. The sources also said that medical teams had lifted samples on all other prisoners lodged in the same cell in which the lifer was lodged. In addition to this, tests were also conducted on jail officials. The sources said tests had been conducted on about 100 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lifer-lodged-in-tiruchi-central-prison-tests-positive/article31683676.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Electrocution risk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electrocution-risk/article31683344.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bothering bees||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bothering-bees/article31683666.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on May 26||Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Tuesday) Persons recovered:  145 Death :  1 Active cases: 0   House quarantined: 1,718 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 26) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-on-may-26/article31683359.ece
27 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Did Shikarji returnees violate norms?||Serious allegations of quarantine violation have emerged in the case of some COVID-19 patients who had returned here from Shikarji, a Jain pilgrimage centre in Jharkhand. As many as 13 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. They are part of a team of 30 pilgrims who had returned from Shikarji. Three tested positive last week. The allegations are that they had violated home quarantine regulations. Most of them have roamed around villages. The affected persons hail from Savadi, Belavakki, Nandagaon and Jhunjharwad villages near Athani. “While in quarantine, they have routinely met relatives and friends who brought them food from home. After release, they have not followed home quarantine properly,” said an officer in Athani. “As many as 10 persons have had a haircut. One of them organised a mass lunch for friends and relatives after his successful completion of his pilgrimage. Another person travelled to Jamkhandi in Bagalkot district on business. All this is being recorded and sent to the district administration in a report,” said an officer from Athani. Some residents of Sampagaon village alleged that they had avoided institutional quarantine altogether, using political pressure. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has denied this. “It is not true that they were not in institutional quarantine,” he said. “Our office has received some complaints. If they are found to be true, we will take legal action against the violators,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/did-shikarji-returnees-violate-norms/article31683438.ece
27 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two women killed in road accident||Two women out on an evening walk were killed in a road accident in Mutaga village near Belagavi on Sunday night. Vidya Patil (45) and Savita Balappa (47) were killed and another woman, who was with them, suffered injuries. She is under treatment at the civil hospital. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered at the Marihal Police Station against Yuvaraj Jadhav, president of the BJP Yuva Morcha unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-women-killed-in-road-accident/article31683441.ece
27 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Residents told to pay revised property tax||There are no indications that the Department of Urban Development will roll back the increase in property tax immediately, District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar said in Belagavi on Tuesday. “I had taken the demand by some persons to roll back the increase in property tax in Belagavi and other cities, to the State government. I requested the Chief Minister to ask the department to withhold the increase. But that has not happened. I urge residents of these cities to pay the revised rate of tax as of now. There is a possibility that the rates may be reduced in future. If that happens, then we will try to see that the additional payment is adjusted,” he said at a meeting of officials. He said that the State government had made elaborate plans to send back migrant workers to the States of their origin. He said that a final decision on allowing workers from Maharashtra to return would be taken by the Chief Minister after consulting senior officials. He expressed displeasure over private clinics and hospitals remaining closed during lockdown. “They should have served people, but they did not. That is unfortunate,” he said. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli pointed out that officials had issued notices to over 450 clinics in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-told-to-pay-revised-property-tax/article31683437.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two women labourers from Jharkhand face ordeal in city||A chance encounter of two women migrant workers from Jharkhand with another labourer from their own tribe at a police station has brought to light an alleged case of bonded labour and rape in the city. On May 5, Nicolas Murmu, a migrant labourer from Jharkhand, met two women in their late ’20s accompanied by their children at Kumbalagodu Police Station. All of them had gone to the police station to register to go home by train. The women spoke only in Santali language. “They told me they had escaped from a factory where they were held captive and harassed. They were now living in a building under construction. They had been given shelter by a contractor. However, he was not treating them well,” Nicolas Murmu told The Hindu . As he reached out to his friends in Jharkhand, an activist tweeted about the plight of the women. As word spread, volunteers from Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) rescued the two women on May 22. The women and their children – each is a mother of two – escaped from the factory in March before the lockdown. They went into hiding in the woods of Kumbalagodu scrounging and begging for food. In their statements, they said that a man, who identified himself as Asgar Ali, promised food and shelter and took them to an under-construction building. “While we were there, the lockdown was announced. We were stuck. Asgar Ali misbehaved with me and made sexual advances,” said one of the women. As part of the police investigation, the two women were taken to the factory. At the factory premises, one of the two women, who is 27 years old, claimed that she was raped. “We were held captive in the factory and not paid what was promised to us. So I escaped from the premises in January, only to be tracked down by the supervisor Sanjeev and forced to return. As we returned, Sanjeev beat me up and locked me up in a room. Two other men, Sanjay and Kiran, also working in the factory, raped me twice in two days, at the behest of Sanjeev,” the victim told the police, as per the complaint. She showed them the crime scene and identified Sanjay and Kiran who were arrested. However, Sanjeev had gone to his native place Bihar in March, sources said. The police have registered a case of rape and under the SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act, but there is no case against the factory owner for bonded labour. “We were taken from Dumka district in Jharkhand to Delhi by a man named Dhamaru. We were handed over to unknown people who brought us to Bengaluru in October 2019. We were given work at Bharat Chemical Products, Kumbalagodu,” said the women. They were allegedly promised Rs. 9,000 per month, but were given only Rs. 200 per week. “The factory employs hundreds of workers who were made to sleep in a cramped room. The two women were made to work 15 hours a day on a regular basis. They were confined to the factory and not allowed to go out even to buy basic essentials, like soap and oil,” said Mallige Sirimane, an activist with Karnataka Janashakti, who played a role in their rescue. Activists want the police to register a case of human trafficking and bonded labour, but the district administration is yet to inspect the factory premises. “The first thing the government needs to do is to rescue others if held captive in similar conditions at the factory. The factory owner's statement is yet to be recorded,” said Mallige Sirimane. The activists of Karnataka Janashakti and SWAN have demanded an inquiry into the larger human trafficking network behind the case, all dues and compensation for the trauma suffered by the women to be borne by the company and its license be revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-women-labourers-from-jharkhand-face-ordeal-in-city/article31683224.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hotel owners seek package for workers, permission to open||As large number of hotels and restaurants continue to be shut during the lockdown, a delegation of the Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants’ Association (KPHRA) called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday and urged the government to grant permission to re-open in the State. This was their second meeting with the Chief Minister with the demand. The government is likely to communicate the association’s demands to the Ministry of Home Affairs for further directions. Speaking to The Hindu , B. Chandrashekar Hebbar, president of KPHRA, said the association has demanded a special package for hotel workers and waiver of three-month electricity bills and property tax of hotel buildings, as owners of properties have been demanding rent during the lockdown period. The association briefed Mr. Yediyurappa about the necessity of re-opening hotels as buses, airlines and trains have resumed services. “Those travelling depend on hotels for food and accommodation and it is imperative on the part of the government to grant permission to resume hotel services for the benefit of commuters as well the hotel industry,” Mr. Hebbar said. Noting that hotel managements have made arrangements to ensure implementation of social distancing norms during the delivery of food, Mr. Hebbar said the association has urged the government to allow dine-in. He said only small hotels have been providing takeaway services. The hotel industry incurred a huge loss owing to closure of business during peak summer days due to lockdown. The association demanded the package for hotel employees such as cooks and waiters, along the lines of those announced for farmers, cab drivers and weavers. Mr. Yediyurappa told the delegation that the Centre has to grant permission to open hotels and restaurants and lockdown 4.0 norms are still in force till May end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotel-owners-seek-package-for-workers-permission-to-open/article31683245.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trade unions, industry bodies dig their heels in on VDA||Trade unions told the State government on Tuesday that any deferment of variable dearness allowance (VDA) is illegal and will hit more than 60 lakh workers across 82 scheduled employment identified under the Minimum Wages Act. Industry bodies, on the other hand, pitched for four-month deferment of VDA from May this year, citing industrial distress caused by COVID-19 related shutdown. During a tripartite meeting convened by the Labour Department, the unions stood their ground on VDA arguing that it was part of the notified minimum wages for workers that has been upheld by Supreme Court. Countering this, industry bodies informed the government that industries needed the financial space to recover the lost ground. The meeting had been convened to elicit opinion on deferment of VDA following the request of the Department of Commerce and Industries. The Labour Department will now send a report to the government stating position of both parties. While the dearness allowance is fixed once in five years along with revision of minimum wages, variable dearness allowance for the working class is notified by the government annually based on inflationary trends and calculated on the basis of price rise recorded the previous year. Calculated for 2019 and implemented in 2020, the monthly VDA is Rs. 412 and Rs. 522 per worker, depending on the industry that he is employed in. All workers in 82 scheduled employment are entitled to receive the VDA. “At a time when the need is to increase the purchasing capacity to increase consumption, the government wants to snatch away the VDA too,” said AITUC general secretary D.A. Vijaybhaskar. He pointed out that industries in Karnataka are expected to save more than Rs. 1,000 crore by not paying VDA for four months. “If the same amount is with the worker, it could boost consumption much needed for economic revival,” he said. “In fact, we have told the government that today’s meeting itself is illegal and contempt of court since Karnataka High Court has upheld the new minimum wages notified, and VDA is a part of minimum wages,” said Mr. Vijaybhaskar. FKCCI sources said that the VDA deferment had been sought to help the industries to have some financial cushion and allow the industries to settle down after 40 days shutdown. “We have also asked the Labour Department not to take any decision that is harmful to the industry and sought deferment of all labour laws for a period of one year. Industries could close if we are forced to pay,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trade-unions-industry-bodies-dig-their-heels-in-on-vda/article31683263.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Muzrai temples set to reopen from June 1||After a closure of more than two months, all Muzrai temples in Karnataka are set to reopen from June 1, after the scheduled end of Lockdown 4.0. A meeting, chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday, took a decision to reopen nearly 35,000 Muzrai temples managed by the government from next month. Devotees will be allowed inside temples but social distancing norms are to be followed. Festivals and programmes will not be allowed. It was also decided that Saptapadi, a mass marriage scheme in selected ‘A’ grade temples of the Muzrai Department, will be held in a phased manner in June and July. Earlier, the mass marriages were scheduled on April 26 and May 24. The Chief Minister also launched online booking of puja services offered at 50 ‘A’ grade temples. Some temples have made arrangements for live streaming of pujas and other rituals and delivery of ‘prasada’ and ‘theertha’ to devotees through India Post. The administration of all major temples, including Kollur Mookambika Temple in Udupi, Banashankari Temple in Bengaluru, Nanjundeshwara Temple in Nanjangud, Chamundeshwari Temple in Mysuru, and Kukke Subramanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada, have been told to set up web cameras to help devotees participate. Sources in the Muzrai Department said the department will frame rules for social distancing to be maintained in temples. It will also make arrangements for purchase of gold and other materials for conduct of mass marriages in temples in the next two months. The Chief Minister also reviewed various budgetary schemes of the Muzrai Department during 2020-21 and instructed officials of the department to take up construction of a guest house at Tirumala at an estimated cost of Rs. 200 crore. Mr. Yediyurappa also reviewed the progress of the Revenue Department and ordered sanctioning of Rs. 100 crore for the construction of a Anubhava Mantap. It was decided to set up land tribunals in 164 taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muzrai-temples-set-to-reopen-from-june-1/article31683268.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Let’s Mask India’, but with cloth||Over the past week, volunteers have not only been distributing free, reusable masks to residents of slums in the city, but also returning to get feedback from them. This is part of a ‘Let’s Mask India’ initiative by the textile industry in partnership with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and The Ugly Indians (TUI), an anonymous group of volunteers. Bengaluru, which is the hub of the textile and garment industry, has a skilled workforce. Seven garment factories have signed up for the initiative. TUI, with its strong ground network, is looking into the distribution aspect. “We are trying to collate data on the frontline workers, including healthcare professionals, ASHA workers, pourakarmikas, traffic police and others,” said a TUI volunteer. Ever since the civic administration started levying fines for failing to wear masks, many people have taken to wearing disposable ones. “However, disposable masks are meant for medical professionals. Due to lack of proper disposal, they are getting mixed with waste and are also landing up at dry waste collection centres. Conventional wisdom says that cloth masks are the best. Masks should become a garment that people own, a personal choice, much like underwear,” the volunteer added. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep cited the civic body’s campaign on masks — Be a star, wear a mask — which stresses on the use of reusable, cloth masks. “Many people are switching over to cloth masks to reduce waste and also the associated risks involved in using disposable masks,” he said. For details, visitwww.letsmaskindia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lets-mask-india-but-with-cloth/article31683227.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tourism society also pushes for reopening of hotels||With the tourism industry unable to kick off business this financial year due to the pandemic, representatives of the Karnataka Tourism Society met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday seeking relief. They have, among other things, sought permission to open hotels, quite a few of which have been serving COVID-19 warriors and as quarantine centres, especially now that intra-State travel has opened up. They said it will help retain a large number of employees who will be forced to migrate back to their hometowns in other parts of India, particularly the Northeast. The society also sought government nod to start dine-in facility in restaurants, given that they are still being allowed only takeaways as the system has not been beneficial to them. They also sought exemptions and waivers in property tax, electricity bills, excise license fee, and road tax. They have also suggested to incentivise LTC for employees for travel within India to boost domestic travel.  They said it will help retain a large number of employees who will be forced to migrate back to their hometowns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-society-also-pushes-for-reopening-of-hotels/article31683240.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State must have realistic data of medical care staff requiring PPE kits: High Court||Expressing dissatisfaction about information given by the State government on providing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits for healthcare workers, the Karnataka High Court on Tuesday said that the government must have realistic data of healthcare workers requiring PPE kits based on guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for rational use of PPEs. Also, the court said that the State government is bound by the guidelines issued by the MoHFW and the PPE kits are purchased as per the specification laid down in the guidelines issued way back in April. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna made these observations during hearing on PIL petitions related to the issues arisen due to COVID-19 lockdown. Raising doubt on government’s way of estimating the requirement of around 3.3 lakh PPE kits per month assuming that there will be around 3,000 COVID-19 positive cases across the State, the Bench said that the government has not provided the data of health workers requiring the PPEs as per the guidelines issued by the MoHFW. The Bench also noted that the guidelines do not insist on requirement of all components of PPE kit for every health worker as it had also specified rational use of components of PPEs based on risk level of healthcare workers in COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 health facilities. The written statement of the government, the Bench noted does say that it is following guidelines issued by the MoHFW but it is relying on certificate issued by ISO and SISTRA (South India Textile Research Association) by constituting a technical committee for procurement of PPE kits. The State government has told the court that orders were placed for purchase of approximately 6,52,900 PPE kits during March 2020 and orders for purchase of 5,00,000 PPE kits were placed with various vendors during April and May 2020 and 4,89,000 PPE kits were received from vendors as on May 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-must-have-realistic-data-of-medical-care-staff-requiring-ppe-kits-high-court/article31683259.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SCAI urges CM to open malls, provide level playing field||Representatives of the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday seeking directions for the immediate opening of shopping centres and malls across Karnataka. SCAI representatives assured the Chief Minister of their ability to ensure safe environment, control crowds, and ensure that people follow social distancing norms. They submitted the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that they had developed in preparation for re-opening in India. While much is being talked about the safety and use of air conditioning at shopping centres, the SCAI has termed it an unfounded fear. The association pointed out that in the backdrop of offices being allowed to function, and AC trains as well as domestic flights operating, the government should allow shopping centres to open as well. “Job losses will be imminent and an impact on the retail sector will have a much larger spiralling effect on several other industries that are dependent on the retail segment. The SOPs we have developed are quite stringent, taken from the best of the world. We are confident of ensuring safety at shopping centres. At this stage, our request is to treat shopping centres on a par with other establishments that have been allowed to open, provide us with a level playing field and, allow us to resume operations,” the SCAI said, speaking of the consequences of not allowing them to open. The protocols developed by SCAI are in line with the recommendations made by ISHRAE as well as guidelines issued by the Central Public Works Department, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scai-urges-cm-to-open-malls-provide-level-playing-field/article31683252.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada syllabus panel members resign||Members of the committee formed to formulate Kannada syllabus for postgraduate courses have collectively resigned. This is in the backdrop of widespread opposition to the proposal of Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister for Higher Education, to have a uniform syllabus for graduate and postgraduate levels. Several students’ organisations, including the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, and academicians and educationists had opposed the move, calling it “unconstitutional and undemocratic.” According to a communiqué on Tuesday, members of the committee included noted academicians such as writer Basavaraj Kalgudi, D.V. Parashivamurthy and Nithyananda B. Shetty from Tumakuru University, M.G. Manjunath from University of Mysuru, Shivananda Kelaginamani from Kuvempu University, and Nagabhushan and Shashikala from Bangalore University. A committee was formed for drafting Kannada syllabus for postgraduate courses by Tumakuru University Vice-Chancellor, the members of which had now resigned. A member of the committee, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said that uniform syllabus would take away variety and regionality of the languages. “All members held the same opinion. A similar proposal had been putforth a couple of years ago. However, it died down on its own. We do not know why this has been revived now,” the member said and added that the Higher Education Department could instead insist on a uniform calendar of events for all universities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-syllabus-panel-members-resign/article31683261.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||101 new cases; 20 of them from Chitradurga||A total of 101 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in the State on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,283. Of the new cases, 81 patients are those who have travelled from other States — a majority from Maharashtra — while four patients have international travel history. The highest number of cases was reported from Chitradurga district at 20. This was followed by Yadgir with 14 cases. Of the 1,489 active cases in the State currently, 18 are in the intensive care unit. The total number of discharges on Tuesday was 43, taking the total number to 748. So far, the State government has tested 2.28 lakh samples. On Tuesday, 9,020 samples were tested. A total of 25,852 people are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/101-new-cases-20-of-them-from-chitradurga/article31683254.ece
27 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Intermittent power supply||There will be intermittent power supply from May 27 to June 2 in the areas coming under Rajarajeshwari Nagar sub-station. The areas that will be affected are: Rajaraeshwarinagar, Sachidananda Nagar, Ideal Homes, Channasandra Gattigere, Halagevaderahalli, BHEL 9th and 10th Stage, Vaddarapalya, Krishna Garden, BDA 6th Stage, 1st to 6th Blocks, Pattanagere, Global village, Singapura Layout, Kodipalya, Hemmigepura, H. Gollahalli, Dasegowdanapalya, Nagegowdanapalya, Mysasandra, Ganakallu village, Shivakumara Swamiji Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intermittent-power-supply/article31683228.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Different stance on stimulus package||While Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been welcomed by industry bodies publicly, they took a different line during the tripartite meeting on Tuesday. The industry bodies said that they needed concessions from paying variable dearness allowance since industries have not received any financial assistance from the Union government except for relief in loan and loan moratorium. A senior FKCCI office-bearer too confirmed this to The Hindu . AITUC general secretary D.A. Vijabhaskar, who attended the meeting , said: “Trade unions have been vocal in demanding relief package for MSME sector such as direct financial assistance and ask big industries to clear the dues of MSME sector to ease the financial stress.” Those participating in the meeting, beside representatives of Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU), included representatives of KASSIA, FKCCI, Karnataka Employers’ Association, and Garment Manufacturers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/different-stance-on-stimulus-package/article31683260.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Academic plan for higher education to be out in June||The schedule for the next academic year for colleges and examination plan for the current 2019-20 academic year will be announced in the first week of June. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and officials of the Higher Education Department held a review meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. At the meeting, the officials claimed that only 65-70% of students have access to online classes. Around 79% of the syllabus portions have been completed. The remaining portions will be completed by the end of the academic year. Students who haven’t accessed online classes have given notes and study material via other social messaging platforms. However, officials admitted that 10% of students have not got the content yet. There are 3.45 lakh students in government first grade colleges, 1.94 lakh students in universities and their constituent colleges and 3.6 lakh students in unaided colleges. Proposal on holidays Department officials said that they have received proposals to cut down holidays for the 2020-21 academic year but are yet to make a decision on the same. “This is to make up for the delay in academic schedule,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academic-plan-for-higher-education-to-be-out-in-june/article31683257.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delay of trains should not discourage migrants from returning home: HC||Making it clear that uncertainty and delay in arranging Shramik Special trains should not discourage migrant workers registered through Seva Sindhu portal from travelling to their home States, the Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to submit data of such registered migrant workers who have now decided against their wish to return to their home States. The court also directed the State government to submit the number of district-wise migrant workers registered through the portal for travel to their home States, along with the number of requests received for travel to different States. A special Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, issued the direction while hearing through videoconference the PIL petitions related to issues that cropped up owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The State government has also been directed to submit the number of migrant workers who already travelled in special trains to different States and requests made to Railways to arrange special trains, and efforts made to allow migrant workers, who were not in a position to use Seva Sindhu portal for lack of knowledge of the Internet. While directing the government to state whether any communications have been issued to the migrant workers through NGOs and unions about outer limit of date of their travel, the Bench also directed the union and NGOs to provide the list of migrant workers that is available with them to the State to enable their transportation. Earlier, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, who personally appeared through videoconference, said that the government decided to pay the train fares of migrant workers till May 31 and it has sent SMS to all the registered migrant workers to indicate their willingness to travel and their destination in reply to the SMS. Beyond May 31 To a query of the Bench about whether the State government would pay the train fares beyond May 31, if the transportation of all registered migrant workers could not be completed by then, the Chief Secretary said that the issue would be look into. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the Union government to give an assurance that Shramik Special trains would be made available even after May 31 depending upon the requirement of the State. Earlier it was told to the Bench that approximately around 7 lakh persons registered for travel to their home States through the Seva Sindhu portal and around 3 lakh have left for their home States through special trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-of-trains-should-not-discourage-migrants-from-returning-home-hc/article31683266.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR fixes timing for refund of tickets||The South Western Railway (SWR) has fixed timing for refund of tickets that were cancelled after imposition of lockdown. In press release, the SWR said people can visit reservation counters for refund between 12 p.m. and 6 p.m. on all working days and 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Sundays and public holidays. People can visit reservation counters of Bengaluru division of SWR at KSR Bengaluru City, Cantonment, Yeshwantpur, Yelahanka, Krishnarajapuram, Kengeri, Mandya, Tumakuru, and Hosur. A release from SWR states that more passenger reservation counters will be opened for reservation and refunds shortly. “For trains cancelled during lockdown, full refund will be given up to July 31. Passengers are requested not to hurry for cancellation in the wake of COVID-19,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-fixes-timing-for-refund-of-tickets/article31683264.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Registration fee cut for flats costing less than Rs. 35 lakh||To provide a boost to affordable housing, the State government has decided to reduce registration fee from 5% to 2% for each housing flat that costs less than Rs. 20 lakh and from 5% to 3% for housing flats costing less than Rs. 35 lakh. This was promised in the 2020-21 budget. The reduction in registration fee is expected to benefit lower-middle income groups and boost demand for housing in the State. Owing to lockdown the revenue generated from stamps and registration department was likely to see a decline of Rs. 3,524 crore during 2020-21, said an official press note from the Chief Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/registration-fee-cut-for-flats-costing-less-than-rs-35-lakh/article31683272.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No plans to do away with institutional quarantine’||The State government has no plans to do away with institutional quarantine for those coming from high-risk States, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday. He told presspersons that institutional quarantine period for those coming from high-risk States had been reduced to 7 days, followed by 7 days of home quarantine if they test negative, and there is a need to maintain vigil and ensure that this protocol continues. Those who come from low-prevalence States have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. Mr. Kumar said the government wanted to consider allowing private laboratories to test and give reports to people from Karnataka which they can carry while travelling to other States. While the Indian Council for Medical Researchlaysout protocol for who could be tested, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said people who had to travel on work could pay for the tests and get them done in private laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-plans-to-do-away-with-institutional-quarantine/article31683243.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC driver tests positive||Barely a week after Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) resumed services, a driver-conductor attached to Magadi depot has tested positive for COVID-19. According to officials, he had driven a bus from Magadi to Kalasipalyam on Friday. He is the first person from KSRTC to test positive. “He did not show symptoms while reporting to duty,” said a KSRTC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-driver-tests-positive/article31683247.ece
27 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KOS exam||Karnataka Open School (KOS) examination will be held from July 6 to 15 at all designated examination centres, said Director (other examinations), Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kos-exam/article31683255.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||II PU paper evaluation begins||The evaluation of answer scripts for the second pre-university examination has begun. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the evaluation of economics answer scripts has started and that rest of the subjects will also commence shortly. Barring English examination, which was postponed on account of the lockdown, examinations of all other subjects have been completed. The English examination will be held on June 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-paper-evaluation-begins/article31683256.ece
27 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Decision soon on resuming night bus services’||The State Transport Corporations will shortly take a decision on starting night bus services depending upon passenger availability, said Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi. Speaking to presspersons after holding a progress review meeting of NWKRTC on Tuesday, Mr. Savadi said transport corporations are ready to restart all services, including long route. However, the social distancing guidelines do not permit filling up all seats. As on date, only 30 passengers could travel at a time. Therefore, the decision regarding extending bus services would be taken only after the Central government issues fresh guidelines on June 1, he said. He said the government would not hike bus fares even as though transport corporations have incurred losses due to the lockdown. While the total loss is pegged at Rs. 1,700 crore, the loss incurred by NWKRTC stands at Rs. 414 crore. The government has initiated the process of holding review meetings of all corporations to assess losses and finalise the future course of action, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-soon-on-resuming-night-bus-services/article31683246.ece
27 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi registers State’s maximum temperature||Along with its consistent struggle against a deadly pandemic that had been on for the last couple of months with the number of infected-persons growing almost on a daily basis, Kalaburagi is now facing another inconvenience, a heat wave, as it always experiences during summer. As per a report released by Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Kalaburagi recorded the highest maximum temperature of 43.4 degrees Celsius in the State in the last 24 hours ended at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, followed by Yadgir (42.4 degrees Celsius), Bidar (42.3 degrees Celsius), Vijayapura (41.6 degrees Celsius), Raichur (41.4 degrees Celsius) and Koppal (40.6 degrees Celsius). However, the report released by the Meteorological Centre, Bengaluru, put Kalaburagi’s temperature at 44.7 degrees Celsius as the State’s highest maximum temperature for the corresponding period. North Karnataka districts have also seen a rise in night temperature with Kalaburagi leading at 29.1 degrees Celsius, followed by Bidar (28.9 degrees Celsius), Yadgir (27.4 degrees Celsius), Udupi (27.3 degrees Celsius), Vijayapura (26.9 degrees Celsius), Raichur (26.3 degrees Celsius) and Belagavi (26.0 degrees Celsius). Bengaluru Rural district recorded an average minimum temperature of 20.8 degrees Celsius. According to the KSNDMC report, minimum temperature was recorded in parts of Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Bagalkot, Hassan, Bengaluru Urban, Kodagu, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts.  Humidity As per the KSNDMC report, 56 % of the geographical area in the State recorded maximum relative humidity of more than 90 %. Maximum relative humidity was recorded in parts of Kalaburagi, Bidar, Belagavi, Gadag, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagaram, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Davangere, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Mandya, Koppal, Raichur, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Haveri, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Yadgir districts. As much as 19 % of the geographical area in the State recorded minimum relative humidity less than 25 %. Minimum relative humidity was recorded in parts of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Vijayapura districts. India Meteorological Department issued an alert that heat wave conditions were likely in isolated pockets in north-interior Karnataka for the next two days. And, farmers and the general public are advised not to expose themselves to direct sunlight during 11.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. Most of the people in towns and cities across Kalaburagi district remained indoors more as an escape from heat wave than to comply with the extended lockdown norms in view of novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-registers-states-maximum-temperature/article31683444.ece
27 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Number of infected persons in Bidar 100||As many as 10 persons, including a 16-year-old boy, from Bidar district, tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of persons infected by the deadly disease to 100 that included two deaths. As per a media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, all the newly-infected persons had recently returned from neighbouring Maharashtra, one of the most affected States in India by the deadly pandemic. The new cases are P-2,209, a 55-year-old woman, P-2,210, a 28-year-old man, P-2,211, a 58-year-old man, P-2,212, a 43-year-old man, P-2,213, a 23-year-old man, P-2,214, a 42-year-old woman, P-2,215, a 34-year-old man, P-2,216, a 43-year-old man, P-2,217, a 37-year-old woman and P-2,218, a 16-year-old boy. There was inconsistency in the number of active cases presented by the Bidar district administration and the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Whereas the media bulletin released by the Bidar district administration put 72 as the total number of active cases in the district as on Tuesday, the State bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare the same evening put the number at 10. Deputy Commissioner H.R. Mahadev was not reachable on phone to give the exact figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/number-of-infected-persons-in-bidar-100/article31683442.ece
27 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bhagvati Prem unlikely to be removed from Surathkal till after monsoon||Dredging vessel Bhagvati Prem that was beached by New Mangalore Port Trust on Surathkal beach on October 28 last year is likely to remain there at least till after the monsoon. The vessel, owned by Mercator and deployed for dredging NMPT waters earlier, began witnessing flooding in its engine room. NMPT pulled the vessel and beached it to avoid its sinking on the lines of another dredger Tridev Prem owned by Mercator, that sunk 2.5 nautical miles away from the shore on September 3, 2019. Auctioning process The owner of the vessels reportedly did not respond to notices by NMPT and Director General of Shipping to safely remove both the vessels. Consequently, NMPT is in the process of auctioning Bhagvati Prem that has been beached. NMPT Chairman A.V. Ramana told The Hindu that the public notice for auction of the vessel was issued a month ago. The reserve price too has been finalised. Government auctioneer MSTC would conduct the auction, he said and added that the situation arising out of COVID-19 had delayed the process. Now, things are on track, he said. The 114-metre-long, 21-metre-wide Bhagvati Prem with a deadweight of 9,492 tonnes and a draft of 7 metres, was beached on the Surathkal beach as NMPT said that the area belonged to the Port. Beaching was a better option rather than allowing the vessel to sink as did Tridev Prem, as, otherwise, a sunken vessel would have caused obstruction to navigation of other vessels. Beach erosion Experts from the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, who had conducted an initial survey, felt that the vessel should be removed at the earliest to prevent any damage to the beach eco-system. There was also the possibility of tilting of the vessel during the monsoon because of sand erosion, the experts cautioned. With a large sandbed being formed on the beach-side of the vessel at present, college Dean A. Senthil Vel said that the scenario would change during monsoon. The present change is a temporary one, he told The Hindu . He added that the formation of a sandbed was the result of beach erosion elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhagvati-prem-unlikely-to-be-removed-from-surathkal-till-after-monsoon/article31683449.ece
27 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Missing tribal man found mauled to death||A Jenu Kuruba tribal, who was reported missing since Monday evening, was found mauled to death at the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve on Tuesday. The victim was identified as Jagadish, 65, from Neralakuppe B haadi or hamlet in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu that a search-and-comb operation was launched early in the day to trace the missing tribal. This was after some of his belongings, like an umbrella, towel and slippers, were found strewn in a radius of 30 metres in the Mudanahalli State Forest of the Hunsur Wildlife range, which is part of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. After a few hours of scouring the area, the authorities recovered a few human body parts which confirmed fears that Jagadish may have been a victim of a tiger attack. The suspicion stemmed from a few cattle killings attributed to a tiger that was reported from the area recently. The remains of the victim were handed over to the family members and the last rites took place late in the evening. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said Jagadish was spotted by the local range officer and guards venturing into the forest a few days ago and was cautioned against it given the risk of wildlife encounter. “He ignored our warning which led to this unfortunate development,” the forest officer added. Though victims killed in wildlife encounters outside the forest limits are eligible for compensation from the State, the authorities in this case have written to the government seeking clarification as the incident took place inside the forest. Sources said local villagers tend to take their cattle inside the forest for grazing which is not only illegal but also abets human-animal conflict. Though such incidents have reduced over the years, it has not completely abated either. Meanwhile, combing operations will continue from Wednesday to trap and capture the tiger which has already been identified from the database of the camera trap images. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said this tiger was first identified in 2012 and it was around two to three years old then. Hence, it is now 10 to 11 years old and having tasted human blood it posed a risk to human habitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/missing-tribal-man-found-mauled-to-death/article31683271.ece
27 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Officials’ panel to inspect Nanjangud pharma firm||Pre-operation procedures, including sanitisation of premises and putting precautionary measures in place, has begun at Jubilant Generics Ltd., the pharmaceutical company at Nanjangud near here, after the district administration constituted a committee of officials to ensure that production commences as per the guidelines stipulated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Government of India’s Department of Pharmaceuticals, Chemicals and Fertilizers. The pre-operation procedures have started as per the standard operating procedure (SOP), which includes sanitisation of equipment. A few employees of the company have been asked to come to work to take up the procedures, according to officials of the Industries Department here. The plant has remained closed after one of its employees tested positive for COVID-19 on March 26. Subsequently, 75 more persons connected to the company tested positive, sparking anxiety among the people. Actual production at the plant is expected to start in a week’s time, but only after the committee constituted by the district administration carries out an inspection and submits a report that the guidelines have been followed, said Joint Director of District Industries Centre (DIC) D.K. Lingaraju, who is also a member of the committee. The other members of the committee include environmental officer from Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, Senior Assistant Director of Department of Factories and Boilers, Nanjangud tahsildar, Executive Officer of Nanjangud Taluk Panchayat, Inspector of Nanjangud police station, and Taluk Health Officer. The State government has already given permission for the company to start operations, subject to certain conditions, which also include that it adheres to guidelines issued by ICMR and the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Chemicals and Fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-panel-to-inspect-nanjangud-pharma-firm/article31683269.ece
27 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Now, extreme heat forces people to stay indoors in Vijayapura||North Karnataka is reeling under extreme and blistering heat wave conditions because of soaring temperature. Vijayapura district, in particular, is breaking the record with temperature reaching 45 degrees Celsius in some parts. According to Natural Disaster Management Centre report, Almel town of Indi taluk recorded the highest 45.3 degrees Celsius on May 24, while other parts of the district have recorded 42 degrees Celsius. This is believed to be the highest temperature the district has recorded so far. During last May, the highest temperature recorded was 43 degrees Celsius. While Vijayapura is setting new records, Chincholli taluk in Kalaburagi recorded 45.2 degrees Celsius on May 23, according to the centre. The centre said that in most of the northern districts of the State, temperature has increased by 1.6 degrees Celsius to 3 degrees Celsius this year. According to officials of the Agriculture Research Station here, the temperature reached 42 degrees in the first week of May itself. Normally, it reaches this level in the third week of May. The officials, however, believe that it is a good sign as they say that the high heat levels during May often leads to better monsoon which will help kharif sowing. They also cautioned that more than average pre-monsoon rainfall could weaken monsoon. Meanwhile, the increasing temperature is making life miserable, mainly for those living in houses with tin roof. Power disruption is only adding to the woes of the people. People are trying to stay home till around 4 p.m. to stops themselves from getting exposed to harsh sunlight. Though the State government has announced several relaxations in lockdown protocol, extreme heat is forcing many to stay indoors. The officials forecast that the heat wave would continue for some more days. They advised people to stay home and avoid spending more time under direct sunlight.  Officials believe that it is a good sign as they say that the high heat levels during May often leads to better monsoon which will help kharif sowing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-extreme-heat-forces-people-to-stay-indoors-in-vijayapura/article31683446.ece
27 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||14 fresh cases reported in Yadgir district||As many as 14 fresh cases of COVID-19 positive were registered in Yadgir district on Tuesday. All those who tested positive returned from Maharashtra on May 12. The details provided by the district administration are as follows: P-2,185, a 20-year-old female and P-2,186, a 25-year-old male from Beeranakal Tanda, P-2,187, a 22-year-old female from Ramu Nayak Tanda, P-2,188, a 25-year-old male from Timmapur, P-2,189, a 34-year-old male and P-2,190, a 25- year-old female from Beernal Tanda, P-2,200, a nine-year-old boy from Motnalli Tanda, P-2,191, a 25-year-old female, P-2,192, a 32-year-old male, P-2,201, a 18-year-old male, P-2,197, a 16-year-old female, P-2,198, a six-year-old boy, P-2,199, a 25-year-old female and P-2,202, a 45-year-old female, all from Arakera Tanda. Meanwhile, addressing a press conference, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that all have been kept under institutional quarantine at different places. They will be shifted to the designated hospital if their samples turn positive. With these 14 fresh cases, the total number of infected persons has gone up to 140 in the district. Mr. Kurma Rao said that of the 140 active cases, nine patients were discharged from the designated hospital on Tuesday after complete recovery. “This was the happiest moment for all COVID-19 warriors, including the DHO, the District Surgeon, doctors, medical officers, nurses, ASHAs and anganwadi workers, civic body workers, revenue officers, police officers and staff,” he added. “Members of Indian Medical Association of Yadgir district have extended their services. Therefore, I must congratulate them for their immense contribution which enabled the discharge of these nine cases today,” Mr. Kurma Rao said. The discharged patients are as follows: P-1,139, a 30-year-old male, P-1,140, a 32-year-old male, P-1,141, a 34-year-old male, P-1,188, a 25-year-old male, P-1,189, a 25-year-old male, P-1,190, a 20-year-old male, P-1,191, a 15-year-old male, P-1,192, a 30-year-old male and P-1,256, a two-year-old boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-fresh-cases-reported-in-yadgir-district/article31683447.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain, wind bring down trees||Residents of the city were caught unawares when the sky suddenly became overcast around 4 p.m. Heavy rain, accompanied by thunder, lightning and high speed wind, soon followed, bringing down trees and branches across the city. As usual, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) control rooms were flooded with complaints of tree falls. Complaints were also received by the Fire and Emergency Services. Tree and branches fell on houses on 10th Main, Indiranagar 2nd Stage, Defence Colony, and 34th Main, J.P. Nagar 1st Phase. Vehicles were damaged after a tree fall at 4th T Block, Jayanagar while rain water entered homes in Bhoomaiah Layout, 6th Cross, Chikkalsandra, and in Garuthman Park, behind R.V. Teachers College, Basavanagudi. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the city received rainfall ranging from 10 mm to 40 mm. Short spells of high-intensity rain with associated thunderstorm activity is characteristic of pre-monsoon. G.S. Srinivas Reddy, Director, KSNDMC, said the rains were accompanied by high speed winds of 30-40 kmph. V.V. Puram and surrounding areas received the maximum rainfall, he said. The city can expect more rain till the end of May due to the cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. The IMD has forecast thunderstorm with lightning, accompanied by gusty winds (speed of 30-40 kmph) in isolated places over coastal Karnataka and south interior Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-wind-bring-down-trees/article31683230.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC seeks government’s permission to operate AC buses||As Bengaluru begins to get its groove back while fighting the pandemic, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation Limited (BMTC), which is currently running limited services, hopes to expand its operations. On Tuesday, it approached the government for permission to run its fleet of luxury air-conditioned buses and extend operation timings. BMTC buses are currently functioning from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., but officials have made a case for extending services from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. It also hopes to start operating AC buses. At present, the government is allowing BMTC and other State transport corporations to operate only non-AC buses. The Corporation has a fleet of 860 AC buses, which were procured with an investment of hundreds of crores of rupees. Due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, its fleet of luxury buses continue to remain unused. However, with the domestic aviation sector now open, the BMTC wants to operate AC buses both within Bengaluru city limits as well as to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha told The Hindu that the request was made last week. “We are waiting for approval from the government,” she said. Another official pointed out that with air-conditioned flights and special passenger trains being allowed, allowing AC buses is the next step. “People are travelling in AC passenger trains to Delhi, and flight services have resumed. We are hoping to get a green signal from the government,” he said. Prior to the lockdown, the BMTC was operating 110 AC buses to the international airport on over 15 routes. The Corporation has been gradually increasing the number of non-AC buses since it resumed services. Initially, it ran 1,700 to 1,800 buses, but from Monday onwards, the number has increased to 3,000. With the introduction of ‘flat bus fare’ for single trips, the number of commuters is likely to increase. “At present we are operating buses with only seating capacity. Standing inside the bus is not allowed. As the ridership increases, we may require more buses. Utilising the AC bus fleet will help the Corporation in providing more services,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-seeks-governments-permission-to-operate-ac-buses/article31683234.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dwellings razed, labourers on the streets||Gangadhar, 24, a mason from Yadgir district, has spent most of his life in makeshift sheds in a slum on the Kacharakanahalli lake bed that houses three other slums and a temple complex. He went to his native place before Ugadi, to participate in the annual village fair. But he couldn't return due to the lockdown. Today, Gangadhar and around 50 others don’t have a home. “A week after we went home, we got a call from some of the residents of our slum, who had stayed back, that a group of men barged in and destroyed our sheds,” he recalled. As soon as bus services began, around 50 of them – all men – returned to the city to take stock of the situation. “We were shocked to see that the entire slum had been razed. Another slum with around 45 sheds nearby has been burnt down,” said Mallesh, 26, also a mason. Around 50 labourers, who have returned from their hometowns, are now living on the streets exposed to the heat and rains. “We sleep inside a nearby church during rains. One night, all of us huddled inside a goods vehicle to protect ourselves from the rain,” said Shivu, 23, a construction labourer. A community kitchen was under way when The Hindu visited the spot on Tuesday, with rations and kitchenware distributed by Karnataka Slum Development Board and Aam Aadmi Party. Not just are their sheds demolished or burnt down, most of their possessions have been stolen. “Television sets, stoves, cylinders, almirahs… they’ve all been taken away,” said Shivu. The labourers are at a loss as to who may have demolished and burnt their dwellings. “We don’t know who they were. It happened one night when most of the men were away,” said Basamma, who was among the 18 families that stayed back and were stuck in the slum during the lockdown. Activists and residents allege that this is an attempt at land grab. The K.G. Halli police have registered a case against unidentified individuals, but no arrest has been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dwellings-razed-labourers-on-the-streets/article31683236.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flipkart partners with corporation to help farmers sell mangoes online||E-commerce platform Flipkart and the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd. signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Tuesday, enabling farmers to sell their fresh produce online. India Post would function as the last-mile delivery operations partner during this season. Through this, consumers will have access to many varieties of mangoes across the districts of Bengaluru Urban, Kolar, Haveri, Hubballi-Dharwad, and Belagavi. Flipkart will provide its platform to the corporation, farmer producer organisations, sellers, growers, and traders by enrolling them on the platform. The company will provide training and capacity building of how to use the app and other user interfaces. Rajneesh Kumar, chief corporate affairs officer, Flipkart Group, said: “These are challenging times for farmers and small business owners across the country, and we are pleased to bring together ecosystem partnerships which benefit larger sections of society.” Rajendra Kataria, secretary, Horticulture Department, and chairman of the board, said the board offers significant capabilities and a distinctive business model by acting as a nodal agency, bringing various stakeholders together. Consumers can place orders on Flipkart’s platform for varieties such as Alphonso, Badami, Apoos, Banganpalli, Kesar, Neelam, Himam Pasand, Sendur, and Mallika, in batches of 3 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flipkart-partners-with-corporation-to-help-farmers-sell-mangoes-online/article31683242.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More than 2,800 passengers land at KIA||On the second day of domestic flight operations resuming across the country, Kempegowda International Airport saw hundreds of passengers land in Bengaluru on Tuesday. From Monday to Tuesday afternoon, 2,896 people landed from ‘high risk’ States as well as green zones. Compared to the first day, there were fewer cancellations on Tuesday. Flights were cancelled to various destinations such as Mumbai, Kolkata, and Chennai. According to Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) officials, 32 flights were cancelled on Tuesday. Passengers from high-risk States were sent to designated facilities for the mandatory seven day institutional quarantine, while others were asked to home quarantine. KIA was witness to many emotional scenes as loved ones reunited with each other. Family members of passengers coming from high-risk States were seen wishing them, while maintaining social distancing, before they headed to quarantine facilities. As per a statement issued by BIAL, KIA handled 35 landing and 40 departures on Tuesday. According to Bengaluru Rural Deputy Commissioner P.N. Ravindra, as of Tuesday afternoon, no passenger had symptoms of COVID-19. “Earlier, the airport was handling repatriation flights. With the resumption of domestic flights, hundreds of air passengers are landing here. Till Tuesday afternoon, 53 flights landed at the airport.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-than-2800-passengers-land-at-kia/article31683250.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Free app to help dementia patients||The COVID-19 pandemic, and the restrictions accompanying it, have been especially taxing for people suffering from dementia and their caregivers, for whom this time has been physically and psychologically burdensome. To ensure a support system for them, the Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), an NGO working with the elderly and for those with dementia, has developed Demkonnect, a mobile application which is aimed at providing access to care and support related to dementia. This app is available on Android and iOS and is free of cost. According to Nightingales Medical Trust, the nature of the disease tends to cause disorientation and makes those who are affected more vulnerable. This has a direct impact on the stress levels of caregivers. Family members, who have now turned into full-time caregivers, have noticed symptoms of dementia, like memory loss and behavioural changes, but are unable to visit a specialist and seek a formal diagnosis due to the lockdown and the fear of contracting the virus, a release said. The application has options based on the need of the user.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-app-to-help-dementia-patients/article31683231.ece
27 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha district reports three more positive cases||Three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday. According to officials, one of the patients, a youth hailing from Mavelikara taluk, reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 17. Rest of the patients, one from Mavelikara taluk and the other from Thakazhi in Kuttanad taluk, came on board a train from Mumbai on May 22. “All three persons have been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. Three family members of the person from Thakazhi had tested positive for the disease on May 24,” said an official. Woman turns negative Meanwhile, a pregnant woman admitted to the MCH, Alappuzha, with COVID-19 has been tested negative for the disease. The woman, a Gulf returnee, would be discharged soon, the official said. 22 remain active The district has so far reported 28 COVID-19 cases, of which 22 cases remain active. Among them, 21 are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and one at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-district-reports-three-more-positive-cases/article31683642.ece
27 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Elephants roam free in Munnar||With the lockdown in place, wild elephants entering Munnar and raiding vegetable shops are becoming common. Local residents say elephants are frequently entering the town and staying put there for long durations. They enter the town at night triggering panic, forcing people to stay indoors. Though elephants used to reach estate areas of Kannimala, Periyavarai and Lakshi near Munnar, they rarely entered the town busy with vehicles and visitors. With movement of people remaining minimal following the lockdown, it is a free run for the animals. Herds of elephants reach the town at night and raid vegetable shops. A shop in the town was attacked for the third time two days ago and vegetables were eaten and destroyed. No action Shibu, a local resident, says wild elephants frequent the town as food items are available at shops. A shop owner says though traders have complained to the Forest Department, no action has been taken. “Once an elephant reaches a place and finds enough vegetables, herds will follow and raid and destroy all the shops,” he says. Though the Munnar area of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway is part of an elephant corridor and the animals frequent the roadside, the town limit was relatively free of their presence. After the lockdown was announced and Munnar became a COVID-19 hotspot, people’s presence has come down, which has been cited as a reason for the elephants frequenting the town. Dharna held Youth Congress workers on Monday held a dharna in front of the office of the Wildlife Warden demanding immediate steps to chase away elephants from the town. When contacted, a forest official said the paths through which the elephants reached the town were being monitored. Officials had been deputed on the paths to chase them back into forests, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephants-roam-free-in-munnar/article31683644.ece
27 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Kanthallur sees a late sowing season||Farmers who missed the first sowing season owing to the change in climate at Kanthallur are trying to cope with the lockdown by sowing the seeds now. The land that had been kept fallow owing to the late arrival of summer rain now has garlic and potato seeds. The farmers say there is rain in the afternoon now and it has prompted them to sow the seeds. “It is a delayed sowing,” says Veerapandi, a farmer. The rain is often scanty in the vegetable-cultivating village that falls in a rainshadow area. Farmers cultivate the maximum area prior to the southwest monsoon. The second and third sowing are done in areas where irrigation and water availability are ensured. Better price for garlic Since the government launched an effort to get the GIS tag to the hill garlic grown in Kanthallur sometime ago, farmers have been receiving a good price. This has prompted them to start the cultivation now. Potato is another main crop. However, a challenge the farmers face is the shortage of seeds, which they purchase them from the Mettupalayam market. They are facing the shortage of seeds because of the lockdown. Sivakumar, a farmer, says they purchase the seeds at a high price now from near the Chinnar check-post. A kg of garlic seeds are sold to them at a price of Rs. 200 to Rs. 240, which was between Rs. 90 and Rs. 100 earlier. A 45-kg sack of potato seed, priced between Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 1,500, was earlier available at between Rs. 500 and Rs. 700. He says they would have a delayed harvest, as COVID-19 has confined them to the village. Since vegetables are always in demand, a delayed sowing may not affect them much. Government agencies could have made arrangements for ensuring seeds during the lockdown, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kanthallur-sees-a-late-sowing-season/article31683591.ece
27 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man held for sexual abuse of minor||A circus artiste was on Tuesday arrested on charge of sexually abusing a minor girl under the Mananthavady police station limits in Wayanad. The police identified the arrested as Ibrahim Ansari, 26, of Jharkhand. The police arrested the man based on a complaint filed by the child’s parents, hailing from West Bengal, said District Police Chief R. Ilango. It was suspected that the accused sexually abused the child multiple times, he added. During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime, said Mr. Ilango. The accused was produced before the First Class Magistrate Court at Mananthavady through video conferencing, since the area was declared a COVID-19 containment zone. The court remanded him in judicial custody, said Mr. Ilango.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-sexual-abuse-of-minor/article31683541.ece
27 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Eight turn positive in Kannur||Eight more persons were confirmed positive for SARS-COV-2 in the district on Tuesday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said the new cases included two persons each who returned from Dubai and Mumbai and four persons who got the infection through contacts. The Gulf returnees are two children from Mattannur aged 13 and 7, who arrived at Kannur airport on May 17. The Mumbai returnees, aged 64 and 62 and hailing from Panniyannur, arrived in Kannur on May 18. Meanwhile, in Dharmadam two nine-year-old girls and two 10-year and 15- year-old girls were found infected with the virus. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district has reached 196. Of these, 119 have been discharged after treatment. The district currently has 11,397 people under surveillance. Among them are 58 in the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 66 in the Anjarakandy COVID treatment centre, 23 in the Thalassery General Hospital, 18 in the Kannur District Hospital and 11,232 under home observation. So far, 5,917 samples have been sent from the district. Of this 5,410 turned negative. There are 192 results to be obtained. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod district three more persons were confirmed positive for the virus on Tuesday. The new cases included a couple hailing from Madhur panchayat who arrived from Maharashtra, and a native of Madikai who returned from the Gulf. The 38-year-old man from Madikai arrived at Kannur airport from Qatar on May 19 and was in quarantine at the Kanhangad government hospital since his arrival, said District Medical Officer M.V. Ramdas. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Ukkunadu, when he tested positive. The Madhur couple, aged 28 and 25, arrived at Talapady by bus from Mumbai on May 23 and were in quarantine since then at the Kasaragod General Hospital. Meanwhile, two persons, a 51-year-old resident of Paivalike and a 49-year-old from Kumbala, undergoing treatment at the Ukkunadu hospital, were discharged on Tuesday. Now 3,205 people are under observation in the district – 2,624 at homes and 581 at hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-turn-positive-in-kannur/article31683542.ece
27 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Testing times for schools as exams begin amid tight regulations||Amid stringent regulations in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, students appeared for SSLC and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations in Kannur on Tuesday. As many as 33,737 students, including 56 from other districts, wrote the SSLC examination. Students who were in quarantine wrote the examination in their homes. A total of 19 SSLC students and 14 VHSE students wrote the exam from their homes. At centres, students were admitted to the examination hall after thermal screening and only 20 students were allowed to sit in a class. After the examination, all centres were disinfected. In the containment zones, District Collector T.V. Subhash invoked Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code around examination centres. Gatherings and opening of shops near the exam centres were prohibited. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 2,434 students appeared for the VHSE exam in 22 centres. There were 236 students from Karnataka to write the exam. They had received pass to cross the Thalapady border. In Kozhikode As many as 44,535 students wrote the SSLC examinations in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. A release by Deputy Director of Education V.P. Mini said 5,088 students appeared for the VHSE examinations on the day. As many as 156 students from other districts appeared for the examinations in Kozhikode as their exam centres were shifted here for convenience. Sixteen students who were under observation wrote the examination in special rooms. Eight of them were in Thamarassery educational district, seven in Vadakara and one in Kozhikode. They returned home in special vehicles. In Wayanad As many as 13,311 students wrote the SSLC and VHSE examinations at 100 centres in Wayanad district on Tuesday. A total of 13,351 students, including 11,836 SSLC students and 1,515 VHSE students, had registered for the examinations. But 39 SSLC students and one VHSE student were absent due to various reasons, Deputy Director of Education Honey Alexander told The Hindu . As many as 134 students from containment zones in Wayanad and 46 students from neighbouring districts in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu appeared for the examinations, said Ms. Alexander. Special vehicles and classrooms were arranged for the students from containment zones, other States and other districts, she said. Special classrooms were also arranged for 15 students who were in quarantine.  As many as 19,992 students will appear for the Plus One and Plus Two examinations at 61 centres in Wayanad district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-times-for-schools-as-exams-begin-amid-tight-regulations/article31683540.ece
27 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Final hearing today on land acquisition for Kannur underpass||The proceedings in connection with the land acquisition for the construction of an underpass at Mela Chovva will conclude on Wednesday. Compensation The hearing is being held to arrive at the final agreement for payment of compensation based on the documents submitted by the persons affected by the project, sources said. Around 23 ares of land will be acquired for the project. There are more than 50 persons possessing land and 60 establishments functioning in the area. More than 150 persons and families will be affected by the project. Documents The compensation will be fixed based on the documents presented by the landlord, owner of the building, tenants and workers who stand to lose their livelihoods due to the acquisition of the land. Financial aid Workers who have been employed in affected establishments for the past three years will be given a financial assistance of Rs. 6,000 per month for six months While 30 persons attended Monday's hearing, Land Acquisition Deputy Collector K.K. Anil Kumar said that the rest of the affected persons would have to reach the amphitheatre in front of the collectorate on Wednesday with the relevant documents. Officials of various departments, representatives of the RBDCK and others would be present at the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-hearing-today-on-land-acquisition-for-kannur-underpass/article31683547.ece
27 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No solution yet to Kochi’s flawed e-governance system||After a five-hour-long regular Kochi corporation council meeting, the civic body again failed to find a solution to its floundering e-governance system, even as city residents mill about the corporation office in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic to pay taxes or get birth and death certificates issued. A meeting of the corporation’s steering committee and all stakeholders would be held soon to resolve the issue, said Mayor Soumini Jain, after Opposition councillors demanded an inquiry into the matter. According to a report prepared by the corporation’s IT officer, the existing system is in a dire situation. “The hardware is clogged and an urgent decision would have to be made about whether new hardware must be procured or if the data should be shifted onto the cloud. If this matter is not resolved immediately, the server is likely to collapse and the corporation will no longer be able to provide its services,” Ms. Jain said. An urgent backup of existing data is necessary, along with a firewall, without which the data is not secure. Opposition councillors demanded that Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), which had developed some modules of the e-governance system, be replaced with the Information Kerala Mission (IKM), since the corporation’s agreement with TCS had already expired. TCS had not completed its obligations but had been paid nearly Rs. 5 crore of the stipulated Rs. 8 crore for their services, pointing to the civic body’s inefficiency in implementing the project, said LDF councillor Poornima Narayan. Mr. Sabu and Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar pointed out that without the help of TCS, it would not be possible to shift the data onto a new system or fix the existing problems in the e-governance system. Further, in a meeting chaired by Minister A.C. Moideen in July last year, TCS had pointed out that till a work order was issued to them, two of their employees could be appointed to help the corporation at the civic body’s expense. But the matter about the employees’ salaries had not featured in the meeting’s minutes, and despite three requests to make the addition, no response was received from the LSGD, said UDF councillor, A.B. Sabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-solution-yet-to-kochis-flawed-e-governance-system/article31683558.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Jails in a spot as more prisoners test positive||Health and security emergencies of unprecedented scale are staring at the Prisons Department after a few jail officials and prisoners have been quarantined following two new inmates testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Each day 70 to 120 persons are brought to the jails. While some of the officials of the Special Sub-Jail, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Kannur Sub-Jail have opted for quarantine in the jail itself, a few others have opted to go in mandatory home quarantine. With the prospect of COVID-19 infection spreading among prisoners through new admissions threatening to put the lives of the jail staff and prisoners at risk, the Prisons Department has decided to filter prisoners for admission. “Only those prisoners who test negative for the disease can be admitted to the jails, failing which the jails will become the breeding ground of the disease,” said S. Santhosh, Deputy Inspector General of Prisons, Headquarters, on Tuesday. Transit shelters The department is planning to approach the health authorities to ready transit shelters for the new inmates either in the prisoners’ wards of medical colleges hospitals or district hospitals till their medical reports are ready. While admitting the new prisoners to the prison wards, the prisoners who are undergoing medical treatment there should be shifted to insulate them from the disease. The security provided for such prisoners will have to be scaled up when moved out of the prison wards, said Mr. Santhosh. The situation may turn grave when the 1,818 prisoners who were released on parole and self-bail start returning by the first week of June. These prisoners will also have to be screened for the disease. The prevailing situations in the jails may warrant the extension of the bail period of such prisoners, he said. Unsafe facility Though the Parippally Medical College Hospital, Kollam, has enough space for accommodating a good number of persons, the building lacks safety norms. The long halls and tall windows of the hospital without sufficient window grills pose a serious security risk. Some of the jails are in unusable conditions, which compound the situation, he said.  Only those prisoners who test negative for the disease can be admitted, failing which the jails will become the breeding ground of the disease S. Santhosh DIG, Prisons, Headquarters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jails-in-a-spot-as-more-prisoners-test-positive/article31683588.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Urban job guarantee scheme facing hiccups in corporation area||Work under the Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme (AUEGS) has resumed in a single division of the Kochi Corporation, with officials citing shortage of funds in allotting additional work under the scheme. In Chambakkara, around 10 women were engaged in cleaning the drains and clearing weeds on the stretch leading up to Gandhi Square from the bridge, said V.P. Chandran, councillor representing the area. Not more than five people would work on a single site, he said. Govt. order As per a government order issued earlier this month, workers would have to be provided with masks and gloves, and physical distancing would have to be maintained at work sites. Work left over from the previous year could be taken up as spillover projects for this year. The order says that pre-monsoon cleaning is to be given particular importance while taking up work under the scheme and workers over 65 years of age should not be employed. Shortage of funds A severe shortage of funds had kept more work from being assigned, said officials associated with the project at the Corporation. An amount of Rs. 10 lakh was taken out of the Corporation’s own fund earlier this year and would have to be recovered later from the State. Some councillors had asked for pre-monsoon cleaning work to be allotted under the scheme after beneficiaries had enquired after it, but work could be allotted only as long as that amount lasted, since no additional amount was received from the State. “The scheme could help at least a few workers get by financially once work is allotted,” said K.J. Antony, councillor representing Nazareth, where there are 16 active workers registered under the scheme. Once lockdown restrictions had eased, workers had begun enquiring after allotment of work, said Bindu Levin, councillor from Karippalam. Audit report An audit report of the utilisation of the previous year’s allotted funds would have to be submitted before funds were released, said S. Subodh, project officer for the scheme. A little over Rs. 50 lakh had been allotted to the Corporation in the previous financial year. The Corporation was still in the process of readying its audit report, said officials associated with the project. An action plan chalked out by Corporation officials for the year aims to take up work worth nearly Rs. 15 crore for the current financial year. The plan would be placed before the council for its approval at the next meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urban-job-guarantee-scheme-facing-hiccups-in-corporation-area/article31683549.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||VFPCK to utilise social media to sustain interest in farming||The Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) is set to tap the new-found interest in backyard vegetable farming by facilitating constant interactions between experts and the new entrants into farming through social media. The move comes in the wake of the VFPCK distributing over 25,000 basic vegetable ‘challenge’ kits of Rs. 250 each across the State since lockdown. The kit comprising five grow bags and a smattering of seeds is fit for small landholdings of two to three cents. “We have asked our district managers to create WhatsApp groups for sustaining the interest in farming beyond the initial enthusiasm. The interest for backyard vegetable farming has definitely soared during the lockdown period. There is also a realisation of the need for maximum utilisation of available land. However, the exact outcome of this will be known in a month or two once it is time for harvesting,” said A.K. Sherief, CEO, VFPCK. The VFPCK had collected the contact numbers of those who had purchased the vegetable kits and those found interested in long-term perusal of farming are being added into these groups. Besides, local experts are also being added so that the doubts of members regarding farming are addressed promptly. Visits to agriculture institutes for familiarisation with new farming technologies and ideas are also on the anvil. The idea is to take the interest in farming to the next level, including use of fertilizers and effective waste management. Mr. Sherief said that sustaining long-term interest in backyard farming was not possible only through subsidies. For this a deep-rooted love for farming should be kindled in people, besides inculcating in them lessons of self-reliance . Fruits next In the next phase, the VFPCK aims at shifting their focus to cultivation of fruits by distributing indigenously developed seeds and plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vfpck-to-utilise-social-media-to-sustain-interest-in-farming/article31683556.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘A forest on a cent’ to regain green spaces||“Nothing is impossible. It is possible to bring up a forest, square inch by square inch,” says Benny V. Varghese, an environmental enthusiast and a higher secondary school teacher in Piravom. He is heading a campaign by people to establish green belts around their living spaces; not as big enterprises, but as little islands of imagination. Each family or each volunteer is encouraged to leave alone a cent of land in their holdings so that natural greenery comes up on it. The space will gradually develop into a naturally-occurring forest. “We don’t plant trees or intervene in anyway in the process of nature,” says Mr. Varghese, explaining the concept. He says he came upon the concept while he was in the tribal heartland of Attappady in Palakkad district some time ago. Twenty-five plots of land, ranging in area between one cent and five cents, have been voluntarily contributed by people to turn these spaces into natural forest. The efforts have been launched in the north division of Pazhoor in Piravom municipality. The spaces are marked by biofencing. Changes occurring in these “reserve” spaces are recorded visually and explained to people as a lesson in regaining the green spaces we have lost, he adds. In Attappady The environmentalist says the Attappady experience was an eye-opener. Over a period of five years, the Attappady Hill Area Development Society left a substantial parcel of land for natural forest to develop. Changes on the land were recorded and studied as the gradual development of the biodiversity spot took place. Mr. Varghese says that the effort resulted in the Kabani river coming back to life in summer after a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-forest-on-a-cent-to-regain-green-spaces/article31683551.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four more held for vandalising film set||Sending out a clear message that vandalism to fan religious animosity will not be tolerated, the Ernakulam Rural police are gearing up to slap the accused in the demolition of a film set in Kalady with the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA). The Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance will also be invoked against the accused since the act was committed amidst the pandemic. Members of a right wing Hindu fringe group had on Sunday allegedly vandalised the set, a replica of a church, built along the banks of the Periyar for shooting of Minnal Murali , directed by Basil Joseph, with Tovino Thomas in the lead. Six arrests so far The Special Investigation Team probing the case arrested four more persons on Tuesday, taking the total number of arrests in the case to six. The arrested were identified as Rahul Raj, 19, of Akanad; Rahul, 23, of Iringor; Gokul, 25, of Koovappady; and Sandeep Kumar, 33 of Vazhappilli. Five more accused remain to be arrested. Criminal antecedents Two accused, including the prime accused Ratheesh, aka Kara Ratheesh, who reportedly have links with a right-wing group and an accused in several criminal cases, were arrested on Monday. They were produced before court and remanded in Tuesday. The arrested have also been charged with Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 153 (wanton provocation with intent to cause riot), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 454 (trespass to commit offence), 427 (causing damage) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. In a Facebook post made shortly after the vandalisation, Hari Palode, general secretary of the Antharashtra Hindu Parishad (AHP), had claimed that the set was demolished by the activists of the Bajrang Dal since “complaints against erecting the structure in front of Lord Mahadeva on Kalady Manappuram (sandbank) did not yield results’’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-held-for-vandalising-film-set/article31683560.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Keralites relied heavily on PDS during lockdown’||Keralites relied heavily on the public distribution system to survive the COVID-19-induced lockdown, says a study by the Kochi-based Centre for Socio-Economic and Environmental Studies. The survey found that 92% of the households with ration cards made purchases from ration shops during the lockdown, and 16% of them said they visited ration shops during the lockdown after a long gap. Nearly all (98%) of the priority category cardholders (yellow and pink card-holders), 91% of the blue card-holders who get State subsidy, and 85% of the white card-holders, in the non-priority category, made purchases using their ration cards during the lockdown. Of these, 21% of the non-priority sector card-holders said they had bought their PDS rations after a long gap. 504 residents Kerala was the first to get off the block to ensure universal PDS supplies during the lockdown. The survey called for strengthening the system in the post-lockdown scenario and getting more Central allocation of grains to meet the possible new demand from non-priority sector card-holders in the State. The study was conducted online among 504 Kerala residents between April 28 and May 6. Twelve per cent of the respondents belonged to the priority category (yellow and pink cards); 22% to the blue card category, and 56% to the non-priority category (white cards). Ten per cent of the respondents did not have ration cards. Back to grocery shops The study also showed a falling dependence among residents on supermarkets. If in the pre-lockdown period 38% of the households used supermarkets or shopping malls, their percentage came down to 20 during the lockdown. An additional 15% of the households started buying from neighbourhood grocery shops during the period. It is notable that even with severe restrictions on movements in place only 5% of the households depended on online/home delivery facilities, the study said. The switch from supermarkets and malls to neighbourhood shops was triggered by the restrictions on movement and increased safety consciousness, the study added. While most respondents said they did not face shortage of supply of cereals and pulses, many reported considerable shortage of fish and meat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralites-relied-heavily-on-pds-during-lockdown/article31683548.ece
27 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Five new COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||Five persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Among them, four are Coast Guard personnel who are under treatment at naval hospital INHS Sanjivani. They are from Lakshadweep, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan. They reached here on May 21 and were straight away quarantined. The fifth person is a 36-year-old from Thuravur, Angamaly, who came from Maharashtra on May 19. He had reached here in a bus with 22 others from other districts. He was in home quarantine. He was tested after he showed symptoms of COVID-19 on May 23 and was shifted to the medical college hospital when the disease was confirmed. The total number of COVID-19 patients in Ernakulam district is now 16. A 30-year-old woman, who came from Chennai, was discharged on Tuesday after she recovered from the disease. There are now 7,431 persons under observation in the district. Of them, 156 persons are in ‘high risk’ category. Hospital observation Eleven new persons were added to the hospital observation list on Monday. Of them, eight were in the medical college hospital and three were in private hospitals. The total number of persons discharged from hospital observation was 16. There are now 62 persons under hospital observation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-new-covid-19-cases-in-ernakulam/article31683557.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Protect Tipu’s fort, court tells Archaeology dept.||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the State Archaeology Department to take necessary steps to protect the Tipu Sultan Fort and its adjoining properties at Feroke in Kozhikode. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali ordered that the steps be taken in six months so that any further deterioration of the ancient monument and its remains could be avoided. The court also made it clear that the Archaeology Department would be at liberty to explore the possibility of conducting necessary excavations to identify any further historical and archaeological remains in the adjoining property. The directives were issued while allowing a public interest litigation filed by K. Jayakrishnan, general convener, Feroke Cultural Coordination Committee, seeking to protect the monuments and its nearby properties. The court also dismissed a writ petition by E. Abdul Gafoor and other owners of the property adjacent to the monument challenging declaration of their property as an ancient monument by the State government and the Director of Archaeology in terms of the provisions of the the Kerala Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act 1968. The court said there was a cave and a large well on the property and it seemed that the cave was extending to different parts of Kozhikode district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protect-tipus-fort-court-tells-archaeology-dept/article31683559.ece
27 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to MCH to treat cardiac patient||Much to the relief of a cardiac patient who was allegedly turned away by two government medical college hospitals saying that COVID-19 patients are given priority over others, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Principal and Medical Superintendent of Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, to review the medical condition of the patient and subject him to due procedures for removing blocks on his arteries if he is fit for the same. Justice Anu Sivaraman passed the directive on a petition filed by R. Radhakrishnan, a tailor from Kollam. According to him, when he felt palpitation and uneasiness on January 2, he was rushed to the district hospital. He was diagnosed with coronary artery disease with angina. The doctors of there advised him to take treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram. However, when he went to the Thiruvananthapuram MCH in March, he was turned away. When his son met the cardiologists at the Alappuzha MCH with his medical records, he was advised to come back after the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-mch-to-treat-cardiac-patient/article31683645.ece
27 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CIFT study appears in FAO publication||The Food and Agricultural Organisation has taken note of a study of food and fishing gear loss by the Kochi-based Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT). The CIFT study has been included in the FAO publication ‘FAO Fisheries and Aquaculture Circular No. 1204’ -https://doi.org/10.4060/ ca8382en, according to a communication from CIFT here. CIFT said it was the first work from India on assessment of abandoned, lost or otherwise discarded fishing gear, which was a major problem leading to ghost fishing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cift-study-appears-in-fao-publication/article31683552.ece
27 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Four of family positive in Kollam||Four persons from the district, all from the same family, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. They travelled on IX-538 Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 16, sitting near a person who later tested positive.  The 27-year-old woman, her daughters aged 1 and 4, and her 58-year-old mother were in home quarantine. They have been shifted to Government Medical College, Parippally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-of-family-positive-in-kollam/article31683646.ece
27 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Six test positive in Kottayam||The district recorded a sharp spike in the number of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with six persons testing positive for the viral infection. Of the six cases, four came from abroad while one returned from Chennai. The remaining patient contracted the infection through contact. The persons who tested positive during the day included a 60-year-old woman from Kumarakom who came from Abu Dhabi on May 17 and a 28-year-old woman from Perunna who returned from Dubai on May 16. Among the remaining four, an elderly couple, aged 79 and 71 from Payipad, returned from Dubai on May 11 and were in home quarantine at Nalukodi. A 24-year-old man from Vazhappalli, near Changanassery, returned from Chennai. Another patient is from Meenadom. All the patients have been shifted to COVID-19 isolation wards at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, and the District General Hospital by evening. Discharged Meanwhile, a 29-year-old who returned from Abu Dhabi was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday after testing negative. The man tested positive for the disease on May 18 while undergoing institutional quarantine at Kothanalloor. In view of the rising number of cases, the authorities have decided to expand the sample collection process in the district and extended the time schedule for sample collection at six taluk hospitals to 8 p.m. A Shramik Special train with 1,464 migrant workers left for West Bengal from Kottayam around 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-test-positive-in-kottayam/article31683649.ece
27 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MG University exams from June 1||A syndicate meeting of the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, here on Tuesday decided to conduct the sixth semester examination of its undergraduate programmes from June 1. The meeting, presided over by the university’s Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas, has scheduled the examinations on June 1, 3, 5 and 6. The practical examinations will be held at the respective colleges from June 8 while no external examiners will be deployed in view of the COVID-19 situation. Valuation The valuation of answer sheets will begin from June 11 under the home-valuation system. The fifth semester examinations will be held between June 8 and June 12 while the second semester examinations will begin on June 15. In view of the pandemic, valuation of these answer sheets will be held at the respective colleges. The syndicate meeting also decided to constitute an expert committee to assess the performance of inter-university study centres under MGU. A decision with regard to expelling the manager of the Cochin College, who reportedly collected money from students for admission, was also made. For students who are unable to reach the examination centres for the supplementary and BVOC examinations, the varsity has opened an online registration facility through its official website to appear for the examination from their respective districts. The registration window will be open till 4 p.m. on May 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mg-university-exams-from-june-1/article31683650.ece
27 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Crisis deepens in KC(M)||Even as the UDF has swung into a fire-fighting mode, the dispute over post-sharing in the Kottayam district panchayat is snowballing into a deep crisis with the warring factions of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] accusing each other of shifting loyalty. Soon after reports about the mediation attempt emerged, the KC(M) faction led by Jose K. Mani released a statement with the manuscript of an agreement nominating Sebastian Kulathungal as their new president nominee. The document, drafted on June 29, 2019 in the presence of Mr Jose Mani, was undersigned by all six panchayat members of the KC(M) in the local body, including Mary Sebastian and Ajith Muthiramala. “Both these members, who never raised objection while signing the document, shifted their loyalties all of a sudden after receiving the notice declaring the election on July 25,’’ the statement said. Rival group The rival KC(M) (Joseph) group termed the defiance shown by the Mani group despite an intervention by the UDF leadership as a pointer to the latter moving towards the LDF. “Those who have a history of violating a written agreement with the Congress and wresting power in the district panchayat with LDF’s backing does not possess any moral authority to speak about the sanctity of seat-sharing agreements,’’ said Saji Manjakadambil, district president, KC(M) (Joseph group). The Mani group also accused the rival group of striking a secret alliance with the LDF. “By triggering controversies in the name of a non-existent post-sharing agreement, they try to weaken the UDF,’’ alleged Sunny Thekkedam, district president, KC(M) (Mani). Amidst such bargaining, the Congress, as leading coalition partner, appears to be in a delicate position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crisis-deepens-in-kcm/article31683593.ece
27 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No fresh cases in Kozhikode||There were no fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Tuesday even as the number of people under surveillance reached 7,549. The body of a Kannur native, who passed away at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Monday night, was buried at the Kannamparambu burial ground following medical protocol. According to a release, 53 people are under observation at the medical college hospital and nine are at the first-line treatment centre set up at the Lakshadweep Guest House in the city. Fifteen people were discharged on Tuesday. . At present, 25 persons from Kozhikode are undergoing treatment at various places. Three persons from Malappuram and two from Kasaragod are being treated at the medical college hospital. At Azhiyoor, Onchiyam Around 20 people were placed under surveillance in Azhiyoor and Onchiyam grama panchayat limits after two health workers from the places were diagnosed with the infection in the first test. They are employed at the Thalassery general hospital and have been quarantined there. The news about their body fluid samples testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 came after they visited their houses. They returned to Thalassery soon after the results came. However, all those who had been in contact with the two during the course of their journey are now under observation. Panchayat sources said they were awaiting the results of the samples sent to the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, as the second test results had turned out to be negative. Vacant houses District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao directed officials to take over vacant houses to be converted into quarantine facilities for those returning from abroad. Local-level rapid response teams will inspect those houses and disinfect them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article31683534.ece
27 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hoteliers in Kochi developing mobile app for food delivery||Taking a cue from their counterparts in Kozhikode, hoteliers in Kochi are developing their own mobile application for food delivery. “The application is now at an advanced stage and will be ready for launch soon,” said Aziz Moosa, district president of Kerala Hotel and Restaurants’ Association here on Tuesday. He said that about 30% to 40% of the hotels and catering institutions in Kochi had returned to business, though not in full swing, with the partial lifting of the lockdown last week. Suhail Mohammed of Kozhikode, State vice-president of the association, said that Kozhikode city restaurant owners were relying on an online platform for food delivery. Around 40 restaurants in Kozhikode city area, he said, were depending on the service now. There were about 2,000 restaurants in the city area, he added. Mr. Azeez said that food delivery aggregators were trying to exploit hotel owners by demanding for 20% to 30% commission on sales. The association was developing an app exclusively for Kochi city and another one for the entire State, he added. Appeal to KSEB Restaurant owners have, in the meanwhile, appealed to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to forgo the fixed charges being levied on service providers. Fixed charges come to about 10% of the bill. They said that the government must provide them relief because of the constraints in doing business during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hoteliers-in-kochi-developing-mobile-app-for-food-delivery/article31683555.ece
27 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vigilantism mars community policing||The attempts of police to deploy local residents as community patrol squads to catch ‘black men’ and robbers have ended up in a mess in some parts of the district. In two recent incidents, the squads – mostly comprising untrained local men – turned into vigilante groups and roughed up innocent persons. In some village areas, some groups, carrying long sticks and other crude weapons, are operating without police permission. They are neither trained for patrol duties nor equipped to handle suspected persons in a healthy way. No beat officers or policemen under community policing are accompanying them, though the guidelines stipulate the police presence. A journalist who recently faced a “midnight trial” by the squad said the mob psychology was quite terrifying as they were found ready to beat up anyone they came across during night hours in their residential area. They were not even bothering to verify the identity of the “suspects” before starting verbal and physical assaults. In several areas, members of the patrol squads do not have identity cards. The police said they would review the operation of the squads and adopt changes. Citing some of the recent incidents of netting robbers by the squads in rural areas, they claimed that the initiative was successful in providing a feeling of security to residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigilantism-mars-community-policing/article31683533.ece
27 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||PPE kits donated||Lions District 318E (which covers 4 northern revenue districts of the State) has donated PPE kits, N95 masks, 3 ply masks, emergency instruments and fogging machine, among others, worth Rs. 8 lakh to the Government Medical Colleges in Kozhikode and Kannur. Lions past district governor Vineesh Vidyadharan handed over the items to Kozhikode Medical College Principal V.R. Rajendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ppe-kits-donated/article31683545.ece
27 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reopen places of worship: IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has urged the Centre and the State governments to grant permission to reopen places of worship while adhering to guidelines during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Party State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed said on Tuesday that the government should allow the faithful to offer prayers at places of worship just as exemptions were given to operate public transport services and shops after maintaining physical distancing and other safety measures.  Mr. Majeed said the government had allowed even students to come out during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reopen-places-of-worship-iuml/article31683581.ece
27 May 2020||MYLADUMPARA (IDUKKI),KERALA||Megalithic era site yields beads, semiprecious stones||A megalithic era site on the western side of the Western Ghats has yielded a rich collection of etched carnelian beads, semiprecious stones, glass beads, and red and black pottery. The site was discovered while digging a pond at Anakkara village in Udumbanchola taluk early last week. Two large burial urns with top stones were found at a distance of 10 ft at the site. Dark-brown carnelian beads, semiprecious stones, and pottery with pictorial engravings were found in six earthen pots inside the burial urns. The urns were found about 5 ft below the topsoil. Historian T. Rajesh, who recorded the findings, called for more archaeological explorations as the site was 5 km from Thovalapadi, from where Roman coins had been excavated earlier. Such a collection of 49 carnelian beads was rare in the State. Links to Muziris? He said it should not be considered a standalone site but one having association with other megalithic sites in the region and having links with Muziris. Though low-grade gems had been first excavated in the Indus Valley, they were also found widely in Mesopotamian and other ancient sites. Tools too A 16-cm-long dagger, an iron axe, and human bones were also found in the urns. Though carnelian beads had been found in excavations in Thrissur district, they were not native to this part of the country, Mr. Rajesh said. The pots also had grains, around half a kg, which had turned powdery due to passage of time. Mr. Rajesh said carbon-dating under the initiative of the Kerala Council for Historical Research, led by historian P.J. Cherian, had yielded remains of 500 BC at a nearby site. An ancient passage on this side of the Western Ghats to Thrissur, Palakkad and Coimbatore could be traced as there were similarities in the archaeological findings on a long stretch there. The findings should pave the way for more archaeological explorations as individual studies pointed towards a rich megalithic era life on this side of the Western Ghats, Mr. Rajesh said. The remains were handed over to the Archaeological Survey of India officials on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/megalithic-era-site-yields-beads-semiprecious-stones/article31683641.ece
27 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad records biggest single day surge with 30 patients||A dizzying number of 30 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday, the biggest number on a single day since the novel coronavirus was first reported in the last week of March in Palakkad. While 28 of them had come back from other States and abroad, two were found to be their primary contacts. District and health authorities said that there was a clear pattern in the rise in COVID-19 cases in the district. When nine of the cases had returned from the Maldives by ship on May 17, eight had come back from Chennai and five from Mumbai by road. When two persons confirmed positive on Tuesday had returned from Karnataka, one person each had come from Kuwait, Pondicherry, Gujarat, and Coimbatore. One person who tested positive here belonged to Malappuram. The total number COVID-19 cases in the district has now risen to 82. Unlike the previous days, all confirmed cases were not shifted to the District Hospital, Palakkad. Health authorities said some of the new cases would be shifted to the COVID centre at Mangod. Five cases in Malappuram In Malappuram district, five new cases were confirmed on Tuesday. All of them had returned from other States and abroad. While two of them had returned from Mumbai on May 21, another returned from Mumbai on May 14. One of them returned from Delhi and another from Dubai on May 20. District Additional Magistrate N.M. Meharali said that all of them were shifted to the Government Medical College, Manjeri. As many as 49 patients are currently under treatment for COVID-19 at Medical College, Manjeri. One each is from Palakkad and Alapuzha. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that people who had got in touch with those confirmed positive on Tuesday should go into self-quarantine for two weeks. “They should communicate it to health officials,” Dr. Sakeena said. Those who did not have facilities at home could use the COVID-19 care facility provided by the government. “None should go to a hospital directly. If they have any symptoms, they should contact the control cell on 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253,” said Dr. Sakeena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-records-biggest-single-day-surge-with-30-patients/article31683544.ece
27 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Returnee influx puts Palakkad in spotlight||The district has become a centre of attraction with a sudden spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases. As many as 29 cases were reported here on Tuesday. The district administration has assuaged the fears raised from certain quarters about the spike in the coronavirus infection. “The spike is for obvious reasons. Palakkad, Malappuram and Kannur districts have witnessed the largest number of people returning home from other States and abroad. And 99% of the cases reported were either the returnees or their primary contacts,” said District Collector D. Balamurali. Biggest check-post Palakkad district has the biggest State border check-post at Walayar through which hundreds of people from other States arrive every day. Being a district that shares an active border with Tamil Nadu, Palakkad also has quite a large number of people living in Tamil Nadu. “We cannot leave anyone unattended. We are trying to identify the positive cases by screening the profile and increasing the tests consistently,” said Mr. Balamurali. During the first phase, 50 to 60 COVID-19 tests were conducted every day. Last week, the district saw an average of 200 tests a day. On Tuesday, as many as 331 tests were done in Palakkad. “We are doing it in a systematic manner. The increase in the number of COVID-19 cases was quite expected. Even the spurt was on predicted lines,” said Mr. Balamurali. Health officials said most number of cases tested positive for COVID-19 were asymptomatic. Out of the 30 people tested positive on Tuesday, all but seven were asymptomatic. It is an indication that Palakkad will witness a further spike in cases with a large number of returnees from other States and abroad standing a chance to test positive for the virus. The institutional quarantine system system in the district has been strengthened with an eye on this potential spike. As many as 8,448 people in the district are currently under observation. Mr. Balamurali, meanwhile, warned the people to observe the lockdown norms tightly. “If people behave properly by observing the norms, then we will not have to worry much. Otherwise, we will have to face community spread,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/returnee-influx-puts-palakkad-in-spotlight/article31683576.ece
27 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Shramik Special leaves for Jharkhand||The first-ever Shramik Special train from Thiruvalla, carrying 506 migrant workers, left for Jharkhand on Tuesday afternoon. Thiruvalla Subcollector Vinay Goyal, who supervised the safe boarding of passengers, said 333 migrant workers from the district and 173 from Alappuzha left for their home villages in Jharkhand. The workers from the district were supplied with food packets and drinking water on their arrival at the railway station. Train to Howrah Another special train carrying 1,500 migrant workers will leave Thiruvalla for Howra in West Bengal on Wednesday afternoon. A medical bulletin released on Tuesday evening said no new COVID-19 case was reported in the district on Tuesday. As of now, 40 persons, including 13 COVID-19 patients, are at the isolation wards of hospitals. Twelve persons have been admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, eight at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, four persons at the Adoor General Hospital and 16 others at various private hospitals in the district. So far, 29 throat swab samples tested positive while 6,282 samples tested negative for the virus infection. The Health Department is awaiting clinical examination results of 633 throat swab samples. The number of quarantined persons in the district went up to 3,546 on Tuesday. Among them, 3,115 came from various other States and 425 from abroad, while six others are primary contacts of infected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shramik-special-leaves-for-jharkhand/article31683595.ece
27 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||P.K. Kumaran passes away||P.K. Kumaran, former MLA of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and former Travancore Devaswom Board member, passed away at a private hospital at Pandalam on Tuesday. He was 78. He was a member of the Legislative Assembly from the Pandalam constituency from 1996 to 2001. Mr. Kumaran was undergoing treatment at the Indo-American Hospital in Vaikom since May 12. Funeral was held in Pandalam with State honours in the afternoon. He is survived by two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pk-kumaran-passes-away/article31683583.ece
27 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Clinical research award for surgeon||Suresh Pillai, spine surgeon and editor of the Orthopaedic Journal of South Indian States , has been selected for this year’s Clinical Research Award instituted by the Association of Spine Surgeons of India. Dr. Pillai, hailing from Mavelikara, has been selected for the prestigious award in recognition of his work on ‘Recurrence of lumbar disc prolapse’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clinical-research-award-for-surgeon/article31683563.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 200 contacts of prisoner identified||Facing a tall order of preparing the contact list of a remand prisoner who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 a few days ago, the Thiruvananthapuram district administration has managed to identify over 200 people. The identified people had come in close proximity with the Travancore Devaswom Board employee who was arrested with alleged possession of illicit liquor along with two others. With the man adopting a largely uncooperative stance in divulging the details of his contacts, the health authorities are left with no option but to rely on the information provided by his family and relatives. The 40-year-old Venjaramoodu native was arrested after the car he was travelling in with the other two accused rammed the motorcycle of a police officer. Liquor bottles were seized from the vehicle. The arrested man works in a temple at Nedumangad that functions under the board, official sources say. While the “preliminary” contact list comprises police officers, health workers, and others who interacted or came in close proximity with the accused, the authorities have not been able to obtain details of those who supplied the man with the illicit liquor. According to police sources, a suspected hooch den at Pothencode is under close watch following reports that the gang obtained the liquor from there. Efforts are under way to apprehend two people believed to be behind the racket. The police also do not rule out the possibility of the accused having crossed the inter-State border to enter Tamil Nadu. The police ensured prompt functioning of the Venjaramoodu police station by deploying personnel including a sub-inspector in place of the 34 officers who have been directed to go in quarantine. The results of the throat swab tests of those persons are expected soon, sources say. Flow charts released Meanwhile, the district authorities released the travel flow-charts of five COVID-19 patients, including four members of a family at Madavoor, who came from Mumbai. The family started journey from Chembur in Mumbai on May 13 and reached their home town two days later. During their home quarantine period, they developed mild fever and other symptoms on May 20. Following this, they were taken to the Paripally Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) for tests. They were shifted to the Thiruvananthapuram MCH next day after testing positive for the virus. The travel details of a 38-year-old fisherman from Pozhiyoor, who was diagnosed with COVID-19 on Sunday, were also published. He came from Nagercoil on May 23 after undergoing treatment for stomach ulcer for three months. He visited an unidentified private hospital in Thuckalay and the Regional Cancer Centre on the same day. Efforts are on to identify the fishermen and other people who could have come in close contact with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-200-contacts-of-prisoner-identified/article31683600.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC and VHSE exams resume||The State School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations resumed on Tuesday. The VHSE examinations started in the morning, while the SSLC exams began at 1.45 p.m. Of the 56,345 VHSE Plus One and Plus Two students who registered, 55,794 appeared for the examinations in 389 examination centres across the State. While the Plus One students sat for the Entrepreneurship Development paper, for the Plus Two students it was Entrepreneurship Development/General Foundation Course. As many as 4,22,077 of the 4,22,450 registered students appeared for the SSLC Mathematics paper in 2,945 centres, including the Gulf region and Lakshadweep. Arrangements were made by the General Education Department for the examinations with the cooperation of the Health Department, police, district administrations, local self-government institutions, parent-teacher associations, and others. Disinfection Not just classrooms and furniture, the school premises too had been disinfected. Students were asked to report to schools early enough so that crowding could be prevented and physical distancing fully observed. They were welcomed at the school gates with thermometers for thermal scanning and sanitisers. Both teachers and students donned masks, provided by Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, and the NSS. Help desks were set up as part of school micro-plans for the exams. Only 20 students were seated in each classroom. Police personnel and health workers were also deployed at exam centres. Special arrangements such as separate classrooms and sanitised corridors (red channel) were created for students from outside the State and those in quarantine to sit for the examinations. Students in containment zones took the examinations at centres in the zones. Travel plans Schools had prepared micro plans for the exams, which included ascertaining travel plans of each student. Besides personal vehicles and school buses, Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses, boats, and vehicles of other departments such as Forest and Scheduled Tribe Development were used to ferry children to the exam centres. Answer scripts were deposited in plastic bags and taken to valuation centres where they were stored separately to be opened only after seven days. As many as 1,78,226 Plus One students and 1,66,143 Plus Two students will appear for the higher secondary examinations that will begin on Wednesday morning in 2,032 exam centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-and-vhse-exams-resume/article31683572.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No new COVID-19 case in capital||The State capital heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday with no new COVID-19 cases being reported after witnessing 17 people testing positive for the disease during the last two days. However, as many as 742 people were placed in quarantine on the day. Currently, 6,181 people were being monitored by the district administration. Eighteen people were admitted to various hospitals with symptoms of the disease. The City police booked a person for jumping home quarantine. A case was registered by the Poojappura police under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 and the Kerala Public Health Act. The police also registered petty cases against 211 who failed to wear masks in the city. With the city witnessing a gradual increase in vehicular flow, the police are set to enforce travel guidelines laid down by the government. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay has said stringent action will be initiated against motorists found violating norms pertaining to travelling in two-wheelers, cars, autorickshaws and other vehicles. Besides suspending the drivers’ licences, the police will also recommend the suspension of the vehicle registrations. Motorcyclists will be required to wear masks as well as helmets. A total of 134 people entered the State through the Inchivila inter-State border on Tuesday. These included 100 people who came from Tamil Nadu, 27 from Uttar Pradesh, five from Maharashtra, and two from Telangana. As many as 68 people came from COVID-19 red zone areas. While six people were sent to corona care centres, the remaining were permitted to go home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-covid-19-case-in-capital/article31683601.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low pressure likely in Arabian Sea||A low-pressure area is likely to develop in the Arabian Sea, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. It is expected over the southeast and eastcentral parts of the sea. The IMD is monitoring the situation and fishermen have been asked to avoid deep-sea fishing in these regions from May 31 to June 4, K. Santhosh, head, Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, IMD, said in an advisory on Tuesday. Favourable conditions Conditions are favourable for the advance of the southwest monsoon into more parts of the Bay of Bengal by Wednesday. The weather agency has warned of the likelihood of isolated heavy rainfall in many parts of the State in the run-up to the monsoon onset in June. Yellow alerts  Yellow alerts have been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Malappuram and Kozhikode for Wednesday. Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad for Thursday; Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Malappuram for Friday; and Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur for Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-pressure-likely-in-arabian-sea/article31683586.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to increase testing: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government has decided to increase testing for SARS-CoV-2 in the wake of disease transmission going up. Talking to media here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said the government was thinking of doing en masse testing among high-risk groups in areas where disease transmission was more. He said the number of cases with unknown source of infection, thrown up through the augmented sample survey and sentinel testing, was limited and indicated that not much transmission was taking place in the community The 14 government labs could handle up to 3,000 samples a day and in an emergency, up to 5,000 samples a day. Six private labs are also accredited for COVID-19 testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-increase-testing-cm/article31683565.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA still hopes to make money from bottled water||Though forced to let go off its bottling plant at Aruvikkara to the Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC), the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has not discarded the idea of packaged drinking water as a way to boost its income. A three-member committee assigned by the KWA to explore avenues of income generation has recommended the establishment of water bottling units alongside existing water treatment plants. According to a May 15 report by the panel, this could rapidly ensure higher income for the cash-strapped water utility. The bottling plants would focus on 20-litre jars alone. Treatment plants would need to spare only a small percentage of treated water for the units, the panel said. In fact, the quantity of water required for packaging would be less than 0.2% of the total production.  20% more revenue On the other hand, “the additional income expected through this way would be more than 20% of the present revenue being collected from such conventional treatment plants,” according to the report submitted by the panel consisting of KWA executive engineers Naushad A., Sunil Kumar M.K., and Santhosh Kumar R.V. The financial health of the KWA is deteriorating and the present income levels could not sustain the organisation for long, the panel noted. As other possible income generation methods, it also suggested water vending machines and app-based tanker water supply as is being done by the KWA and Thiruvananthapuram Corporation in the capital city. The recommendation, in fact, has legal backing. The Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Act, 2008 empowers the authority to “manufacture, market and sell packaged drinking water, mineral water, aerated water, or any other processed water and goods necessary for water supply”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-still-hopes-to-make-money-from-bottled-water/article31683592.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||15 automated weather stations before rains||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) expects to deploy 15 new automated weather stations (AWS) in Kerala before the southwest monsoon arrives. Work is progressing and, hopefully, the 15 stations would be ready before the onset. Thirteen districts would get one AWS each and Thrissur would get two, an official attached to the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) said on Tuesday. The 15 AWS, which would be the first of 100 new ones planned by the IMD in the State, would come up in the following locations: Neyyattinkara (Thiruvananthapuram), Seethathode (Pathanamthitta), West Kallada (Kollam), Kanjikuzhi (Alappuzha), Poonjar (Kottayam), Peerumade (Idukki), Ayyampuzha (Ernakulam), Walayar (Palakkad), Paravanna (Malappuram), Chalakudy and Poringalkuthu (Thrissur), Kakkayam (Kozhikode), Padinjarathara (Wayanad), Irikkur (Kannur) and Vellarikund (Kasaragod). The 15 AWS would augment the IMD’s weather prediction capabilities in the State, the officials said. Quarantine exemption To enable speedy deployment of the AWS, the State government has exempted the project in-charge who is an employee of the private firm contracted by the IMD (Hach DHR India Pvt Ltd) from COVID-19 quarantine. Orders have been issued permitting the officer to travel from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu to Kerala. As per the May 22 order, he is also exempted from undergoing home quarantine. However, “it shall be the responsibility of the Director, Met Centre, IMD, to ensure that the individual is not affected by COVID-19” and if he exhibits symptoms, he would be immediately placed in quarantine in whichever district he happens to be at the time. A daily route diary would be maintained and his contact with the public should be minimal, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-automated-weather-stations-before-rains/article31683580.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Controversy dogs app for liquor sale||Controversy dogged the government’s preparations to resume the sale of legal liquor through ‘Bev Q’, a mobile app for virtual queue management, at least by Thursday. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday released ‘documents’ which, he claimed, proved that the government had favoured an ‘inexperienced firm’ with political links to the leadership of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to build a smartphone application for purchasing liquor from State-run retail outlets, bars, and beer and wine parlours. The firm stood to make 50 paise for every order placed through the application. When the sale of legal alcohol commenced, the start-up is predicted to rake up a minimum of Rs. 3 crore in monthly profit. The government had by-passed IT-proficient public sector entities such as the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology ( C-DIT) and National Informatics Centre (NIC) to favour the start-up. Meanwhile, the government denied Mr. Chennithala's allegations. It said the 50 paise charged for every liquor purchase order was to underwrite the charges slapped on the firm by cloud service providers, companies that generated QR codes and mobile phone service providers. The charge is only for customers who purchased liquor from bars, and beer and wine parlours. It did not apply to those who purchased alcohol from Kerala State Beverages Corporation outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/controversy-dogs-app-for-liquor-sale/article31683567.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Verification postponed||The Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat has put off eligibility verification for Aswas, its medical support scheme for dialysis patients, that was to be held atvarious hospitals 11 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/verification-postponed/article31683651.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Refund of rail ticket fares from May 27||Railways will begin staggered refund of ticket fares for trains cancelled after March 22 on account of COVID-19 through 13 PRS (passenger reservation system) counters in the State from May 27. In addition to the full refund of fares granted online at www.irctc.co.in, Railways are giving staggered refund of the fares through select 13 booking counters in the Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad divisions. Railways said on Tuesday that full refund would be made available up to 180 days from the date of journey and that commuters need not rush to the counter. Thiruvananthapuram Central, Kollam Junction, Kayamkulam, Chengannur, Thiruvalla, Kottayam, Allappuzha, Ernakulam Junction, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, and Thrissur in the Thiruvananthapuram division and Palakkad, Kozhikode and Mangaluru in the Palakkad division are the designated PRS centres. Refund schedule For journeys from March 22 to 31, the refund from the PRS counters will be from May 27 onwards, for journeys from April 1 to 14, the refund will be from June 2 onwards, for journeys from April 15 to 30, from June 9 onwards, for journeys from May 1 to 15, from June 16 onwards and for journeys from May 16 to 31, from June 23 onwards and for journeys commencing from June 1 to 30, from June 28 onwards. All precautions will be enforced at the counters. Physical distancing will be ensured in queues and between queues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/refund-of-rail-ticket-fares-from-may-27/article31683564.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi joins issue with Goyal over train service||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday slammed Railways for despatching a train to Kerala without passing on the passenger name record and booking details to the government in advance. He said such reckless actions imperilled the State’s containment strategy. Kerala cannot afford to have unidentified persons entering the State from epidemic hotspots in other regions. It feared that new flare-ups could overwhelm the State’s already stretched health-care system. The threat of community spread loomed. Kerala was struggling hard to stave off such a spectre. Mr. Vijayan said he had written to Union Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal pointing out the anomaly. The petition appeared to have fallen on deaf ears. Railways authorised another special train to Kerala without giving the PNR or booking details of those on board. ‘Dismissive attitude’ Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Goyal did not seem to have a care. His dismissive attitude prompted Mr. Vijayan to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the letter, Mr. Vijayan said he knew the issue was too trivial to be taken up directly with the Prime Minister. But, Mr. Goyal’s attitude and the Railways’ action had prompted him to appeal to Mr. Modi directly. Mr. Vijayan asked whether Mr. Goyal had his ear to the ground or understood the depth of the threat and the despair of governments. He seemed to inhabit a space of privileged seclusion. He said Mr. Goyal’s statement that the Kerala Chief Minister did not care for the welfare of expatriate Malayalis was unbecoming of his office. “Mr. Goyal is no judge of my actions. The people of Kerala are”, he said. Mr. Vijayan said it was unfortunate that Union Minister of State of Foreign Affairs V. Muraleedharan could not sit through the entire length of the videoconference of MPs and MLAs he had hosted. “We presumed he would state the position of the Centre at the end of the conference. But, he left the conference to attend to other duties”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-joins-issue-with-goyal-over-train-service/article31683566.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youth panel’s complaint redressal goes online||The Kerala State Youth Commission’s complaint redressal procedure has gone online in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. The first complaint was from V.R. Rahul of Varanad, Cherthala, through a video conference. He had said that he could not apply for government jobs under sports quota, as he had lost his sports certificate during the floods. Following the commission’s intervention, a copy of the certificate was received from the Directorate of General Education. The commission was considering holding online adalats too.  Move part of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-panels-complaint-redressal-goes-online/article31683598.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Students likely to get credits for online courses||College students in the State will soon be able to transfer credits earned through massive open online courses (MOOCs). In a bid to salvage the academic year that is likely to face disruptions in view of the COVID-19 scenario, the government has advised universities to earmark academic credits for online learning courses. According to Usha Titus, Principal Secretary, Higher Education Department, universities will be required to make greater use of online platforms to circumvent the existing crisis. “The department has asked them to allocate credits for elective courses that can be pursued by students through online learning platforms such as SWAYAM or Coursera. For this, the universities should vet the content of the courses and create a menu of courses from which the students can opt for their electives,” she said. The move comes against the backdrop of a University Grants Commission (UGC) letter calling for steps to permit credit mobility and to encourage the use of the SWAYAM platform that offers 82 undergraduate and 42 postgraduate MOOCs. While the UGC regulations enable the universities to reserve up to 20% of credits in the UG and PG curricula for MOOCs, a few universities have mooted a greater allocation. Prior to the introduction of credit mobility from such courses, the Board of Students will be required to identify the online courses that can be aligned with the existing curriculum. With many platforms charging fee for the courses, the onus will be on the statutory panels to identify those that do not incur expenses for the students. Besides, such facilities can provide an opportunity to introduce a blended model of pedagogy that comprises elements of both online and offline education, sources say. Dr. Titus expressed the optimism that the universities will focus on developing their own MOOC programmes. The Centre has mooted permitting universities ranked among the top 100 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) to commence online courses. At present, four universities — Kerala University, Mahatama Gandhi University, Calicut University, and the Cochin University of Science and Technology -- fit the bill in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-likely-to-get-credits-for-online-courses/article31683579.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sanitation workers honoured||Sanitation workers who were at the forefront of fight against COVID-19 were honoured by the State police at a function, ‘Sadaram’, organised at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Tuesday. Hundred pairs of gloves and gumboots and coats were handed over to the workers. State Police Chief Loknath Behera who inaugurated the function said sanitation workers were silent warriors in the fight against COVID-19. Their dedicated efforts had gone a long way in containing the spread of the pandemic. The programme was organised with the support of Student Police Cadets, Our Responsibility to Children programme, and the Nanma Foundation. P. Vijayan, Inspector General of Police (Administration), and Medical College Superintendent M.S. Sharmad and Principal M.K. Ajaykumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanitation-workers-honoured/article31683597.ece
27 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More rail reservation counters||In addition to the passenger reservation counters at the Thiruvananthapuram Central and Ernakulam Junction railway stations, those in Thrissur, Aluva, Ernakulam Town, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thiruvalla, Chengannur, Kayamkulam and Kollam will start working from May 27. The counters at Thiruvananthapuram Central, Ernakulam Junction and Thrissur will work in two shifts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. At other locations they will work in a single general shift from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-rail-reservation-counters/article31683584.ece
27 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Four more persons test positive in Thrissur||Four more COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday. With this, the number of patients undergoing treatment in the district increased to 20. The disease was confirmed for a 32-year-old man and 28-year-old woman from Chavakkad who reached here from Dubai on May 23. They are undergoing treatment at MVR Cancer Centre, Kozhikode. A 42-year-old man from Pazhayannur and another man from Thalikulam who returned from Abu Dhabi on May 24, also tested positive on Tuesday. They are undergoing treatment at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital. In all, 9,657 persons are under observation in the district. Of them 49 are in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-persons-test-positive-in-thrissur/article31683546.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Careful examination||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/careful-examination/article31683554.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Empty vessels as a prop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/empty-vessels-as-a-prop/article31683604.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||As per protocol||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-per-protocol/article31683578.ece
27 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur market yard surpasses revenue target||The Agriculture Market Yard in Anantapur has managed to surpass its annual target for the 2019-20 financial year despite several constraints. A major constraint for the yard is that it does not collect any cess on vegetables and fruits, and buyers and sellers can strike a deal at a place of their choosing without any intervention by the State Government. However, the infrastructure at the sprawling yard attracts sweet lime growers and traders, and buyers of goats, sheep and cattle. “With much difficulty, the market yard surpassed its target for the financial year that concluded on March 31,” Agriculture Market Yard chairman A.K.S. Fayaz told The Hindu . “While the State Government had given us a target of Rs. 3 crore revenue, we managed to achieve a revenue of Rs. 3.14 crore,” he said. Largest cattle market The yard is the largest cattle and sheep market in the State, attracting 7,000 flock of sheep and 2,500 herd of cattle every Saturday and Sunday. “The sales on these two days alone brings us Rs. 3.3 lakh per week,” said Mr. Fayaz. Till last year, the income was meagre at Rs. 70,000 per week, but now the AMC had been openly putting up the amount earned on the notice board. The enforcement of rules has been tightened and overloading of vehicles has been banned, which led to fiscal discipline and more income for the yard. Traders hit The recent lockdown has hit growers, farmers and cattle traders hard, he said, adding that he expects a revenue shortfall of Rs. 50 lakh in the current fiscal with more than two months lost due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “We have been collecting 1% user charge from the people making use of our premises for selling or buying agriculture produce, which fetched us Rs. 60,000 from sweet lime traders. We have some godowns of the traders, who pay us rents,” Mr. Fayaz said. The Market Committee supplied masks and sanitisers to all the traders and farmers coming to the yard. Farmers coming here are given free food and clean water, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-market-yard-surpasses-revenue-target/article31683685.ece
27 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSPDCL MD promises to revise power bills||Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited(APSPDCL) chairman-cum-managing director(CMD) H. Haranatha Rao has promised to get the faulty bills of many consumers rectified, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader G. Obulu Konda Reddy. In a release here on Tuesday, Mr. Obulu, who is the convener of Rayalaseema Abhivrudhi Committee of the party, said that he had written a letter to the CMD following a barrage of complaints from the consumers that their bills were inflated as the meter reading was taken between 67 days and 75 days for individual consumers in Anantapur and the total number of power units consumed were divided into two bills for March and April months. Financial burden “Such flawed billing had put a heavy financial burden on most consumers. The SPDCL software, instead of dividing the units consumed into 31 days (March) + 30 days (April) and remaining in May, had divided it into 35 to 36 days each month in two bills, sending most consumers into Category C (Above 500 units per month),” Mr. Obulu said. Responding to his letter, Mr. Haranatha Rao told Mr. G. Obulu over telephone that he would instruct the company staff to rectify the bills in such cases and resend the bills as there was still time for the payment till June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apspdcl-md-promises-to-revise-power-bills/article31683686.ece
27 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Record foodgrain output in State’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that foodgrain production has touched 172 lakh tonnes during 2019-2020, which is a new record in Andhra Pradesh. Addressing an interactive session on agriculture and allied activities on Day Two of the ‘Mana Palana-Mee Suchana’ programme held on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said the government has spent Rs. 2,200 crore on the market intervention scheme. Power supply Further, the government has credited Rs. 10,209 crore directly in the accounts of farmers as part of the Rythu Bharosa scheme and paid Rs. 960 crore of arrears of paddy procurement done by the TDP government.“Further, we have laid emphasis on the welfare of farmers. Our government has spent Rs. 1,700 crore for feeders to ensure nine-hour power supply to farmers. The government also cleared power arrears to the tune of Rs. 8,645 crore of the previous government,”Mr. Jagan said. Ministers K. Kanna Babu, Botcha Satyanarayana and Taneti Vanitha, Advisor to State government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/record-foodgrain-output-in-state/article31683705.ece
27 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep off TTD properties, endowment land: Kanna||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Tuesday alleged that there has been a serious danger to Hindu religion and its customs ever since Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy came to power in May 2019. Mr. Lakshminarayana, who undertook a day long fast at his residence in protest against the government’s decision to auction TTD properties in prime locations across the country, told reporters that the present dispensation had been continuing to plan for sale of endowment land gifted by devotees. “The previous government had planned to sell land belonging to temples in Mangalagiri and Annavaram, but backtracked after we agitated against it. Now, the present one has set its sights on properties of Sri Venkateswara Swamy and TTD. Its Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy says that he had only given a roadmap for selling land,” he said. Late night GO  Though the government in a late night GO put in abeyance the proposal to auction land, it was still acting in contravention of the spirit of G.O Ms No 888. “The late night GO clearly states that the government has not stopped thinking of selling land belonging to TTD. We have serious doubts about the intention of putting a point in the Joint Collector’s work orders about endowment lands and we demand that the government rescind the decision to sell endowment land,’’ said Mr. Lakshminarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-off-ttd-properties-endowment-land-kanna/article31683511.ece
27 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge quantity of liquor seized||A huge cache of liquor ferried across Telangana through boats has been seized by the Guntur Rural police at Chinagarlapadu village on Tuesday. Police said 33 cases of IMFL stocks worth Rs. 15 lakh was seized. Two persons, A. Seetharam Naik and Sk. Nagul Meera, have been arrested. Police said the accused brought the liquor in a country boat across the river at 1 a.m and hid it in a field near the AP-Telangana border. Police said they seized the liquor after receiving a tip-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-quantity-of-liquor-seized/article31683180.ece
27 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-time allowance for religious elders||The State Government has paid a one-time sustenance allowance of Rs. 5,000 to priests, pastors and imams across the State. A cumulative amount of Rs. 3.71 crore has been credited to the accounts of 33,803 temple priests, 29,841 pastors and 13,646 imams in the State. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the allowance would help the religious elders during the lockdown and assured them of the continued support of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-time-allowance-for-religious-elders/article31683179.ece
27 May 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police stumble upon huge sand dump in Kadapa||The Special Enforcement Branch which has been actively conducting raids on illegal sand mining and illicit brewing of liquor for the past few days clamped down heavily on the sand mafia in the southern parts of the district. In a huge haul, the SEB team led by Additional Superintendent of Police K. Chakravarthy found a huge sand dump of 560 tonnes under Galiveedu police limits. They also seized four tractors, 12 tonnes under transportation and registered seven cases apart from arresting four persons. The dump was found to be owned by Venkatrami Reddy of Pyarampalli. Forty litres of jaggery wash and nine litres of country-made liquor were seized in a mango garden at Pakkerareddypali and Veligallu on Monday. “Anyone having information about such illicit activities can alert me on 91211 00663 and your details will be kept confidential,” Mr. Chakravarthy said. On Sunday, that his team had seized 330 litres of jaggery wash, 11 bottles of spurious liquor, 57 tonnes of sand laden in three tippers and three tractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-stumble-upon-huge-sand-dump-in-kadapa/article31683684.ece
27 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E. Godavari village turns hotbed of infections||The Gollala Mamidada village in Pedapudi mandal has emerged as a major hotspot for COVID-19 cases in East Godavari district. District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela told The Hindu that 95 positive cases have been reported from the district so far. “Of the total number of cases reported in the district, as many as 65 cases (60% of the total cases) tested positive for COVID-19 have been identified as the primary and secondary contacts of a 53-year-old man from Gollala Mamidada village,” Ms. Susheela said. However, the district authorities are clueless about how the 53-year-old man, a hotel servant, had contracted the virus. On May 20, he was declared dead while undergoing medical treatment at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada. Until May 20, the man did not reveal his health status nor was he admitted to any designated COVID hospital. On Monday, 19 persons tested positive for COVID-19 while 20 more persons tested positive on Tuesday, and all of them have reportedly contracted the virus from the primary and secondary contacts of the 53-year-old man. On Tuesday, all of the 19 persons who tested positive hail from Gollala Mamidada while one five-year-old boy tested positive belongs to Bikkavolu village. On the spread of the virus in and around Gollala Mamidada, Health Minister K. Kali Krishna Srinivas on Tuesday told reporters: “The strict implementation of containment measures may result in preventing the spread of the virus in Gollala Mamidada village. Only one COVID-19 death has been reported in East Godavari district so far.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-godavari-village-turns-hotbed-of-infections/article31683689.ece
27 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia for kin of pedal edema victims||Health Minister A. Kali Krishna Srinivas on Tuesday announced that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has granted an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the next of kin of 14 persons who have died of pedal edema since March in the Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district. Accordingly, Collector D. Muralidhar will hand over cheques to the bereaved families this week, he said. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Srinivas said a preliminary inquiry report on the deaths was submitted to the Chief Minister on Monday night. . “An expert team of doctors will study the causes for the outbreak of the disease and the fatalities once the results of blood samples, to be collected from each household in the hotspot habitations from Wednesday, are out. A decision on roping in any national-level medical research institute and experts is yet to be taken,” the Minister said. On the observations drawn from the field visit conducted in the affected areas on Monday, Mr. Srinivas said as many as 103 persons have been found to be suffering from pedal edema which is characterised by swelling of legs and the condition of 16 of them was said to be serious. “The government will take up treatment of the patients,” he added. ‘UV plants soon’ Admitting that as many as 300 tribal habitations in the Chintoor Agency have no access to safe drinking water, he said: “Ultraviolet purification plants will be set up there, initially to check pedal edema cases.” At a review meeting, the Minister cleared the proposal to set up village clinics in all the 66 panchayats in the Agency. Twenty-six such clinics were proposed recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-pedal-edema-victims/article31683719.ece
27 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seer to move High Court||Swami Paripoornananda of Sree Peetham on Tuesday said that he would launch a legal battle against the proposal to auction some properties of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Swami Paripoornananda said he had decided to approach the High Court in this regard. “The Jagan Mohan Reddy government should drop the idea of selling TTD land altogether instead of keeping it in abeyance.” He maintained that no one, including religious elders and seers, has the right to recommend the sale of TTD assets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seer-to-move-hc-against-sale-of-ttd-properties/article31683116.ece
27 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inspects proposed site for college||Health Minister A. Kali Krishna Srinivas on Tuesday inspected the proposed 50-acre site for setting up of a government medical college near Amalapuram town in East Godavari district. The Minister was accompanied by officials including Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop and District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy. Speaking to mediapersons here, Mr. Krishna Srinivas said: “The State government is committed to modernizing buildings of the existing government hospitals. All such buildings that are in a state of dilapidation will be identified and renovated very soon, the process of which has already begun.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-inspects-proposed-site-for-college/article31683690.ece
27 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||27 new medical colleges will be set up in State: Minister||Health Minister K. Kali Krishna Srinivas on Tuesday said that efforts were on to set up 27 new medical colleges across the State. The Health Minister, accompanied by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, inspected the site proposed for setting up a medical college on the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison campus. The district authorities have also identified a site for another medical college near Amalapuram. Special package Referring to the lack of strength of doctors in the hospitals in the agency areas of the district, Mr. Krishna Srinivas said; “A proposal for offering special package and incentives will be discussed with Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy soon to ensure availability of adequate number of doctors in the agency areas.” However, he admitted that many doctors were not willing to work in the agency. The Health Minister further said that the 30-bed Chintoor Area Hospital would be upgraded into the 100-bed facility which would offer dialysis services. The decision was taken considering the need for medical infrastructure and services in the agency .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/27-new-medical-colleges-will-be-set-up-in-state-minister/article31683707.ece
27 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Upward trend of cases continues in Nellore||Upward trend of COVID-19 cases continued in SPSR Nellore district with 10 more persons testing positive on Tuesday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases surged to 232 in the district. The COVID hotspot of Sullurpeta accounted for three patients having link with traders from Koyambedu in Chennai, a health bulletin here said. The temple town, about 80 km from Chennai, is bearing the brunt of the pandemic with as many as 79 persons, including traders and their primary contacts, contracting the infection after visiting the market. Marripadu also accounted for three new cases, followed by Nellore city, Doravarisatram, Atmakur and Kaluvaya with one case each. Alarmed over the disease spreading to new areas, the authorities called for a stringent enforcement of the lockdown in the containment zones. All entry and exit points to these zones were sealed. A fresh round of door-to-door survey was undertaken in the affected places to identify vulnerable sections of people. As many as 218 persons are quarantined. The number of persons taking treatment in the hospitals stood at 84 while 144 patients were cured of the disease so far and four others, including a doctor, succumbed to the disease. Meanwhile, artist M. Sanath Kumar created a wonderful sand art in the Eruru beach, near Chillakuru, to appreciate the services of the staff of the Village Secretariats in preventing the spread of the disease at the grassroots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/upward-trend-of-cases-continues-in-nellore/article31683692.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC allows staff access to LG Polymers plant||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed 30 staffers of LG Polymers emergency access to the company’s Vishakapatnam factory from where a styrene gas leak killed 12 people and affected another 1,000 in the early hours of May 7. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit directed LG Polymers to provide the District Collector concerned the names of the 28 technical and two administrative personnel who would be able to access the polymer factory at any point of time to undertake safety measures. This interim arrangement would continue till the Andhra Pradesh High Court considers the issue.  LG Polymers, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, has highlighted that a complete seizure of the plant and its premises would have a “tremendous adverse consequences and impact”. For one, he said, the temperature of the plant cannot go beyond 25 degree Celsius. “There would be some serious ill-effects, if by any chance the temperature goes beyond 25 degree Celsius,” Mr. Rohatgi submitted, while stressing on the need for an emergency team to maintain plant safety. He further pointed out that polymer kept in the factory were in various stages of manufacture and their exposure would lead to toxicity. He also said the factory premises houses the company’s law and administrative offices. A complete seizure of the acreage would seriously prejudice the company. The apex court asked the company to approach the High Court with regard to all these issues. Mr. Rohatgi said one of the applications filed by the company is scheduled to come up before the High Court on May 27. HC questions Meanwhile, the High Court, in its previous hearing, had already asked the Centre and the Andhra Pradesh government to provide the net worth of LG Polymers Pvt. Ltd. as per the Companies Act. It had also sought information on how the toxic styrene monomer was allowed to be transported to South Korea despite the registration of a crime in connection with the May 7 leak, the appointment of a probe team and the requirement of a magisterial enquiry. The High Court had ordered the complete seizure of the factory and its premises. It had also barred the company directors from entering the property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-allows-lg-polymers-staff-access-to-plant/article31683127.ece
27 May 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District administration gearing up to handle lockdown relaxation||In lockdown 4.0, a number of sectors including intra-district travel and domestic flights have opened up and train services are scheduled to begin from June 1. Keeping the challenges and issues in mind, the district administration has devised a three-pronged strategy to counter it. Speaking to The Hindu , District Collector V. Vinay Chand said the three focus areas would be testing, preparedness of hospitals and containment. Testing The administration is reverting to the earlier days of mass testing and nine categories have been identified for testing. “This apart for the first time we will be extending our testing facilities to the periphery, as the idea is to decentralise testing,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. As of now in Visakhapatnam there are two testing centres in the urban limits that includes the virology laboratory in Andhra Medical College and the Truenat laboratory at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases and around six in the rural area hospitals such as in Narsipatnam, Paderu and others. “Apart from the two in the GVMC limits, which caters to about five urban constituencies, we intend to have 10 more in each of the 10 rural and tribal constituencies to take the count to 12,” said the District Collector. The administration also has plan to scale up the testing from 1,000 per day to 2,000. The district administration anticipates a huge flow of returnees by July- August and also a surge in critical and hyper critical cases. It is laying its emphasis on enhancing the hospital beds from the present 2,200 to 5,250. By June 1, we hope to get the beds ready and even private hospitals will be roped in. They may declare the entire hospital as COVID hospital or allot a wing. The Isolation Committee is on the job and already 25 hospitals have been identified and six are functioning, he said. Containment The denotification and notification of fresh containment zones will continue, as and when patients test negative and fresh cases from new areas are reported, but simultaneously testing and active surveillance will be scaled up. As of now there are about 27 containment zones in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-administration-gearing-up-to-handle-lockdown-relaxation/article31683734.ece
27 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD staff divided on curbs on property sale||TTD employees remain divided over the government’s directive restricting the Trust Board from disposing of its ‘non-remunerative properties’. They are engaged in an interesting debate with regard to the merits and demerits of the government’s decision. While a majority of them expressed their displeasure at the government’s order, a few hailed it. “It has come as a breather to the TTD at a time when it is being battered from all sides by leaders of various political parties. Disposing of landed properties will hurt the sentiments of donors,” felt this section of the staff, mostly from the lower and middle rungs. However, the majority group, which consists of even several senior officials, who wished not to be quoted, argued that it was not possible to maintain all the gifts received by the TTD in their original form. Old practice “A gift is a gift irrespective of whether it is movable or immovable and every endowment received by TTD is normally derived only from the temple hundi. If the political leaders really mean that the gifts have to be safeguarded in their original form then TTD should neither deposit gold and silver ornaments derived from temple hundi in banks after converting them into bars/bricks nor go for periodical auctioning of high-priced offerings like watches and expensive smart phones, a practice which it has been observing for several decades,” they said. Encroachment threat On an average about 300 pieces of each kind are offered every month. “When the TTD can auction movable properties and deposit the sale proceeds in its bank accounts, what is wrong in disposing of the non-viable properties that are prone for encroachments?” they wondered. They cited how the then TDP government in the late 1990s barred TTD from claiming ownership over several hundred acres of its prime land in Tirupati for the reason that it was in the possession and enjoyment of individuals for generations. The liquidation of non-remunerative properties scattered in several States in bits and pieces, mostly in remote areas, would strengthen the financial viability of the TTD. The move will also safeguard the sentiments of donors as the interest derived from the sale proceeds would be constantly utilised by the trust board for the benefit of the devout in some form or another, some officials reasoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-staff-divided-on-curbs-on-property-sale/article31683709.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man nabbed for burgling TTD official’s bungalow||The Tirupati Urban police on Tuesday arrested a man on charges of breaking into the residence of the Joint Executive Officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The accused, identified as P. Gangadhar Rao of Maddilapalem in Visakhapatnam city, had reportedly broken into the JEO’s residence on the night of May 23 by cutting open a window, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy said at a press meet here on Tuesday. “Gangadhar broke into the bungalow and decamped with 173 grams of gold jewellery. He had also stolen Rs. 2,000 cash from the adjoining Sri Padmavathi guest house a week ago. He was picked up on Tuesday when he was found moving in a suspicious manner in a local street,” Mr. Ramesh Reddy said. The burglary led to a furore as the JEO’s residence is in a posh locality, where several high-profile bureaucrats reside. The locality is also home to the Women’s College and VIP guest-houses, apart from being at a stone’s throw from the SVU Campus Police Station. History of crime Police said Gangadhar is a notorious history-sheeter who is involved in over 30 cases of theft in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Rajamahendravaram, Tuni and Vijayawada areas. He had also served a five-year sentence in jail for various cases lodged against him during 2011 to 2017, after which he reportedly moved base to Tirupati. Police seized valuables worth Rs. 6.45 lakh from his possession including Rs. 15,200 in cash and the 173 grams of gold. Mr. Ramesh Reddy appreciated the police team for cracking the case within a short time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-nabbed-for-burgling-ttd-officials-bungalow/article31683699.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP demands law to ‘protect’ TTD lands||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a demonstration across the State, protesting against the now-stalled move to sell off temple lands. They also demanded that a specific policy be put in place for handling such proposals in the future. Referring to the release of a Government Order keeping the decision in abeyance, the BJP State office-bearer and ‘Prabhari’ Jally Madhusudhan claimed that the BJP, through its continued fight and agitations, had succeeded in safeguarding temple lands from the State Government ‘for now’. He demanded that a specific policy be brought to safeguard such lands, in the likelihood of successive governments nurturing such ‘malafide’ intentions to sell away temple properties. Mr. Madhusudhan also demanded that the Simhachalam temple lands be recovered from the clutches of the encroachers and those behind it be punished. In a separate demonstration, BJP State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy attributed such moves to the gaping holes in the legal system and the scope for misinterpretation of law. He demanded the TTD trust board to take up the issue for comprehensive discussion at its forthcoming meeting slated for Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-demands-law-to-protect-ttd-lands/article31683697.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Changes made in Govindaraja temple fete||After several other temples in Tirupati, it is now the turn of the TTD-run Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple here to make its annual Brahmotsavam a low-profile event. The festival is slated to begin on May 28 with Dhwajarohanam and end with Dhwaja Avarohanam on June 5. However, in view of the restrictions imposed due to the current COVID-19 situation, the procession of the Lord on various celestial carriers (Vahanams) will not be taken out on the Mada streets encircling the temple, but will be conducted around the inner precincts, within the temple corridor. The change in the system is also in tune with the Agama principles, the doctrine of temple worship. Instead of the huge wooden chariot, ‘Bhogi Theru’, a miniature version of the same, will be used to carry the deity during the ‘Rathotsavam’. Similarly, ‘Chakra Snanam’ will not be performed in the Kapila Theertham tank on the final day. Temple cleansed Meanwhile, ‘Koil Alwar Tirumanjanam’, the traditional temple cleansing ritual, was performed on Tuesday. The inner walls and the ceiling of the sanctum sanctorum were smeared with an aromatic substance ‘Parimalam’. Similarly, the utensils used for the rituals were also cleaned with the sacred material made of camphor, sandal and turmeric.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/changes-made-in-govindaraja-temple-fete/article31683722.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, daughter ‘end life’||A woman committed suicide along with her daughter by jumping before a speeding train near Puttur railway station on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Yasodha (30) and Rakshitha (5), hailing from Adi Andhravada of Battikandriga in Vadamalapet mandal in the district. Family disputes Family disputes are learnt to be the reason behind the woman’s extreme step. The woman was reportedly being harassed for dowry by her husband and in-laws, which forced her to take the extreme step. Those battling suicidal thoughts are urged to call the 100 helpline for free counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-daughter-end-life/article31683700.ece
27 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clarify on power bills, Dy. CM tells Discom||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy on Tuesday asked the A.P. Southern Discom to issue clarification to the consumers on the alleged hefty power bills issued during the lockdown period. Participating in the ‘Mana Paalana – Mee Soochana’ programme to commemorate the completion of the first year of YSRCP rule in the State, Mr. Narayanaswamy said the clarification on power bills was the need of the hour, given the huge uproar from the consumers. Superintending Engineer Chalapathi explained to him that the consumers believed that the ‘excessive billing’ was due to the 60-day slab, but it was, in fact, due to higher consumption in April. Earlier, the Deputy CM sought suggestions from the people on enhancing the farmers’ income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clarify-on-power-bills-dy-cm-tells-discom/article31683720.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRDC to promote technologies developed to fight coronavirus||The National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) has prepared a compendium on the projects developed by various public-funded organisations, universities and start-ups across the country. About 200 technologies have been developed by different laboratories, IITs, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and other institutions in the last few months and the NRDC is trying to give publicity and encourage the young entrepreneurs, according to NRDC Chairman and Managing Director (C&MD) H. Purushotham. The NDRC, a unit of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and Technology, will promote COVID-19 technologies in the areas such as pilot plant studies, registration of product with regulatory authorities, field trials and bridge the gap between the lab scale development and the industrial requirement.  Focus on 3Ts “The aim of the NRDC is to give a boost and publicity to start-ups and commercialise the production to combat the viruas. As many as 38 laboratories under Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) have developed a good number of technologies on COVID-19. Various departments under the Government of India (GoI) like DST, Department of Bio-Technology (DBT), Technology Development Board (TDB), Invest India and Principal Scientific Advisors’ Office have so far granted more than Rs. 500 crore for the projects,” Dr. Purushotham told The Hindu . “We are focusing on ‘Tracking, Testing and Treatment’ (3Ts) to fight coronavirus. Organisations like Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) and Bio-Technology Industry and Research Council (BIRAC) were among those which developed the technologies, and the products got cleared by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is a regulatory body, for mass production,” the NRDC C&MD said. The NRDC has recently launched a funding scheme to promote the projects developed by various laboratories and invited proposals for maturing lab scale COVID-19 technologies. Under the scheme, Rs. 2 lakh would be granted under techno-commercial support and Rs. 10 lakh for some priority projects. “We have so far received about 100 proposals,” he said. “The response from various universities, IITs and a few individuals is overwhelming. In deserving cases, the grant may be enhanced to above Rs. 10 lakh subject to the recommendation of the Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC). For more details, entrepreneurs, students, startups and organisations can visitwww.nrdcindia.com,” the Chairman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nrdc-to-promote-technologies-developed-to-fight-coronavirus/article31683193.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rampa Agency in grip of mystery diseases||Prevalence of diseases of unknown causes is creating panic in the Rampachodavaram Agency area in East Godavari district. They are so severe that several Koya and a few Kondareddy families are not in a position to earn their livelihood. Alerted by local public representatives and Girijana sanghams, health officials collected details of the persons who were undergoing treatment at various Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the merged mandals in the district. According to the locals, about 300 people have been suffering from pedal edema, kidney failure and lever and other ailments for the past three years in the Agency area. About 20 persons, mostly Koyas, have died of pedal edema and other diseases since 2018. “Suspected pedal edema is prevalent in Kummuru, Muduguru, Pedda Seetanapalli, Kannaigudem, Somulagudem, Rekhapalli, Nuthigudem, Peddamattapalli, Annavaram, Ummadivaram, Rajupetagommu and other hamlets,” says a tribal Bojji. “On May 24, a tribal Madivi Gangaiah (34), of Pedda Seetanapalli village in Chintur mandal, died of suspected pedal edema. A few more tribals — Midiam Appa Rao (35), Vanjam Lakshman Rao (19), Madivi Raju (18), Syamala Bhadraiah, Madivi Desaiah (21) — have died of unknown diseases in the last two months,” another tribal Doramma said. Testing “The situation is no different in tribal hamlets in V.R. Puram, Kunavaram, Chintur and other mandals in the district. Two years ago, officials collected bore well and river water samples in the affected villages. Doctors sent the blood samples to laboratories, but clarity is yet to emerge on the exact cause of the deaths,” said a representative of on NGO fighting for tribal rights. Kannaiah, a Koya, said many patients with suspected pedal edema and other diseases were admitted in the Rekhapalli and Jeediguppa PHCs. Suspected causes Doctors said the diseases were occurring due to consumption of impure river and bore water, consumption of stale meat and food. Many women were also among the pedal edema patients, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rampa-agency-in-grip-of-mystery-diseases/article31683723.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools, colleges warned against fee hike||Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Chairman Justice R. Kantha Rao on Tuesday warned private schools and junior colleges in the State against increasing the fee in the fresh academic year. In a statement, Justice Kantha Rao said the institutions violating norms would be stringently punished. Pointing to the fact that in view of the lockdown, the Centre instructed educational institutions against increasing their annual fee structure, he said the commission had also been repeating it time and again. Justice Kantha Rao said the schools and colleges must furnish all the details about their institutions before the commission by uploading them on its websitewww.apsermc.ap.gov.infrom Wednesday (May 27). The last date for online submission of details is June 6 by 5 p.m. He said permission to collect fee would be denied to the institutions that fail to upload their details. The panel chief said parents or anybody else should bring to the commission’s notice if they found any institution flouting norms by complaining in the ‘grievance’ section of the website. Fee fixation The commission would fix the fee based on the details submitted by the respective school or college. Only the first quarterly tuition fee should be collected in the fresh academic year. If any parents were unable to afford it due to the COVID-19 lockdown, they should be allowed to pay it in instalments. Collection of fee should be done only after reopening of the new academic year. Elaborating on the procedure, he said geo-tagging mobile app should be used to upload the images. The documents needed to be uploaded should include information related to the recognition, the number of sections in each class, information related to the building of the institution, fee details of last year, employee strength, hostel facility and the income and expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-colleges-warned-against-fee-hike/article31683183.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRDA repeal Bills: HC serves notices to CS, Legislature Secy.||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has served notices on the Chief Secretary and Secretary of the State Legislature, in response to a petition filed by TDP MLC G. Deepak Reddy who alleged violation of the Legislative Council’s direction to refer the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills to a Select Committee. The High Court on Tuesday ordered that the matter be listed for hearing on June 22. Justice D. Ramesh heard the arguments of U. Muralidhar Rao, the petitioner’s advocate, that the respondents —CS and Legislature Secretary— had not notified the decision to refer the said Bills under the Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of A.P. Legislative Council. Mr. Muralidhar Rao contended that the action of the Legislature Secretary was objectionable as he has no powers or the authority to defy the directions of the Council Chairman. He also alleged that the Legislature Secretary was acting in personal interest. The Legislature Secretary was supposed to notify the Select Committee comprising eight members as decided by the Council Chairman under Rules 237 and 238 of the Council rules, he said. Select Committee The Legislative Council Chairman Shariff Mohammed Ahmed had announced referred the Bills to a Select Committee after a heated debate on the floor of the House on January 22. Opposing it, the Legislative Assembly had passed a resolution to abolish the Council a few days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crda-repeal-bills-hc-serves-notices-to-cs-legislature-secy/article31683710.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) decries power tariff hike||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) staged a day-long protest against increase in the electricity charges, here on Tuesday. Party State secretary P. Madhu asked the State government to review the hike in the power tariff, which was a huge burden on the common man. "Onus lies on the State government to give an explanation on the power tariff rather than bluffing the people," he said. The State government should oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 in Parliament to safeguard the interests of Andhra Pradesh brought out by the Central government. The Bill would harm the interests of the common man, and the proposals were a direct attack on the federal spirit of the Indian Constitution, he pointed out. The amendments suggest that the power tariff should be fixed taking the ‘cost to serve’ into consideration. With this, it would not be possible for the State governments to implement the subsidy and cross subsidisation. It would not be possible to implement free power to about 16 lakh pumpsets in the State. It leads to suicides and hunger deaths. Against this background, the little respite to the farming community would not be possible, he said. The CPI(M) leader said that the income of farmers, coolies, labourers and the poor have not increased despite the government implementing welfare schemes for a year now. The minimum wages of labourers was not revised. In view of the lockdown, the government should provide a financial assistance of Rs. 7,500 per month for a period of six months, he said. CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao said that the government should conduct an opinion poll on the power tariff as part of its ‘Mana palana mee suchana’ programme. The government proposes to distribute YSRCP manifesto to every house in the State commemorating one year in the office. At the same time, the government was requested to pay attention to the common man’s plight. While every State was opposing the Electricity Amendment Bill, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was silent. Also, the opposition TDP remained a mute spectator to Bill. The TDP adopted similar policies, he said. The CPI(M) vehemently opposed the policies and organised public agitations, which resulted in rollback of the power tariff. With the same spirit, the CPI(M) would hold public agitations against BJP-YSRCP policies, he said. ‘Welcome move’ Mr. Babu Rao, referring to Rs. 160 crore concessions to MSMEs, said it was a welcome move. Similarly, the government should waive the electricity bills in view of the lockdown due to coronavirus. The government should issue a statement opposing the Electricity Amendment Bill and disclose details of power purchase agreements, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-decries-power-tariff-hike/article31683181.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Airport opens to domestic flights||Domestic airline operations resumed at the city airport on Tuesday. The airport, after a gap of more than two months, witnessed passenger aircraft movement. On the first day, as limited operations were permitted, only four aircraft from three different cities flew in to the airport bringing in over 300 passengers. The passengers came from Bengaluru, New Delhi and Chennai and those who came from New Delhi and Chennai were sent to institutional quarantine as per the conditions announced by the State in line with the Centre's guidelines. Also, several people from the city left for the three cities in the return flights. Vijayawada Sub Collector HM Dhayana Chandh visited the airport premises in the morning and inspected the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/airport-opens-to-domestic-flights/article31683185.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. depriving Dalits their rights: Jawahar||TDP leader K.S. Jawahar on Tuesday accused the State government of depriving the Dalits of their rights on land in the capital region. “The YSRCP government has been targeting the Dalit leaders, the latest being the preventive custody of Dalit leaders near Kantepudi checkpost on the pretext of enforcing lockdown restrictions,” alleged the former Minister while speaking to the media on Tuesday. LIDCAP land row Mr. Jawahar condemned the preventive custody of the members of the fact-finding committee of Dalit leaders who were on their way to inspect the Leather Industries Development Corporation of A.P. Limited (LIDCAP) site at Adigoppula in Durgi mandal of Guntur district. “The previous government had allotted 75 acres at Adigoppula for creating self-employment opportunities for leather workers. But, the YSRCP government is taking away 35 acres of the total on the pretext of providing house sites to the poor,” he said. Since 2003, the successive governments have allotted 752.9 acres across the State to the LIDCAP to create livelihood opportunities for leather workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-depriving-dalits-their-rights-jawahar/article31683703.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State witnesses one death, 97 new cases||The State reported one more death and 97 fresh cases of positive COVID-19 during the past day. More than half of the fresh cases are of returnees from the Gulf countries. Koyambedu link While 44 cases are of persons who returned from Kuwait, three are of Abu Dhabi, UAE and two are of Qatar returnees, as per the bulletin issued by the State on Tuesday. The remaining 48 persons infected are within the State and four of them in Chittoor have Koyambedu links. So far, 111 foreign returnees who came back to the State as part of the Vande Bharat Mission tested positive for coronavirus. The tally has gone up to 2,983 and there are 917 active patients. One more death was reported in East Godavari district taking the toll to 57.  2,009 patients discharged On a brighter note, 125 persons including 55 local cases and 70 migrant cases, have recovered in the past day. As of Tuesday, a total of 2,009 patients were discharged after treatment. The State has reached the 6,043 tests per million population ratio with a total of 3.22 lakh tests conducted so far. Recovery rate is at 67.3% and positivity rate is at 0.92% while mortality rate is at 1.91%. ICMR approval The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the State government’s proposal to conduct Convalescent plasma therapy to treat COVID-19 patients at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences in Tirupati. In a release, Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy said that in the plasma therapy a dose of antibody-containing plasma obtained from the blood of recovered individuals is transferred to the affected persons to treat it. “It’s an experimental therapy going back a hundred years, having found use – to different efficacies – in the treatment of the Spanish flu as well as, more recently, the 2009 H1N1 influenza, SARS and MERS viruses,” he said. He said that the therapy could shorten the duration of COVID-19 illness in a person or render it less dangerous. The government had already collected plasma from various COVID-19 patients recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-witnesses-one-death-97-new-cases/article31683712.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Norms relaxed for garment and jewellery traders||The government has relaxed the lockdown norms by allowing garment, footwear, and jewellery shops and street vendors in the urban areas falling under non-containment zones to operate. The Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department has issued the guidelines . Bigger outlets are told to ensure registration of customer details . In the case of jewellery stores, all customers should be given disposable gloves if they want to touch the items and no trial should be allowed. All the staff and customers should wear masks and all the touchpoints should be sanitised frequently. Food vendors should only sell food in parcels and not allow consumption on the spot. Only registered vendors will be allowed. Vendors selling items like 'pani puri' will not be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/norms-relaxed-for-garment-and-jewellery-traders/article31683713.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah takes up Nellore water woes with NITI Aayog||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday held a meeting with NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, Drinking Water and Sanitation Secretary Parameswaran Iyer and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Secretary U.P. Singh and discussed possible ways to meet the drinking water and irrigation needs of the drought-prone Udayagiri in Nellore district. Mr. Naidu was elected as an MLA for the first time from Udayagiri in 1978. ‘Borewells dried up’ The Vice-President said he was informed by the locals that the ground water levels had depleted considerably and most of the tanks, borewells had dried up and that the existing water supply schemes were not adequate to cater to their needs. “This is the seventh consecutive year that Udayagiri has witnessed deficit rains,” Mr. Naidu pointed out. Recently, people of Udayagiri have urged Mr. Naidu to explore ways to bring water to their areas from the Krishna basin or the Somasila project. In response to Mr. Naidu’s suggestion, the Central officials assured him that they would discuss the matter with the State government to zero in on the most feasible option. Technical feasibility Mr. Naidu wanted Mr. Iyer to discuss the technical feasibility of the project with the Central Water Commission (CWC) and chalk out a Detailed Project Report (DPR), besides studying the State government’s efforts to mitigate the water woes. Mr. Naidu suggested that after a preliminary assessment, a delegation of senior officials from the Ministry of Jal Shakti, NITI Aayog and CWC could visit the area and talk to the stakeholders to understand the ground reality and suggest a way forward. Mr. Naidu also spoke to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and shared with the latter the feedback he had received from his acquaintances in Udayagiri. Mr. Naidu also discussed with Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the minutes of the Tuesday’s meeting and suggested that the State government and the Centre must work together to find a sustainable solution to the problem. The Chief Minister responded positively and promised to work towards a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-takes-up-nellore-water-woes-with-niti-aayog/article31683725.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP lauds SI, constable||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang appreciated the gesture of Dachepalli SI Bala Nagireddy in donating blood to a woman. Sk. Jaani was allegedly stabbed by her husband due to family disputes a couple of days ago. Mr. Nagireddy, who registered a case, shifted her to a hospital in Guntur district and donated blood. Doctors saved the woman’s life after performing an emergency surgery. In another incident, a police constable Suresh, attached to the Kothavalasa police station in Vizianagaram district, rescued a boy, who was reportedly mentally unsound, from a garbage dump. Mr. Suresh offered new clothes to the boy and got him admitted to a shelter home. The DGP praised the constable for giving a new lease of life to the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-lauds-si-constable/article31683191.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||52,628 seized vehicles handed over to owners||The police handed over as many as 52,628 vehicles, seized during the lockdown period, to the owners across the State in the last four days. The vehicles were seized for violating the lockdown rules from March 23 to May 22, said Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. The DGP said 74,565 vehicles were seized by the police in the State. The police handed over 46,893 two-wheelers, 3,819 three-wheelers, 1,585 four-wheelers, and 331 other vehicles to their owners from May 23 to till date. Still 21,937 vehicles were with the police, Mr. Sawang said. Owners can take their vehicles by submitting necessary documents in the police stations, the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/52628-seized-vehicles-handed-over-to-owners/article31683188.ece
27 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi govt. failed to curb COVID-19, says Sailajanath||A.P. Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday said the Modi government has failed to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Congress leader said the four phases of lockdown imposed across the nation failed to yield any result and added that the virus was in fact raging due to the relaxation of the lockdown. India joined the list of the countries that lifted the lockdown when COVID-19 cases were increasing by the day, he said. Mr. Sailajanath said the Prime Minister owed an explanation as to what purpose the lockdown has served. Citing the miseries of the migrant workers, farmers, fishermen and small traders who had lost their livelihood and were on the verge of starvation, he said Mr. Modi should explain who benefited from the package announced by his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-govt-failed-to-curb-covid-19-says-sailajanath/article31683182.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||996 arrive, depart from Vizag as flight operations resume||The Visakhapatnam International Airport handled 996 passengers, through three IndiGo and one AirAsia flight, after domestic flights to the city were restored following relaxation of the two-month lockdown, on Tuesday. A total of 113 passengers arrived by the Bengaluru-Vizag IndiGo flight, the first commercial flight which came here in the morning. After thermal screening and other procedures, the passengers were sent in a special bus to the Port Kalyana Mandapam at Salagramapuram for swab testing. All the passengers were sent home after the test. Work from home “I will work from home, which I can do for the next couple of months,” said Vivekanand, a techie. He is happy that he can now spend time with his family in Kakinada. “The samples of all the passengers have been taken and they have been sent home. We have arranged breakfast for them here,” MRO Gyanaveni, who was overseeing the programme at the Kalyana Mandapam, told The Hindu . “The test results are expected in 24 hours. We have explained to them the COVID-19 guidelines to be followed at home. If any passenger tests positive, they will be sent to quarantine. Those who test negative should also remain in home isolation,” she said. Mandatory quarantine Those coming from areas like Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, which reported more COVID-19 cases, will have to remain in institutional quarantine for a week, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. They can choose a paid hotel accommodation or the designated COVID-19 quarantine facilities like GITAM and NRI Hospital. “A total of 135 from Vizag left for Bengaluru by an IndiGo flight. The arrivals by IndiGo flights from Hyderabad and Delhi were 132 and 151 respectively and the corresponding departures were 156 and 155,” according to airport Director M. Raja Kishore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/996-arrive-depart-from-vizag-as-flight-operations-resume/article31683718.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new cases in district, two discharged||The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stand at 99, as no new cases were reported on Tuesday. Two patients were discharged after they tested negative. With this, the total number of discharged patients from the district increased to 66. According to officials, till date, nearly 240 foreign returnees had reached the district through the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and placed under various quarantine facilities. Four members of a same family, including children below 10 years of age, tested 19 positive from Atchutapuram area on May 25. According to health officials, the family had gone to Vijayawada in mid March and were stuck due to the lockdown. Apart from Narsipatnam, Bailapudi in Cheedikada mandal, Dibbidi in Butchayyapeta mandal and Kasimkota, now Iruvada area in Atchutapuram has also been declared as containment zone. Officials from the Health Department are also worried over the new case which was reported from Chinna Jalaripeta. Officials fear that congested lanes in this area may spread the virus faster. On Tuesday, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana was shocked when she found that a number of locals were ignoring social distancing norms in the area. She urged them not to come out of houses except in emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-new-cases-in-district-two-discharged/article31683727.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP leaders observe fast||BJP and Jana Sena Party (JSP) leaders on Tuesday went on a fast demanding total halt to any attempt to sell or use lands of TTD or any endowment land for other purposes and not merely putting it on hold. MLC P.V.N. Madhav alleged that the State government was reckless in dealing with temple lands and not protecting their sanctity. Earlier the government had asked the District Collectors to identify endowment land for house sites and also tried to lease it out for commercial purposes, he said. Former MP K. Haribabu and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju were among those who participated.  BJP district president M. Ravindra, State secretary Kasi Viswanadha Raju and JSP leader Sundarapu Vijay Kumar and other leaders participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-leaders-observe-fast/article31683731.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishermen happy as ban reduced to 47 days||The decision of the Central government to curtail the 61-day annual ban period on fishing by mechanised boats to 47 days for the east coast has brought smiles to fishermen in Visakhapatnam, the largest fish landing facility in the State. However, the fishermen have decided to set sail into the Bay of Bengal a day after the ban period expires, only after paying obeisance to Gangamma. Belief has it that the deity blesses the fishermen with good catch and protect them from all odds in the high seas. Now, the fishing ban which was imposed on April 15 is set to expire on May 31 (both days inclusive). The Centre has reduced the ban period, after taking into consideration the loss of livelihood owing to the lockdown, which was imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 before the curbs came into effect. “Instead of resuming operations on June 1 (Monday), we have decided to set sail into the sea after paying our obeisance to Gangamma talli on June 2 (Tuesday),” said Andhra Pradesh Mechanised Boat Operators’ Welfare Association president P. Ch. Appa Rao. Unlike previous years, he said, this time they would make the event a low-key affair owing to COVID-19 pandemic. Social distancing would be enforced strictly, an official of Fisheries Department said. Illango, former chairperson of National Fisherfolk Forum, said it would help fishermen resume their livelihood early. Surge in activity Meanwhile, the fishing harbour saw a sudden surge in activity after the fishing community came to know about the Centre’s decision on Monday evening. “The decision has given hope to boat owners that they will get a decent income. The fishermen had stopped fishing a month before the ban came into effect due to pandemic,” said Arjili Dasu, executive director of A.P. Fisherfolk Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishermen-a-happy-lot-as-ban-curtailed-to-47-days/article31683513.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green tribunal to hear Sarma’s petition on June 1||The plea submitted by social activist and former IAS officer E.A.S. Sarma on the damage caused to the public health and environment, after the leak of gas from LG Polymers, will come up for hearing of the National Green Tribunal in New Delhi on June 1. Mr. Sarma, who made the plea before the regional bench of NGT in Chennai soon after the gas leak incident on May 7 claiming 12 lives and hospitalising several villagers, sought prosecution of the promoters and the company. Taking suo motu cognisance immediately after the tragedy, NGT ordered a judicial probe and directed LG Polymers to deposit an initial amount of Rs. 50 crore towards liability. Mr. Sarma told The Hindu on Tuesday that the plea filed by him would come up for hearing on June 1. In his plea, he questioned as to how a foreign company operating in India could conduct its operations so casually and carelessly. “LG Polymers is a South Korean company, constantly pampered by the successive governments,” he stated. ‘Eco-clearance not taken’ Against this background, how did APPCB grant Consent for Establishment (CFE) and Consent for Operation (CFO) in the beginning of 2019 for the unit's expansion, he questioned in the petition. “APPCB did not take clearance either from the State government or from the Union Ministry of Environment,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/green-tribunal-to-hear-sarmas-petition-on-june-1/article31683714.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retain primary school at Venkatapuram: CPI(M)||Alleging that the primary school at Venkatapuram affected by styrene monomer vapour leak from LG Polymers is being converted into YSR Clinic, the CPI(M) has demanded that alternative arrangements be made for the clinic retaining the school. In a statement, city secretary B. Ganga Rao said villagers, parents and school committee members prevented shifting of furniture from the school on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retain-primary-school-at-venkatapuram-cpim/article31683729.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed to poor women||Tata Relief Committee on Tuesday distributed 100 dry ration kits worth Rs. 1 lakh to poor women under Kalanjiya Samakhya through the Dhan Foundation. The kits contain 10 kg rice, other essential commodities and three cakes of soap. The poor and those not having ration cards were identified for the distribution. Foundation Regional Coordinator K. Ramaprabha and other leaders participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-distributed-to-poor-women/article31683728.ece
27 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drug dealers seek delinking of aarogyasetumitr||The Visakhapatnam District Drug Trade Association, an affiliate of the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), appealed to the Centre to delink thewww.aarogyasetumitr.infrom the Aarogya Setu app as it was illegally appended to it. V. Sitaramaiah, secretary of the association, noted that the mitr app was appended to promote the sale of drugs of some companies online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drug-dealers-seek-delinking-of-aarogyasetumitr/article31683726.ece
27 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP lauds activist for COVID-19 campaign||The Vizianagaram police department is taking the help of artistes to create awareness among the public about the dangers posed by coronavirus. A resident of Dharmapuri village, Chandaka Suribabu, has been campaigning in public places for the last few days by wearing an outfit resembling the coronavirus. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari and One Town Circle Inspector Yerrannaidu lauded Mr. Suribabu’s efforts while urging people to follow social distancing norms and protect themselves from the virus. Mr. Suribabu said that he was involving many artistes in the awareness programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-lauds-activist-for-covid-19-campaign/article31683693.ece
27 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders seek high-level probe into temple lands||Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Tuesday urged the government to conduct an inquiry into the lands under the Endowments Department by appointing a high-level committee, alleging that a major chunk of the lands were grabbed by ruling party leaders. BJP leaders Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju and Reddi Pavani staged a ‘silent protest’ at the Vizianagaram party office for eight hours to oppose the sale of TTD lands and other properties of various temples. “The State Government has withdrawn its proposal to sell TTD lands. But it is not enough as the government has a hidden agenda to sell properties of temples. That is why it had appointed additional joint collectors in all 13 districts. Endowments is one of their priority subjects. That is why we will continue to protest till the appointment of a high-level committee,” said Mr. Sanyasi Raju and Ms. Pavani. BJP Srikakulam district president Attada Ravi Babji and party leaders Paidi Venugopalam, Pudi Tirupati Rao, Duppala Ravindrababu and others sought a probe over the lands of Simhachalam temple and other major temples in North Andhra. “Thousands of acres have already been grabbed. Many tenants are not paying even nominal lease charges to the concerned temples. That is why many of them are in a dilapidated condition,” said Ravi Babji. Party senior leader Hanumanthu Udaya Bhaskar urged the government to release a white paper over the properties of all temples. He said that the BJP cadre would extend all support to identify the lands of various temples if the government would order a probe into temple lands in Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-seek-high-level-probe-into-temple-lands/article31683695.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hot bed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hot-bed/article31683702.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nowhere to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nowhere-to-go/article31683187.ece
27 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF (with photo in file name POLICE)||In a sustained campaign to prevent Maoists striking roots again in north Telangana, Nirmal Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju led a team of his officers and personnel to the remote areas of Kadem mandal. He went to Middechinta and Islampur villages driving a bike. The two villages were once considered extremist strongholds and there were reports of naxalites having visited these villages recently. Mr. Raju interacted with tribals, inquired about their well-being and asked them not to be misled and inform the police whenever they notice Maoist movement. Khanapur CI Jairam Naik, SI Bhavani Sen and Kadem SI Prem Deep accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf-with-photo-in-file-name-police/article31683501.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second day sees limited flights at Shamshabad||Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at Shamshabad here continued to have limited departures of 20 and 19 arrivals for the second successive day after the domestic flights were allowed to operate on Tuesday. The airport handled about 2,500 passengers for both arrivals and departures. During usual times before the shutdown, the airport was clocking a double digit growth handling up to 60,000 passengers daily and more than 500 flights, domestic and international. Indigo 6E 732  was the first departures flight which took off to Lucknow from here at 4.46 a.m. with 45 passengers on board while Indigo 6E 587 was the first arrivals flight of the day, which landed at 01.01 a.m. from Pune with 108 passengers. All arriving and departures passengers are being scanned by thermal scanners at both arrivals and departures as per the safety procedures with adequate social distancing enforced for everyone. Unlike the first day, passengers arriving to take the flights seem to have been better informed of the status of their flights and the airport too was not crowded as it was in the early hours of Monday. By afternoon, about 10 flights took off to various destinations while 10 more flights arrived here at the completely sanitised terminals with passengers, airlines and airport personnel covered in masks, face shields, gloves and other COVID-19-induced safety paraphernalia. In order to avoid close contact and crowding at the counters, passengers are being encouraged to check in at home or use self-service facilities such as contact-less self-check-in facility, self-bag tag facility, scan and fly, etc. Several flights showed ‘cancelled’ status due to the Government stipulation to scale down the daily numbers. "Passengers had already booked their tickets once it was announced that the flights will begin but got the cancellation messages after the schedules reduced. Some airlines are giving a credit line for a year to travel instead of providing refund," said senior officials of the industry, pleading anonymity. Domestic asymptomatic passengers arriving here have to give an undertaking for a 14-day home quarantine while those having symptoms of the virus will be taken to the isolation rooms and later to the government-mandated health facility, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-day-sees-limited-flights-at-shamshabad/article31683478.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waiting for auspicious time to check out||Most people admitted to hospitals with a health issue look forward to recovering and being discharged at the earliest, to get back to their normal lives. And those battling COVID-19 are no exception. However, authorities at Gandhi Hospital recently faced a peculiar situation when it was time for two sets of patients to go home. One set requested postponement, stating that the discharge date set by the hospital was inauspicious. The other set of patients, belonging to a single cluster, wanted to leave the hospital together, on the same day. There were at least two patients who did not want to be discharged on an inauspicious day. Sources said that though officials concerned tried to reach them to initiate the process of discharge, the patients switched off their phones. “When officials could not get them on phone, they went to the ward where the patients were admitted. The two patients informed they want to be discharged on some other favourable day,” sources said, adding that the officials were taken aback by the unusual request. In another case, there were over 20 patients who reside in the same building. Since their dates of admission were different, their discharge dates varied too. However, all of them requested to be discharged on the same day to be united against possible unpleasant behaviour of people in their neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waiting-for-auspicious-time-to-check-out/article31683464.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to take stock of COVID-19 situation today||With rising cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the State, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to take stock of the situation and explore options to contain the spread of the virus. The Chief Minister has convened a meeting of the senior officials on Wednesday to review the situation arising out of the spread of the virus. The meeting has ostensibly been convened to review the situation out of the rising cases of the coronavirus in the State and the possible impact of increase in the number of cases. The government is obviously worried about the steep rise in cases of COVID-19. The development comes in the light of the increase in the number of positive cases in the State in spite of the precautionary measures that had been taken including the manner in which the persons tested positive had been admitted to designated hospitals. There has been criticism that testing of the people had not been in synchrony with other States which had been testing more people. The meeting would also discuss about the status of the lockdown and whether to continue with the ongoing restrictions. The deliberations would focus on the whether to continue the ongoing measures or to make any changes in the existing method followed in Hyderabad relating to opening of the shops that are opened on rotation basis. In addition, the focus would be on the onset of the monsoon and the measures that should be adopted when it comes to agriculture. The deliberations would focus on details like availability of seed, fertilisers and other essential output in villages. The meeting would also deliberate on the issues relating to the State Formation Day on June 2 where it would be decided on the mode of organising the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-take-stock-of-covid-19-situation-today/article31683494.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Increased urbanisation in Chennai, Hyderabad led to heavy rainfall: UoH study||Several cities across the county faced sudden bursts of heavy rainfall in the last few years especially across south India. This include the extreme rainfall over Hyderabad and adjoining regions in Telangana in September 2016, the August 2018 floods in Kerala and the Chennai deluge of December 2015. A study taken up by the Centre for Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences of the University of Hyderabad led by Prof. Karumuri Ashok suggests that increasing urbanisation in Telangana and Tamil Nadu is likely to enhance the rainfall during heavy rainfall events by 20- 25%. These three States differ in their geographical locations - Kerala, located on the southwest Indian coast off the Arabian Sea receives heavy rainfall during the southwest monsoon from June to September. Tamil Nadu, off the Bay of Bengal receives rainfall mainly during the northeast monsoon (October-December). Land-locked Telangana receives bulk of its annual rain during the southwest monsoon season. The research team including Ph.D. student Boyaj examined whether a common factor, the changing land use land cover (LULC) in these states, has any implications for the heavy rainfall events. Their findings were reported in the ‘Quarterly Journal of Royal Meteorological Society’ on May 18, 2020.https://rmets.onlinelibrary. wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/ qj.3826 Their study showed that precipitation during heavy rainfall events in these states has significantly increased from 2000 to 2017. Using the LULC data from Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), and by conducting 2-km resolution simulation experiments of 12 heavy rainfall events over these states, the researchers found distinct LULC changes in these three states, which led to higher surface temperatures and a deeper and moist boundary layer. These in turn caused a relatively higher convective available potential energy and, consequently, heavier rainfall. Prof. Ashok feels that improving the density of observational rainfall and other weather parameters may help in forecasting extreme rainfalls at the city level. Prof. K. Ashok and Mr. Boyaj- who is the first author, completed the work in collaboration with Prof. Ibrahim Hoteit and Dr. Hari Prasad Dasari of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Saudi Arabia, according to a UoH spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/increased-urbanisation-in-chennai-hyderabad-led-to-heavy-rainfall-uoh-study/article31683510.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Frequent power interruptions in West Zone||With the summer temperatures peaking, many areas in the city, more so in the West Zone comprising Gachibowli, Kokapet, HiTec City etc., are experiencing unofficial load shedding. The lockdown has seen IT sector employees switching to ‘Work from Home’ mode and the work has been going on well after initial hiccups in some areas due to power outages and they have been addressed. However, for one week, these power interruptions have become more frequent. On Monday, some residential areas like Lanco Hills experienced frequent power shutdown during the day and interruptions increased from late night till 2 a.m. However, sources in the Energy department said that there was no load shedding anywhere in the city but there could be power interruptions due to local electric sub-station issues. It was certainly not an issue of quantum of generation, they said. “We are actually consuming much less than the peak load now. In second half of February and the first week of March, power consumption was much high. It was 250 million units per day compared to about 180 million units now,” they said. Though domestic consumption has gone up, overall consumption is way below the power generated due to lockdown. Industrial consumption has not gone up as many factories were not working to their full capacity. For instance, power consumption in the State on Monday was 8,428 MW as against the 12,000 MW available for consumption three months ago. Thus there was no steep increase in consumption. Their explanation is that in some areas load on sub-stations may have gone up and existing transformers are not able to handle the peak load leading to power shutdown. Some residents of apartment complexes like Lanco Hills in Manikonda said that their local sub-station engineers said that there were issues at the sub-station level and they had to cut off power supply to feeders as the load could not be sustained. They advised the community to reduce the load on the sub-station and restrict the use of air-conditioners. The frequent power shutdown at the sub-station impacted the functioning of diesel generators in the apartment complexes leading to frequent tripping. Information Technology companies’ representatives are worried that with peak temperatures to continue for some time and sub-stations unable to handle the load, it can disrupt the smooth functioning of their employees working from home and their systems may get damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/frequent-power-interruptions-in-west-zone/article31683483.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Six doctors held responsible for young mother’s death||Six doctors of different government hospitals were responsible for the maternal death of 20-year-old Jenila of Jogulamba Gadwal district, the State government told Telangana High Court on Tuesday. In a report submitted in the HC in a couple of PIL petitions filed over the woman’s death, the government said disciplinary action was being initiated against the six doctors. The report was presented by Special Chief Secretary, Health, Medical and Family Welfare, A. Santhi Kumari. Following the maternal death, Director of Medical Education ordered an inquiry by a committee of three doctors — N. Vani, N. Krishna Mohana and Sadhana Roy. After examination of records, the committee opined that the “….out come would have been better if the patient was admitted and managed at Mahbubnagar Government General Hospital at appropriate time”. ‘Doctor didn’t examine’ The committee also revealed that the gynecologist at Sultanbazar Government Maternity Hospital got her shifted to Gandhi Hospital without examining her. It also noted that the patient should have been admitted and managed at Gandhi Hospital. Ms. Santhi Kumari told the HC that government took steps to ensure ‘such unfortunate incidents do not recur’. Emphasis is laid on the need to provide uninterrupted maternal services as per protocols related to pregnant women. A fleet of 300 dedicated ambulances called ‘Amma Vodi’ (a referral transport service) is in place to pick up and drop back pregnant women at hospitals, free of cost. Free transportation During the lockdown period, it was decided to use fleet of vehicles under Dial 102 service (300 vehicles) and 108 service (333 vehicles) for free transportation of pregnant women during anti-natal care, deliveries and post-natal period. A State Pregnancy Monitoring Cell (SPMC) was established on April 28 with 65 members to monitor situation of pregnant women cases in the State on day-to-day basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-doctors-held-responsible-for-young-mothers-death/article31683468.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IT exports growth was higher during Cong. regime: Ponnala||Former Minister and senior Congress leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah said the government has failed to increase the IT exports exploiting the advantage of Hyderabad despite the earlier governments creating the necessary infrastructure. Mr. Ponnala said IT exports increased from Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5,000 crore from 1992 to 2002. When he was the IT Minister, he ensured the exports went up to Rs. 58,000 crore taking the increase by 12 times. However, the TRS government could only increase it to Rs. 1.20 lakh crore. Though it is appreciable the growth could have been much higher as this government failed to bring in any major companies, he said. He said it was the Congress government that signed an agreement with Apple to set up its operations in Hyderabad while all the IT giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Wipro, Infosys were brought during the previous governments. “Can this government claim of any major IT company coming to the city in its term?” he asked. Mr. Ponnala also said the previous Congress governments created the necessary infrastructure for scaling up the IT exports in the State, starting projects like the International Airport, Metro Rail and the Outer Ring Road. Impetus was given to Animation and Gaming industry as well, but this government totally ignored the sector or else the IT exports would have been much higher.  Can the TRS government claim of any major IT company coming to the city in its term? This government has totally ignored the animation and gaming industry too. Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-exports-growth-was-higher-during-cong-regime-ponnala/article31683472.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stone railing on historic bridge makes way for drainage channel||A large chunk of the stone railing on the bridge connecting the Moti Darwaza of the Golconda Fort to MD Lines has been brought down by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials to create a drainage channel. “The wall was intact while I was going to Mehdipatnam in the afternoon, but by the time I returned in the night there was an earthmover inside the moat and the wall was damaged,” says Mohammad Arif, a student who lives inside the Golconda Fort. The earth mover is no longer at the site but large chunks of the 500-year-old fort have been damaged. “Cleaning of drain work and removal of garbage from drain (nala) is in progress,” was the response of GHMC when asked by Archaeological Survey of India officials. “We got the earth mover removed from the site. Our officials have inspected the site and have made an assessment of the damage,” said Milan Kumar Chauley, Superintending Archaeologist of ASI when asked about the damage. The ASI, which comes under the Ministry of Culture, has been placed under Category C by the Union Ministry of Finance for tightened budgetary spending due to COVID-19 pandemic. This limits the expenditure by the ASI to 15% of the financial year 2021 budgetary outlay limiting scope for carrying out major work on any of the ASI sites. The Moti Darwaza is surrounded by densely populated residential area and has suffered much damage over the past few years. One of its huge wooden doors became unhinged a few years ago. Last year, a stone structure attached to the gateway collapsed after a spell of rain. But the main threat to the fort stems from the fact that the water bodies that once surrounded the fort have been filled up with earthen works. The natural drainage system where the water from the Shah Hatim Talab would flow into the Naya Qila and then onwards to Langar Houz Cheruvu has been damaged. The carrying capacity of Shah Hatim Talab has declined drastically after parts of it were filled up for laying roads. Illegal colonies have popped up on the edges of the lake and more areas of the lake are being filled up on the western side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stone-railing-on-historic-bridge-makes-way-for-drainage-channel/article31683474.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crop loans below Rs. 25k to be waived within a week: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao announced on Tuesday that all arrangements have been made for Godavari water release to Kondapochamma reservoir on May 29 by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Addressing an awareness meeting on ‘Vaanakalam - 2020 Regulated crop cultivation policy’ at Datarpalli village in Siddipet district on Tuesday, he said that the objective of this government’s policy was farmers’ welfare. “Farmer should be the king is a slogan but it is time it became a policy,” he said. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s goal is to help farmers. The CM gave clear instructions that Rs. 7,000 crore under Rythu Bandhu should be deposited in the bank and Rs. 14,000 crore would have to be paid under two instalments of Rythu Bandhu without fail,” he said. The Minister also announced that crop loans below Rs. 25,000 would be waived off within one week and farmers with loans below Rs. 1 lakh would get a waiver within a month. The Minister lauded villagers who resolved to cultivate fine variety of paddy in 27 acres, coarse (Doddu) variety paddy in 28 acres, cotton in 381 acres in the ensuing vanakalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-loans-below-rs-25k-to-be-waived-within-a-week-harish/article31683492.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||30 patients in ICU||Around 30 coronavirus patients are currently undergoing treatment in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Gandhi Hospital. Doctors from the hospital, however, pointed out that there have been at least 28 cases where COVID patients with co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes admitted in ICU recovered from the disease. Health Minister Eatala Rajender held a meeting with hospital superintendent M. Raja Rao on Tuesday to discuss the health condition of the 30 patients and others in need of emergency treatment. He directed Dr Rao to give regular health updates to the family of a critical patient and asked doctors to focus on patients in ICU. Reviewing measures being taken at the hospital to tackle the cases, Mr. Rajender said he has requested Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to provide 1,000 ventilators for the State to relieve patients of respiratory distress. He has also thanked the Defence Research and Development Organisation for taking the initiative to develop and provide ventilators. A private organisation has also donated 100 of those devices to the State government, 80 of which were allotted to Gandhi Hospital, 10 to Government General and Chest Hospital, and the remaining to Osmania General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-patients-in-icu/article31683461.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RCI develops AI-based attendance system||The COVID-19 outbreak has made it unsafe to deploy contact-based biometric verification for attendance marking systems. To circumvent this problem, Research Centre Imarat (RCI), DRDO, has successfully developed AI-based Attendance Application (AINA) which allows non-contact based personnel verification using facial features of the person, captured with the help of a low-cost camera. AINA can be deployed with minimal upgrade to the legacy attendance infrastructure with RFID readers. It can be installed on a desktop computer with a GPU-based display adapter, said an official spokesman. Existing CCTV cameras can be utilised for capturing facial images. Facial features of several thousands of employees can be stored in the computer since for each employee the facial features are encoded in a small (less than 25 KB) file. The system is fully scalable since the time for identification and verification for each person remains constant even as the number of registered personnel increases. It is fully secure as it works as a standalone system and does not require any connection to the internet. Since only the facial features are saved in an encoded form, the actual face images need not be saved, thereby ensuring privacy and security. Confined database Besides, the server storing the facial feature database is confined to the organisation premises. AINA has a light-weight installation process and comes with a very intuitive and user-friendly GUI with audio prompts which can be optionally disabled. It has been currently installed in ESIC Hospital, Hyderabad,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rci-develops-ai-based-attendance-system/article31683470.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman battling virus delivers twins at Gandhi||A 20-year-old pregnant woman from Medchal, admitted to Gandhi Hospital with COVID-19, delivered twins on Tuesday evening. The condition of the mother and the twin girls is said to be safe. Swab samples were collected from the newborns to test for presence of coronavirus. The results are expected on Wednesday. Fifth such case Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao said this was the fifth case of a COVID-positive pregnant woman to have had a delivery at the hospital. The first such case was recorded on May 8. In all cases, newborns and mothers are admitted in different wards to avoid transmission of the virus. Swab samples are collected thrice before discharging the newborns. In the first case, the baby did not contract the infectious disease frm its mother. Regarding the Medchal woman who delivered twins through C-section, Dr Rao said that she was initially admitted at Niloufer Hospital. “After testing positive (for coronavirus), she was refereed to Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday. She delivered twins in the evening. One girl weighs 2.5 kg and the other 2 kg,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-battling-virus-delivers-twins-at-gandhi/article31683466.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No load shedding in State: officials||In spite of the constant increase in energy consumption, particularly after the relaxation of lockdown conditions and resumption of economic/industrial activity, for the last two weeks there is no load shedding in State as the demand is much below the generation capacity. According to the officials of the two power distribution companies (discoms), the peak intra-day demand this month did not even touch 9,000 MW so far this month and the highest is clocked on Tuesday at over 8,500 MW. “The energy consumption is also yet to touch even the peak daily consumption recorded in May last year when the maximum consumption of 186.56 million units was recorded on May 29 and the intra-day peak load of 8,684 MW was also clocked that day. However, it is set to cross 180 MU for the first time this month on Tuesday”, the officials said. Further, they explained that the average daily consumption during last May was 171.54 MU with the lowest being 154.77 MU. However, the energy consumption this May maximum has been above 150 MU and below 180 MU on 12 out of 25 days. Lanco Hills feeder On the load shedding in Lanco Hills feeder in the city, Superintending Engineer (Operations - Cyber City) P. Venkanna admitted that it had tripped following sharp surge in demand in the feeder area. The feeder has two 5,000 KVA transformers and it was planned to enhance the capacity in March itself but it could not be carried out due to the lockdown. The feeder’s capacity was being enhanced by another 8,000 KVA transformer in the Gachibowli sub-station. Mr. Venkanna, when contacted, told The Hindu that charging of the new transformer was already commenced and it would be ready for handling the load from Wednesday. In the meantime, to avoid any load shedding in the Lanco Hills area, a portion of the load has been diverted to other feeders till the new transformer reaches load handling position on Wednesday. Officials of the Souther Power Distribution Company (TSSPDCL) stated that against the peak-May demand of over 75 MU energy consumption last year, it was hovering around 60 MU now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-load-shedding-in-state-officials/article31683476.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two new train freight terminals launched||The South Central Railway, one of the major freight loading zones on the Indian Railways network, added two more goods terminals by commencing operations at greenfield Private Freight Terminals (PFTs) despite the unprecedented lockdown constraints due to outbreak of the pandemic this month. Lakshminarasimha Infra Pvt Ltd at Nagireddypalli railway station of Yadadri Bhongir district was commissioned on May 8 and Sri Lakshmi Venkateshwara Warehousing & PFT Pvt. Ltd at Kaukuntla Railway station of Mahbubnagar district started its operation on May 25, Monday. In the last couple of months, freight and parcel services to ensure supply of essential commodities like foodgrains, milk, milk products, fruits, fish, eggs and other perishable items were being transported through 'Dhood Duronto' specials, 'Jai Kisan' freight trains etc. The first freight train loaded with boiled rice of 2,400 tonnes to Arakkonam junction in Tamil Nadu started from Nagireddypalli railway station early this month and this new loading spot will serve customers hailing from Yadadri Bhongir, Jangaon and Nalgonda districts for transportation of foodgrains. The second one at Kaukuntla railway station has started its first train operations loaded with boiled rice of 2,400 tonnes to Erode station in Tamil Nadu. A warehouse with a capacity 1.3 lakh metric tonnes established inside the PFT and was taken over by Food Corporation of India (FCI) for three years for preserving and transportation of foodgrains by rail to different parts of the country. This PFT is to serve as nearest rail head for Mahabubnagar, Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Nagarkurnool, an official spokesman said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-new-train-freight-terminals-launched/article31683480.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Early Bird scheme evokes good response||GHMC’s call for payment of property tax through ‘Early Bird’ scheme has evoked good response even during the lockdown. As of May 26, the property tax collection through the scheme stood at Rs. 332 crore from 3.92 lakh assessees, and it is expected to further go up during the remaining five days. However, it could be still short of last year’s collection at Rs. 535 crore. Considering the economic conditions right now, reaching Rs. 500 crore is, however, considered a big achievement, officials say. The Early Bird scheme offers a rebate of 5% in the tax payment for the year 2020-21 for those who pay it before May 31. An earlier tax limit of Rs. 30,000 for the scheme has been done away with, keeping in view the lukewarm response to the scheme due to the lockdown and economic impact. GHMC commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar, in a press release on Tuesday, appealed to tax payers to avail the benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/early-bird-scheme-evokes-good-response/article31683488.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Adilabad records 46.3 degrees C||The India Met Department (IMD) has reiterated that the ongoing sweltering heat in the twin cities and the rest of Telangana will continue throughout this week. Adilabad topped the scorching heat charts recording 46.3 degrees Celsius followed by Nizamabad which recorded 45 degrees Celsius, sources said. In Hyderabad, the day temperatures continued to be high at 42.3 degrees Celsius which is three degrees above normal and this is expected to continue for the next few days and could also creep up to to 43 degrees Celsius, according to scientists of the India Met Department Hyderabad here. Night temperatures will remain around 29 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. Medak recorded 44.5 degrees Celsius, Ramagundam and Nalgonda 44 degrees Celsius, Mahabubnagar recorded 42.1 degrees Celsius, Bhadrachalam 41.2 degrees Celsius and Khammam 41.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adilabad-records-463-degrees-c/article31683475.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. accused of neglecting south TS||AICC secretary and former MLA Challa Vamshichand Reddy accused the government of neglecting south Telangana and said that he was ready for an open debate with anyone to prove his claims. At a press meet here, he alleged that the government has been unfair in executing irrigation projects in southern Telangana and claimed that it was favouring the AP government without taking the Pothireddypadu issue seriously. He rejected the TRS allegations that Congress leaders were silent when the late CM Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy increased the intake from 11,000 cusecs to 44,000 cusecs in 2005. “Now, why hasn’t the government protested against the unlawful re-direction of Krishna basin water by Andhra people to non Krishna basin ayacut?,” he asked. He said that government has abandoned the Palamuru Rangareddy project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-accused-of-neglecting-south-ts/article31683497.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sridhar Babu demands inquiry||Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu alleged that Seelam Rangaiah, who committed suicide at the police station in Manthani, was forced to take the extreme step after he was threatened with cases under the PD Act. At a press meet, he said that the custodial death of a dalit was the result of severe police repression. He said that Rangaiah was tortured for three days in the PS and unable to bear that, he ended his life. Alleging that in the name of saving animals, police had taken a human life, he urged the DGP to conduct a fair enquiry. He asked the government to pay an ex gratia of Rs. 25 lakh to the victim’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sridhar-babu-demands-inquiry/article31683495.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Join online campaign, urges Uttam||Asking Congress leaders and workers to be the voice of farmers, migrant workers, daily wage-earners, MSMEs and small scale businesses, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked them to join the nationwide online campaign on May 28. He said that more than 10,000 party leaders and workers from each parliamentary constituency in Telangana should participate in the online campaign through a live video on any of the social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on May 28. “This call is part of the high command’s decision to hold a nationwide campaign to raise the issues of people in distress and appeal to Union government to listen and consider the demands,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/join-online-campaign-urges-uttam/article31683496.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IISc ties up with TalentSprint to offer executive programmes||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and the Hyderabad-headquartered TalentSprint have signed a partnership to launch executive programmes in emerging and disruptive technologies The first on offer is an Advanced Certification Programme in Digital Health and Imaging, to begin in July. Targeted towards professionals keen to master cutting-edge tech solutions in eHealth, personalised healthcare, biotech, medical devices, wearables and digital therapeutics, the six-month programme will be offered in a hybrid format suitable for executive education. Applications are open for the first cohort of 50 select candidates. IISc director Anurag Kumar said, “The partnership will allow us to open up executive education to individual learners.”Co-founder and CEO of TalentSprint Santanu Paul said the first programme reflects the current reality of acute global disruptions in healthcare and demands of the healthtech industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iisc-ties-up-with-talentsprint-to-offer-executive-programmes/article31683469.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Photojournalist passes away||Senior photo journalist working with ‘Eenadu’ organisation, Rajamouli passed away at a private hospital on Monday night, apparently, of brain stroke. Fifty-seven-year old Rajamouli worked with Eenadu for 37 years and is survived by wife and two sons. He won many awards at the State and national levels. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao condoled his death recalling his services. The CM conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family. Telangana State Photo Journalists Association president, A. Gangadhar and general secretary K.N. Hari condoled the death and paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/photojournalist-passes-away/article31683485.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM condoles Vedic Scholar’s death||The Chief Minister aslo condoled the death of Vedic scholar Kodicherla Pandu Rangacharya Swamy. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-condoles-vedic-scholars-death/article31683482.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CETs last date extended||Telangana State Council of Higher Education extended last date for submitting online applications for its Common Entrance Tests to June 10. Students wishing to take EAMCET, ECET, ICET, PECET, EdCET, LAWCET and PG-LAWCET, can apply without late fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cets-last-date-extended/article31683487.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 - Brief||A semester-long course in Flexible Electronics, the first full-fledged four-credit course, is being offered by International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H). It is offered for Electronics and Communication Engineering students and those in B.Tech third and fourth years, fifth year dual degree, masters apart from those pursuing Ph.D are eligible for the course. Taught by Aftab Hussain whose core area of expertise lies in flex circuits, the course requires no pre-requisites apart from an exposure to 10 plus 2 level of Physics and Chemistry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-brief/article31683486.ece
27 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Daily water remains pipe dream||Supply of drinking water daily to the residents of Municipal Corporation of Karimnagar, which was promised by the elected representatives a decade ago, remains far fetched even during this summer season as people are struggling for water even as there is an increase in its consumption due to the soaring temperature. Though the leaders have been talking about daily water supply scheme since 2009, it gained pace only after including Karimnagar in the Smart City programme in 2016. Later, the MCK officials along with the elected representatives toured Nagpur city to inspect the functioning of 24x7 water supply in the city. Since October 2019, the authorities assured the people that water would be supplied daily from January 2020 onwards and later it was extended to April 2020. On the pretext of lockdown, it was further delayed. However, the trial run was launched on May 5 and the authorities promised to provide water daily within 10 days. But 20 days after the conduct of the trial run, the daily water supply remains a distant dream in the town. Thanks to Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project, there is abundant water in the Lower Manair Dam (LMD) reservoir, the main source for Karimnagar’s drinking water scheme. Even in this hot summer, the LMD is having 8.5 tmcft of water against its capacity of 24 tmcft. Due to lockdown, the water consumption increased by 15 to 25 per cent in Karimnagar as people remained indoors. “Leave about daily water supply, we are not getting adequate water supply due to low pressure,” said R Chandraprabhakar, a Karimnagar Consumer Council activist and resident of Mankammathota. Jaya, a resident of Vasudeva Colony in Bhagatnagar, said that they hardly get water through the taps due to low pressure, but the municipal authorities force them to pay water bills. Accepting that there was a delay in fulfilling the promise of providing daily water supply, Karimnagar Mayor Y Sunil Rao assured that by the first week of June they can provide daily water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-water-remains-pipe-dream/article31683515.ece
27 May 2020||MURKILONKA (KB ASIFABAD),TELANGANA||Hard work pays, tribal couple become land owners||An unthinkable phenomenon has happened in the deeper confines of the tribal land in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. Once poor landless agriculture labourers, a Kolam aboriginal tribe couple, Athram Ramu and Rajubai of Murkilonka hamlet of Parda gram panchayat in Kerameri mandal have come to own a four-acre plot of farm land in their own village, purchased out of the savings they made over a period of over 18 years. Ramu and Rajubai are perhaps the only Kolams — their tribe being categorised as Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) as it is among the most backward among aboriginal tribes in the country — who could afford to experiment by planting bananas on one acre of their plot of land. They will harvest the crop sometime in September. The story of sheer hard work and patience starts with the destitute Ramu getting married to an equally poor Rajubai some 23 years back. He belonged to Agarwada village in Khairi gram panchayat in the same mandal, but shifted to Murkilonka as iltem or the son-in-law living in the wife’s home. “The first four years I worked on the land of my father-in-law. Later, Balaji Kendre (an organic farmer from Dhanora who has grown apples) employed us for three years on leased out farm lands which he was cultivating,” the 50-plus-year-old Ramu began narrating his story. “As we had saved some money by working with Mr. Kendre, I myself leased out some land for cultivation. By 2016, we were able to purchase the four acres for Rs. 3 lakh which we had saved,” he added. The Kolam family also increased in number with the addition of three sons, two of whom have been sharing the work on the field. Thanks to the whole family working as one unit, the farmers could save precious extra money. While cultivation of cotton and red gram was profitable during the last three years, Ramu and Rajubai experimented with banana plantation on the advice of Mr. Kendre. “I knew their hard work will yield desired results,” observed the organic farmer who inspects the plantation periodically. Thanks to owning the land, the Kolam farmers were able to avail crop loan from the Telangana Grameena Bank, Kerameri branch last season. “I am waiting for correction of the higher interest calculated by the bank so that I can repay the loan,” Mr. Ramu revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hard-work-pays-tribal-couple-become-land-owners/article31683499.ece
27 May 2020||PASTAPUR (SANGAREDDY DIST.),TELANGANA||DDS to focus on ‘local’ aspect in farming||The Deccan Development Society (DDS), an NGO working on millet farming involving local women, has decided to focus on making farming completely local. The DDS will take up a new initiative — Swasamruddha Samudayala Sankalpam (Resolve for self-abundant community) — designed to cover 1,000 women, mostly from marginal land holding dalit families from about 30 villages. The women associated with DDS are already into organic farming and now the organisation wants to experiment in about 1,200 acres. The soil health will be improved by dumping about 5 lakh kg of farm yard manure. Similarly, 12,000 litres of plant growth promoters such as beejamrutam will be produced in their own communities and used in lands. Crop growth will be further strengthened through application of about 5,000 litres of panchagavya , 48,000 litres of vermi wash. The women farmers would sow 12,000 kg of 10 to 15 varieties of seeds. It was estimated that the total investment by women will be about Rs. 60 lakh and expected returns per acre were put at Rs. 55,000 considering that more than 80 % of the farmers are having cattle and they work in their fields. “We in DDS are thrilled that what we have practised and advocated Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India) all through 30 years,” said DDS director P.V. Satheesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dds-to-focus-on-local-aspect-in-farming/article31683516.ece
27 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||‘Poacher’ ends life in police station||An accused arrested by the Manthani police in a Wildlife Protection Act case allegedly committed suicide by hanging in the toilet of the police station on Tuesday morning. Reports reaching here said that Srilam Rangaiah (55), a native of Ramaiahpalli village of Ramagiri mandal was arrested on the charge of hunting wild animals and a case was registered under Wildlife Protection Act two days ago. On Tuesday morning, he urged the police that he wanted to attend nature’s call and went to the toilet and committed suicide by using a scarf. The local police shifted the dead body to the Manthani Government Hospital. Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V Satyanarayana visited the police station and inspected the toilet where the accused had committed suicide. Talking to newsmen, Mr. Satyanarayana said that the police had not harassed or beaten Rangaiah during custody. Stating that Rangaiah was earlier also arrested and sent to jail on a few occasions, he said that the incident was unfortunate. He said that they had ordered Mancherial district Jaipur ACP Narender to conduct an inquiry into the custodial death. Based on the inquiry report, they would definitely take action against police officials if found guilty into the incident, he maintained.  (There is always someone to listen at +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poacher-ends-life-in-police-station/article31683502.ece
27 May 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Cong. had welcomed diversion of Krishna waters: KTR||Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K. Taraka Rama Rao hit out at the Telangana Congress leaders for making a hue and cry over Pothireddypadu project. The late Chief Minister of united Andhra Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy issued the GO for Pothireddypadu project and the Telangana Congress leaders welcomed the diversion of Krishna water through the project by according haratis , he recollected, and ridiculed the Congress leaders for planning agitations over the project. Mr. Rama Rao, along with Minister for Agriculture S Niranjan Reddy, TS Planning board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar, TSCAB chairman K. Ravinder Rao, MLC Naradasu Laxman Rao, Manakondur MLA Rasamayi Balakishan, ZP chairperson N Aruna, Collector D Krishna Bhaskar and others participated in various developmental works such as laying foundation stone for Rythu Vedika building, inauguration of administrative building at agriculture market committee in Racherla Boppapur village of Mustabad mandal on Tuesday. Addressing farmers, he said that the Congress leaders were criticising even the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project, which was the world’s biggest lift irrigation project and providing irrigation even during the summer season. He alleged that the party leaders were jealous of the TRS government for filling all the minor irrigation tanks during the summer season by lifting water through KLIP. Listing out various farmer-friendly programmes taken up by the TRS government, he reiterated that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was committed to several reforms in the agricultural sector. He claimed that the State government had provided Rythu Bandhu and waived crop loans even during the financial crisis following lockdown. He asked the farmers to observe the changed agriculture scenario from integrated AP to the Telangana State where the farmers were given 24 hours power, Rythu Bandhu assistance, Rythu Bima insurance coverage and crop loan waiver. He also said that they would transform the upland Rajanna-Sircilla district by providing irrigation sources to 2.25 lakh acres by completing the Kaleshwaram package 9 to 12 by October this year. He said that the KLIP had completely recharged the groundwater table in the district. He advised the farmers to forget maize and take up red gram and other crops during this khariff season. Mr. Niranjan Reddy said that the government had accorded priority to the farm sector and allocated Rs. 60,000 crore. He said that he was happy to see the minor irrigation tanks overflowing with Godavari water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-had-welcomed-diversion-of-krishna-waters-ktr/article31683504.ece
27 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Last-ditch effort to appease Kondapochamma oustees||With water set to be pumped into Kondapochamma reservoir by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on May 29, district officials made a last minute effort to appease a few oustees from one of the villages that would be submerged, by resurveying the properties on Tuesday. Late on Monday evening, some officials knocked the doors of the tin-roof single room accommodation as part of the Tunkibollaram Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony given as rehabilitation to a few oustees of Mamidyala village in Mulugu mandal. These were the 22 oustees who had been demanding compensation under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 (LA Act - 2013). These oustees had petitioned the administration long back that their houses, land and trees were not measured by the authorities properly resulting in losses for them and wanted the measurement to be done again. “Based on your applications submitted on May 19, 2020, to resurvey your houses, lands and trees, the Collector, Siddipet, has issued orders on May 23 to conduct resurvey. This will be held on May 26. The officials of forest, horticulture, rural water supply, roads and buildings and surveyors will visit your village. Hence, you are requested to be present there,” was the notice served on Pachimadla Srinivas on May 25, at 7.55 p.m. These villagers who had moved court to seek compensation under LA Act 2013 were forcibly vacated on the night of April 30 by the authorities with the help of police and dumped at the Tunkibollaram R&R Colony. After it was taken to the notice of the HC, the court directed Siddipet IV Additional District Judge S. Saritha to visit the villages and interact with oustees of Mamidyala and Bahilampur and submit a report. On Tuesday, the 22 oustees were taken with police escort to the Mamidyala village. The officials conducted a resurvey of the houses dismantled in addition to counting trees and measuring land. “The measurements are not done properly even this time. Officials are reading out the same old measurements stating that details will be finalised at RDO office,” V. Devi Reddy, one of the oustees, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-ditch-effort-to-appease-kondapochamma-oustees/article31683507.ece
27 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Cab, bus operators transporting migrants illegally||Cab and bus operators in Haryana have been minting money by transporting migrant workers back to their hometowns on fake movement passes. Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said multiple FIRs were registered in this connection and the people were pulled up. In most of the cases, the cab and bus operators approach the workersand charge them heavily to facilitate their journeys back home. Not willing to be identified, a taxi operator, said fake movement passes with bar codes were made at cyber cafes and the stranded migrants were sent back to their homes. He said these buses and taxis mostly operated at night in gross violation of the directions on the curfew timings from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. and the social distancing norms were also not followed. Some of these travel agency owners also act as touts and claim to procure “genuine” passes from the authorities as well in return for money. He said the operators had made huge sums of money by illegally transporting the migrants. In some cases, they had also put out ads on social media seeking passengers. RTI activist P.P. Kapooralleged that the bus and cab operators in Panipat as well were facilitating the return of stranded workers back home in return for large sums of money. Mr. Kapoor recalled how 37 workers from West Bengal went to their hometowns, citing agricultural work. Rs. 3,700 per person The movement pass was valid for a week and for a round trip. “Why would three dozen workers, including minors, go to West Bengal for agriculture for a week by paying huge sums of money? It is obvious that they wanted to return to their homes and procured the pass through a bus operator. The pass bears a bar code and is purportedly issued by Panipat DM,”said Mr. Kapoor. One of the workers, Ahmad Raza, told Mr. Kapoor, that they tried to procure movement passes from the SDM office, but in no vain. They then contacted the bus operator and paid him Rs. 3,700 per person for the pass and the travel expenses. In a similar case, a manager of a private hospital was arrested along with 16 people for allegedly facilitating transportation of migrants workers to Bihar in two ambulances in the guise of patients and their attendants violating the provisions of the lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak in mid-April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cab-bus-operators-transporting-migrants-illegally/article31683414.ece
27 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||12 policemen among 33 new cases reported in Gurugram||Thirty-three fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Gurugram on Tuesday, taking the total to 317. This is the highest single-day jump in cases in the city so far. Among the newly infected are 12 policemen from Udyog Vihar police station who were deployed at Delhi-Gurugram border check-points near Kapashera. Station House Officer of Udyog Vihar Inspector Devender Singh said samples of 35 other personnel have been taken and more will be collected. He added that samples of 15 personnel were taken and only three came back negative. Movement of workers The personnel deployed at check-points near Kapashera deal with migrants trying to enter Gurugram to work at garments units in Udyog Vihar Phase I-V. Mr. Singh said that the personnel are provided gloves and Personal Protective Equipment, “but it is difficult to don them during long duty hours due to the extreme heatwave”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/12-policemen-among-33-new-cases-reported-in-gurugram/article31683402.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||412 new cases, 12 deaths||The Capital registered 412 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,465, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 12 more deaths have been reported, taking the total to 288. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 14,465 cases, 6,954 people have recovered and there are 7,223 active cases. A total of 1,78,579 COVID-19 tests have been done till now in the city. Containment zones After the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government on May 18 raised the issue of decreasing number of containment zones in the city even though the number of COVID-19 cases was increasing, the number of such zones has surged from 73 on May 18 to 91 on Monday. Parts of north and south-east Delhi were recently declared as containment zones. A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and people are not allowed to enter or leave the zone. Meanwhile, one more mess worker at AIIMS has tested positive for COVID-19, according to the Resident Doctors’ Association. “A mess worker who was COVID-19 positive had died a few days back and during the contact tracing, a total of two persons have tested positive,” an AIIMS official said on Tuesday. The mess is for resident doctors and students, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/412-new-cases-12-deaths/article31683410.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Over two lakh migrants sent back by train: govt.||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the Delhi government has so far sent 2.4 lakh migrant workers back to their hometowns in Special Shramik trains, while around 30,000 people departed in 18 trains on Tuesday, taking the total to 2.71 lakh.  “A total of 196 Special Shramik trains have carried 2,41,169 migrant workersback to their hometowns till May 25. Of these, 93 trains carried 1.25 lakh workers to various districts of Bihar and 84 trains carried 96,000 migrants to U.P.,” he said. Mr. Sisodia also appealed to the migrants to not walk back to their hometowns. The government is arranging for migrant workers’travel through Special Shramik Trains, he said, adding that their food and shelter requirements would be taken care of. “A total of 2,500 camps have been set up in schools here to provide meals to 10 lakh people almost daily. Almost 70 lakh people under PDS category have been provided ration and 38 lakh under non-PDS have been provided ration via e- coupons,” Mr. Sisodia said, adding that strict procedure is being followed in preparing lists of people fit enough to travel in the special trains. “People are being screened at their nearby schools,” he said. Relief for families The Minister also said that Rs. 25,000 will be given to each of the nearly 500 families affected by Monday night’s fire that broke out at a JJ colony in Tughlakabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-two-lakh-migrants-sent-back-by-train-govt/article31683407.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||L-G reviews COVID-19 situation in city||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday held a videoconference to review the COVID-19 situation here with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his Deputy Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and other senior government officers. According to Raj Niwas, Secretary (Health) presented the Situational Analysis of COVID-19 in Delhi where it was informed that up to May 25 there were a total of 14,053 confirmed cases in Delhi out of which 6,771 persons have recovered, discharged or migrated. It was further informed that the Case Fatality Rate in Delhi is 1.96% in comparison to the national average of 2.57%, Raj Niwas said. The L-G was also informed that as on May 25, 34 labs are functional for COVID-19 test and cumulative tests done till date are 1,74,469 and the positivity rate is 8.06%. “The L-G directed the Health Department to closely review the capacity building of medical infrastructure and remove bottlenecks immediately. He advised that trend of last 10-15 days should be analysed for future management,” Raj Niwas said. “The L-G further advised for monitoring of containment zones on a dynamic basis for focused action. He instructed concerned authorities to strictly follow guidelines of MoHFW regarding home quarantine, discharge, etc. and inform people regularly through IEC activities for confidence building,” Raj Niwas also said. During the meeting, according to Raj Niwas, it was decided to provide real-time information about availability of COVID beds in hospitals in the public domain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/l-g-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-city/article31683413.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Social distancing norms not being followed at screening centres: BJP||Social distancing norms are being violated at government-run COVID-19 screening centres, the BJP alleged on Tuesday. Reacting to a video of a screening center at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Khajuri Khas exhibiting that social distancing norms were not being adhered to, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said improper arrangements were in place across such facilities in the city. “In reality, it is to force poor labourers to migrate from Delhi after medical examination why they are being gathered at various screening centers run by the Kejriwal government without proper arrangements,” he alleged. He also alleged that the Kejriwal government that it is not serious about the increasing cases of COVID-19 in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/social-distancing-norms-not-being-followed-at-screening-centres-bjp/article31683415.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP MLA seeks bail in doctor’s suicide case||AAP legislator Prakash Jarwal, arrested in connection with the alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi last month, moved a Delhi court Tuesday seeking bail in the case. The application, which is likely to be listed for hearing tomorrow, claimed that the allegations against the accused were completely false and fabricated and he had no role in the unfortunate death of the doctor. It also claimed that as a public representative, the MLA is equally pained by the death of the person. The application stated that there was no direct and indirect contact with the deceased in recent past and there was no question of harassment or money ever being asked from him or his family. It is, therefore, contended on behalf of the applicant/accused that he is falsely implicated and the entire allegation against him is part of well-crafted conspiracy. The allegations are baseless and politically motivated, said the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-mla-seeks-bail-in-doctors-suicide-case/article31683399.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||One staffer, 10 inmates in Rohini jail recover||One staffer and 10 inmates of Rohini jail recovered from COVID-19, said prison officials on Tuesday. Earlier, 16 inmates and four staff members of the same prison had tested COVID-19 positive, they said. DG(Prison) Sandeep Goel said Head Warder of central jail number 10 had tested positive for the virus on May 15. “He was asymptomatic and had been kept in government quarantine facility in Sonipat. He has recovered,” Mr Goel said, adding that doctors have recommended him seven-day rest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-staffer-10-inmates-in-rohini-jail-recover/article31683411.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Fire breaks out at shoe factory in Delhi’s Keshavpuram||A fire broke out in a shoe factory in north-west Delhi’s Keshavpuram on Tuesday, an official of the Delhi Fire Services said. No casualty was reported, the official said, adding that the cause behind the blaze is yet to be ascer-tained. In another incident, around 250 huts were gutted in a blaze in south-east Delhi’s Tughlakabad village on Monday night. No one was hurt in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-breaks-out-at-shoe-factory-in-delhis-keshavpuram/article31683401.ece
27 May 2020||noida,||Three fresh COVID-19 cases in G.B. Nagar||Three more people, including a government hospital staff, tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Tuesday, pushing the number of cases in the district to 362. Also, nine people were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases now stands at 113, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-gb-nagar/article31683405.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Movement restricted||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/movement-restricted/article31683404.ece
27 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Dal Khalsa plans march on June 5||Sikh radical outfit Dal Khalsa has decided to hold a remembrance march on June 5 in Punjab’s Amritsar to mark the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar. Party spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said on Tuesday the decision was taken at a party meeting. “We are aware that COVID-19 cases are rising. Taking precautionary measures and adhering to WHO and government guidelines, the strength in the march would be minimised and physical distancing norm would be strictly maintained.” He said Dal Khalsa has also been giving a call for ‘Amritsar shutdown’ on June 6. However, he said, this year the final decision would be taken on June 1, after taking the lockdown guidelines, if any, into account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dal-khalsa-plans-march-on-june-5/article31683416.ece
27 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Landslip buries 3 in Arunachal, Assam flood scene turns grim||Landslip killed three persons in Arunachal Pradesh, while a man was feared drowned in Meghalaya, as large swathes of northeastern India experienced heavy rain. Assam is the worst affected State, with 1.95 lakh people displaced in seven districts. Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Tuesday grieved the death of three persons of a family in Dibang Valley district. Incessant rain since May 23 triggered the landslip that buried a 27-year-old woman and her two minor children alive. The government announced Rs. 4 lakh relief to the family. In the Mendal area of Meghalaya’s North Garo Hills district, a man was swept away as he tried to cross River Didram on Sunday. Officials said search operations were hampered by torrential rain. Rainstorms since Sunday night have caused widespread damage in three other districts of Meghalaya. The worst affected was Mawkyrwat block in South West Khasi Hills district where landslips destroyed 22 houses. In Assam, the number of flood-affected people increased by 1.64 lakh in less than 24 hours. Nalbari and Tinsukia were added to the list of five districts inundated on Monday. The bulk of the affected people, numbering 1.68 lakh, are in Goalpara where 8,941 people have moved to relief camps. Nalbari has 10,943 affected people. “Floodwater has affected 229 villages and crops on 1,007 hectares, mostly in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur and Dibrugarh. We have provided 272.24 quintals of rice, pulses and salt,” the State Disaster Management Authority said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/landslip-buries-3-in-arunachal-assam-flood-scene-turns-grim/article31683419.ece
27 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||No home quarantine in Assam||The Assam Cabinet has decided not to allow home quarantine for returnees in view of the increase in COVID-19 cases, which more than doubled in five days to reach 597 on Tuesday evening. For want of adequate quarantine centres, Mizoram has allowed home quarantine for returnees who clear a rapid antibody test. Assam had earlier decided to allow returnees, especially flyers, to be in home quarantine after they tested negative during seven nights in institutional quarantine. About 70,000 people have returned to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-home-quarantine-in-assam/article31683417.ece
27 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan revises lockdown rules to allow taxis in red zones||The Rajasthan government has revised the guidelines for COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 to allow taxis and auto rickshaws to operate in the red zones and opened public parks for walking and exercising with some conditions. The ban on the sale of paan, gutka and tobacco products was also lifted, though spitting at public places will be punishable with fine. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Swarup said the plying of taxis, including cab aggregators, and auto rickshaws would be allowed from home to airports, railway stations and hospitals. Taxis can carry two passengers, while only one passenger will travel in auto rickshaws. The drivers will be required to sanitise touch points after every ride. Park timings Mr. Swarup said the public parks in red zones would be open from 7 a.m. to 6.45 p.m. Social distancing will be maintained in the parks and no gathering of five or more persons will be allowed at a particular point. These activities were earlier permitted in the orange and green zones in the State. Mr. Swarup said though the sale of paan, gutka and tobacco products had been allowed, it would only be for take-away. The consumption of tobacco products at public places will remain in force as before. Working hours The State government has also restored working time in factories and industrial units to eight hours a day. The working time was earlier increased to 12 hours to reduce the requirement of workers in the factories in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Minister of State for Labour Tika Ram Jully said since almost all factories in the State had restarted operations, the workers were going there without the requirement of pass, while public transport had started in orange and green zones. Mr. Jully said the factory employees were working as per the guidelines on safety and social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-revises-lockdown-rules-to-allow-taxis-in-red-zones/article31683421.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||MVA rubbishes rumours on govt. stability||A day after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar held consecutive meetings with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, all three allies of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Tuesday dismissed speculation about the State government’s stability. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said it is in no hurry to come to power, and the government will fall due to conflicts between the NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis claimed it was the ruling alliance that was spreading rumours to divert people’s attention from its failure to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. ‘Strong, united’ Sena MP Sanjay Raut said a meeting between two leaders running the government should not cause any fear. “A cure for COVID-19 and a method to bring down the Maharashtra government, are both yet to be found by anyone. Sharad Pawar and Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting for over one-and-a-half hours on Tuesday. The government is strong and will continue to function. Nobody needs to worry.” State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said all three parties are united in fighting the pandemic. “We are in contact with each other. Some forces are deliberately spreading lies about the stability of the government. We are together and will continue to work like this for many more years,” he said. Minority Affairs Minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik, accused the BJP of spreading lies about imposing President’s Rule in Maharashtra. “Our government is stable and strong. We are busy fighting the coronavirus,” he said. ‘Not playing politics’ Mr. Fadnavis, addressing a digital press conference on Tuesday, said, “We are not interested in playing politics. We are in no hurry to come back to power. This government will fall because of internal conflicts. The Centre is busy fighting COVID-19 as are we.” He alleged that the three ruling parties are exhibiting no coordination. When asked about BJP leader Narayan Rane’s demand to impose President’s Rule in Maharashtra, Mr. Fadnavis said that was the Rajya Sabha member’s personal opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-rubbishes-rumours-on-govt-stability/article31683423.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||HC tells magistrates to speed up interim bail hearings||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed magistrates to expeditiously hear 14,121 interim bail applications that jail authorities have forwarded to courts. The order came after the State, through the Prisons Department, told the court it had released more than 8,000 prisoners and have forwarded bail applications of 14,121 inmates to the respective courts to decongest prisons as the novel coronavirus continues to spread. As of Monday, as many as 8,407 prisoners have been released either on parole on bail across Maharashtra. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Dutta and Justice K.K. Tated said, “We are of the opinion that the relevant courts are not supposed to act as mere post offices and allow applications without application of mind. We have no doubt in our mind that in the light of the guidelines issued by the high-power committee, the relevant courts, to the best of their ability and with the resources available at their disposal, have been striving to take the appropriate steps to dispose of as many applications for bail as possible in accordance with the law.” The State had filed the affidavit after the HC directed it to respond to three separate public interest litigations (PILs), including one filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), which sought the intervention of the court to decongest prisons. The reply filed by the Prisons Department has brought out inadequacies within the prison system. It said the State’s prisons had a capacity of 24,000, but housed 34,000 prisoners till May 10. The prison manual recommends 40 sq. ft. to each prisoner, and to ensure physical distancing, it had reduced the number of inmates by two-thirds. This would mean that 16,000 prisoners would have to be released and that a prison could accommodate only 8,000. On May 25, Maharashtra’s prisons still had 29,737 inmates. The court has directed the State to file a reply stating whether tests were carried out on prisoners in Arthur Road jail, who may have come into contact with 158 of those who have tested positive for the virus. PUCL, represented by senior counsel Mihir Desai, sought permission for inmates to make video calls, and prosecutor Deepak Thakare said arrangements for videoconferencing were being made, and till then, inmates would be allowed to speak to their family or advocate over the phone once a week. Mr. Desai also informed the court that the system of transmitting money to the inmates through money orders has been discontinued and separate bank accounts have to be opened. Mr. Thakare told the court that an April 8 circular had said the jailer can open an account and provide the details to inmates. The court told prisons to implement the instruction immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-tells-magistrates-to-speed-up-interim-bail-hearings/article31683427.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||‘Rahul’s remarks show Congress pushing blame on Sena’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday targeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his remarks that the party is not running the Maharashtra government and cannot take crucial decisions here. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, in a digital press conference, said Mr. Gandhi’s remarks are an attempt to distance his party from the failures of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government in dealing with COVID-19 pandemic. “Rahul Gandhi’s statement comes at a time when he and his party realise the coronavirus crisis is getting out of hand. Now the Congress and its leaders want to blame everything on the Shiv Sena and Uddhav Thackeray,” he said. He said the Gandhis and the Congress cannot distance themselves from the government’s performance. “Rahul Gandhi’s statement shows that at a time when the government is failing, its allies too are slamming it. Here we have a government where all parties are blaming each other,” he said. Mr. Gandhi, in a digital press conference in Delhi earlier in the day, had said Maharashtra is an asset of the country. “It is the centre of business. It needs full support from the Government of India as it is fighting a very difficult battle. We are supporting Maharashtra government, but we are not a key decision-maker here. There is a difference between running a government and supporting a government,” the former Congress chief said. Referring to reports of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attempting to invoke President’s Rule in the State, Mr. Gandhi said he understands the BJP has a duty as an Opposition to register protest or ask constructive questions of the government. “But uprooting the democratic structure for no reason and invoking President’s Rule is not a constructive Opposition’s work,” he said. Congress allies like the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), meanwhile, said there was nothing wrong in Mr. Gandhi’s statement. “He is right when he said Maharashtra does not have a Congress government. He said so because Maharashtra has a Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Those trying to distort the statement must stop. The three parties are happy together and serving the people of Maharashtra,” said NCP chief spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rahuls-remarks-show-congress-pushing-blame-on-sena/article31683425.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||Can pets be taken for a walk, State seeks to know||The State government recently told the Bombay High Court that the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) must clarify whether or not pets can be taken for a walk during lockdown. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.S. Shinde was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by animal welfare activist Vineeta Tandon through advocate Harshvardhan Bhende. The PIL states that as a result of the lockdown, police stations have been arbitrarily stopping citizens taking their pets for walks. The PIL said police stations have issued arbitrary directions to housing societies to stop residents from taking their dogs for walks. It also mentioned that ambulances or pet taxis operated by NGOs and others to ferry animals from their shelters, or pet owners to veterinary clinics are being arbitrarily stopped and digitally obstructed by the police. The police were also refusing to issue passes for these ambulances and pet taxis, the PIL said. ‘Not practical’ In its reply, the State, through an affidavit filed by joint secretary (Animal Husbandry), said with increasing number of coronavirus cases, granting permission for pet owners to walk their dogs would not be practical as several localities have been declared containment zones and local bodies or Collectors are in a better position to take decisions after assessing the situation. The affidavit mentioned that the demand for implementation of the guidelines proposed by AWBI cannot be fulfilled. The court had earlier asked the State to direct the police to not stop or obstruct ambulances or pet taxis ferrying sick animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/can-pets-be-taken-for-a-walk-state-seeks-to-know/article31683428.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||Send list of testing labs: HC to State||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to inform it about the number of testing labs and mobile checking centres in all districts. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K.K. Tated was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Khalil Wasta, a fisherman from Ratnagiri district, through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar. The PIL said till the first week of April, swab samples were being sent to labs in Pune. Later, the Health Department directed samples to be sent to Miraj Hospital in Sangli district, 178 km from Ratnagiri. The PIL said suspected patients in Dapoli are facing delays in sending samples and receiving results. Mr. Bhatkar told the court about 26 medical colleges and hospitals that meet Indian Council of Medical Research’s guidelines and can conduct COVID-19 tests. However, the government pleader said they do not meet the requirements. The court expanded the PIL’s scope and sought to know the testing status in all districts. The matter will be heard on May 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/send-list-of-testing-labs-hc-to-state/article31683429.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||Gujarat worse in handling COVID-19 crisis: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday hit back at BJP MP Narayan Rane’s demand to impose President’s Rule in Maharashtra, saying Gujarat’s performance in handling the COVID-19 pandemic has been worse, and it deserves to be put under Central rule first. Without specifying any party or leader, Mr. Raut said the Opposition should get “quarantined”, and that their efforts to destabilise the State government could boomerang. Senior BJP leader and former minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, meanwhile, said though the COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra is grim, it does not qualify for President’s Rule. Mr. Rane, a Rajya Sabha member, on Monday met Governor B.S. Koshyari and demanded imposition of President’s Rule due to the Shiv Sena-led State government’s “failure” in tackling the pandemic. Mr. Raut told reporters, “If you go by the Gujarat High Court’s strictures on tackling the COVID-19 crisis, the State’s performance is worse compared to Maharashtra. If President’s Rule has to be imposed, the Centre should start with Gujarat.”  Mr. Mungantiwar said the BJP does not think President’s Rule should be imposed in the State. “The situation in Maharashtra is grim, but it does not qualify for Presidents Rule. We feel the current State government is not serious enough to tackle the situation,” the BJP leader told a news channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gujarat-worse-in-handling-covid-19-crisis-raut/article31683430.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Xi meets PLA, urges battle preparedness||China’s President Xi Jinping on Tuesday called on the military “to think about worst-case scenarios” and “scale up battle preparedness”. He made the remarks during his annual meeting with the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) representatives attending the National People’s Congress or Parliament in Beijing. Mr. Xi had also referred to “battle preparedness” during his meeting with the PLA in 2019. This year, his speech focused on the post-pandemic situation, as he heard the PLA members of Parliament reporting on “strengthening training amid the epidemic, and accelerating capacity building on biosecurity defense”. Mr. Xi said the epidemic “brought a profound impact on the global landscape and on China’s security and development as well”. He “ordered the military to think about worst-case scenarios, scale up training and battle preparedness, promptly and effectively deal with all sorts of complex situations and resolutely safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests,” the official Xinhua news agency reported. While the comments are not new, Mr. Xi’s remarks will be closely parsed in India, amid the ongoing border stand-off, and also in Taiwan, with heightened tensions. The NPC’s annual report this year for the first time mentioned “reunification” with Taiwan, a long-standing goal, without the usual prefix “peaceful”. China’s Defence Ministry spokesperson, PLA Senior Colonel Wu Qian, told reporters on Tuesday that “Taiwan independence is a dead end”. Neither Senior Colonel Wu nor China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi, who addressed his annual press conference on May 24, were reported as referring to the current tensions with India. China’s media has largely been silent on the tensions, barring the English-language Global Times , a Communist Party-run newspaper intended for an international audience. ‘Necessary moves’ A commentary in the paper on Tuesday blamed India for the stand-off. “India in recent days has illegally constructed defense facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, leaving Chinese border defense troops no other options but making necessary moves in response, and mounting the risk of escalating stand-offs and conflicts between the two sides,” wrote Long Xingchun, a senior research fellow at Beijing Foreign Studies University. “Unlike previous stand-offs, the latest border friction was not caused by accident, but was a planned move of New Delhi. India has been clearly and definitely aware that the Galwan Valley region is Chinese territory.” “If India failed to stop such provocations as soon as possible,” he added, “it will impact Beijing-New Delhi ties — and may even exceed the sort of intensity of the Doklam standoff.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-meets-pla-urges-battle-preparedness/article31683110.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s virus apps could survive the outbreak||At the height of China’s coronavirus outbreak, officials made quick use of the fancy tracking devices in everybody’s pockets — their smartphones — to identify and isolate people who might be spreading the illness. Months later, China’s official statistics suggest that the worst of the epidemic has passed there, but the government’s monitoring apps are hardly fading into obsolescence. Instead, they are tiptoeing toward becoming a permanent fixture of everyday life, one with potential to be used in troubling and invasive ways. While the technology has doubtless helped many workers and employers get back to their lives, it has also prompted concern in China, where people are increasingly protective of their digital privacy. Companies and government agencies in China have a mixed record on keeping personal information safe from hacks and leaks. Authorities have also taken an expansive view of using high-tech surveillance tools in the name of public well-being. The government’s virus-tracking software has been collecting information, including location data, on people in hundreds of cities across China. But authorities have set few limits on how that data can be used. And now, officials in some places are loading their apps with new features, hoping the software will live on as more than just an emergency measure. Health guardian Zhou Jiangyong, Communist Party secretary of the eastern tech hub of Hangzhou, said this month that the city’s app should be an “intimate health guardian” for residents, one that is used often and “loved so much that you cannot bear to part with it,” according to an official announcement. Governments worldwide are trying to balance public health and personal privacy as they pull out the stops to protect their people from the virus. In China, however, the worry is not just about potential snooping. The country’s leaders have long sought to harness vast troves of digital information to govern their sprawling, sometimes unruly nation more efficiently. But when computer systems have so much authority over people’s lives, software bugs and inaccurate data can have big real-world consequences. “Epidemic prevention and control needs the support of big data technology, but this does not mean agencies and individuals can randomly collect citizens’ information by borrowing the name of prevention and control,” Li Sihui, a researcher at Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, wrote in a recent commentary.NY TIMES||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-virus-apps-could-survive-the-outbreak/article31683099.ece
27 May 2020||Colombo,||Curfew lifted in Colombo after 2 months||After over two months, authorities in Sri Lanka lifted the curfew — except during nights — in capital Colombo on Tuesday, signalling Sri Lanka’s “gradual return to normalcy” since the coronavirus pandemic hit. From March 10, the island nation has reported 1,278 COVID-19 positive cases, 712 recoveries and 10 deaths, as of Tuesday evening. Colombo district accounted for the highest number of cases so far — 150, according to the Epidemiology Unit of the Health Ministry — and has been on police curfew, though the curfew was eased in most other districts sooner. Health authorities have issued operational guidelines for eateries, restaurants, salons, conduct of weddings and funerals that include limiting the number of people — a maximum of 100 for weddings — regular disinfection of surfaces, providing hand washing facilities, checking temperature and mandatory face masks. Further, senior police official Ajith Rohana on Monday warned that those who fail to maintain physical distancing in public places will be arrested. In the last two months, police arrested some 60,000 “curfew violators”. Meanwhile, a task force entrusted with COVID — 19 control, on Tuesday proposed to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa that Sri Lanka reopen its airports to foreign tourists from August 1. President Rajapaksa underscored the need to follow health guidelines “issued by international and local health experts”, according to a statement issued by his media division. Sri Lanka could be “at the forefront of tourism revival”, based on a “well-planned strategy”, he said. While the lifting of curfews would help a “gradual return to normalcy”, the risk of COVID-19 has not been “eliminated 100%”, according to Dr. Anil Jasinghe, Director General of Health Services. “This is the time when people and institutions have to be very vigilant and follow the guidelines. We have to ensure there is no second wave,” he told The Hindu . Frontline health workers are treating patients from a large cluster of Navy personnel — over 600 infected — while dozens Sri Lankans who recently returned from Kuwait and were under quarantine, have tested positive in the last two days. Calling for utmost vigilance at this time, a public health expert, who requested not to be named, said: “We are nowhere near the beginning of the end of this pandemic. If at all, we might just be at the end of its beginning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/curfew-lifted-in-colombo-after-2-months/article31683105.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump threatens to pull GOP event out of North Carolina||U.S. President Donald Trump threatened to pull the Republican Convention out of North Carolina if its Governor did not guarantee that there would be no restrictions on crowd numbers. The convention is an event to nominate the GOP’s presidential candidate (expected to be Mr. Trump). As the U.S.’s 50 States are in various stages of reopening, the number of coronavirus deaths approached 100,000. Tweeting to the Governor of North Carolina, Roy Cooper, a Democrat, Mr. Trump said the GOP was spending millions constructing the arena for the convention and that Mr. Cooper was still in “shutdown mood”, unable to guarantee if a full crowd would be allowed to attend the August 24-27 convention. “They [the Republicans] must be immediately given an answer by the Governor as to whether or not the space will be allowed to be fully occupied. If not, we will be reluctantly forced to find, with all the jobs and economic development it brings, another Republican National Convention site. This is not something I want to do,” Mr. Trump wrote on Monday, which was the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. Science and data Mr. Cooper tweeted out a statement in response, which said the State would review its plans for the convention and would rely on data while making decisions. “State health officials are working with the RNC [Republican National Convention] and will review its plans as they make decisions about how to hold the convention in Charlotte. North Carolina is relying on data and science to protect our State’s public health and safety.” North Carolina is in ‘Phase 2’ of opening — this allows an easing of some restrictions, such as restaurants opening with limitations on capacity and permission for gatherings of 10 people indoors and 25 outdoors. Mecklenburg County, where Charlotte is located, recorded more then 3,200 cases and 73 deaths as per the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus database. Nominating conventions are typically attended by about 50,000 people, including thousands of media representatives. The Democrats, who will nominate former Vice-President Joseph R. Biden Jr., moved their convention, to be held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, from mid-July to mid-August due to the pandemic. Earlier this month, the party gave its convention organising committee the power to hold a virtual convention if needed. Mr. Trump is reluctant to take the GOP down that route. “We’ll have a convention. I’m a traditionalist, but we’ll have to see, like everything else, but I think we’ll be in good shape by that time,” he told the Washington Examiner earlier in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-threatens-to-pull-gop-event-out-of-north-carolina/article31683101.ece
27 May 2020||Hong Kong,||‘Security law not a threat to Hong Kong’||The city’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, told reporters that there was “no need for us to worry” over the move being considered by China’s ceremonial National People’s Congress. “Hong Kong has proven that we uphold and preserve those values,” Ms. Lam said. “Hong Kong needs this piece of legislation for the bigger benefit of the great majority of Hong Kong people.” Ms. Lam also said that transit service would resume at Hong Kong’s international airport on June 1, but that foreigners would still be banned from entering the city as part of measures to prevent a new wave of coronavirus infections. The move by China to pass the legislation signals the central government’s determination to take greater control of Hong Kong after months of pro-democracy protests last year. Beijing has appointed new representatives in Hong Kong who follow the hard line laid down by Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is also the head of the ruling Communist Party. Sharp criticism Such a move has long been under consideration and was hastened by last year’s street protests in the former British colony, which was returned to Chinese rule in 1997. Beijing promised that the territory could retain its own relatively liberal civil, legal and economic systems that contrast starkly with the much more centrally controlled and authoritarian system in mainland China. The U.S. has sharply criticised the proposed legislation and threatened to withdraw preferential trade status for Hong Kong. Some “foreign politicians” have “expressed untrue opinions” about the plan to impose the law on Hong Kong, Lam said, without giving details. She repeated claims that the law would only target “a minority,” citing concerns about terrorism and subversion. Protesters have returned to Hong Kong’s streets to oppose the legislation, with thousands turning out on Sunday as police fired tear gas and deployed a water cannon to disperse the crowds. On Tuesday, over 100 protesters gathered at a luxury shopping mall in Hong Kong’s Central business district, condemning Lam and her administration. The protests are a continuation of a monthslong pro-democracy movement that began last year and has at times descended into violence between police and demonstrators. Beijing has increasingly pushed for measures such as punishment for disrespecting the Chinese national flag or anthem along with a boost to pro-China patriotic-themed education in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/security-law-not-a-threat-to-hong-kong/article31683103.ece
27 May 2020||London,||U.K. Minister quits to protest Johnson aide’s lockdown trip||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government was hit by its first resignation on Tuesday over the controversy surrounding top aide Dominic Cummings’ cross-country trip during the lockdown. Douglas Ross, a Minister for Scotland, quit in protest. “I have constituents who didn’t get to say goodbye to loved ones; families who could not mourn together; people who didn’t visit sick relatives because they followed the guidance of the government,” he said in a Twitter statement announcing his departure. “I cannot in good faith tell them they were all wrong and one senior adviser to the government was right.” He added that Mr. Cummings’ interpretation of government rules was “not shared by the vast majority of people”. The resignation will pile more pressure on Mr. Cummings, who held a press conference Monday to justify driving his wife and young son on a 425-km trip from London to Durham during the height of crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-minister-quits-to-protest-johnson-aides-lockdown-trip/article31683108.ece
27 May 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka Minister Thondaman passes away||Ceylon Workers’ Congress [CWC] leader and Sri Lanka Cabinet Minister Arumugan Thondaman passed away on Tuesday night, after a sudden illness. He was 55. Earlier on Tuesday, Minister Thondaman met Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay and held discussions on development partnership in Sri Lanka's hill country, where Malayaha Tamils, or Tamils of recent Indian origin, reside. Nearly 1,50,000 people from the million-strong community work in the tea estates. “It was very sudden. He was very active through the day, holding several work meetings,” a family member told The Hindu.  Arumugan Thondaman, who served in President Gotabaya Rajapaksa's government as Minister of Community Empowerment and Estate Infrastructure Development, is the grandson of iconic plantation Tamil leader and trade unionist Savumiamoorthy Thondaman, and has been the face of the party since his grandfather’s demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-minister-thondaman-passes-away/article31683098.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arrest of media persons in Bangladesh raises concern||The South Asia Media Defenders Network (SAMDEN) on Tuesday raised concerns over the “detention of media professionals in Bangladesh, attacks on journalists in Punjab, and the dismissal of a pregnant reporter in Assam as part of a pattern of official and corporate arbitrariness against media in the region.” In a statement, the group said the Bangladesh government had used the Digital Security Act “to arrest or charge at least 20 journalists over the past month.” “In one case, a senior journalist vanished in March after a politician from the governing Awami League party filed a criminal defamation case against him. The reporter mysteriously turned up on the India-Bangladesh border nearly two months later and was slapped with three cases under the DSA while senior editor Matiur Rahman Choudhury of Manabzamin is also accused in the case,” it said. It also raised concerns over actions against media in India, including police beating up a journalist in Chandigarh and cases filed against reporters in U.P., Punjab and Gujarat for reports filed by them. SAMDEN also supports journalist Ranjita Rabha from Assam, who says she was forced to resign by Prag News as the organisation had “no policy of maternity leave for employees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/arrest-of-media-persons-in-bangladesh-raises-concern/article31683107.ece
27 May 2020||KARACHI,||Airbus experts probe plane crash in Pak.||Pakistan announced on Tuesday that Airbus experts have opened a probe into last week’s plane crash that killed 97 people when an Airbus A320 went down in a crowded neighborhood near the airport in the port city of Karachi. Initial reports have said the Pakistan International Airlines jet crashed after an apparent engine failure. Pakistani aviation authorities said on Tuesday they have shared their initial findings with the visiting 11-member team from the European plane maker. The Airbus experts and engineers are also to visit the crash site. Only two people on board Flight PK-8303 survived the crash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/airbus-experts-probe-plane-crash-in-pak/article31683096.ece
27 May 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, May 26, 2020 (AFP) -||Stanley Ho, the Hong Kong-born tycoon who transformed neighbouring Macau into the world’s biggest gambling hub, died on Tuesday at the age of 98. His Sociedade de Jogos de Macao Holdings (SJM) empire remains a major player in Macau, the only place in China where casinos are allowed.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-may-26-2020-afp/article31683095.ece
27 May 2020||Yangon,||Myanmar village destruction has 'hallmarks' of military: HRW||At least 200 houses and other buildings were destroyed by fire at Let Kar village in the northwestern Rakhine, a conflict-ridden state in Myanmar, in an incident that has “all the hallmarks” of previous military arson attacks on villages, Human Rights Watch said on Tuesday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-village-destruction-has-hallmarks-of-military-hrw/article31683106.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The heavy burden of social suffering||It is a truism that suffering is part of life. No one, literally no one, is exempt from it. A deep philosophical interpretation of this claim is provided by the great Buddha: the mere fact of human existence entails suffering because everything in the world is ephemeral, transient. Its imminent disappearance is experienced as a loss, causing grief. This elemental imperfection in the world keeps us all in a near-permanent state of ‘ dukkha’ or radical discontentment. Inescapable truth There is a second, extremely important sense in which all human beings are subject to suffering. We all undergo a deeply negative, unwanted experience when daily routine is disrupted by disease, sickness, ageing, death, natural catastrophe or when a misfortune unexpectedly crashes into our life. Part of their life cycle, all humans are equally vulnerable to it. Buddha talked with great wisdom about it as do the Indian epics. Indeed, most religions in the world attempt to address and make sense of this ubiquitous, inescapable human suffering that is both physical and mental (feelings of profound meaninglessness, anguish and despair). Paradoxically, our very capacity to reflect, to remember our past and imagine a future intensifies this suffering. Buddha spoke not only about the deeply felt suffering caused by major, disruptive episodes in life but also minor, persistent, daily suffering — disaffection caused within an individual by an effort going waste, an unfulfilled aspiration or a missed opportunity, by the persistent irritations within social interactions. Indirectly, he differentiated suffering by its duration — short term, episodic or long term, continuous. The great Asoka introduced another dimension, implicitly distinguishing suffering by its source, by what causes it, as arising within human agency or outside it. Owning up responsibility, he expressed remorse at the immense and continuing agony he caused to the people of Kalinga. He acknowledged how the anguish caused by a war he waged began a chain reaction, creating an ever-widening circle of co-sufferers. The dark and tragic Mahabharata also speaks of war, a relatively short 18-day episode in which immense human suffering was inflicted by one group on another. Thus, we may distinguish forms of human suffering by their (a) source, (b) intensity and gravity and (c) duration. With these, we can home in on a third form of ‘ dukkha ’ — in which grave disruptions caused by humans become an enduring feature of daily life, as when humanity was continuously ravaged by the two world wars. Traumatic images Such colossal misery inflicted by one group of persons on another or by the rulers on the ruled might be called socio-political suffering. This reprehensible experience, a consequence of various acts of commission or omission by powerful people in society who go to war, impose harsh economic measures, deliberately sow social divisions or work for the benefit of a few with no regard for the welfare of the larger, powerless population, is entirely avoidable. Until recently in human history, this systemic violence and institutionalised oppression was barely recognised for what it really is: something not given to but made by humans. It is this man-made suffering that has recently invaded our lives. It is induced neither solely by COVID-19 nor by the decision to lockdown but largely by how the lockdown has been handled, reminding us of Arthur Schopenhauer’s comment that “the world is Hell, and men are on the one hand the tormented souls and on the other the devils in it”. Lakhs of penniless, barefoot workers trudging hundreds of kilometres under the scorching sun. A pregnant woman carrying a load on her head, or lying in a cart pushed by her husband; a mother delivering a baby on the pavement and moments later standing up to renew her journey or pulling a broken suitcase on wheels with a four-year-old clinging to it; a 10-year-old collapsing on the roadside, exhausted by the heat;a rickshaw puller from Delhi cycling all the way to Bihar with all his family and worldly goods; scores hiding in the entrails of a dumper to avoid the punitive gaze of the police, thousands spending endless nights on the platform waiting for the promised train to arrive and take them home, hundreds killed on the railway track or the road by speeding vehicles or trains, their food, blood and chappals strewn everywhere. These images that have flashed past us are shattering, first because they display the sheer corporeality of suffering — pain and injury, unimaginable fatigue and exhaustion, exposure to excessive heat, stomachs aching with hunger, parched throats, nausea and dizziness; and second, because they exhibit unbearable mental distress — suppressed rage, anguish at the plight of old parents or little children, homesickness, fear, loss of dignity, humiliation, social rejection, betrayal, the incessant realisation that you live with others who treat you as disposable waste, as garbage. They all combine to generate a comprehensive attack on one’s personhood accompanied by a feeling of overwhelming despair that one exists at all. We have been witnessing here a concentrated form of what millions of people undergo daily in some or another part of the world, starkly bringing into relief that large-scale disruptions such as the current pandemic compound structural suffering of millions and point to the horrendous ways in which many societies are currently organised. Moral indifference There is something wrong with this world, and gravely, astonishingly wrong with our moral indifference to this daily denial of humanity to others. How is it that we, corporeal beings, equally vulnerable to pain and anguish, allow others to experience states that we will not accept for a minute? How can we accept a process of self-formation that simply fails to make us moral? How can a nation be built without sahahridyata (shared feelings, empathy)?How can a social structure exist that renders superfluous those very people who put their life and blood in maintaining it? Are we engaged in an archaic ritual of violence which we know to be incomplete without the sacrifice of the most precious, the most indispensable amongst us? Alas, this moral coarseness — the ability to shut off from discomfiting conditions, to not see or feel for them, hear or think about them — is not just a defensive psychological strategy to keep sane but an ingrained habit, constituting what we are, part of our training since childhood, a trait in our character. Perhaps, it is integral to our chosen, self-indulgent lifestyle — one sustained by social and economic processes that originate in the carefully hidden oppression of others. Surely, some of these practices have an old lineage — for instance, the hierarchical caste system founded on mistreatment of indispensable others; others are very much a product of modern technology and organisation. Doesn’t a common amoral thread run through the remote control bombing of civilian populations, the organised machinery of genocidal violence, the calamitous destruction of the environment and the structural poverty of millions? We are all culpable in this grave wrongdoing. Yet, this shared responsibility is graded. Those with more power and wealth, those who run the state and the big corporations must bear greater responsibility for collective suffering. There may have been a time when most people oriented themselves to a world that was little more than what Schopenhauer called ‘a penal colony’, where life itself was viewed as punishment, in which nothing untoward or irregular was found in the torments of life. Natural calamities and man-made oppression were viewed as part of the order of things. This seems to have changed everywhere and in India too, particularly by the experience of the anti-colonial struggle and the vibrancy of contemporary political democracy. Today more and more people hold some others responsible for part of their suffering and expect governments that are run in their name to do something about it. Indeed, when appropriate, they directly, publicly blame governments too. So, fellow-citizens and governments, beware! Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, CSDS, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-heavy-burden-of-social-suffering/article31683080.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||How India can become self-reliant||Addressing the nation on the COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised the necessity of a self-reliant India. He said the need was brought home by the absence of domestic production of personal protective equipment (PPE) when COVID-19 struck, but India initiated and quickly ramped up PPE production. Mr. Modi said there needs to be improvement in quality and domestic supply chains going forward. If this is to happen though, India will have to make major course changes in development strategies. Much has changed since the self-reliance model of the Nehruvian era, so a perspective for Indian self-reliance in science and technology (S&T) and industry in a globalised world is long overdue. Not globally competitive Self-reliance in state-run heavy industries and strategic sectors in the decades following independence had placed India ahead of most developing countries. In the 1970s and 80s, however, India did not modernise these industries to climb higher up the technological ladder. The private sector, which had backed the state-run core sector approach in its Bombay Plan, stayed content with near-monopoly conditions in non-core sectors in a protected market. Little effort was made to modernise light industries or develop contemporary consumer products. India’s industrial ecosystem was thus characterised by low productivity, poor quality and low technology, and was globally uncompetitive. India completely missed out on the ‘third industrial revolution’ comprising electronic goods, micro-processors, personal computers, mobile phones and decentralised manufacturing and global value chains during the so-called lost decade(s). Today, India is the world’s second largest smartphone market. However, it does not make any of these phones itself, and manufactures only a small fraction of solar photovoltaic cells and modules currently used, with ambitious future targets. At the turn of the millennium, when India embarked on liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation, the very concept of self-reliance was rubbished, in the belief that it was tantamount to reinventing the wheel when advanced technologies could simply be bought from anywhere at lower costs. Two related ideas have prevailed since then, and neither delivered the desired results. The first was that public sector undertakings (PSUs) are, by definition, inefficient and sluggish for the competitive globalised scenario. No effort was made to engender either real autonomy or a transition to new technological directions. Instead, PSUs with capability and scale for the task were undermined or abandoned, along with many nascent research and development (R&D) efforts (for instance, in photovoltaics, semiconductors and advanced materials). On the other hand, the private sector displayed little interest in these heavy industries and showed no appetite for technology upgradation. With entry of foreign corporations, most Indian private companies retreated into technology imports or collaborations. Even today, most R&D in India is conducted by PSUs, and much of the smaller but rising proportion of private sector R&D is by foreign corporations in information technology and biotechnology/pharma. Given the disinclination of most of the private sector towards R&D and high-tech manufacturing, significant government reinvestment in PSUs and R&D is essential for self-reliance. The second idea was that inviting foreign direct investment and manufacturing by foreign majors would bring new technologies into India’s industrial ecosystem, obviating the need for indigenous efforts towards self-reliance. However, mere setting up of manufacturing facilities in India is no guarantee of absorption of technologies (the ability to independently take them to higher levels). There is no evidence from any sector that this has taken place or has even been attempted. The fact is, foreign majors jealously guard commercially significant or strategic technologies in off-shore manufacturing bases. The key problem of self-reliance is therefore neither external finance nor domestic off-shore manufacturing, but resolute indigenous endeavour including R&D. Experience and achievements in other countries in Asia attest to this, and also contradict the notion that self-reliance is a hangover from Nehruvian ‘socialism’. Learning from Japan’s post-war success, countries like South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong took huge technological and industrial strides in the 1970s and 80s. South Korea, in particular, climbed determinedly up the technology ladder and value chains in electronic goods, consumer durables, automobiles, micro-processors, personal computers and heavy machinery. It emerged as a global powerhouse in manufacturing, but also in indigenously developed technologies. Taiwan developed technologies and manufacturing capacities in robotics and micro-processors, while Singapore and Hong Kong adapted advanced technologies in niche areas. These self-reliant capabilities were enabled, among other factors, by planned state investments in R&D including basic research (3-5% of GDP), technology and policy support to private corporations, infrastructure and, importantly, education and skill development (4-6% of GDP). Countries like Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam have focused on off-shore manufacturing lower down the value chain and without the thrust on self-reliance. This is useful for job creation but is an unsuitable model for a country of India’s size and aspirations. China is, of course, unique in scale and in its determination to become a superpower not just geopolitically but also in self-reliant S&T and industrial capability. China advanced purposefully from low-end mass manufacturing to a dominant role in global supply chains. It has now decided on shifting to advanced manufacturing and has set itself a target of becoming a world leader by 2035 in 5G, supercomputing, Internet of Things, artificial intelligence (AI), autonomous vehicles, biotech/pharma and other technologies of the ‘fourth industrial revolution’. The way forward for India Unfortunately, India may well have missed the bus in many of these technologies in which the U.S., Europe and China have established perhaps insurmountable leads. Yet self-reliant capabilities in electric and fuel cell vehicles, electricity storage systems, solar cells and modules, aircraft including UAVs, AI, robotics and automation, biotech/pharma and others are well within reach. Large-scale concerted endeavours would, however, be required, since self-reliance will not happen by itself. State-funded R&D, including in basic research, by PSUs and research institutions and universities needs to be scaled-up significantly, well above the dismal 1% of GDP currently. Upgraded and reoriented PSUs would also be crucial given their distinctive place in the ecosystem. Private sector delivery-oriented R&D could also be supported, linked to meaningful participation in manufacturing at appropriate levels of the supply chain. Finally, India’s meagre public expenditure on education needs to be substantially ramped up (as against current trends of privatisation which would only shrink access), including in skill development. No country has achieved self-reliance without mass quality public education. And no country has developed without a much stronger public health system than what we have in India. D. Raghunandan is with the Delhi Science Forum, affiliated to the All India People's Science Network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-india-can-become-self-reliant/article31683091.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Continue India’s tryst with Nehruvian ideology||Fifty-six years after Jawaharlal Nehru left the world stage — his anniversary is today, May 27 — demagogic attempts are still being made to dub Nehruvian ideology as myopic. In the discussion on the dilution of Article 370 of the Indian Constitution in both Houses of Parliament, Nehru was not only criticised by the ruling party, but even lampooned. The debate began with the opinion that Nehru had mishandled the Kashmir issue, and that had it been entrusted to Sardar Patel, as in the case of the other princely States, the end result would have been impeccable. Pertinently, one needs to understand the historical context and the point in time of Kashmir’s integration with India. A dedication to integration Mehr Chand Mahajan who served as the Prime Minister of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947-48, and later as Chief Justice of India, has recorded in his autobiography the entente between Nehru and Patel in the matter of Kashmir’s integration with India. On October 24, 1947, Mahajan received a late-night call from Deputy Prime Minister Sardar Patel asking him to come over to Delhi from Amritsar, in the same plane in which Lady Mountbatten was to go to Srinagar to meet the recently-freed Sheikh Abdullah with a message from Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. It is also important to note that Nehru was in the U.S. at this time and Patel was at the helm in India. Yet, the correspondence between Nehru and Patel during this period clearly captures a sense of camaraderie and sincere dedication to the goal of Kashmir’s integration with India. Even the letter drafted by Nehru addressed to Sheikh Abdullah was sent to Patel for his perusal through N. Gopalaswami Ayyangar. This then led to the initiation of administrative proceedings in the Constitutional Assembly. Even minor changes in the draft Article 370 were being apprised (with relevant clarifications) to Nehru by Patel, as seen in his letter dated November 3, 1949. Article 370 was deemed temporary by both Nehru and Patel, but given Kashmir’s geography and its implications for India’s national security, that Constitutional provision was an urgent necessity. In its absence, Kashmir would have virtually atrophied. Approaches of Nehru, Patel Nehru’s sincere commitment to secularism, evinced in his espousal of the principles of religious equality, is being criticised either as “pseudo-secularism” that is biased in favour of the minorities or as an impractical exercise in futility given how the majority’s religion is compared to the minorities. The criticism is touted as if Patel and Nehru had divergent opinions on the meaning of secularism even though there is no such evidence. Granville Austin’s observation is relevant here: “Nehru and Patel were the focus of power in the Constituent Assembly, when they were divided on an issue, as in the case of property clause, factions could line up behind them and the debate would be lengthy. But when they settled their differences, the factions among the rank and file would do little else but shake hands and make the decision unanimous.” Patel’s view on secularism is moderate and as chairman of the advisory committee on fundamental rights, he had to review the report of the sub-committee on minorities in the Constituent Assembly. His tenor there was very much that India should follow the principle of secularism. Nevertheless, Patel is often identified as a Hindu traditionalist. It is a historical fact that Hindu traditionalist leaders like Madan Mohan Malviya and Lala Lajpat Rai favoured the idea of an Indian nation built around the majority (Hindu) community to which Nehru was strongly opposed. When K.M. Munshi (then a Union Minister) tabled in Parliament the matter of reconstruction of Gujarat’s Somnath Temple which had been damaged by the army of Mahmud of Ghazni in the 11th century, Deputy Prime Minister Sardar Patel announced in November 1947, that the government would provide funds for rebuilding the temple. However, at the insistence of Nehru, Gandhiji suggested that the project should be financed by public subscription. Nehru was strongly committed to keeping the government distanced from religion — an attitude that defined the character of new-born India. Nehru used every available opportunity to not only propound the benefits of a ‘socialistic democracy’ as opposed to the ‘Hindu Nation’ prescribed by the Hindu Mahasabha, but also to reassure India’s Muslim minority of their future in India. On the other hand, on June 6, 1948, Sardar Patel urged the Hindu Mahasabha to amalgamate with the Congress. He made similar pleas to the RSS. In Sankar’s Sardar Patel: Select Correspondence (1945-50) , we find that in May 1948, after Gandhi’s assassination, Nehru was anxious about the ‘recrudescence of the RSS’. Consequently, the RSS was banned. Golwalkar pleaded first with Nehru and then with Sardar Patel to lift the ban on RSS. At which point, Patel demanded that Golwalkar should put together a written constitution for the RSS. In the end of January 1949, the RSS’s official constitution came into being. However, Sardar Patel’s expectations were not met in this constitution and it became an exercise in futility. Golwalkar intended to launch an agitation from his place of detention. Finally, in June 1949, Patel agreed to accept an amended constitution and the ban on the RSS was lifted on July 11. Patel’s favourable inclination towards the RSS reached its peak when a resolution was passed in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on October 10, 1949, authorising Swayamsevaks to become members of the party — all during the absence of Nehru who was then travelling abroad. The internal democracy within the Congress was also put to the test in 1950, when Purushottam Das Tandon was elected as party president by defeating Kripalani, with the support of Patel in recognition of his Hindu nationalist loyalties. Tandon emphasised two points at the Nashik Congress session: one was Hindu nationalism and the other was adoption of Hindi as an official language. Nehru as Prime Minister threw his weight against this emergent tense and prickly situation. He said, “… If you want me as Prime Minister, you have to follow my lead unequivocally. If you don’t want to me to remain, you tell me so and I shall go. I will not hesitate. I will go out and fight independently for the ideas of the Congress as I have done all these years.” Need for science and logic The approaches of Nehru and Patel in dealing with Hindu nationalist ideology may be divergent but they are clearly two sides of the same coin — that coin being secularism. History recounts that Patel’s approach was based on his faith and trust, not on logical inferences. Nehru felt that India needed to favour science and logic instead of orthodox religiosity. He believed that ‘education is meant to free the shackles of the human mind and not to imprison it in pre-set ideas and beliefs’. His motto, namely cultivating scientific temper and nurturing the spirit of tolerance are the foundations of his concept of secularism. Consider Nehru’s commitment to the adoption of the Hindu Code Bill introduced by the then Law Minister B.R. Ambedkar. According to Ambedkar, “The Hindu Code Bill was the greatest social reform measure ever undertaken by the legislature in the country.....” The Bill was vehemently resisted by every Hindu nationalist in the Congress. President Rajendra Prasad even expressed apprehension that it may cause disruption in every Hindu family. Nehru’s inability to pass the Bill initially, forced Ambedkar to resign from the cabinet. However, Nehru’s continuous struggle to get the Bill passed (even if with some amendments) is credible testimony to his commitment to uphold secularism. Nehru had dreamt for a modern India to have an exalted position on the world stage, rising above sectarian politics and divisive forces. In January 1948 he said, “As far as India is concerned, I can speak with some certainty. We shall proceed on secular lines... in keeping with the powerful trends towards internationalism.” An effective democracy and the nurturing of unity and solidarity are the need of the day for our nation. Nehruvian ideology continues to remain essential even today to fight against the dark forces of communalism and to kindle the light of social harmony. A. Raja, a Member of Parliament, is a former Union Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/continue-indias-tryst-with-nehruvian-ideology/article31683083.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A time for reform in courts||The pandemic has turned the world on its head. No aspect of life has escaped unscathed. This includes the functioning of courts and tribunals. The judiciary has limited its work to hearing urgent matters via video conferencing. A lot has been written about how this is an opportunity to improve IT infrastructure of courts so that they can move to video conference hearings as the norm. However, any such move without first revamping procedural law would be futile. Changing the system In subordinate civil courts and High Courts, a significant time of daily proceedings is taken up by cases where only adjournments are sought for procedural matters like filing of replies. Both as a response to this crisis, as well as in the medium term, this system can be done away with. A system needs to be devised where cases are not listed before the court unless all the documents are filed within strict timelines and every procedural requirement complied with. The existing infrastructure is enough to enable this. Listing can be done before the court only in cases requiring urgent interim intervention from the court, while the matter is pending procedural completion, after verification of urgency by a judicial officer or a judge upon oral or written application. When courts reopen, apart from fresh cases, only a limited number of cases (say, 20-30 a day) which are ripe for arguments can be posted. This can be done with sufficient notice to the Bar Associations that requests for adjournments will be looked at askance. This will ensure that court rooms are not crowded. Circulation of the cases to be listed in advance (say, two weeks before listing) will give advocates enough time to take instructions from clients and prepare for arguments. The Supreme Court Rules, 2013 should amend provisions pertaining to Special Leave Petitions (SLPs). Article 136 of the Constitution enables people to file a petition seeking leave to appeal a decision of any judicial or quasi-judicial authority. The Supreme Court grants leave to appeal if the petition raises a question of law of general public importance, or if the judgment appealed against is especially perverse, which would require interference from the Court. The provision has been abused over the years to only clog the docket of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court was never intended to be a court of appeal, barring such appeals which specific statutes provide for. The High Courts are usually meant to be the final courts of appeal. Instead, SLPs are now being treated as the last round of appeal. Reports show that SLPs comprise about 60-70% of the Supreme Court’s docket. Out of this, 80-90% of SLPs are dismissed, which means only 10-20% of such cases raise important questions of law. This takes up a lot of time of the Court. A simple solution would be to do away with immediate oral hearing of SLPs. The Supreme Court Rules could be amended to provide for a structure of pre-hearing of SLPs. Every SLP must be accompanied by an application for oral hearing which must be decided first by the Court, and that too in chambers. To assist the Court for that, a cadre of judicial research assistants made up of qualified lawyers should be created. The research assistants can go through each SLP and cull out the important questions of law as envisioned in Article 136. Thereafter, the Court may or may not allow applications for oral hearings based on whether such questions of law merit its attention. Only such SLPs in which oral hearing is permitted should be listed for hearing. SLPs in which no questions of law are raised, or frivolous ones are raised, should be dismissed without oral hearing and upon imposition of costs. This will ensure that only meritorious SLPs get judicial attention and will deter people from filing frivolous SLPs. It will also reduce pendency exponentially as the system will free up the Court’s time to hear statutory appeals and matters pertaining to interpretation of the Constitution or constitutional validity of laws or executive actions. No filing reply to appeals Even in cases of statutory appeals, and appeals where leave is granted in SLPs, the Court should do away with the system of filing reply to the appeals and rejoinders to such replies. Every case can be decided based on records of the subordinate courts. As no new arguments on facts can be raised before the Court in appeals, the system of filing additional pleadings should be rendered redundant as the pleadings are simple regurgitation of the records of the subordinate courts. Most such appeals can be dwelled upon by judges and their research assistants in chamber, and only such appeals should be granted detailed hearings where the judges require clarifications. The above mechanisms will ensure that the Supreme Court moves away from an oral hearing-based system to a written submission-based one. V.V. Sivakumar and Chitranshul Sinha are partners at Dua Associates, Advocates and Solicitors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-time-for-reform-in-courts/article31683087.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||An effective lockdown||A former Finance Minister who had served under Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee recently wrote an op-ed in this newspaper titled “Flawed stimulus is justice denied” (May 20). His lack of objectivity is clearly visible when he conflates the selfless contributions of NGOs with some Opposition parties that were propagating a class divide during the pandemic. In such circumstances, it becomes necessary to counter such egregious falsehoods. Lives versus livelihoods India’s lockdown and its enforcement has been one of the most structured exercises globally. The lockdown saved lives and its gradual easing aims to protect livelihoods. India’s lockdown, with minimum prior notice, can be contrasted with the chaos that ensued in northern Italy when the news of an imminent lockdown was leaked by the media. Thousands tried to flee northern Italy and carried the infection to other regions. In contrast, the aim of the Prime Minister’s announcement was to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread to the villages. This strategy has been successful. During the lockdown, the government’s goal was to alleviate the hardships of the poor and vulnerable by providing free foodgrain through the PDS and by providing cash assistance through Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT). As of May 17, about 41 crore people have received financial assistance of Rs. 52,608 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. The invocation of the Disaster Management Act permits State governments to use the funds available in State Disaster Response Funds for all expenses including those incurred in repatriating migrant labour. Thus any attempts to blame the Ministry of Railways in accounting for operational expenses while plying Shramik trains is grossly ill-informed. The lockdown saw the Union government and State governments come together in charting a unified course. The Prime Minister held five meetings with the Chief Ministers of various States since the announcement of the lockdown. This calibrated approach saw the timely easing of the lockdown and a coordinated attempt at restarting economic activity. The twin goals of self-reliance The Prime Minister’s vision for a self-reliant India is based on two complementary goals: self-reliance of our citizens to control their outcomes and self-reliance of the nation to control its destiny. For our aspirational classes, the economic package provides adequate support to achieve the outcomes they set for themselves. Opportunities are being provided in terms of loans to start and sustain livelihoods. The package also aims to reskill our workers. As a country, self-reliance is a concerted effort at building institutional capacities. The past term has seen us make significant strides in addressing open defecation, sanitation and empowerment of girls and women. More than 1 crore poor beneficiaries have had access to quality healthcare. Technology-enabled governance initiatives such as DBT have been instrumental for the welfare of the poor. Leadership at the top is the single-most enabling factor for building such self-reliance and resilience. In a 2014 interview, the former Finance Minister stated that there are two kinds of expenditure — investment and consumption. He said that while the former is regarded as productive expenditure, the latter is not regarded as productive expenditure. True to his “rollback” years, the former Finance Minister has come full circle to portray large-scale government infrastructure and investment spending as “wasteful expenditure”. Contrary to his beliefs, the Central Vista project and the bullet train project are investment expenditures that would create jobs, boost the economy and build capital assets. The government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, embraces criticism. However, it is also duty-bound to set the record straight when falsehoods and intellectual dishonesty are mainstreamed as opinions. G. Kishan Reddy is the Minister of State for Home Affairs and is a Member of Parliament from Secunderabad constituency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-effective-lockdown/article31683088.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Oil price pickle||Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s recent remark that the Centre is taking a ‘cautious and conscious approach’ of ensuring a balance in fuel prices and aims to use the resultant savings for welfare is on the face of it unexceptionable. With global oil prices still about 45% lower than 2019 closing levels despite coordinated supply cuts by major producers, India had an opportunity to pass on the benefit to consumers and provide a fillip to becalmed consumption. That the ‘deregulated’ oil marketing companies chose not to reduce pump prices, even when crude tumbled last month, could be attributed to their caution amid a sharp slump in demand in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. It is the government’s decision, earlier in May, to raise Excise Duty on petrol and diesel for a second time in less than two months that raises several concerns. For one, subsequent to the latest increase the Centre’s tax revenue on a litre of petrol sold by IOC in Delhi as on May 16 was 1.8 times the fuel’s freight inclusive base price of Rs. 18.28 and represented 46% of the final retail price of Rs. 71.26. With economic activity brought to a near standstill by the lockdown the Centre’s overall revenue prospects have come under severe strain, and from that perspective the government’s move to maximise its takings from transport fuels is understandable. Still, the fact that the government has consistently tinkered with the duty structure through recent years of largely benign oil prices, undermines the benefits from pricing deregulation that ought to have accrued to oil companies and consumers. Back in 2018, ahead of key Assembly elections, the Centre had cut the excise duty at a time when global crude prices were on the ascent in order to minimise any electoral fallout from unchecked fuel costs. The government’s goal of maximising revenue from fuel products to fund welfare measures can only bear fruit if demand for petrol and diesel remains unaffected by the continuing high costs. With curbs on inter-State road transport still in place, contracting automobile sales unlikely to recover any time soon, job losses and pay cuts sure to shrink household budgets, it is hard to see transport fuel demand rebounding to pre-lockdown levels for at least one or two quarters. Add to that the fact that the Centre’s ambitious disinvestment target of Rs. 2.1-lakh crore for this fiscal had included a stake sale in BPCL, and the petroleum products’ pricing approach gets even more complicated. With potential investors unlikely to be impressed by the lack of autonomy in the sector, it is in the government’s interest not to risk the health of the goose that lays the golden eggs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/oil-price-pickle/article31683074.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The common factor||President Donald Trump is entering deeper into a political quagmire on three related fronts: America’s death toll from COVID-19 is perilously close to the psychologically important mark of 100,000; the economy looks to be on the verge of slipping into a deep recession, if not outright depression, in the wake of the pandemic impact across sectors; and his management of both the crises is facing acerbic criticism from Democrats even as the 2020 U.S. presidential election draws closer. There is one factor that links all three political hazards he is facing — China. On the pandemic front, Mr. Trump has regularly tweeted to the effect that the novel coronavirus ought to be called the “China virus” and his top officials including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have made unsubstantiated suggestions that the virus may have leaked out of a Wuhan laboratory. While Mr. Trump appeared relatively more mollified after a call with Chinese President Xi Jinping in late March, he reverted to name-calling a few weeks thereafter. Beijing meanwhile has concertedly pushed a campaign around the message that the virus — contrary to any publicly verified evidence — originated outside China. On the economic front, the savage trade war that roiled global markets through most of 2019 appeared to be near a resolution when Washington and Beijing inked the ‘phase one’ pact for lower tariffs and trade concessions this January. The pandemic appears to have set that process back considerably: neither side will be in the mood to make concessions given that tens of millions of jobs have been lost in the U.S. and China is far from an economic recovery. It is however the third factor, the presidential poll in November, that could most significantly alter the landscape of conflict-ridden bilateral ties. Presumptive Democratic nominee and former Vice President Joe Biden has for several months launched scathing attacks on Mr. Trump’s bungling in the early phases of viral transmission, including repeated messaging that the President was slow to respond to warning signs from Wuhan and reluctant to lock down the U.S. to enforce physical distancing. Pro-Trump campaign organisations have in turn taken to labelling Mr. Biden, “Beijing Biden,” which gives Democrats the tough choice of either attacking or defending China. If Mr. Biden does either, he will open himself up to political attacks. There is, however, a third way. If he steps back from the brink of what some analysts are describing as the potential “New Cold War,” based on the understanding that neither side would stand to gain from the cumulative tally of economic and geopolitical conflict, he may not only avert a torrid clash between the two nations, but in the process he might win over economically insecure, independent and undecided voters across the U.S., who are decisively important to secure an election victory. Not only the U.S. and China, but the world at large, might stand to gain if he did that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-common-factor/article31683075.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Strange bedfellows||Having routed the Hertzogites in the recent general election, Dr. Vorster, South Africa’s Prime Minister, has been visiting Malawi, his client State, and Mr. Ian Smith’s Rhodesia. While these two countries are anxious to receive material aid from South Africa, the richest and most powerful country in the south of the continent, Mr. Smith also looks up to it for military aid against the nationalist guerillas who are preparing themselves to fight his illegal regime. While other African States condemn the racist regimes in Rhodesia and South Africa Dr. Hastiings Banda, Malawi’s leader, has been maintaining friendly relations with both for economic reasons. There are reports that South Africa is setting up a military base at Lilongwe in Malawi which would not only be valuable as part of its forward air defences but could also be utilised for air operations against the African guerilla camps in Tanzania and Zambia. About 6,000 guerillas are said to be training in Zanzibar; many more have already completed training elsewhere in Tanzania and Zambia. Though they have occasionally staged some raids in Rhodesia, the guerillas do not yet pose a threat to the Smith regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/strange-bedfellows/article31683084.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Whitewash. (From an editorial)||At least the Hunter Committee Report has seen the light of day and an apprehensive public has had its worst anticipations realised. It is whitewash, pure and simple, an apologia for crimes that in other circumstances would have provoked floods of indignation from the very persons who now attempt to gloss over the most serious breaches of the laws of humanity and civilisation. One understands better now Mr. Montagu’s coyness in refusing to publish the Hunter Report earlier, for its flimsy attempts at condonation, its strange evaluation of evidence and the facility with which it jumps to conclusions unwarranted even by the facts that were presented to its contemplation, would not have borne the test of public scrutiny. His anxiety therefore to take action on the report before its publication arose, it is now clear, from a desire to shield the whitewashers from the glare of public criticism and to face the public, British and Indian, with the accomplished fact in the question of punishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/whitewash-from-an-editorial/article31683092.ece
27 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Glenmark to conduct ‘FAITH’ trials||With the number of COVID-19 patients rising in India, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd., has announced a new randomised, open-label study to test the combined efficacy of two antiviral drugs — Favipiravir and Umifenovir — as a potential COVID-19 treatment strategy. The two antiviral drugs have different mechanisms of action, and their combination may demonstrate improved treatment efficacy by effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during early stages of the disease, the company said in a statement. Early administration of a combination of antiviral medications acting by different mechanisms is desirable for the treatment of COVID-19, since the viral load of SARS-CoV-2 peaks around the time of symptom onset, it added. The current Glenmark study will examine whether early administration of a combination of Favipiravir and Umifenovir enhances anti-viral efficacy on COVID-19 patients. Hence, a combined use of Favipiravir and Umifenovir acting on different mechanisms offers a comprehensive antiviral cover on pre-entry and post-entry life-cycle of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the company said. Both Favipiravir and Umifenovir inhibited virus infection in vitro and have shown efficacy in COVID-19 clinical trials. Dr. Monika Tandon, V-P & Head, Clinical Development Global Specialty / Branded Portfolio, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd., said, “Combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to overall improvement in clinical parameters.” Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India Formulations, Middle East and Africa business, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals said, “This is another step in our effort to launch a treatment for COVID-19 patients. We will do all it takes to ensure accessibility of the product across the country if the clinical trials are successful.” The new combination clinical trial will be called FAITH – (FA vipiravir plus Um I fenovir (efficacy and safety) Trial in Indian Hospital setting). As many as 158 hospitalised patients of moderate COVID-19 infection will be enrolled in the combination study and randomised in two groups. While one group will be receiving Favipiravir and Umifenovir (with standard supportive care), the other group will receive Favipiravir along with standard supportive care. Patients taking the drug will receive Faviprivir 1800 mg bid and Umifenovir 800 mg bid on Day 1. Thereafter, they will receive Faviprivir 800mg bid and Unifenovir 800mg bid for the remaining course of treatment. Duration of treatment will be 14 days and patients will be discharged after clinical cure and two consecutive negative tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/glenmark-to-conduct-faith-trials/article31683062.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||GDP to contract by 5% in FY21: Crisil||Rating agency Crisil expects India’s economy to shrink by 5% during the current financial year as the nationwide lockdown crippled economic activity. This is despite agriculture acting as a cushion. The non-farm growth rate is seen to contract by 6% with agricultural activity providing a cushion with an estimated growth of 2.5%. “A month is a long time in today’s pandemic-stricken world… Earlier, on April 28, we had slashed our prediction to 1.8% growth from 3.5%. Things have only gone downhill since,” the rating agency said in a report. The first quarter (Apr-June) is expected to suffer a staggering 25% contraction. “ About 10% of gross domestic product (GDP) in real terms could be permanently lost,” Crisil said. “We believe a catch-up to the post-crisis trend level of GDP will not be possible in the next three fiscals despite policy support.” “To catch-up would require average GDP growth to surge to 11% over the next three fiscals, something that has never happened before.” The report said in the past 69 years, the country had seen recession only thrice, in 1958, 1966 and 1980 and the reason was the same each time — a monsoon shock that hit agriculture, then a sizeable part of the economy. However, this year’s recession would be because of non-farm sectors as the pandemic-induced lockdowns have affected most non-agriculture sectors. In addition, the global disruption has upended whatever opportunities India had on the export front. For the forecast, Crisil has assumed the containment measures taken by the government will be relaxed even if the lockdown continues. It has also assumed a normal monsoon and benign crude oil prices. The risk to the forecasts are, a second wave of the pandemic, a further markdown in global growth and setback to farm sector growth due to monsoon failure or supply disruptions. “Counting lockdown 4.0, Indians have had 68 days of confinement. S&P Global estimates that one month of lockdown shaves 3% off of annual GDP on an average across Asia-Pacific. Since India’s lockdown has been the most stringent in Asia, the impact on economic growth will be correspondingly larger,” the report said. Crisil said the government’s economic package of Rs. 20 lakh crore is ‘enough muscle.’ The package has some short-term measures to cushion the economy, but sets its sights majorly on reforms, most of which will have payoffs only over the medium term.  About 10% of the gross domestic product in real terms could be permanently lost||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-contract-by-5-in-fy21-crisil/article31683063.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for incentive-based scrappage policy||The automobile industry recorded zero sales in April 2020. To boost consumer sentiment, the Centre should reduce GST and come out with an incentive-based scrappage policy, says Satyakam Arya , MD & CEO, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. Excerpts from an interview:  What has been the impact of COVID-19 on the commercial vehicle (CV) segment? The CV industry has been going through a tough phase since April 2019 owing to declining sales. This is because of the economic slowdown in India, the impact of revised axle load norms and GST which increased trucking efficiency, and the NBFC crisis that led to a funding crunch. The expected spike in BS-IV vehicles pre-buying in Q1 2020 did not manifest. Increasing taxes on diesel will further add to the woes of the fleet owners because about 50% of the total cost of operation is fuel. Due to high availability and low demand, most operators will not be able to pass this increase on to their customers. Although demand from some segments such as agriculture and e-commerce is likely to rebound quickly, demand from India’s core industries will take longer. In this already difficult time, the COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown has brought the CV industry to a grinding halt. Post-lockdown, we expect business and consumer sentiment to remain poor in India, leading to a sluggish demand in the coming months. However, the easing of lockdown for economic activities has created some positive sentiment amongst industry players. We began restarting our plant operations and our dealerships on May 7. Although the market sentiment is poor and the road ahead is steep, DICV is in a relatively strong position. How long will the CV segment take to recover? The current situation is highly fluid and volatile. A lot depends on how long the COVID-19 situation persists and on the government’s fiscal response. The industry will witness a massive, never-before-seen drop in volumes, possibly going back to volume levels not seen since 2009 or maybe even worse. Capacity utilisations across the OEMs could suffer greatly (in the range of 25-30%), making them financially weaker. In the current situation, we expect that the Indian economy will return to its growth trajectory from 2022. MHCV segment will rebound in line with that. If the government introduces measures such as scrappage policy, reduces taxes or gives a big boost to infrastructure spending, the recovery could be faster.  Is there any change in your capital expenditure (capex) or sales target for 2020? April 2020 was the first month in history that the Indian automobile industry recorded zero sales. While we do not share our sales targets for competitive reasons, it is clear that the total industry volume will have to be adjusted because of the pandemic. For DICV, we are being cautious with our spending but we will not do anything that will hurt us in the long term. All our capex decisions are based on our determination to succeed in the long term.  The reduction of GST from 28% to 18% and implementation of an incentive- based scrappage policy will boost consumer sentiment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/time-for-incentive-based-scrappage-policy/article31683059.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bharti Telecom raises over Rs. 8,433 cr. via stake sale||Bharti Telecom, the promoter firm of Bharti Airtel, on Tuesday raised over Rs. 8,433 crore by selling 2.75% stake in the mobile services provider in the secondary market. “The sale proceeds will be utilised to fully repay debt at Bharti Telecom Limited, which was raised primarily to finance the acquisition of Bharti Airtel equity shares in the past, and make the promoter holding company a debt-free company,” the company said in a statement. It added that with Bharti Telecom becoming a zero-debt company, Bharti Airtel’s credit profile would also be augmented as it would stand to benefit from deleveraging on a consolidated basis, including any debt of the promoter holding company. Bharti Group and Singtel will continue to own a majority stake in Bharti Airtel at 56.23% even after the transaction and as the largest shareholders, they ‘remain committed to the business and long term prospects of Bharti Airtel’, it said. Harjeet Kohli, group director, Bharti Enterprises, said, “The strong and wide response received from a diverse mix of investors across geographies, even during challenging global macro-economic conditions, clearly demonstrates the competitive strength and the long term prospects of Bharti Airtel. With the proceeds, Bharti Telecom Limited will become a zero-debt company, providing an even stronger financial flexibility and capacity to provide any additional shareholder support as may be desired by Bharti Airtel from time to time.” As per Jefferies India, the move by Bharti Telecom is mainly to de-leverage its balance sheet as the dividend payments from Bharti Airtel are insufficient to service its debt of Rs. 85 billion. “The stake sale will lower Singtel and promoters' effective stake in Bharti Airtel to 32% and 24% respectively,” it added. The stake sale was made to institutional investors through an accelerated book building process in the secondary market. The company said the allocation was done to over 50 accounts with the top 10 getting two-thirds of the overall allocation. The total sale proceeds of over Rs. 8,433 crore ($1.15 billion) was over-subscribed multiple times with a healthy mix of all categories of investors and hedge fund investors in India, Asia, Europe and the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-telecom-raises-over-rs-8433-cr-via-stake-sale/article31683064.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bata sees demand revival by Sept.||Bata India on Tuesday said while it anticipated only need-based shopping in the short-term, revival in demand is expected around the festive season beginning September this year. The shoemaker posted a close to 57% drop in net profit for the January-March 2020 quarter. Amid COVID-19-related uncertainties, the company has put on hold plans to open any new stores in the next three-six months; however, it has curated a new product line up ‘to stay relevant’, including washable footwear and antiviral masks. “I do expect us to go through a short phase where people will stick to essentials for example children outgrowing shoe size or replacement because of usage, sports shoes for training at home... the festivities as they come in September onwards, will be a big kick for us as a full industry,” Sandeep Kataria, CEO, Bata India, said. Mr. Katari added that over the last three weeks, the company had seen an uptick in demand with tier 3, tier 4 and tier 5 towns and in residential areas recovering faster. Bata India is also focussing on e-commerce to reach out to customers. To a query on capex, he said, “We’ve had a relook at that. We are not planning to open any new stores in the next three to six months... the capex and the investment appetite for India is very much still there. But we do need to fully understand how the demand unfolds before we go back and look at new stores.” Mr. Katari said that the company is not looking at offering discounts in order to avoid crowding at stores, nor will it hike prices in the “short-term” to offset increase in costs due to new safety practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bata-sees-demand-revival-by-sept/article31683066.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||Reliance Industries’ rights entitlement commands 7% premium on Day 4||The de-materialised trading of Reliance Industries Ltd. - Rights Entitlement (RIL-RE) continued to draw strong demand on day four on Tuesday with an average premium of more than 7% over the intrinsic value. While the oil-to-telecom behemoth RIL’s Rs. 53,125 crore mega rights issue opened for subscription by shareholders last week, it became the first issue where eligible shareholders got the rights entitlements (REs) in demat, which could be traded on the stock exchanges. RIL-REs, on an average, commanded a premium of Rs. 12.07 on Tuesday, over 7% premium over the intrinsic value, according to stock exchange data. At a time when marquee companies such as Bharti Airtel and Kotak Mahindra Bank are selling their equity stakes at 5-6% discount to their market price, RIL’s RE continues to command a premium over its intrinsic value. The volume-weighted average price (VWAP) of RIL-REs stood at Rs. 183.75 on Tuesday. RE’s intrinsic value is the difference between RIL share price and the rights issue price of Rs. 1,257. At RIL’s VWAP of Rs. 1,428.70, the RE’s intrinsic value works out to Rs. 171.10 on Tuesday (difference between Rs. 1,428.70 and the rights issue price of Rs. 1,257). In total, 1.57 crore RIL-REs changed hands on NSE and BSE on Tuesday, with a traded value of Rs. 288.5 crore, the data showed. Over Rs. 1,290 crore of RIL-REs have traded on the stock exchanges in the first four days of listing, notwithstanding the fact that it is listed in the trade-to-trade segment and buyers must take delivery of the REs. Almost 6.7 crore RIL-REs have traded on the stock exchanges in the four trading sessions of listing. This is more than 15% of the total REs issued (42.26 crore).  First tradable RE RIL-REs is the first rights entitlement ever traded on stock exchanges. In the rights issue, the company will offer one share for every 15 shares held at Rs. 1,257 per share. This will be the first issue where the rights entitlements will be credited to eligible shareholders’ demat accounts and will be freely tradeable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-industries-rights-entitlement-commands-7-premium-on-day-4/article31683070.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||FSDC meeting on Thursday||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has called the meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) on Thursday, which, among other things, will discuss the impact of COVID-19 on the financial sector and the economy. This will be the first meeting of the FSDC, which comprises the RBI Governor and other financial sector regulators, after the pandemic outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fsdc-meeting-on-thursday/article31683068.ece
27 May 2020||Chennai,||TVS Motor announces pay cuts||TVS Motor Company Ltd. has announced a temporary reduction in the salary of junior executives and senior management for six months, starting May 2020, due to COVID-19. “In the wake of the unprecedented crisis, TVS Motor Company has rolled out a temporary salary reduction for a period of six months from May to October 2020. There will be no salary reduction at the workmen level,” said an official spokesman. “There will be a 5% salary reduction at the junior executive level and about 15% to 20% at the senior management level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-announces-pay-cuts/article31683071.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Uber India to lay off 600||Ride hailing firm Uber has decided to cut around 600 jobs in India, including full-time jobs across driver and rider support. Uber currently has around 2,400 full-time employees in the country. To a query from The Hindu , Uber said, “The impact of COVID-19 and the unpredictable nature of the recovery has left Uber India SA with no choice but to reduce the size of its workforce.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uber-india-to-lay-off-600/article31683067.ece
27 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||BCCI mulls change in Ranji format||The BCCI is considering a change of format for the Ranji Trophy. The proposal is to split the Elite teams into five groups instead of the current three, The Hindu has learnt. At the moment, Elite Groups A and B have nine teams each while Group C has 10. The Plate group has 10 teams. In the new avatar, each Elite group will have six teams, while the Plate group will consist of eight (the top two from the previous season will be promoted to Elite Group E). Toppers qualify The teams that finish on top of the five Elite groups will qualify directly for the quarterfinals. The three remaining spots in the last eight will be identified from playoffs featuring the five second-placed teams and the Plate winner.  This means the number of matches will reduce drastically — from 169 to 113. The proposal was submitted before the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, but with the pandemic disrupting the sports calendar the world over, the BCCI could be tempted to test it for the next season, which is almost certain to be shortened. Some BCCI officials feel that the new format could make the domestic season less crowded, reduce travel and lessen the workload for several players who feature in the IPL and in matches for India-A. “The BCCI’s (yet-to-be-appointed) cricket committee will have to take a decision on this, of course,” a BCCI official said. It will be interesting to see how the players respond to the proposal. Those on the fringe may not want to lose three matches per season (at present, they can play eight games in the league phase, but that number will come down to five in the new format). Fewer games would mean less money, too. A player gets approximately Rs. 1.4 lakh per four-day match. Shield and County So how many games do First Class teams in England and Australia — two countries with a robust domestic structure like India — play? A top-division English county team participates in 14 First Class matches per season (eight teams play each other, home and away). Australia's Sheffield Shield is also played on a double round-robin format: all six sides play 10 games each and the top two clash in the final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-mulls-change-in-ranji-format/article31683215.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Spreading the gospel will take a back seat to attracting the moolah||The pandemic has brought into sharper focus the issues that already plague cricket. Club versus country, for one (IPL or World T20?), rich versus poor, for another (Big Three or the ‘lesser’ teams?), and white ball cricket versus red ball, for a third. All international sports must now prepare two sets of strategies, when competition returns. There is the short-term matter of getting over the initial hump following the cancellations, and then the long-term one of making structural changes to the way they are played. Planning it out It would be interesting to know if the International Cricket Council has worked out both immediate and overall future plans. Leaving it to the market will mean the future will be much like the past, only more so. It is not difficult to envisage shorter tours in the future, a revival of the four-day Test, and a greater focus on the more profitable competitions. Perhaps even emphasis on white ball cricket to the detriment of the longer format. Clearly India will have the key role to play, for a series against India is the most lucrative for the teams. As the body that will be paying the piper, the Board of Control for Cricket in India will be calling the tune. No surprises here. That’s been the case for about a quarter century now.  The virus which has halted all sporting events might also change the manner in which fans consume the activity. While in the short term there might be a great hunger for any form of competition, anything live on television, we can’t be so sure of the long term. The new normal, as the new cliché goes, might just as easily see a decline in viewership. Priorities change when real life crashes into sport with such force. It is impossible to say now which way the wind will blow. What is likely, however, in the short term is that cricket’s missionary zeal to spread the gospel (so to speak) will get much weaker. Forget the non-Test nations, even many of the Test nations will find themselves out of the loop as the emphasis shifts to the top four or five teams that can bring in the moolah. The caste system which already exists will thus be endorsed. The ‘lesser’ associate members will find even less encouragement than they do now. It is possible that the caste system will be sanctified by dividing teams into two groups with promotions and relegations. Annual world tournaments? The emphasis on white ball cricket to bring in the money might see the ICC insisting on a world tournament every year. This was already on the anvil — an annual tournament every year from 2023 to 2031 — the keenness explained by the fact that the money from these went into the ICC’s account, unlike in a bi-lateral series. The Big Three (India, England, Australia), meanwhile had planned an annual four-team Super series of One-Day Internationals where the money went to the respective boards. This was proposed by the then recently-elected BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, and called “innovative” by Australia. And now Ganguly seems to be the favourite to take over from Shashank Manohar as Chairman of the ICC. His competition is likely to be England’s Giles Clarke, so in a sense it’s all within the family. Unless, of course, all other candidates pull out and the election is unanimous. The ICC’s objectives are obviously different from the BCCI’s, a distinction Manohar made clear. But the question remains: Who will take care of developing the game worldwide? Will stronger boards be given the responsibility at least in their geographical areas? Where does self-interest meet global need? This is not to say that the poorer cricket boards are all angels and the rich ones all devils. Recently Michael Holding alleged that the half a million dollars the BCCI had given the West Indies board had been misused. Spectre of corruption Corruption is an issue with many boards. Last year the ICC called the Sri Lanka board the most corrupt in the world. Zaheer Abbas recently accused the Pakistan board of being soft on corruption. When the ICC banned Zimbabwe, it had as much to do with political interference as corruption. Against this background, the BCCI might have an argument for not only claiming the lion’s share of the money in cricket (after all they generate the lion’s share too), but hanging on to it for the growth of the game in this country. In October, the BCCI and the ICC are set to come into conflict (which will, of course, be resolved much earlier). The IPL might be scheduled then, leading to the postponement of the World T20 in Australia. The cancellation of the IPL will mean a loss of $530 million, the BCCI has said; even without Ganguly in the ICC, therefore, it is likely that a World championship will make way for a domestic club tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spreading-the-gospel-will-take-a-back-seat-to-attracting-the-moolah/article31683200.ece
27 May 2020||Chennai,||Muneer Sait’s engrossing journey continues||Muneer Sait has eyes that laugh. They are also a window to his spirit filled with sunshine and happiness. And he spreads joy around him. Take a walk to the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium at normal times — not the COVID-19 days — and you can see Sait, greeting friends, and lapping the arena in the evenings with the enthusiasm of a youngster. His charm could so easily cut through barriers, build bridges, win hearts. The illustrious Sait will turn 80 on Wednesday and, remarkably, he continues to be the centre-forward in hockey for Madras Cricket Club (MCC), plays squash regularly and takes out at least two days a week for golf. Supremely fit “I want to keep fit, be on my feet and be happy till the very end,” Sait said to The Hindu here on Tuesday. Of course, he was a jadugar (magician) as a hockey goalkeeper when he travelled to the Mexico Olympics in 1968. “We could only win the bronze. This remains my biggest disappointment.” The Indian team, with disastrous consequences, had two captains, Prithipal Singh and Gurbaksh Singh. “We had two camps in the team,” he recalled. Finest moment Sait’s finest moment arrived against Spain, when he stopped 12 penalty corners. “And we did not have face masks or chest pads those days.” The eventual bronze was no consolation. He shone bright in domestic competitions such as the Rangaswamy Cup — “the trophy was donated by The Hindu ” — and carried Tamil Nadu to two finals in the Nationals. In one of them, at Madurai, the side emerged joint winner. His commitment to hockey enabled him travel to seven Olympic Games and six hockey World Cups as a FIH technical official. Sait bonded with the legendary Balbir Singh (sr) as a youngster in Patiala, and in 1976, when he himself was a junior selector, submitted a report to Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw. “I wrote if hockey was not made compulsory in schools, it would die in the country.” And the late Indian cricket team captain Ajit Wadekar — both worked for State Bank of India in Chennai — was a dear friend. Squash and polo Meanwhile, the astonishingly athletic Sait conquered fresh territories. When 46, he won the veteran’s National squash title, then became an international squash referee. He was into polo too and represented the Madras Polo and Riders Club against Col. V.P. Singh’s formidable 61th Cavalry side. ‘We had very good players such as A.C. Muthiah,” Sait said. The dynamic Sait also served as the Chief Judge at the Madras Race Club. Interestingly, in his school days at Madrasa-I-Azam, Sait was a promising 110m hurdler. “I was born with sports in my blood,” he says. Sait’s spellbinding journey continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muneer-saits-engrossing-journey-continues/article31683276.ece
27 May 2020||Kochi,||Athletes feel the heat in Patiala, keen to return to Kerala||With a heat wave sweeping several parts of North India, some of the country’s top athletes preparing for next year’s Tokyo Olympics are keen to move from Patiala’s SAI-NIS Centre and return to the cooler climes of the SAI-LNCPE in Thiruvananthapuram. “We are waiting to somehow get back to Kerala. It’s very hot here,” said Bedros Bedrosian, the national coach for jumps, in a chat with The Hindu from Patiala on Tuesday. “We came to Patiala (from Thiruvananthapuram) on March 1 since they had planned a series of meets here. Now, it’s almost three months. Everybody wants to get out from here but nobody is telling us anything. And training has not yet started.” Work delayed However, the LNCPE track is being relaid and the lockdown has delayed it. “The track will be ready only by September. We are a bit worried about the rain because it is likely to affect the health and quality of the track. So, we have to be very careful while laying it,” said a SAI source, adding that relay team coach Galina Bukharina also prefers the Thiruvananthapuram centre over others. September is fine with Bedrosian. “I don’t need the track before September. I can use the grass portion and the gym. “And if we needed, once a week we can go to the Police Stadium which is not very far away. If city travel is not allowed, we can go out after a month,” said the Romanian. “I prefer Kerala because we can have beach training there. We go thrice a week to the beach in Thiruvananthapuram. Here (in Patiala), there is no beach. “Also, the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in Kerala is very good and we feel more secure there. Waiting to travel “I am just waiting for the flight schedules to be normal and safe so that we can travel. I think it will probably take a month.” Calls to chief coach Bahadur Singh and deputy coach Radhakrishnan Nair did not evoke any response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athletes-feel-the-heat-in-patiala-keen-to-return-to-kerala/article31683519.ece
27 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cricketers must learn to multi-task, says Sandhu||Former India medium-pacer and World Cup winner Balwinder Singh Sandhu said it was extremely important for young cricketers to learn different skill sets and to multi-task. In an online interaction with trainees of SAI’s regional coaching centre, the 63-year-old said players shouldn’t be one dimensional and urged them to develop secondary skills. Citing his own example, Sandhu said he was an off-spinner when he represented the university and switched over and made his Ranji Trophy debut as a medium-pacer. “It is important for aspiring cricketers to be multi-dimensional and they should be willing to multi-task if need arises. “A batsman should learn how to bowl and keep wickets and similarly the bowlers shouldexploredifferent styles, besides trying to improve their batting,” he said. Sandhu said a cricketer should be the best judge of his own game and filter the information to his advantage. “Self assessment is very important. You will be flooded with ideas, but at the end of the day you should know which is good for your game. “You must know your strengths and try to use it to the maximum. At the same time you must also work on your weakness with the coach,” he said. Sandhu said the primary virtues of a good bowler are patience and confidence and both can be attained only through hard work. “It is important to take your net-sessions seriously. “Even in the nets, the bowlers should aim to get the batsmen out primarily through three modes of dismissal — bowled, leg-before and caught in the slips. Nothing will give you more confidence than that. But you have to be patient and plot his dismissal,” he said. The session was well attended and Sandhu gave replies to questions posed to him by the trainees. “Sandhu paaji is a living legend and he is a coach of immense experience. It was wonderful to have a person of his standing address the trainees. It was a great experience for them,” said Biju George, chief coach of SAI regional coaching centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricketers-must-learn-to-multi-task-says-sandhu/article31683521.ece
27 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Bopanna scholarship scheme for juniors||The Sports School, in association with Rohan Bopanna Tennis Academy, will offer a full scholarship to 60 promising junior tennis players. The junior players — in under-12, U-13 and U-16 age-groups — will be provided with boarding, lodging, school education and other facilities free of cost. “We are looking at AITA-ranked players — 20 players in each of the three age-groups. This is a unique scholarship programme which aims to balance education and sports,” Bopanna said via a web conference on Tuesday. Selected children will be enrolled in The Sports School here — a residential educational facility with a focus on high-performance sports training. The school boasts of seven all-weather floodlit courts, gymnasium, and access to physiotherapy and nutrition services. Balachandran Manikkath will serve as the head coach of the tennis programme. U.V. Sankar, The Sports School Director, stated, “The academics will be tailor-made for the student, in such a way that he/she can focus on excelling in sports.” After an initial online screening of applicants, the shortlisted children will be invited to the academy for further selection rounds. For scholarship application details, contact info@thesportsschool.com or visitwww.thesportsschool.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-scholarship-scheme-for-juniors/article31683204.ece
27 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Indian Open billiards and snooker put off||The eighth edition of the Indian Open, scheduled to be held this September in Odisha, will not be held this year in view of the COVID-19 crisis, according to Billiards & Snooker Federation of India chairman Capt. P.V.K. Mohan. “It is obvious that sponsorship will be a major issue not just for cue sports for every other discipline in the wake of the global crisis as every section of the market is badly hit,” Capt. Mohan told The Hindu on Monday. “To be fair to the Odisha Government, which has come forward to chip in with a major chunk of sponsorship. But that is not just enough as it is a Rs. 8 crore budgeted event. We had no option but to cancel it this year,” he said. “There is no doubt getting sponsors for the major events will be a huge challenge for the next few months. But, luckily, our Indian calendar was completed before this crisis hit us as our next big event – the Nationals – is scheduled next January,” Capt. Mohan said. On the international schedule of events, the BSFI official said that IBSF world championship in Qatar this November should be on without any issues. Reflecting on the virus impact on cue sports in post-lockdown phase, he felt that it should not be a big problem. “I am hopeful of full-fledged cue sports activity by this year-end,” he said. Capt. Mohan believes that the losing out a year in the sport wouldn’t mean much considering that even the Olympics this September has been postponed to next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-open-billiards-and-snooker-put-off/article31683195.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Yuki and Sumit in entertaining fare||They are two of the best players in Indian tennis in recent years. Yuki Bhambri and Sumit Nagal, who have both won junior Grand Slam titles to act as foundations to their professional careers, entertained tennis enthusiasts on the show, Chai with Raja, hosted by fellow player Purav Raja. Smart answers Former junior World No. 1, Yuki, who had won the Australian Open junior title in 2009, was not sharp with his memory, and thus 22-year-old Sumit, who came up with smart answers, won the hearts and was declared the winner by judge Karman Kaur Thandi. Having reached a career-best rank of 125, Sumit remembered the names of the current top-50 men’s players who were part of the doubles draw when he won the Wimbledon junior doubles crown with Vietnam’s Nam Hoang Ly. Stefanos Tsitsipas, Denis Shapovalov, Alex de Minaur, Taylor Fritz, Reilly Opelka, Casper Rudd, Miomir Kecmanovic, ranked at their best from No.5 to 47, figured in that junior doubles draw in 2015. Job not done Yuki felt that he could have broken into the top-50 in 2018, but for the knee injury, and declared that the job was not done. “Watch out for me in 2021,” he said. He chose sister Sanaa for mixed doubles and added that he would like to be remembered as one “who realised his potential”. Nagal said that he would love to have Tiger Shroff or Varun Dhawan act his role in a film, in which a kid passionate about cricket gets into tennis and nearly quits the game, before journeying across Bengaluru, Canada and Germany and finding the way. Sumit conceded that he would not challenge the ultra-fit Somdev Devvarman over an 800-metre race, as he had lost to him. When asked what car he would buy for his dad, Nagal said that he would rather buy him a ‘Bullet’ as the one he had bought for him was stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuki-and-sumit-in-entertaining-fare/article31683370.ece
27 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Ayushi resumes training after cyclone Amphan||After protecting her guns and other equipment from Cyclone Amphan, promising shooter Ayushi Podder has shifted her focus back to training at home. Anticipating that the cyclone would be a severe one, Ayushi’s father and coach Pankaj wrapped her kit bag and other equipment in polythene sheets and stored them in the shower cubicle of his flat’s bathroom. As the cyclone hit on May 20, water gushed in through a window of the Podder flat, situated on the fourth floor of a housing society on the outskirts of the city in Hooghly district. “Our house was flooded with rain water. Since we don’t have cupboards in the house, at least 10 pairs of Ayushi’s sports shoes and some clothes got drenched. We had to give the shoes away to needy people. However, we saved the gun and equipment by storing them in the shower cubicle (which is compact and has a raised platform),” Pankaj, also a shooter, told The Hindu . Now, Ayushi, who competes in 50m prone and 50m 3-positions rifle events, has resumed her training. “Ayushi has begun her training again by doing simulation at home. Sometimes, we go downstairs to the makeshift range to train. Since the lift is not functioning, going down these days is a tough job,” said Pankaj. With uncertainty surrounding the resumption of the National camp and competitions due to the lockdown, 19-year-old Ayushi will continue to train at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ayushi-resumes-training-after-cyclone-amphan/article31683372.ece
27 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Footballer Waseem passes away||S.S. Waseem, former international footballer and brother of Olympian S.S. Hakeem, passed away here on Tuesday. Waseem led the Indian Youth team in 1972 and also played for the senior national team in 1975. He represented the then united Andhra Pradesh in the Nationals for almost a decade between 1970-80 as a stopper-back. He also happens to be the younger son of the legendary football coach S.A. Raheem. Former India captains Mohd Shabbir Ali, Victor Amalraj and international Aleem Khan were among those who expressed condolences to the bereaved family members. Telangana Football Association president Dr. Mohd Rafat Ali and secretary G. Palguna also condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/footballer-waseem-passes-away/article31683453.ece
27 May 2020||Sydney,||‘Saliva ban may make cricket boring’||Australian paceman Mitchell Starc warned Tuesday that cricket risks becoming “pretty boring” if ball-tampering rules are not relaxed in response to a coronavirus-linked ban on using saliva to shine the ball. Starc said swinging the ball in such a manner was a crucial part of the contest between bowler and batsman. “We don’t want to lose that or make it less even, so there needs to be something in place to keep that ball swinging,” he told reporters in an online press conference. “Otherwise people aren’t going to be watching it and kids aren’t going to want to be bowlers. In Australia in the last couple of years we’ve had some pretty flat wickets, and if that ball’s going straight it’s a pretty boring contest.” Starc said if bowlers were disadvantaged by a saliva ban, they should be given more leeway elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saliva-ban-may-make-cricket-boring/article31683202.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura in semifinals||Hikaru Nakamura drubbed Levon Aronian 3-1 to enter the semifinals of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge on Monday.  Quarterfinal results: Second mini-match: Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Levon Aronian (Arm) 3-1; Ding Liren (Chn) bt Yu Yangyi (Chn) 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nakamura-in-semifinals/article31683201.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAI opens stadia for training||Sports activities finally resumed in the city with the Sports Authority of India opening up the stadia under its charge on Tuesday in adherence to guidelines issued by the Sports and the Home Ministries earlier this month. However, only non-contact sports with minimal sharing of equipment have been allowed at the moment. The Shyama Prasad Mookerjee Swimming Complex remains closed. Archery, table tennis, badminton and tennis have been approved at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium. SAI is still working on the logistics of opening up Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium and Karni Singh Shooting Ranges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-opens-stadia-for-training/article31683203.ece
27 May 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC finalises election procedure||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board met on Tuesday to finalise the election procedure for the chairman’s post. The decisions of the Board, headed by Shashank Manohar who is set to vacate the post after serving as the first independent chairman for four years, will be announced after a crucial meeting on Thursday to discuss the fate of the T20 World Cup, scheduled to be held in Australia in October-November this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-finalises-election-procedure/article31683213.ece
27 May 2020||Chennai,||How museums can use technology to take art and history to people||Museums are repositories of history, culture and societies, and in the future may display items that will remind us of the COVID-19 pandemic. Currently, museums are among the worst hit spaces and the pandemic is forcing new ways of accessing them. As funding decreases and footfalls come to a standstill, museums in India have a tremendous opportunity to revolutionise museology by leveraging technology and taking museums to the people, according to Vinod Daniel, Member, International Council of Museums (ICOM), Paris. “The idea should be for museums to go to people rather than people coming to you. You can redefine museology and become a world leader in museums,” Mr. Daniel told The Hindu . Worldwide, museums are dependent largely on government funding and gate tickets, besides cafes, bookshops and restaurants within the premises. But with governments across the globe tightening the belt, they have to look at other priorities. “The fall in funding is likely to be about 60%. In India, as most museums depend on government funding, there might be only enough money to pay salaries and not to undertake major renovations,” he said. Plus, there is the problem of people coming into museums in limited numbers as social distancing norms are put in place. “About 60% museums in China opened in the first week of May, 19 of them in Beijing alone. The average turnout [of visitors] was only around 250, while earlier it used to be in the thousands,” he added. Partnership model Mr. Daniel said this is where museums in India can score by tying up with corporates, the entertainment industry, and universities. “India’s entertainment industry has an excellent ability in putting together packages. Universities can do background research. And we have the world’s best IT industry, which can provide the mechanisms for taking museums to homes,” he said. Mr. Daniel, who is also chairman of the Board for AusHeritage, a network of Australian heritage management organisations, said that each museum can play to its strengths. “For example, the Bronze Collection at the Egmore Museum — you can come out with snippets on bronze-making, provide a virtual tour of places where such sculptures are seen, and put together a well-researched insight. People at home might want to spend an hour or two on an afternoon to learn something,” he said. “The online model can be very successful through a partnership approach. It can be done by getting companies to spend a bit of their CSR (corporate social responsibility) budget on museums, or it can even be a commercial partnership. Providing this content to schoolchildren, preferably in their local language as well, will have a great impact,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/how-museums-can-use-technology-to-take-art-and-history-to-people/article31683198.ece
27 May 2020||Mumbai,||‘We Are One’ film festival line-up is out||Two of the best contemporary independent films from India — Prateek Vats’ Eeb Allay Ooo! (Hindi) and Arun Karthick’s Nasir (Tamil) — have been chosen to represent the country in the first edition of the prestigious ‘We Are One: A Global Film Festival’. The Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival unveiled the India line-up on Tuesday. Besides the two feature films, there are two shorts on the menu — Shaan Vyas’ Natkhat and Atul Mongia’s Awake . All four films have been made by first and second-time directors. Jio MAMI is the only film festival from India that has been invited for this unique online initiative.  “ Eeb Allay Ooo! , Natkhat , Nasir , and Awake , represent urgent, relevant and diverse aspects of India and the world. The apathy towards the migrant workers, the mindless devastation of communal violence, deep-rooted patriarchy, and ideas of love and possession, will find resonance across continents. The challenge and responsibility for us always is to consistently push the different film cultures that co-exist in India and bring to the surface new and exciting voices,” said Smriti Kiran, artistic director, Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival. The full schedule is available at www.weareoneglobalfestival.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/we-are-one-film-festival-line-up-is-out/article31683216.ece
27 May 2020||May 27 2020 08:30 IST,||Sudoku - May 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-27-2020/article31684064.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nizamuddin event: police chargesheet 82 foreigners||After two months of investigation, the police on Tuesday filed chargesheets against 82 foreigners for attending a religious congregation at a Nizamuddin centre in violation of visa conditions, and indulging in missionary activities amid the COVID-19 outbreak. The police have filed 20 chargesheets against the foreigners, belonging to 20 different countries. A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin had emerged as a major hotspot of infections. The incident came to light after some participants, who later tested positive for the virus, travelled back to their home States. “They not only violated government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and regulations regarding the Epidemic Diseases Act, but also flouted the Disaster Management Act and subsequently the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” the police said. An FIR was lodged against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, 2005; Foreigners Act, and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to COVID-19, said the police. The Crime Branch is investigating the case, which pertains to the religious gathering at a Tablighi Jamaat centre on March 13 and beyond. The police said that the foreign nationals entered India on tourist visas and participated in the gathering “illegally” because as per visa rules they have to inform local police about such congregations. Besides violating visa norms, the gathering led to the spread of the virus, said the police. More chargesheets soon The police added that over 900 foreign nationals who are accused in the case belong to 34 different countries and chargesheets are being prepared country-wise under sections of the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, and Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nizamuddin-event-police-chargesheet-82-foreigners/article31683383.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Have not arrested anyone in Tablighi case, police tell HC||The police on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that it has neither arrested nor detained any foreign national in the case lodged in connection with the religious congregation at Nizamuddin during the COVID-19 lockdown. “No one has been arrested in the case so far. No one has been detained by the police in this case. More than 900 foreign Tablighi Jamaat attendees, including the petitioners, have joined investigation in the case,” the police said in its status report. The submission was made in a petition seeking release of 916 foreign nationals who participated in the event and are being held in institutional quarantine since March 30 despite having tested negative for COVID-19. The plea was filed by 20 of the 916 foreigners who said the continued detention violates their liberty. The police added that the investigation is being conducted on a daily basis. During the hearing, advocates appearing for the petitioners, urged that all foreign nationals who have tested negative for the virus be released from institutional quarantine to alternative accommodations. The HC took on record two status reports filed by Delhi Police and the concerned SDM who said the Department of Revenue (Delhi) has not kept the foreign nationals under any type of custody and is just looking after them. In its status report, Delhi Police said the menace and hazard of COVID-19 viral infection during large gatherings was verbally conveyed to Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad and the management of the Nizamuddin centre on several occasions, including during meetings held in a police station in March. “The meeting was held by an SHO on March 24 and was attended by members of the Tablighi Jamaat centre management. However, Mr. Saad and the management officials did not inform any government agency about the gathering inside the centre,” read the status report. “They deliberately, willfully, negligently and malignantly disobeyed lawful directions. Written notices were issued to Mr. Saad and the management. However, they refused to pay heed. The premises was inspected by the area SDM between March 26 -30,” added the report. The report said that around 1,300 devotees from various States and countries were residing at the centre; social distancing norms were being violated and no one was wearing masks or using hand sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-not-arrested-anyone-in-tablighi-case-police-tell-hc/article31683374.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constables thrash 65-year-old woman, daughters||A 65-year-old woman, her daughter and daughter-in-law were brutally beaten up by two Delhi Police Constables on Monday night in north-east Delhi’s Shastri Park. Delhi Police Spokesperson said that the two policemen, identified as Constables Jaichand and Sanjeev, have been sent to district lines as part of disciplinary action. The woman, Munni Bai, her daughter Sonia and daughter-in-law Alma sustained injuries. Munni nursed a broken left arm and Alma’s ear got hurt. Recalling the incident, Munni said she had been living in the jhuggi near Bihari building for over two decades. The roof over the jhuggi had blown away during the recent storm. “On Monday night, around 8.30 p.m., we were fixing the tarpaulin on the jhuggi . That is when two policemen came and started shouting and telling us that we can’t put the roof,” Munni said. ‘Heavily drunk’ The senior citizen said that the two policemen were heavily drunk. They pleaded with the policemen, but they demanded money. “I told them I don’t have money. My son-in-law Bablu also said that we’ll shift the jhuggi the next day. As we didn’t give money, they started abusing us,” she said, adding that when Bablu intervened, they thrashed him. When the women went to rescue Bablu, they allegedly started beating them with sticks. Meanwhile, four-five policemen from the station arrived at the spot but only the two who had initially come were thrashing them, the family said. Similar incident A neighbour, identified as Zarina Begum, a vegetable seller, alleged that the two policemen also abused her on Sunday and took her weighing scale. “They casually tell us to remove the jhuggis and then demand money,” she alleged. Locals took videos and photographs of the incident. A video of the policemen beating up women with sticks went viral. Bablu said that after the incident, they dialled the police control room and the PCR van came and the women were taken for medical examination. Coerced to compromise The family alleged that they were called to Shastri Park police station on Tuesday morning and were coerced to “reach a compromise”. But they demanded justice and action against the policemen. “At the police station, they noted everything we shared. They have not given us any paper. They kept telling us to reach a compromise. Somehow, after spending hours, we managed to leave in the afternoon and we are still getting calls,” said Bablu. Delhi Police spokesperson claimed that the two Constables, while patrolling in the area, “came to know that someone is raising an unauthorised jhuggi on government land near Bihari building” after which they rushed to the spot where Munni was raising the jhuggi with her family. Police claimed that Munni and her family abused the policemen. “Beat officers asked them to stop this illegal activity. However, Munni and other men and women started shouting and abusing the policemen who patiently asked them to stop this and listen to them. However, they didn’t stop and started attacking Constable Sanjeev who is beat officer of the area. They tore off his uniform and beat him. Sanjeev called to the police station for help and some more staff reached there,” he said, adding that Munni and her daughter and Sanjeev sustained injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constables-thrash-65-year-old-woman-daughters/article31683379.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital records hottest May day in 18 years||With the maximum temperature in the Capital settling six degrees Celsius above the normal at 46, influenced by the severe heatwave lashing most of North India, Tuesday was the hottest day in May in 18 years. The Meteorological department said that the weather station at Palam reported a maximum temperature at 47.6 degrees Celsius, which was the highest temperature recorded at the station in the last 10 years in May. The highest recorded temperature ever in May was 47.2 recorded on May 29 in 1944. The corresponding figure at the Palam weather is 48.4 degrees Celsius on May 26, 1998. More in store The MeT department has forecast that the severe heat wave is likely to continue in the city till May 27 and will start receding from May 28 with a major respite from May 29. “Under the influence of a Western Disturbance and formation of east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurrence of rain/thunderstorm from May 28-29, maximum temperatures over plains of North India likely to recede from 28th onwards with substantial reduction of heat wave conditions from May 29,” the MeT department said. The forecast for May 27 reads: “mainly clear sky with strong surface winds. Heatwave conditions are expected in a few places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle between 45 and 28 degrees Celsius respectively. This winter also recorded the coldest day temperature in the Capital at 9.4 degrees Celsius on December 30, 2019. The heatwave has been caused by the dry north-westerly winds that started blowing on May 21 causing a gradual rise in temperature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-hottest-may-day-in-18-years/article31683381.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Most Delhi University students not in favour of open-book exams at home||In a ‘referendum’ of about 51,000 students of Delhi University, 85% voted against the university’s recent decision to hold open book examinations at home for the terminal semester students, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said on Tuesday. The survey, undertaken over 48 hours using a google form, was the largest such survey on the issue so far, DUTA claimed. An overwhelming majority of respondents said they belonged to regular courses (86.8%) as opposed to the School of Open learning, and 92.2% said they were enrolled in the undergraduate programme. A majority of these students, about 38% of respondent belonged to the third year, who would have to attempt examinations starting July 1. Also, 25.8% are in the second year and 28.4% in the first year. The rest were in PG courses. Unprepared for exams An overwhelming 80.5% said they could not concentrate on studies at home due to various reasons such as anxiety, livelihood and health issues, besides their home environment. A whopping 90% said they felt unprepared for the examinations. Among reasons for their difficulties, about 50% said they could access reading material while about 12% said they did not have access to any reading material. The rest said they could not access it. Nearly 74.1% had smartphones, 15.5% had laptops, 8.3% don’t have devices while the rest had either computers or tablets. “The responses of the students confirm what the DUTA has been saying, based on the experiences of teachers’ engagement with students during this period,” the union said. Considering that a large chunk of students has only smartphones and basic internet facilities, it is not surprising that only a small percentage have been able to access online teaching resources made available during the lockdown period, it added. The union demanded that the university explore alternatives which “do not disfavour a large section of students or promote dishonesty,” it said.  The responses of the students confirm what the DUTA has been saying, based on the experiences of teachers’ engagement with students during this period Delhi University Teachers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/most-delhi-university-students-not-in-favour-of-open-book-exams-at-home/article31683387.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Restrictions eased, police expect spike in protests||Anticipating a rise in the number of protests post lockdown relaxations — as per an intelligence unit tip-off — Delhi Police has ordered all district DCPs to ensure proper arrangement in their respective areas. In a recent meeting to discuss COVID-19 preparation, Commissioner of Delhi Police S.N. Shrivastava was informed that in the coming days some protests have been called by various organisations. “Reserves force has been stationed at police stations falls under sensitive areas. And the district DCPs have been ordered to be vigilant,” said a police officer. As of now, no permission has been granted to organise protests. However, after May 31, in the next phase of the lockdown, there might be more relaxations and protests may resume. So the staff have to have gear up for any situation and so they were briefed, explained the officer. “We have to ensure that safety guidelines issued during COVID-19 should be followed in case any protest happens in the city,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/restrictions-eased-police-expect-spike-in-protests/article31683384.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Student leaders condemn ‘witch-hunt’ of police||Arrests of student activists by Delhi Police in connection with the north-east Delhi riots was decried as a “witch-hunt” and a conspiracy to suppress dissent, said current and former students leaders at a online press conference on Tuesday. At a joint conference held by a representative of the Jamia Millia Islamia, student Ayesh Renna, AISA president N. Balaji, CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mewani, Umar Khalid, Fawaz Shahen and Umar Faruk, hit out at the police and the BJP, arguing that it was manipulating the lockdown to target individuals who were raising their voice against the government. It was an attempt to send a message to student activists, to stop their activism, they said. Ms. Renna and others questioned why BJP leaders such as Kapil Mishra and Union Minister Anurag Thakur, who many have accused of inciting violence by vitiating the environment during and after the Delhi elections and the protests at Jafrabad, have not been arrested. There was an attempt to create a new narrative by whitewashing responsibility, she said.  Mr. Balaji and others accused that the police was working “according to a script”. He pinned the blame on the Rashtriya Swamsevak Sangh (RSS) claiming that a report targeting groups such as Pinjra Tod, AISA and others had been first prepared by a set of people associated with the RSS, after which the police started making related arrests. Mr. Kanhaiya demanded to know the hurry in which the arrests were made, when the country is in the middle of a pandemic. He argued that these were attempts to divert focus from the government’s poor handling of the crisis and ‘take revenge’ by targeting activists. Centre’s conspiracy Mr. Mewani called it a conspiracy of the Central government and Delhi Police, alleging that instead of investigating a conspiracy, the authorities were creating a conspiracy themselves. He drew parallels with the Bhima Koregaon  incident and said that the current appeal was also in support of jailed activists Anand Teltumble, Sudha Bhardwaj and others. Mr. Khalid questioned the integrity of Delhi Police, stating that it had become difficult to trust the organisation given its allegedly selective investigating and asked the agency to “come clean” on political pressures on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/student-leaders-condemn-witch-hunt-of-police/article31683385.ece
27 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man kills wife, lodges false missing report||A 37-year-old salesman was arrested from central Delhi’s Anand Parbat area for allegedly killing his wife, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said the accused has been identified as Sudhir, an Anand Parbat resident, who had lodged a false missing report of his wife and then came to the police station to gain sympathy and misguide the investigation. “During investigation, police got suspicious after analysing the call detail records of the complainant and his wife. During the interrogation, he confessed his crime. He said that he strangled his wife to death and dumped her body in Narela IFC jungle area,” said Mr. Bhatia. The woman’s body was recovered from Narela in a decomposed state. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that the relationship with his wife was strained and they often fought over petty issues. Deeply frustrated, he planned to eliminate her, police said.“He took her to Narela on the pretext of purchasing goods and strangled her. He dumped the body in a drain and fled from the area,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-kills-wife-lodges-false-missing-report/article31683377.ece
27 May 2020||New Delhi,||Three held for killing guard during robbery bid||Two men were arrested and one juvenile was apprehended on Tuesday for allegedly killing a security guard during a robbery bid in South-East Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur area, the police said. The victim, Dinesh Sharma, was on the way to his office in Malviya Nagar from Badarpur when Mujumel Hoque, 22, Insan Ali, 20, and their juvenile accomplice attacked him, the police said. Sharma was injured and taken to AIIMS, where he died. A case was registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-held-for-killing-guard-during-robbery-bid/article31683376.ece
