27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cases near 27,000-mark with increase of 1,975 in 24 hours||The death toll due to COVID-19 continued to rise on Sunday, with the country registering a total of 826 fatalities and 26,917 cases, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the death toll rose by 46, the number of cases spiked by 1,975 since Saturday evening. The number of active cases stood at 20,177, while 5,913 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Ministry said. The total number of cases includes 111 foreign nationals, while 312 cases are being assigned to States for contact tracing. However, reports from the States put the total number of cases at 27, 579, out of which 20,274 are active. The nationwide death toll stood at 880, while 6,425 people have recovered. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of fatalities, followed by Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, and Andhra Pradesh. “Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, the Central government is taking several steps along with the States/Union Territories for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level,” said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday. ‘Situation improving’ Speaking after a visit to the Trauma Centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here to take stock of COVID-19 preparedness, he noted that 5,913 people have recovered, with a recovery rate of 21.9%. “The situation is improving in India as Hotspot Districts are moving towards becoming Non Hotspot Districts,” said the Minister. Dr. Vardhan said people should observe the lockdown in letter and spirit and treat it as an effective intervention to cut down the spread of COVID-19. The Minister said the doubling rate had been showing regular improvement and stood at 10.5 days when seen over a period of 3 days, 9.3 days over a period of 7 days and 8.1 days over a period of 14 days. “These indicators may be be taken as positive effects of the lockdown along with the cluster management and containment strategies,” he said. Dr. Vardhan said, “As on date, 283 districts have not reported any COVID cases till date, 64 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 7 days, 48 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 14 days, 33 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 21 days and 18 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 28 days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-near-27000-mark-with-increase-of-1975-in-24-hours/article31440608.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka toll touches 19 after Bengaluru woman dies||A 45-year-old woman, who tested positive for COVID-19, passed away on Sunday at a designated hospital in Bengaluru. With this, the total number of COVID-19 related deaths in Karnataka is 19. According to a media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the woman, who was admitted to the hospital on April 24, was a resident of Bengaluru Urban district and had a medical history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and pneumonia. In addition to this, she was also diabetic and had a history of tuberculosis. Apart from this, three new cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. While two cases were reported from Kalaburagi, another case was reported from Dakshina Kannada. All three of them were in contact with those who tested positive earlier. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka now stands at 503. A total of 24 patients were discharged on Sunday. The maximum [eight] was from Bengaluru Urban. The total number of those discharged so far is 182. Of the active 302 cases, six patients are in the intensive care unit. Of the total 30 districts in the State, 20 reported COVID-19 cases. Of these 20 districts, four have no active cases now as all the affected patients in their jurisdiction have been cured and discharged. Bengaluru Urban accounts for the highest number of active cases so far with 71 patients, followed by Mysuru [51], Belagavi [47], and Vijayapura [37]. Kalaburagi district has 27 active cases and Bagalkot 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-toll-touches-19-after-bengaluru-woman-dies/article31440654.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM apprises Shah of containment steps||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday telephoned Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to discuss the impact of certain relaxations announced in the lockdown after April 20. Tests per million Mr. Jagan, besides explaining the measures being taken by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, informed Mr. Shah that the State was conducting tests in a big way and stood first in the country with the highest number of 1,274 tests per million, a release from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said. Bringing the plight of fishermen from the State who were stranded at Veraval in Gujarat to Mr. Shah’s notice, the Chief Minister said the issue was also taken up with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who is the nodal Minister for Andhra Pradesh. He told Mr. Shah that the State government had designated senior IAS officer Satish Chandra to pursue the matter with the Finance Ministry. “In response, Ms. Sitharaman has assured that an official from her office will be designated to take the issue to its logical conclusion. She has also promised to take steps to send the stranded fishermen back to their native State,” he told Mr. Shah. Stating that the governments of Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat planned to arrange transport to the fishermen through the sea route, Mr. Jagan told Mr. Shah that the Union Home Ministry’s permission was required for the same. The CMO release, however, did not say anything about Mr. Shah’s response to the issues raised by the Chief Minister. Rahul’s tweet Meanwhile, the fishermen issue caught the attention of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. In a tweet, he said, “Over 6,000 fishermen from A.P., stranded in Gujarat, have been confined to their tiny fishing trawlers for over a month, in unhygienic conditions with limited food & water. I appeal to the Govt. to move my brothers to relief camps and ensure their well-being.” Naidu’s letter On April 9, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, in a letter to Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, highlighted the plight of the fishermen, and urged him to provide shelter, food, water, and medical facilities to them. On April 21, Mr. Jagan called Mr. Rupani up and sought his intervention in providing food and other facilities to the fishermen who hail from the north coastal Andhra region. The Gujarat government, however, said the fishermen were being taken good care of, and they could continue fishing activity in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-apprises-shah-of-containment-steps/article31440605.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||Industries hobbled by curbs on mobility of men, material||Almost half of the industries which have been allowed to reopen still face hurdles in obtaining permits to function and passes for employees, according to a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) survey. Over 60% of surveyed companies also said movement of inputs and finished goods is still disrupted. The industry group demanded that businesses should be allowed to function without need of permits in non-containment areas, with workers allowed to commute to work in their own vehicles on the basis of a letter issued by the employer without need of a government pass. The Centre has slowly been easing restrictions, first allowing the reopening of essential sector businesses and then permitted industries located in rural areas, as well as certain sectors including construction, information technology and hardware, to begin work subject to certain restrictions. 180 companies Nationwide, 180 companies participated in the CII survey, which was conducted on April 23 and 24, a few days after the latest round of relaxations came into effect on April 20. Asked whether permits to operate were easily available for the sectors which were allowed to function, 19% of companies said permits were not available to them, while 27% said they had faced delays. CII suggested that permits may be granted on a self-certification basis by State governments, at least in areas which are not hotspots of infection. Difficulties in transport — of both men and materials — have created a major bottleneck. Workers at functional units require passes from the government to move around. Only 36% of respondents said passes were readily provided, and 67% said the daily commute was problematic. In fact, the unavailability of workers or their inability to travel to the workplace was the single largest reason that prevented businesses from operating, the survey showed. CII suggested that employees be allowed to use their own private vehicles, and that government passes should be replaced by company letters. Only 15% of companies said that movement of raw materials and finished goods was taking place smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-hobbled-by-curbs-on-mobility-of-men-material/article31440612.ece
27 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||A scramble for essentials at Agra quarantine centre; probe ordered||The administration in Agra, whose COVID-19 containment model has been much publicised by the Uttar Pradesh government, was left red-faced on Sunday after videos emerged allegedly showing people kept at a quarantine centre compelled to crowd near a locked gate to receive essential supplies like food. In one of the videos, shot by a local who was also allegedly taken to the quarantine centre for a check-up, a group of people can be seen crowding behind a gate as health officials provide them bottled water and packets of biscuits. A health staff in PPE kit can be seen tossing packets of biscuits at the ground near them as they desperately reach out from the grills to grab the food without paying heed to physical distancing. Jyoti Verma, a local who shot the video, is heard in another clip, claiming that the administration is also not holding proper medical check-up of patients brought to the centre at the Sharda Group of Institution. “People are not being provided proper food or water,” the woman is heard saying. District Magistrate Prabhu N. Singh said he inspected the place after the complaints and took measures for better arrangements. He has also ordered a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-scramble-for-essentials-at-agra-quarantine-centre-probe-ordered/article31440801.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Six children among new cases||A 42-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in the city, died due to COVID-19 infection on Saturday, taking the total number of deaths to 24. According to the Health Department he died around 4.30 p.m on Saturday. As of Sunday, 838 active cases were recorded and a total of 1,885* positive cases registered. Of the 64 persons who tested positive in the State, 28 were from Chennai. A five-year-old boy from Namakkal, a nine-year-old boy in Chennai, two eight-year-old girls and two boys, aged 9 and 11, in Madurai tested positive. All the children acquired the infection through contact with people who had tested positive. Thirteen cases were reportedly primary infections and one person is believed to have been infected through contact. Officials said the source of infection of a 56-year-old man, who acquired the infection through contact, is being investigated, apart from the source of infection of the other cases of primary infection. On Sunday, 28 people in the city tested positive, taking the number of positive cases to 523. In Madurai, 15 tested positive, taking the total to 75. Other districts that reported new cases include Virudhunagar (7); Namakkal and Villupuram 4 each and Tiruppur two cases. Kallakurichi, Ramanathapuram and Salem recorded one positive case each. Of the 110 children below the age of 12, who have been infected so far, 51 are girls. A total of 1,062 males and 492 females (total 1,554) fall in the age group of 13 to 60 years of age. Among those, people over 60 years of age include 64 women and 157 men. Among the 60 persons who were discharged from various hospitals in the State were 13 from Chengalpattu and 12 from the Tiruvarur government hospitals. Nine persons were discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on Sunday and 10 from the Thanjavur GH. Eight persons from the Madurai GH, two from Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital and six persons who were being treated in private hospitals were discharged. All those who were discharged would have to remain in home quarantine for the next 15 days. Currently 29,056 are under home quarantine and 26 persons are undergoing treatment in government quarantine facilities. As many as 1,838 persons who are suspected to have the infection have been admitted to isolation wards.  (*This is inclusive of two patients who died in other States and one patient who tested negative after his death.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-children-among-new-cases/article31440707.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State witnesses highest single day spike of 81 coronavirus cases||The State has witnessed yet another spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the highest so far, with 81 new ones being reported in eight districts during the past 24 hours. The tally has gone up to 1,097, and no deaths have been reported. As many as 6, 768 samples were tested during the same time, and the total number of tests conducted so far was 68,034. The outbreak in Krishna district, particularly in Vijayawada, became more prevalent with 52 cases being reported in a single day, taking the tally to 177. The cases in the district doubled in three days as two “super spreaders” met several people and played indoor games in different areas of the city despite having a history of travel outside the State. West Godavari reported 12 new cases and Kurnool four. While Guntur, Kadapa and Prakasam reported three new cases each, Anantapur reported two. On the positive side, 60 persons recovered and were discharged. So far, 31 succumbed to the disease. The number of active cases stood at 835. The district-wise tally is as follows: Kurnool (279), Guntur (214), Chittoor (73), Nellore (72), Kadapa (58), Prakasam (56), Anantapur (53), West and East Godavari (51 & 39), Visakhapatnam (22), and Srikakulam (3). . Tracking app In a bid to track people suffering from fever, cold, cough, and others related to COVID-19, the Health Department launched a mobile app for pharmacies. As per a release, the pharmacies should install the app, ‘Covid 19 AP Pharma’, using their shop ID or mobile number and provide details of those seeking medicines so that the government can reach out and treat them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-witnesses-highest-single-day-spike-of-81-coronavirus-cases/article31440603.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Red tape stalls return of bodies from Gulf||Families awaiting the remains of their loved ones from Abu Dhabi, who had died by causes other than COVID-19, spent another agonising night on Sunday, after three bodies were sent back to the UAE by immigration authorities in Delhi on Friday. Officials said they hoped that the bodies of Kamlesh Bhatt, Sanjeev Kumar and Jagsir Singh would arrive again early on Monday by an Etihad Airlines flight, after the government reversed its decision to ban coffins being brought back as a part of air cargo due to the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Bhatt's cousin Vimlesh Bhatt, who had even filed a petition with the High Court in Delhi over the issue, said he was driving back to Delhi for the second time in three days, undertaking the seven hour drive from Tehri in the hope that the body would be allowed to come back to India on Monday morning. While one of the victims had died in a car accident, the other two suffered heart attacks. But despite appeals from the Indian Embassy and airline officials that they were not COVID-19 patients, officials refused to hand them over to their families, who had driven down from Uttarakhand and Punjab despite lockdown restrictions, to collect the remains. Ambassador anguished “We feel extremely sorry for the families of these three men,” India’s Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor told The Hindu, expressing shock at the way the bodies were returned summarily to the UAE by airport authorities. On Saturday, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued a memorandum (No.25022/06/2020-Imm) revoking the earlier ban and said bodies and mortal remains would be permitted “subject to strict adherence to the guidelines ...regarding management of COVID-19 and submission of a no objection approval/concurrence from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and MEA”. However, the Health Ministry is yet to issue the required SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures), which officials say is delaying matters further.  We are trying our best so that the families will be able to carry out the last rites in India Pavan Kapoor India’s Ambassador to the UAE||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/red-tape-stalls-return-of-bodies-from-gulf/article31440617.ece
27 April 2020||Hyderabad,||Heralding a new era of development: KTR||Two decades of its existence has entwined the ruling TRS with the people of Telangana and the journey will be a long one given the faith the leadership has gained fulfilling the promises made, party working president K.T. Rama Rao said. The TRS that completes 20 years on Monday is irreplaceable and has emerged as a model of development for the country, and Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao has shown that effective agitators can become able administrators, the IT Minister says recalling the journey of Mr. Rao from 2001 when he launched the party to achieve a separate State of Telangana. As Robert Frost said: ‘I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep’, Mr. Rama Rao argues the path laid in the six years TRS rule has revolutionised the developmental concepts in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heralding-a-new-era-of-development-ktr/article31440870.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Threat of community spread in State||The reporting of new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases with no epidemiological link from districts which are not designated as Red zone, that too amongst health workers, has sent alarm bells ringing about a possible silent transmission of COVID-19 in the State at community-level. Of the 11 new cases reported on Sunday, six are from Idukki and five from Kottayam. Of the six cases in Idukki, one person has returned from Spain and two have come from Tamil Nadu. The remaining three cases are contacts or people who contracted the disease from the community, one of which is a doctor. In Kottayam, while one person has come from a neighbouring State, four others are contacts who got the disease through local transmission. Two of these persons are health workers. Four persons were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 on Sunday. Of the 468 cases reported so far, only 123 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. A total of 342 persons have recovered from the disease. The number of persons under surveillance is 20,127, of which 462 are on isolation in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. The number of samples tested by the State so far is 22,954. All of them are in quarantine. The results of 21,997 samples are negative. Ramp up tests: CM Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has called for ramping up of testing, including those who are asymptomatic and in quarantine. “Those with no symptoms should also be tested and the government would make available necessary test kits. All those in quarantine should also be tested,” Mr. Vijayan said. There will be no relaxation in the hotspots, he said. The State has 87 hotspots now.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/threat-of-community-spread-in-state/article31440920.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Executive best placed to deal with pandemic’||Amid the biggest health and humanitarian catastrophe in decades, Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde told The Hindu that the Executive, with its three 'Ms' of men, material and money, is better equipped than the judiciary and legislature to lead the battle against COVID-19. In a phone interview, the Chief Justice said the courts cannot dictate to the government how and when to deploy its resources in the present crisis. The Chief Justice said the job of the courts in the present crisis is to ensure that rule of law is followed by the authorities in their executive and administrative functions. The CJI clarified that the virtual courts functioning in the Supreme Court and various high courts are not “closed courts” and that the proceedings through video-conferencing cannot be construed as in-camera hearings. He objected to the fact that video-conferencing is being seen in many quarters as an antithesis of the open court system. Chief Justice Bobde said the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown have reduced actions leading to litigation. “To that extent, pressure is also less on the courts and filing of cases is not what it was,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/executive-best-placed-to-deal-with-pandemic/article31440610.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Do not lower guard against virus, urges PM||Acknowledging that India’s fight against the COVID-19 is people-driven, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked citizens to “remain careful and not lower their guard against the pandemic on the assumption that it will not affect them”. Addressing his monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, exactly a week before the second phase of the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end on May 3, Mr. Modi stressed on strictly following social distancing protocols, not spitting in the open, wearing masks or covering faces with gamchas [towel] while stepping out.  Though he didn’t give any indication about the government’s thinking with regard to the current lockdown, Mr. Modi did express the hope that “the world may be able to somewhat free itself from the virus by the time Id is celebrated”. “ Do gaj doori, bahut hain zaroori [Two metres distance is very essential],” the Prime Minister said while explaining the need to follow COVID-19 protocols. “I would like to appeal that don’t ever get caught in this overconfidence that our city, our village, our lane, our office has not seen corona so far and that’s why it wont affect us. Don’t ever entertain such a wrong notion,” Mr. Modi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-not-lower-guard-against-virus-urges-pm/article31440615.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19 cases cross 1,000 in TS||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed the 1,000 mark as 11 more cases (all in GHMC limits) were detected from Saturday night to Sunday evening. Now, the total till April 26 stands at 1,001. While the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s data indicates that one more death was reported in the State, bulletin issued by Telangana Health department said there were no deaths. Among the people who are in government hospitals, nine, including a 75-year-old man were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-cross-1000-in-ts/article31440864.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Bird’s-eye view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/birds-eye-view/article31440653.ece
27 April 2020||Bhopal,||Man jumps quarantine, infects six||A man who escaped quarantine and went to a barber for a haircut is believed to have caused at least six COVID-19 infections in a village in Khargone district of Madhya Pradesh. Six men who went to the same barber tested positive for the virus. “We don’t know yet whether they used the same napkin or had direct contact with each other,” said Collector Gopal Chandra Dad. The first patient, who escaped quarantine, had carried back the virus from Indore, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-jumps-quarantine-infects-six/article31440613.ece
27 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||No relaxation of lockdown measures in Ghaziabad||In line with the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision not to extend the Home Ministry’s directive — permitting shops of some non-essential items outside containment zones to open with riders — to the State, the Ghaziabad administration maintained status quo in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-relaxation-of-lockdown-measures-in-ghaziabad/article31440803.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||People of all faiths must fight virus together: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal on Sunday said that people of all faiths were coming forward to save the lives of COVID-19 patients by donating plasma, and stressed the importance of unity among all religions to fight and eradicate the virus. The CM added that there have been fewer cases and fatalities this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-of-all-faiths-must-fight-virus-together-cm/article31440802.ece
27 April 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 cases in M.P. cross 2,000||COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh breached the 2,000 mark on Saturday night, 37 days after its first set of cases popped up in Jabalpur. The number of deaths climbed to 103 on Sunday. The final nudge to the surge past the mark was given by Indore, the State’s hardest-hit city, where 91 new cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-mp-cross-2000/article31440804.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Pandemic will deepen crisis for migrants: Study||Migrant workers are likely to face job and livelihood crisis owing to COVID-19 pandemic, according to findings of a research done by the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai. Lockdown has left about 42% with no ration and 33% were stuck in cities with no access to food, water, and money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-will-deepen-crisis-for-migrants-study/article31440656.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Anantkumar Hegde’s Twitter account locked||Twitter India has locked Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Uttara Kannada and former Union Minister Anantkumar Hegde’s account, over tweets that “violate Twitter norms” and has asked him to delete those tweets to unlock it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anantkumar-hegdes-twitter-account-locked/article31440658.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Tough time for dementia patients, caregivers||As governments try and emphasise upon the need to maintain social distancing and wear masks, among other things, to counter the COVID-19 pandemic, health workers say elders with dementia are at a loss to understand these concepts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tough-time-for-dementia-patients-caregivers/article31440657.ece
27 April 2020||MADURAI,||1,568 tests conducted since first positive case||Government Rajaji Hospital conducted 1,568 tests since the first positive COVID-19 case was reported in Madurai. Collector T.G. Vinay said swab tests were conducted for 200 people with influenza-like illness, for 338 people with severe acute respiratory illness and for 1,030 frontline workers with other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1568-tests-conducted-since-first-positive-case/article31440988.ece
27 April 2020||YADGIR,||GESCOM working to ensure power supply||Amid lockdown announced by the government to control the spread of COVD-19, they work round the clock to ensure uninterrupted power supply. Yes. Engineers, technicians, linemen and other staff from GESCOM in Yadgir have been working round the clock to ensure electricity supply to urban and rural areas after several hundred electricity poles and transformers were damaged in the recent spell of rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gescom-working-to-ensure-power-supply/article31440837.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,||‘No change in stand on share of Central taxes’||Criticising DMK president M.K. Stalin for repeatedly claiming that the AIADMK government had failed to uphold the State’s rights in relation to its share of taxes, despite the government making it clear that it would fight for it, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam ay said that there was no change in the government’s position that it was entitled to a higher share of Central taxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-change-in-stand-on-share-of-central-taxes/article31440704.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Heavy rain lashes city, disrupts power supply||Thundershowers lashed many parts of Chennai early on Sunday, bringing respite from soaring day temperatures. But power supply in several areas in the city was disrupted. The heavy rain, combined with winds, left the power infrastructure in disarray, causing technical snag in areas in both north and south Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-lashes-city-disrupts-power-supply/article31440706.ece
27 April 2020||Chennai,||More time for payment of property, water tax||The State government has issued an order, allowing three more months to assessees of property tax and water tax in urban parts to pay the taxes for the previous financial year, 2019-20, in view of COVID-19. The last date for the payment of tax lapsed on March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-time-for-payment-of-property-water-tax/article31440705.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Do more testing: Manmohan||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has said that without aggressive testing facilities, India will find it difficult to “conquer” the challenge posed by COVID-19, according to the Congress. The party on Sunday released a short video of an online meeting of the Congress consultative group, headed by Dr. Singh. Senior leaders and former Union Ministers, forming part of the group, discuss different aspects of the pandemic every alternate days. “There are problems with regard to the inadequacies of the testing facilities. Without aggressive testing facilities, we are not going to conquer this menace,” Dr. Singh said. Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh said India had the capacity to triple the number of testing. “If we have to reach the threshold of 1% of the population, we should do something like 10 million tests,” he said. Former party president Rahul Gandhi called for a policy for protecting migrant workers, and said the State governments should drive the fight against the novel coronavirus. “Our migrant strategy should include 100% protection. The idea that you can tell the migrant to forget it or it is his problem, that has to be censured. The movement of the migrant should depend on and done through the States, and they should have a conversation,” Mr. Gandhi said. Agreeing with Mr. Gandhi, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said the Centre should leave it to the States, from where the migrant workers came, to find ways to take them back. “But the bulk will remain where they are and they need to be given cash and foodgrains,” he said. While Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the government’s first financial assistance plan was inadequate, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari called for a plan for the country to come out of the lockdown. “It is incumbent upon us to collectively apply our minds and see if we can suggest a smart plan as to how do we transition out of this lockdown because of all the issues which have been flagged,” Mr. Tewari said.  At an online press conference, Mr. Tewari questioned the government’s motive. “Is there any attempt to play down the magnitude of the problem or is the government unsure that if we go in for enhancing the testing capacity, it does not have the capacity to deal with its implications,” he asked. “We hope that the Prime Minister puts out a comprehensive, holistic strategy in dealing with the lockout-exit and the situation for the next three months, during his meeting with chief ministers on Monday,” he said. Mr. Tewari said that until there was a national plan to deal with disasters or pandemics under the relevant laws, the State governments could not formulate plans to deal with post-lockdown issues. He stressed that information from experts indicated that “the virus is here to stay and India needs to work out a strategy with the virus around”. He also asked the government to prepare a plan to mitigate the pain of the migrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-more-testing-manmohan/article31440540.ece
27 April 2020||PUNE,||358 fresh cases in Mumbai, deaths rise by 12||With 440 fresh COVID-19 cases reported on Sunday, Maharashtra breached the 8,000-mark, as its tally soared to 8,068 cases. Nineteen deaths were reported across the State to take the total to 342, over a third of the total deaths nationwide. Going by the figures given by the Health Department, Mumbai again topped the death toll, with 12. Three deaths were reported from Pune city, two from Jalgaon district, and one each from Solapur and Latur districts. As many as 112 patients were discharged on Sunday. This took the total to 1,188, State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate said. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 203, while that of Pune district has risen to 76, of which 73 have been reported from Pune city and rural areas and the rest from Pimpri-Chinchwad. The death toll in Solapur district, which has also witnessed a spike in fresh cases, has risen to five. “59% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” Dr. Awate said. While today’s surge was less than the staggering 800-plus increase on Saturday, Mumbai once again recorded the overwhelming majority of the new cases — 358 — as the city’s tally climbed to 5,407. While the Health Department’s figures put Pune district’s cumulative tally at 1052 — projecting a rise of only 22 new cases since Saturday’s count of 1,030 — district authorities reported a surge of at least 60 fresh cases in Pune city. With the fresh cases, the district has witnessed an increase of more than 115 new active cases over two days. As per the figures from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s Health Department, the total of active cases in Pune city was 902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/358-fresh-cases-in-mumbai-deaths-rise-by-12/article31440561.ece
27 April 2020||Mumbai,||‘Blaming a community unfair’||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said an entire community could not be blamed for the acts of a few. He appealed to leaders of communities to urge their members not to be part of such acts. In an address to RSS workers through social media, Mr. Bhagwat said the crisis arising out of the spread of the novel coronavirus should be taken as an opportunity to build a new India that would lead the world. “Both sides should stay away from fear and anger. Those who lead the respective communities must save their communities from it. They should teach their communities that we must not be part of any act that takes place out of fear or anger,” he said. Mr. Bhagwat said that when such a precaution was not taken, two saints were killed in Maharashtra. “Keep the debate over it aside. But should that act been allowed? What should the police do when such an act takes place?” he said. Earlier, he said the RSS decided in March itself to postpone all its programmes till June-end. “But someone might feel that the government is obstructing their programmes. There is no dearth of people who ignite a fire. It leads to anger and losing sense, resulting in an extremist act. We know that there are forces that want to benefit from it. It is one of the reasons for the manner in which the novel coronavirus has spread in India,” Mr. Bhagwat said. He added that even if someone committed any act out of fear or anger, the entire community could not be blamed for it. “People with faults are everywhere. Ordinary people must realise that their position should be of co-operation and not of opposition. There are people who use doubts to spread fear and anger. They are playing games. For selfish reasons, many with thoughts like ‘ Bharat tere tukde honge ’ work towards this,” he said. Mr. Bhagwat said the crisis stemming out of the novel coronavirus should be converted into an opportunity to create a new India. “Not only the government but also society should participate [in the process]. We will use what is made here. We will buy foreign-made essentials on our own terms. We will have to use swadeshi [products]. We have to encourage swadeshi businesses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blaming-a-community-unfair/article31440575.ece
27 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Centre effects major reshuffle of officials||In a much-awaited large-scale reshuffle in the Central administration, the Modi government has appointed or reshuffled 23 Secretary-level officials. Two senior officials from the Prime Minister’s Office have been moved out to important positions — A.K. Sharma as Secretary of MSME and Tarun Bajaj as Secretary of Economic Affairs in place of Atanu Chakraborty, who is retiring this month. The most notable appointment is that of Mr. Sharma, who was one of the most powerful officials in the PMO as he has been with PM Modi since October 2001 when he took over as the Chief Minister of Gujarat. “The fact that he has been moved to a not very significant department is telling,” an insider told The Hindu.  However, a corporate honcho said since the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) would be the focus of the government after the pandemic, Mr. Modi has posted his trusted aide to concentrate his efforts and energies on it, which forms the backbone of the industrial sector. Mr. Bajaj’s exit from the PMO was expected as his name was doing the rounds for a prized posting in the Finance Ministry. Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Rural Development, has been moved to the Health and Family Welfare Ministry as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) and will take over from Preeti Sudan, who is scheduled to retire this month but has been given an extension in view of the pandemic. However, Mr. Bhushan will take over from her three months after April 30.  The Hindu mentioned on Saturday that Mr. Modi is expected to carry out a large reshuffle in the top administration over the weekend since seven Secretaries are scheduled to retire this month and there are already several vacancies. Under the orders issued by the Department of Personnel and Training after the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) approval, a Gujarat-cadre IAS officer and chairperson of the CBSE Anita Karwal has been made Secretary, School Education and Literacy as mentioned in these columns. Another Gujarat-cadre officer, R.P. Gupta, has been made Secretary, Environment and Forest and Climate Change. Tarun Kapoor, Vice-Chairman of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), has been made Secretary, Petroleum and Natural Gas. Information and Broadcasting Secretary Ravi Mittal has been shifted as Secretary, Youth Affairs and Sports. Amit Khare, who was earlier Secretary, I&B, has again been given additional charge of Secretary of the Ministry. Ranjeev Ranjan, Secretary, Road Transport and Highways, has been made Secretary, Shipping. Anand Kumar, Secretary, Renewable Energy, has been shifted as Secretary Culture. Ravi Kant, Secretary, Food and Public Distribution, has been made Secretary, Ex-Servicemen Welfare in the Ministry of Defence. Interestingly, Secretary, Consumer Affairs, Pawan Kumar Agarwal, has been shifted to the Ministry of Commerce as Special Secretary (Logistics). Nagendra Nath Sinha moved from the Ministry of Home as Secretary, Border Management, to the Ministry of Rural Development as the Secretary. P.K. Tripathi, Establishment Officer in the DoPT, has been made Secretary, Steel. Indu Shekhar Chaturvedi has been taken from Jharkhand cadre to be appointed as Secretary, Renewable Energy. Leena Nandan is the new Secretary, Consumer Affairs, and Rajesh Verma is new Secretary, Corporate Affairs. Rajesh Chaturvedi is new Secretary, Chemicals and Petrochemicals, while Ajay Tirkey is Secretary, Women and Child Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-effects-major-reshuffle-of-officials/article31440550.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Executive is better suited to deal with the COVID-19 crisis’||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde says that the three ‘Ms’ — money, men and material — are with the Executive, which is the most suitable organ of governance to deal with the problems arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. In a telephone interview, the CJI clarified that hearing of cases through videoconferencing are not in-camera hearings and virtual courts are not closed courts . The Supreme Court has acted with certain restraint during the lockdown days Imagine if this was an earthquake or floods or whatever... This is really a situation when the Executive gets into action. The usual three ‘Ms’ are ‘men, material and money’. It is very difficult for the court to assume charge and say ‘this is what the priority should be’ and ‘this is what it should be like’. The Executive is better suited to decide on the ‘whats’, ‘hows’ and ‘whens’ of deploying money, material and men. Of course, the courts ensure that rule of law does not suffer and people’s lives and properties do not suffer. But courts cannot deal with the situation on the ground. What do courts normally do? Courts declare rights, which are given effect to by the Executive. This is not a situation where declaration of rights has much priority or as much importance as in other times. So, it comes down to the question of which organ of governance is best suited for the situation. Other than looking at the validity of administrative and executive action and protecting, say, the right to life, the courts have little to do.    The virus has changed the way cases are heard, from open court system to videoconferencing Videoconferencing does not mean courts are closed. Virtual courts are not in-camera courts. When the video links are given, there are people who can see what is happening on the screen from where the lawyers address the court. We are not prohibiting that. It is not a binary situation. The distinction made between videoconferencing and open court system is not accurate. A better description would be virtual courts and ‘courts in congregation’. There is no absence of openness in the present videoconferencing proceedings. Things are not being decided without anybody coming to know. Litigants can watch the proceedings. Lawyers are present. The other side is there. The court is there. Court staff is there. Live reporting by the media is happening. Even people who are waiting for their cases to be called out are watching. Yes, maybe the number of people who could attend like in a court in congregation is reduced. That is because a social distancing norm is in place as it is being done all over the country. What has changed in the justice administration system after the lockdown? The fact of the matter is there is much less pressure on the courts as very few actions are being taken in the country which normally generate litigation. The courts are not executing decrees, landlords are not throwing tenants out, there is no employer-employee trouble. Yes, there was total disarray in the labour field... But what I am saying is, normally problems come from recovery, execution, tenants and landlords, administration action... The police are not as active in law and order area as it was earlier. I suppose criminals are less active in their areas, I suppose, I don’t know... So, generally, events that generate litigation are few and far between. To that extent, pressure is also less on the courts and filing of cases is not what it was. The court is going through a unique experience during the time of the COVID-19 lockdown which has crossed 30 days The whole country is going through it and bearing it stoically. One has to be stoic in such a situation. The courts are doing their best to cope with the situation, in particular, they are selecting and prioritising matters they must hear. Courts are continuing to hear cases despite constraints through videoconferencing. Will the functioning of the court return to normal after May 3? Too hazardous to say anything now. WHO projection for Maharashtra is a huge number. We don’t know what is going to happen in Delhi. We are watching the situation closely and reviewing it once or twice a week. I am doing it. There is a committee set up by the judges to meet with the members of the Bar and take a decision.  Courts are doing their best to cope... they are selecting and prioritising matters they must hear. They are continuing to hear cases through videoconferencing despite constraints||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/executive-is-better-suited-to-deal-with-the-covid-19-crisis/article31440573.ece
27 April 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 cases in M.P. cross 2,000||COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh breached the 2,000 mark on Saturday night, 37 days after its first set of cases popped up in Jabalpur. The number of deaths climbed to 103 on Sunday. The final nudge to the surge past the mark was given by Indore, the State’s hardest-hit city, where 91 new cases were reported. The city has reported 57 deaths owing to the illness and 107 recoveries so far, said Pravin Jadia, Indore Chief Medical and Health Officer. The State tally stands at 2,090 now. On Saturday, a record 441 samples were tested by the laboratory at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College in the city. Alarmingly, as many as 20% of those tested had turned out to be positive for the illness, a rate more than two times that of New Delhi on the day. The national capital, having more than twice as many cases than Indore, registered a test positive rate of just 6%. Further, 31 of the new cases were recorded in 29 new areas of Indore, indicating the virus is bursting out, despite the claims of local authorities that the lockdown, meant to contain the spread, is in place. Akash Tripathi, Indore Divisional Commissioner, had told The Hindu that the pace of the spread to newer areas had instead reduced. He claimed the disease was spreading to just two-three new areas every day, as most of the recent cases had been primary contacts of the infected within previously affected areas. 182 containment areas So far, 198 containment areas have been drawn up around affected areas in Indore. Authorities have reportedly prohibited vehicular traffic, and are screening locals at exit points. Most deaths, almost 85%, owing to the illness in the State come from Indore, and its three neighbours, where the toll is rapidly surging. The State has recorded 302 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-in-mp-cross-2000/article31440563.ece
27 April 2020||Bhopal,||Go into quarantine, M.P. migrants told||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday advised a bunch of migrant labourers who had returned home from other States to isolate themselves for 14 days, maintain social distancing and follow the lockdown. Interacting with labourers who had returned from Rajasthan and Gujarat in buses arranged by the State government, Mr. Chouhan, through video conferencing, said, “Please keep distance from your family members at home, and stay separately. Wear masks and wash hands frequently. Follow the lockdown completely.” One of the labourers told Mr. Chouhan, “We were eager to return home though we were getting food and were provided with stay there. We were missing our families.” Raju, a resident of Alirajpur district who had returned from Gujarat, said, “We had been stuck in Navsari for a month. I am extremely happy to return home.” Mr. Chouhan also interacted with residents of Shivpuri, Sheopur, Guna and Vidisha districts who had returned from Rajasthan. On Saturday, Mr. Chouhan had announced the State government was making arrangements to bring back its native labourers stuck in different States in buses. “We will not let them walk,” he said. “We have seen them walk back home on roads and rail tracks in the heat. They must be a worried lot. So, we will make all arrangements for their travel, send them back to their villages in buses.” Before boarding buses, the labourers would be screened for illnesses. “I request all villagers to behave in a humane way with them. The returnees will be home quarantined,” he said. Mr. Chouhan said though the government was taking steps, it was doing so keeping the strategy to contain the virus in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/go-into-quarantine-mp-migrants-told/article31440543.ece
27 April 2020||Kolkata,||Long drive for CJs to assume charge||With air and rail passenger services suspended due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, two judges embarked on road journeys — each covering over 2,000 km — to take charge as chief justices of high courts at two ends of the country. President Ram Nath Kovind had on Thursday elevated Justice Dipankar Datta of the Calcutta High Court as the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, and Justice Biswanath Somadder of the Allahabad High Court as Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court. Justice Datta is taking turns with his son at the steering wheel of his car, as the family moves to Mumbai, sources privy to the development said. He left for Mumbai from Kolkata on Saturday morning and plans to reach the country’s financial capital by Monday afternoon with overnight breaks on the way. Travelling in the opposite direction from west to east, is Allahabad High Court judge, Justice Somadder, who is driving to Shillong via Kolkata. Justice Somadder, who had served at the Calcutta High Court before being transferred to Allahabad, set out on the journey from the north Indian city along with wife on Friday evening in an official car, sources said. Taking turns at the wheel with his chauffeur, the judge reached Kolkata on Saturday afternoon. He left for Shillong in the evening, after a few hours of rest at his Salt Lake residence here, to reach the Meghalaya capital on Sunday afternoon.  In the south, Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court S. Manikumar who went to his native place Tamil Nadu following the lockdown came back here on Saturday by road. His travel back to the state was arranged following the exchange of communications between the two government’s home departments.  (With inputs from   Kerala Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/long-drive-for-cjs-to-assume-charge/article31440545.ece
27 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||A boon to Odisha’s snakebite victims||The Odisha government’s move to add ventilator facilities to treat COVID-19 patients is likely to provide a much-needed help for another serious health threat — snakebite. Once the coronavirus scare recedes, the ventilators will prove a key life-saving asset for hundreds of people in the State who die due to snakebites every year. Snakebites have claimed 3,565 lives in Odisha in the past five years. In 2019-20 alone, as many as 723 persons died from snakebites. The year 2018-19 had worse numbers with 913 snakebite deaths. According to Pratyush Mohapatra, a scientist with Zoological Survey of India, toxin injected during snakebite affects the nervous system and the bite becomes fatal especially in the case of bites by the common krait in which no local symptoms are detected. “If not treated immediately, victims may die from respiratory failure. It is often found that absence of ventilator facility in district level government health institutions increases chances of fatality in snakebites,” said Dr. Mohapatra. Although snakebite was declared as a State-specific disaster in 2015, health infrastructure was not upgraded to deal with the threat. “Acute neuromuscular paralysis, a type of neurotoxicity, is caused due to bite of cobras and kraits. Mechanical ventilation, intensive care and anti-venom treatment with prolonged hospital stays are key to snakebite treatment,” said the ZSI scientist. Despite recording high snakebite deaths, the government had never added ventilator facilities as well as manpower trained in handling ventilators in government health centres below the sub-divisional level hospitals. Now, as part COVID-19 pandemic response, the State government has ramped up ventilator facilities in government healthcare institutions. “Prior to COVID-19 pandemic, we had 297 ventilators available in the State. Now, we have already added 57 while ventilator facilities have significantly improved in private sector,” said Bijay Mohapatra, State Director of Health Service. During past one month, the government has made available 5,486 beds in 34 COVID-19 only hospitals. As many as 352 ICU beds are available. Many of these ICUs have ventilator facilities. As the monsoon is approaching, people in rural areas will become more vulnerable to snakebite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-boon-to-odishas-snakebite-victims/article31440566.ece
27 April 2020||Mumbai,||Pawar seeks financial package for Maharashtra||Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, saying Maharashtra would face a shortfall of Rs. 1,00,000 crore to sustain projected expenditure during the fiscal 2020-21 because of the lockdown. He demanded additional grants to close the gap. “Revenue receipts projected in Maharashtra’s budget for 2020-21 are about Rs. 3,47,000 crore, and economic activity is not likely to pick up much in the short term and may improve slightly in the medium term. Accordingly, as per the revised estimates, the expected revenue shortfall would be Rs. 1,40,000 crore. This is around 40% of the expected revenues and will leave a huge hole in the State’s finances,” he said. Mr. Pawar said that as per the present borrowing limits (3% of the GSDP), the State could borrow up to Rs. 92,000 crore, of which Rs. 54,000 crore was planned for meeting the capital expenditure requirements. “So, it is clear the State is going to face a shortfall of Rs. 1,00,000 crore to sustain the projected expenditure,” he said. Covering the entire shortfall only with borrowings would push the State to a debt trap. “The other strategy could be to cut public spending. But that would be counterproductive in view of the subdued economy. The State makes a repayment of Rs. 10,500 crore every year on account of the NSSF loan given by the Government of India. It is requested to extend a two-year moratorium on the repayment. Further, it is imperative that in these testing times, the Government of India should offer suitable financial assistance to the States. The Government of Maharashtra requests additional grants of untied nature to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh crore for FY 2020-21,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-seeks-financial-package-for-maharashtra/article31440577.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shah supervising anti-virus fight, SC told||A status report filed by the government in the Supreme Court said Union Home Minister Amit Shah is personally supervising the implementation of directives and advisories issued by his ministry in the fight against COVID-19. The report, which is the second one filed in court in connection with a petition filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, said the Home Ministry has taken “immediate, timely, effective and proactive actions almost on a daily basis”. The case is scheduled to be heard on April 27. The report, signed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, said, “Home Minister is personally supervising the implementation of various directives/advisories issued by the Home Ministry along with the Cabinet Secretary, Home Secretary and senior officers in the control room which is operational 24 hours”. The reports also lists how the Civil Aviation Ministry has started ‘Lifeline Udan’ to transport essential medical cargo. Over 180 flights have flown over 1.6 lakh km carrying 258 tons of medical cargo. It said the Indian Railways have served over 10 lakh free meals besides converting 4950 train coaches to COVID-19 care centres. Among other steps taken, teh report said the Press Information Bureau’s Fact Check Unit had received, between April 2 and April 9, a total of 1,458 cases and replied or countered 1,324 cases. The status report said a Twitter handle by the Information Ministry called @COVIDNewsBy has 38,000 followers and its tweets have appeared 13 million times on the timelines of users. The report said the Information Ministry engaged 165 celebrities in its awareness campaigns against virus spread through 620 video bulletins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-supervising-anti-virus-fight-sc-told/article31440557.ece
27 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam’s BTAD might see Governor’s rule||The COVID-19 pandemic may earn Governor’s rule for the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD) in Assam. The State’s Governor is the constitutional head of the BTAD that falls under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution and is administered by the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). The BTAD covers four districts of western and northern Assam. Elections were scheduled to be held for the BTC on April 4 but was deferred indefinitely in view of the pandemic. The council’s current term expires on April 27. Some political parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), do not want the term to be extended. After a meeting with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal last week, a BJP delegation met Governor Jagdish Mukhi and sought imposition of Governor’s rule in BTAD. The delegation argued that the COVID-19 pandemic and its aftermath would make it impossible to hold the elections in the near future. The BJP rules Assam in alliance with the Asom Gana Parishad and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), which has been ruling BTC since its creation in 2003. The All Bodo Students’ Union, an influential organisation, has also appealed against extending the council’s term. The BPF, on the other hand, wants the term extended by six months or elections held soon. Party leader and Social Welfare Minister Pramila Rani Brahma said the election can be conducted as BTAD does not have a single COVID-19 case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assams-btad-might-see-governors-rule/article31440536.ece
27 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Focus on testing in Agra, Priyanka urges U.P. CM||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take into account the COVID-19 situation in Agra and focus on testing after the city’s Mayor highlighted in a letter the local administration’s alleged inefficiency in bringing things under control. As per the State Health department, Agra has recorded 10 deaths and 372 positive cases so far, making it the worst-affected of U.P.’s 75 districts. “The situation is bad in Agra city and new patients are emerging daily. Agra Mayor says that if the right arrangements are not made, matters could go out of hand,” Ms. Vadra tweeted in Hindi. While referring to a letter written to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath by Agra Mayor Naveen Jain, Ms. Vadra said the government should take his concerns in a positive light. “It is important to pay attention to testing. If coronavirus is to be stopped, then the focus should be on correct information and right treatment,” she said. In a letter to Mr. Adityanath on April 21, Mr. Jain had expressed concerns that the city could become the “Wuhan of the country” if the right arrangements were not put in place. Mr. Jain also alleged that the local administration had proven to be inactive in bringing the situation under control. He said that proper testing was not taking place in the quarantine centres in hotspots and alleged that patients were not being provided proper food. The “situation is explosive”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-testing-in-agra-priyanka-urges-up-cm/article31440805.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Industries hobbled by curbs on mobility of staff||Almost 40% of companies faced delays and disruptions, while 23% said such movement was not taking place at all. Even those businesses which have restarted work are still functioning at partial strength. Only 10% of plants were functioning at more than 50% of their full capacity, while only 9% of firms have more than half their workers back on site. “The return of workers is critical to commencing business operations. Timely and effective transport and safety strategies are imperative to ensure that workers have the confidence to return to workplaces as well as commute on a daily basis,” said CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee. Almost 70% of respondents expressed fear that they would face criminal cases if any of their workers tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industries-hobbled-by-curbs-on-mobility-of-staff/article31440538.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||6 men who went to the same barber test positive||A waiter at a restaurant there, the man was quarantined after some of his colleagues tested positive. The man, however, escaped to his native Badgaon village in the district.   “We got to know that he had visited a barber who was offering services at home. We traced the contacts of the patient, and took samples of 12 persons, including the barber,” said District Superintendent of Police Sunil Kumar Pandey. Their samples were collected on April 7. But the results came in only on April 23. By then, six asymptomatic patients had already completed their 14-day isolation period. “We will test their samples again before discharging them from hospital,” said Mr. Dad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-men-who-went-to-the-same-barber-test-positive/article31440547.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Cases near 27,000-mark with increase of 1,975||On the status of availability of medical equipment and facilities in the country, Dr. Vardhan said the government had already made available sufficient quantities of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) at the State level. “Now we have around 106 manufacturing units which are capable of making them in India itself which will be enough to meet the increasing requirement of our country in future.” “There are now 10 manufacturers of N-95 masks in the country,” he said Speaking about the availability of ventilators, he said, “Through the efforts of the government and our various research labs, the production of ventilators by domestic manufacturers has also started and orders have been placed for more than 59,000 units through 9 manufacturers.” Elaborating on the adequacy of the ventilators, oxygen supplies and ICUs that have been made available by the Centre and the States, he said “When we compare the number of active patients who are currently hospitalised, we find that only 2.17% patients have been admitted to ICU, 1.29% patients have required oxygen support and mere 0.36% are on ventilator.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-near-27000-mark-with-increase-of-1975/article31440546.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Red tape stalls return of bodies from Gulf||Last week, the bodies of two citizens from Kerala were flown to Chennai from Dubai and were held at the airport for hours because of “protocol” issues, while the bodies of two workers in Kuwait city were prevented from being flown back. The spurt in such cases prompted Delhi-based activist Jose Abraham of the “Pravasi legal cell” to file a PIL in the Supreme Court, demanding directions to the government to remove restrictions on the repatriation of bodies. According to Mr. Abraham, the PIL could be taken up by the Court this week. “All embassies in the Gulf region are aware of the importance of such situations as often the deceased is a bread earner for the family back home. This particular issue could have been handled better and that is why even the Ambassador expressed his unhappiness about the development,” former ambassador to the UAE, Talmiz Ahmad said about the case of the bodies being returned to Abu Dhabi. According to NRI activist in the UAE, Girish Pant, who has been assisting families with such cases, at least 12 other bodies of people belonging to different parts of the country including Delhi, Chennai, Trivandrum, Lucknow and Ahmedabad are also in Dubai, awaiting clearances to be repatriated to their families. “They have a right to see their loved ones and to conduct their last rites with dignity,” Mr. Pant said to The Hindu. “The government must sort out the regulations to accept and release these remains as soon as possible, so as not to deepen the trauma and grief for their families,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-tape-stalls-return-of-bodies-from-gulf/article31440552.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Do not lower guard against virus, urges PM||Quoting ancient Indian knowledge, the Prime Minister said, “If you take a small fire, loan or a disease lightly, it will strike back the moment it gets an opportunity... So, there should not be any carelessness at any local place because of over enthusiasm. We need to be always careful.” “India’s fight against the coronavirus is people-driven in the truest sense of the term. Along with people, government and administration are fighting it as well. This is the only way we can win over the virus...Every Indian is a solder in this fight,” the Prime Minister said while noting that everyone is contributing as per their means.  He also asserted that India’s decision to supply medicines to countries including the developed ones to fight the pandemic was guided by its ethos and said he felt proud when world leaders thanked India and its people for the assistance.  Mr. Modi lauded the contribution of the States for playing an “active role” in the fight along with efforts of the aviation industry to operate special flights and the Railways in running parcel trains for the movement of medicines and essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-not-lower-guard-against-virus-urges-pm/article31440551.ece
27 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||A scramble for essentials at Agra quarantine centre||The administration in Agra, whose COVID-19 containment model has been much publicised by the Uttar Pradesh government, was left red-faced on Sunday after videos emerged allegedly showing people kept at a quarantine centre compelled to crowd near a locked gate to receive essential supplies like food. In one of the videos, shot by a local who was also allegedly taken to the quarantine centre for a check-up, a group of people can be seen crowding behind a gate as health officials provide them bottled water and packets of biscuits. A health staff in PPE kit can be seen tossing packets of biscuits at the ground near them as they desperately reach out from the grills to grab the food without paying heed to physical distancing. Jyoti Verma, a local who shot the video, is heard in another clip, claiming that the administration is also not holding proper medical check-up of patients brought to the centre at the Sharda Group of Institution. “People are not being provided proper food or water,” the woman is heard saying. District Magistrate Prabhu N. Singh said he inspected the place after the complaints and taken measures for better arrangements. Meanwhile, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take into account the COVID-19 situation in Agra and focus on testing after the city’s Mayor highlighted in a letter the local administration’s alleged inefficiency in bringing things under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-scramble-for-essentials-at-agra-quarantine-centre/article31440559.ece
27 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||230 new cases in Gujarat; 18 deaths in Ahmedabad||Gujarat added 230 new cases and 18 deaths by COVID-19, all in Ahmedabad, on Sunday, taking the numbers to 3,301 cases and 151 deaths so far in the State. On Sunday, 31 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of people discharged to 313. However, 27 patients are critical and on ventilator support, while 2,810 are stable and under treatment in various hospitals in the State. Out of the 230 new cases added on Sunday, 178 cases are from Ahmedabad alone while 30 cases came from Surat. Now, cases are coming in from as many as 30 districts in the State. As the cases are surging, the situation in Ahmedabad is turning grim, with the city recording 104 deaths out of a total 2,181 cases, while only 140 patients have recovered and been discharged, suggesting a slower recovery rate. As per Health Department data, of the 18 deaths reported, ten had comorbid conditions, 13 patients were males and five female. The State has so far tested 51,091 samples, out of which 3,301 samples tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The State government on Sunday decided that all shops, except those in the essential services category, will continue to remain shut in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/230-new-cases-in-gujarat-18-deaths-in-ahmedabad/article31440558.ece
27 April 2020||Bhopal,||Food controller answers RTI queries in 12 hours||Information sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act usually takes days, even months, to reach applicants. However, a social worker in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district was in for a pleasant surprise. Raghvendra Dubey, the social worker, got a reply to his query in just 12 hours — that too on WhatsApp. He had submitted the application through email at 9.30 p.m. on April 23. He wanted to know how many people in Kot village had been given free rations under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, to tide over the lockdown. “Villagers had informed us that rations were not distributed to those eligible,” said Mr. Dubey. On the next day, at 9 a.m., his WhatsApp chimed. The district’s Food Controller, Rajendra Singh Thakur, informed him that the supply of 113.75 quintals of rice to 2,275 individuals for each month was pending for two months. Mr. Thakur was on a previous occasion fined by the State Information Commission for delay in giving out information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/food-controller-answers-rti-queries-in-12-hours/article31440580.ece
27 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi reports highest single-day tally of 34 cases||Dharavi reported its highest single-day tally on Sunday, reporting 34 new cases. Thus, the area has so far recorded 275 cases, including14 deaths. Dharavi reported its first case and death on April 1. Within 26 days, its tally touched 275 on Sunday. Cases were reported from Social Nagar, Mukund Nagar, Muslim Nagar, PMGP Colony. Besides, cases were reported from newer parts including Vijay Nagar, Shatabdi Nagar, Palkar chawl, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Dhorwada. After a Central team recommended to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to increase its capacity of institutional quarantine, the BMC has increased it from 1,000 to 2,300. These will be used to house high-risk contacts of patients or asymptomatic contacts. Besides, it has taken over a private school with a capacity of 700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-reports-highest-single-day-tally-of-34-cases/article31440564.ece
27 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Assam was able to curb community transmission’||Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said preventing community transmission had been the highlight of the fight against COVID-19 in the State. Restricting the positive cases to quarantine centres and keeping a few cases of secondary transmissions from public contact had been a success story for the State, he claimed. Assam has till date recorded 35 COVID-19 positive cases with one of them, a 65-year-old man, having died a fortnight ago. All but one of these cases have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March. While 25 of more than 600 Tablighi Jamaat returnees tested positive, nine caught the virus from them either at home or at small gatherings in specific places. The government is yet to find the source of one of the positive case, who recovered later. “We have nothing to fear if more cases come from quarantine centres, but we will have to assess from a different perspective if a case is reported from a village or a town tomorrow,” Mr. Sarma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-was-able-to-curb-community-transmission/article31440568.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||Yechury faults PM’s ‘disdain’ for media||CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, highlighted the fact that unlike other world leaders, he had not addressed a single press conference, escaping all accountability on his government's handling of the ongoing health crisis. Saying that the Prime Minister has shown “a singular disdain to face the media and reply to the concerns of the Indian people”, he suggested 12 steps to handle COVID-19 pandemic. “Leaders of governments in most countries address regular press conferences and answer questions. This is the only way to remain accountable and to give confidence to the people that the government is both competent and in command of the situation,” the letter said. Mr. Yechury pointed out that many chief ministers are regularly meeting the press, like the Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The Chief Minister of the LDF government in Kerala holds a daily press briefing and outlines the measures that the government has taken to generate the confidence required for the people to face this challenge. Democratic accountability is grossly missing in your style of governance,” the CPI(M) leader wrote to Mr. Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yechury-faults-pms-disdain-for-media/article31440541.ece
27 April 2020||Kolkata,||Top medical professional in Bengal dies||One of the top public medical professionals of West Bengal, Assistant Director of West Bengal Health Services Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, died early on Sunday. While it is not yet officially announced that Dr. Dasgupta, 60, had COVID-19, the West Bengal Doctors Forum (WBDF) has said that this is the “first reported death” of someone from the “medical fraternity in the State, who tested positive for COVID-19”. Dr. Dasgupta’s wife also tested positive, the statement said. Meanwhile, 33 cases were detected in the last 24 hours after 1,013 samples were tested. The death toll rose from 18 to 20. Expressing condolences, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said Dr. Dasgupta’s “sacrifice for the cause of ailing humanity will ever be in our hearts and will make our COVID warriors fight the deadly virus with even greater determination”. “We are deeply pained with his untimely demise,” the Chief Minister said. The WBDF has appealed to the State government to issue “a separate medical bulletin daily to apprise us about the condition of the healthcare workers under treatment and quarantine”. The doctors’ body has sought “more intensive testing, especially for each and every healthcare provider...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-medical-professional-in-bengal-dies/article31440553.ece
27 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||In Odisha, positive cases soar past 100||Odisha’sCOVID-19positive case count has crossed 100, following the detection of nine new cases in Jajpur and Sundargarh districts. While six persons, whoreturned from West Bengal, tested positive in Jajpur, Sundargarh reported three new cases. The total cases now has reached 103. Six men who tested positive in Jajpur were aged between 23 and 57. According to Odisha’s Information and Public Relation department, these men had travel history to Kolkata. As per the latest health update, the three persons in Sundargarh, including two men and a woman, had come in close contact with a relative who had tested positive earlier. The State government has begun contact-tracing of all persons found positive. On Saturday, the government declared that all three infected persons in Sundargarh had recovered. Now, the detection of three new cases has left the administration worried. The Health and Family Welfare department sources said a total 22,816 tests using RT PCR method and 4,975 rapid antibody tests were carried out in the State. Of the total tests, 103 were found to be positive. Now, 68 are active COVID-19 cases, 35 have been discharged and one is reported dead. As of now, highest 46 positive cases were detected in Khordha district followed by Jajpur with 18 and Bhadrak with 16 cases. Balasore has reported 10 cases. The reason behind the spurt in positive cases is attributed to the arrival of people from West Bengal. According to the government, 39 cases with travel history to the neighbouring State were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-odisha-positive-cases-soar-past-100/article31440555.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IGNCA to start online lectures today||With all its events cancelled due to COVID-19 crisis, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) has decided to move its lectures online. IGNCA member secretary Sachidanand Joshi told The Hindu that the lectures would be streamed on its Facebook page every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 4 p.m.. The first lecture will be on the ‘role of art and culture after COVID-19’ by IGNCA trust president Ram Bahadur Rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ignca-to-start-online-lectures-today/article31440569.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 30% ED officials resume work from office||Over 30% of officials and staff of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) have started attending offices in the States where there are no specific restrictions on opening the office premises. At the ED headquarters in Delhi, agency chief Sanjay Mishra and other senior officials have already been coming to office, whenever required. “Even during the lockdown period, some officials had to work from office for urgent matters, like court proceedings on bail applications,” said an official. Orders issued Instructions had earlier been issued that all Ministries and departments under the Central government would become functional with effect from April 20. Accordingly, the Defence, the Central Armed Police Forces, Health and Family Welfare, Disaster Management and early warning agencies, like the National Centre of Seismology, National Informatics Centre, and the Customs are functioning without any restriction.  Curbs on attendance Other Ministries and departments, and offices under their control, are functioning with 100% attendance of officials of the deputy secretary level and above. As regards the remaining officials and staff, up to 33% of them are to attend office as per requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-30-ed-officials-resume-work-from-office/article31440579.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Australia cancels premier air exercise||Australia has informed India that its premier multilateral air combat training exercise — Pitch Black 2020  — scheduled from July 27 to August 14 has been cancelled due to the COVID-19 situation, defence sources said. This was conveyed by Air Marshal Meg Hupfeld, Chief of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), in a letter to Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, in mid-April. “The RAAF Chief informed of his decision to cancel the exercise this year due to the current and anticipated impacts of the worldwide pandemic of COVID-19,” a defence source told The Hindu . He also noted that while the IAF was not participating with aircraft, Ex Pitch Black 2020 would have provided an opportunity for engagement between our personnel, the source said. Next edition in 2022 The exercise is also an opportunity to interact with forces from across the globe, a second defence source said. The next edition of Pitch Black is scheduled for 2022. In the last edition of Pitch Black in 2018, the IAF for the first time deployed fighter aircraft which it had said would “provide a unique opportunity for exchange of knowledge and experience with these nations in a dynamic warfare environment”. The defence and strategic engagement with Australia has steadily gone up in recent years especially on the bilateral front with naval cooperation at the forefront. The bilateral naval exercise AUSINDEX early last year saw participation of the largest Australian contingent ever to India with over 1,000 personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-cancels-premier-air-exercise/article31440571.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We are taking care of migrants, say officials||Senior officials in Kancheepuram district have said that they have taken several measures to ensure the welfare of migrant workers. According to them, from medical check-ups to food and mental health services, all necessary arrangements have been made. Kancheepuram Collector P. Ponniah told The Hindu on Saturday that over 38,000 migrant workers were living in 163 places in the district. “We found that they were living in congested areas, and took steps to redress it. We have also provided accommodation to 490 of them,” he said. Mr. Ponniah said the district administration had received undertakings from 62 companies and 165 labour contractors that they will provide food and accommodation to their workers and also pay their salaries. “Some private companies have come forward to donate dry ration kits, and we have been distributing them to migrant workers,” he said. The district administration had conducted health camps for all migrant workers in two phases, he added. In response to a report on the plight of migrant workers, published in these columns    on Sunday, Assistant Superintendent of Police of Sriperumbudur K. Karthikeyan elaborated on the steps that local police personnel were taking. They were going out of their way to help migrant workers, he claimed. “We conducted health camps for these workers twice. In all police stations, we have a separate help desk for migrant workers’ issues. The police are working 12 hours [a day] on a rotational basis to address their issues,” he said. Mr. Karthikeyan said the control rooms had received eight pregnancy cases so far, and action was taken within 10-15 minutes of receiving calls. He said a third of the personnel in the stations were dedicated to addressing migrant workers’ issues. “We are going to buy these workers carrom boards and chess boards. We will also make arrangements for them to watch the Prime Minister's ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and films. We have hired auto-rickshaws to announce awareness messages on COVID-19 in Bhojpuri, Odia, Hindi and Bengali,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-are-taking-care-of-migrants-say-officials/article31440731.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cities wear deserted look on day 1 of complete lockdown||After witnessing chaotic scenes on Saturday, when people resorted to panic buying, the cities of Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai wore a deserted look on Sunday — the first day of the complete lockdown imposed by the State government. Residents of Chennai woke up to rains, and arterial roads like Anna Salai, Poonamallee High Road and 100 Feet Road were devoid of traffic, unlike on other days, when hundreds of vehicles clog the roads. Police meticulously conducted checks on motorists to ascertain if they were travelling for valid reasons. Even the busy T. Nagar and Purasawalkam areas did not see any major vehicle or pedestrian movement, as all grocery and vegetable shops remained closed. An industrialist had suggested the ramping up of the sale of groceries through mobile units, as was being done for vegetables. As on Saturday, the Greater Chennai Corporation operated 4,949 push carts and 1,182 mini trucks, while the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and the Cooperation Department operated as many as 501 vehicles, all for selling vegetables and fruits in the city. One of the challenges in selling groceries through mobile units was that some people in the city, especially those belonging to the lower strata of society, expected to get them on credit, like they do in shops. In Madurai, with shops and markets closed and restrictions imposed on movement of vehicles, major public spaces, including the Kalavasal junction, the Goripalayam junction, the East Veli Street and the PTR Bridge near Anna Nagar, were free of pedestrians and vehicles. A senior Madurai Corporation official said that 55 mobile vegetable vending outlets were deployed across the city. Each vehicle sold 75 vegetable bags and 50 fruit bags. Around 11,500 people were served food at the 12 Amma Unavagams across the city. In Coimbatore, access points to the main roads were barricaded in many areas. The wholesale vegetable market remained shut and vegetables were sold through government vehicles. Uzhavar Sandhais were open, but did not attract traders or customers. In some places, the police noted down the names and employment details of people working in essential sectors such as healthcare when they were going to work. In Tiruppur, the district administration made arrangements for door delivery of vegetables. Ditto was the scene in Salem, which was into the second day of the total lockdown, as District Collector S.A. Raman had ordered a total lockdown on Saturday and Sunday and the Chief Minister had announced a four-day lockdown from Sunday to Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cities-wear-deserted-look-on-day-1-of-complete-lockdown/article31440741.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Turning the spotlight on Chennai||Chennai has been resolutely at the head of the table of COVID-19 positive cases for a while now. While the first case of a COVID-19 infection was reported at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on March 7, it was actually a resident of Kancheepuram. As a tertiary health care centre, it is likely that a large number of referrals or patients themselves seeking care are reporting in Chennai’s hospitals from the neighbouring districts as well. Be that as it may, there is still a pressing need to turn the spotlight on the city, which has had an average of just over 54% of daily new cases since April 19. April 19 seems to be the day the apple cart was upset in Chennai. For the first time, Chennai accounted for 50 of the of 105 positive cases that day. From cruising at about with a share of 14% of the daily Statewide new cases, the figure suddenly shot up to 46%. The next big spike, the highest so far in the epidemic, was on April 21 when with 55 of the 76 new cases, Chennai’s share touched (its peak yet) over 72.4%. However, as a percentage of the total number of active cases in the State, Chennai still remained at under 20, but in subsequent days rose and was at 27.7 % (of active cases) on Sunday. Public health experts say density of population is at the core of the issue. “With about 26,000 persons per sq. km., the population density in Chennai is unparalleled compared to any other part of the State,” says P. Kuganantham, former Chennai Corporation Health Officer. It is a tertiary care centre with a large number of government and private hospitals serving COVID-19 patients, he points out. Those who test positive in Chennai may not actually be from the city. “I believe that higher numbers of positive cases per se need not be a source of worry, as in epidemic control it is read as the presence of a good testing mechanism. But we need to do everything to minimise risk to people,” he says. Higher number of tests Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar says one other reason for the high number of positives is that higher number of tests being done in Chennai. If 7,000 tests are done daily in the State, at least 1,000 to 2,000 of them are in the capital city and there are plans to increase this. “The government does feel the need to focus on Chennai and the Chief Minister appointed additional officers to monitor the COVID-19 situation here,” he says. In addition, facilities have been made to provide real time results of tested samples via a mobile portal. The batches of samples are run in three shifts every day, ensuring that the results are delivered faster, he adds. A senior official says while the epidemic has dispersed by now, the bulk of the cases come from the red zone areas that are under quarantine or termed as hot spot. For instance, the zones that present a real challenge include Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam, where population density is also high. In fact, the official says until April 19, there were only 78 wards that had positive cases, but in five days it had spread to about 108 wards. A health department official says while ‘primary’ contacts initially provided some worry, subsequent mapping has identified their contacts with persons who were positive or contacts of those who were positive. “That way, we are still able to make out who the source was, in some cases, it was a milk delivery man or a grocer too,” the official added. Thanks to the civic body’s outreach efforts, more people with symptoms are now being identified and tested with the highest number of testing centres and collection centres in the city. There were a large number of people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference from Chennai and their families and contacts too were at risk. Public health authorities say a positive case was found even 31 days after known exposure to a positive person and that has foxed them, though they try to explain that the virus continues to shed from the human body long after the person’s swabs have tested negative. There continues to be more movement in Chennai, including inter-State movement, and intra-city as more people go to work than in suburban or rural pockets. Fatality rate While the growing number of cases in Chennai, even as a proportion of the new positive cases is cause for concern, officials point out that the fatality is still at about 1%. “So far it is well within the State average too. We need to now, make sure additional attention is paid to senior citizens, and people who have co-morbidities. Make sure their exposure is limited, and that they remain healthy. We have brought in experts from the National Institute of Epidemiology to help us figure out how to bring down numbers in Chennai,” the official added.  The government does feel the need to focus on Chennai C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turning-the-spotlight-on-chennai/article31440713.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Declare sanitary pads an essential commodity, says Pad man||Sanitary pads for women should be declared an essential commodity and their production should be allowed as there was an alarming demand and scarcity during the COVID-19 lockdown period, ‘Pad man’ Arunachalam Muruganantham said. He also urged ensuring the availability of raw material for the manufacture of sanitary pads. Mr. Muruganantham, the celebrated social entrepreneur from Coimbatore, whose low-cost sanitary pad-making machine brought about a revolution in rural India encouraging women to come out of unhygienic practices over menstruation, said, “We have been receiving a lot of phone calls on disruption in the supply of pads. It is to be taken seriously.” While the lockdown’s goal was to keep everyone healthy, disruption in manufacture and distribution of pads and procurement of raw material would defeat the purpose. “Due to the non-availability of pads, women will have no choice but go back to practicing unhygienic methods of using rag cloth etc., during their periods. After so much effort, we brought them out of such practices earlier but this lockdown should not stop the supply of pads,” he said. India was not about metros alone and in rural India, “the situation can get worse,” Mr. Muruganantham said pointing to the fact that mensuration was still a taboo topic in many such areas. Both Central and State governments had taken tremendous steps, including slashing GST for pads, to raise awareness and make women follow hygienic practices, he added. “All this has made India a frontrunner in spreading awareness on menstrual hygiene. All this effort might go to waste if we don’t take necessary steps now,” he contended and urged the authorities to permit all pad manufacturers as well as Women Self-Help Groups to start operation while following physical distancing norms. Mr. Muruganantham said he received calls informing him that his machines had run out of raw material. “The total number of low-cost sanitary pad making machines installed in the country are more than 25,000. Of these, 5,000 are the machines that I made. In all these places, the women who run the units are saying that they do not have raw material to make pads,” he said. Further, they were unable to distribute the pads that have been made. “If the women do not get pads for two cycles, they will go back to unhygienic practices. It will affect their health. The government should pay attention to this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-sanitary-pads-an-essential-commodity/article31440723.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deputy CM hits back at Stalin for criticising govt. over tax share||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Sunday criticised DMK president M.K. Stalin for repeatedly claiming that the AIADMK government had failed to uphold the State’s rights in relation to its share of taxes. In a statement, he said there was no change in the Tamil Nadu government’s position that it was entitled to a higher share of Central taxes, adding that the government was consistently raising the issue. The Deputy CM said Mr. Stalin had, while criticising him, quoted only a portion of his Budget speech, in which he had criticised the Centre, adding that he had changed his stance now. “This is wrong. Mr. Stalin is doing this only to find fault [with me],” he said. Detailing the State’s position, Mr. Panneerselvam quoted certain portions of his Budget speech and said he had “full belief” that Tamil Nadu will receive the revenue deficit grant by the end of the year. “Despite the government making it clear that we are readying a letter to be sent to the Centre, explaining how the State has been affected by the recommendations of the Finance Commission and insisting on a higher share [of taxes], it is sad that Mr. Stalin is raising these issues yet again,” he said. Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK leader was engaging in needless controversies despite the government having clarified its position on the issue multiple times, that too at a time when the State and the country were fighting the COVID-19 battle. ‘Hasty lockdown’ Mr. Stalin on Sunday alleged that the four-day complete lockdown in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore, which the government had announced in a “hasty manner” without making necessary arrangements, had increased fear and confusion among the people about the COVID-19 situation in T.N. In a statement, he noted that people had rushed to shops in large numbers to buy essentials in the wake of the announcement, undermining social distancing norms. “The complete lockdown was announced only on April 24, and the announcement had raised doubts as to whether the government had only implemented half measures during the lockdown,” he said. “I had urged the government to extend the business hours of the shops till the evening. But people crowded the areas to buy essential commodities, which defeated the purpose of the complete lockdown,” Mr. Stalin said. Had the government made the announcement four days earlier, it could have avoided the rush, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deputy-cm-hits-back-at-stalin-for-criticising-govt-over-tax-share/article31440746.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Helping students get by instead of demanding fees||At a time when the State government is urging educational institutions not to demand fees from students, the Tamil Department of S.T. Hindu College, Nagercoil, has set an example by crediting money into the bank accounts of the parents of 26 poor students. “Instead of reaching out to unknown outsiders, we decided to help our students, who have borne the brunt of the lockdown. We credited Rs. 3,000 each into the accounts of the parents of 26 students of our department, because we know the difficulties being faced by their families during the lockdown,” said T.V. Jagatheesan, head of the Tamil Department. According to Mr.Jagatheesan,most of his students had studied in Tamil-medium schools and came from poor families and socio-economic backgrounds. WhatsApp group “It is not easy to judge the background of the students since we follow a uniform dress code in our college. So, we left it to the students to identify those in need. There is a WhatsApp group in every class under our department, and the students had selected 26 deserving candidates,” Mr.Jagatheesansaid. There were 15 teachers in the department, and they immediately came forward to make contributions.  We left it to the students to identify those in need. They selected 26 deserving candidates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helping-students-get-by-instead-of-demanding-fees/article31440749.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Producers court OTT platforms to cash in on summer movie season||How can Kollywood be preserved intact when the COVID-19 pandemic is expected to change the way industries across the world go about their business? Amid deep uncertainty over whether audiences would feel comfortable walking into cinema halls even months down the line, film producers in T.N., who had been hoping to cash in on theatrical releases during the lucrative summer months of April and May, are now looking for other ways to get their money’s worth. In a surprise move, actor Suriya’s production house, 2D Entertainment, decided on Saturday that Jyothika-starrer Pon Magal Vandhal, originally slated to hit the screens in March, will be released directly on Amazon Prime Video in the first week of May. Industry sources said the film had been sold to Amazon Prime Video for Rs. 5 crore. The move has prompted an adverse reaction from exhibitors and distributors, who have threatened to ban all feature films starring Mr. Suriya and made by his production house. In a video message, R. Panneerselvam, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners’ Association, said, “I was shocked to learn that Pon Magal Vandhal would be released on an OTT (over-the-top) platform before its theatrical release. Movies that are produced for theatres should be released in theatres first. The producer has breached this rule. We strongly condemn this. We told the producer not to do this. If they (the production house) press ahead with this plan, we will not release any movies associated with that company.” The tug of war between exhibitors and producers has been going on ever since the digital platforms, armed with huge cash reserves, entered the film business. As the cinema owners have come down hard on the producer, the Tamil Nadu Film Producers’ Council is likely to throw its weight behind 2D Entertainment. Disagreeing with the statement made by the cinema owners, producer G. Dhananjayan said, “It is the right of the producer to decide how to cash in on the film. Even big Bollywood movies like Akshay Kumar’s Laxmmi Bomb and Sooryavanshi are likely to be released directly on OTT platforms. If theatre owners can decide which films should be screened and how many shows a film should get — small films don’t get screens — then producers should have the freedom to exploit their product in any way they see fit.” Rajsekar Pandian, director and co-producer, 2D Entertainment, declined to comment on the matter as the producers’ council was likely to give its response. A cinema owner, who wished to remain anonymous, said that banning Mr. Suriya’s films was not the solution, and that the decision to release Pon Magal Vandhal directly on an OTT platform was merely due to the situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is a COVID-19-induced one-time move, and we expect that things will settle down in the long term. In the end, you can’t prevent actors from working with Netflix or Amazon [Prime Video], and the producers will also make content for OTT platforms as it’s a safe business model with a 10-15% assured margin,” a cinema owner said. “The general expectation is that till Diwali, there won’t be much traction in the theatrical business even if the lockdown is lifted. Normalcy is expected to return only next year, after a vaccine becomes available,” he added. Minister for Information and Publicity Kadambur Raju on Sunday said the State government will facilitate talks between producers and cinema owners to arrive at a mutual agreement on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/producers-court-ott-platforms-to-cash-in-on-summer-movie-season/article31440751.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection drive taken up in Koyambedu||The Chennai Corporation and the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority have started disinfection of Koyambedu wholesale market, as a trader had tested positive for COVID-19. According to wholesale merchants, the trader in question was from Kundrathur and he usually purchased lemons and onions from Koyambedu market. S. Chandran, a wholesale merchant, said that officials from the Corporation enquired about shops from where he made the purchases. Corporation officials said that work on disinfection would be taken up this week in all shops and collection of samples from other traders for testing would begin shortly. On Sunday, about 1,000 shops were open in the market and it received nearly 15,000 visitors. Also, officials from the Central team visited the market. Housing Secretary Rajesh Lakhoni and CMDA Member-Secretary D. Karthikeyan made arrangements to send essential commodities to the residents’ associations that made bulk order for vegetables and fruits. Essential commodities were supplied to gated communities in all 15 zones on Sunday. Many workers who delivered essential commodities to residents were screened for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-drive-taken-up-in-koyambedu/article31440709.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pushcarts, hawkers not in sight, consumers hunt for veggies||Many residents who could not buy vegetables on Saturday because of crowd, found it difficult to purchase them on Sunday, day one of the complete lockdown. In PTC quarters area off Rajiv Gandhi Salai, the lone platform vendor was driven away by the police in the morning. “The roads are empty. Not a single shop is open. There are no pushcarts selling vegetables or fruits. The apps don't deliver too,” said Narayanan, who lives in the area. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority initially announced that vegetables and fruits would be available during the complete lockdown but retracted the statement later in the evening. On its website, the CMDA has asked residents in apartment complexes to make bookings. The supplies were being delivered, the officials said. Those in individual houses had to depend on the apps, they added. No delivery A corss-section of residents in Avadi, Navalur, Adyar and Thoraipakkam said that the apps did not deliver in their areas. Mithun Narayanan of Adyar said he did not buy vegetables on Saturday because of the crowd. “I went out but decided it was not worth the risk. I have some vegetables and will be able to manage. A neighbour said he bought vegetables from a pushcart inside another apartment complex,” he said. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said that a common number should be provided for residents to call and ask for delivery of vegetables and other essentials. “This is an extraordinary situation and officials should have anticipated demands to make arrangements accordingly. Senior citizens in expanded areas mostly live in individual houses and there are no associations in such places to help them. They cannot move out on foot to buy vegetables either,” he said. Sunday morning too witnessed panic buying of milk in several places in the city including Tiruvanmiyur, K. K. Nagar and Vyasarpadi. There were instances of some varieties of milk not being available, milk being sold at higher prices and people crowding shops. “Milk shops were crowded and people were buying four or five packets each. Also, blue milk packets with 3.5% fat were not available in our area and I had to buy green magic with higher fat,” said Prakash, M.G.R. Nagar resident. In Vyasarpadi, residents had to go in search of milk. “Shops in C. Kalyanapuram did not have milk. My son had to go to M.K.B. Nagar to buy milk. It was the same case yesterday when even vegetables too were not available,” said Umapathy, a resident of the area. Inflated prices In Purasawalkam, a resident complained that milk was sold at Rs. 40 a packet instead of Rs. 26. “This is not fair trade practice. The government should take action on such persons selling above the MRP,” said the resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pushcarts-hawkers-not-in-sight-consumers-hunt-for-veggies/article31440711.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes many parts of city||Thunder showers lashed many parts of Chennai early on Sunday, bringing respite from soaring day temperatures. Several areas in and around the city received sharp showers accompanied by thunder and lightning. Power supply was disrupted in many areas for several hours. Power supply was stopped as a precautionary measure because of heavy rains, according to sources in Tangedco. The automatic rain gauges in many areas recorded up to 4 cm of rainfall till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. While Taramani and Anna University topped with 5 cm and 4 cm of rainfall respectively, those in Ennore and Hindustan University registered 3 cm of rainfall. Other weather stations in Poonamallee and Nungambakkam recorded 2 cm and Meenambakkam 1 cm of rainfall during the same period. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, said multiple factors caused rain. Besides convective activity that usually occurs during summer and moisture incursion, a trough/wind discontinuity running to south Tamil Nadu across East Madhya Pradesh and interior Karnataka brought moderate to heavy rains in many places. Mercury level peaked beyond 40-degree mark at many places such as Vellore, Tiruchi, Tiruttani, Salem and Karur on Saturday. The weather stations in Chennai recorded the hottest day yet, with day temperatures escalating to 38 degree Celsius in Meenambakkam and 36.2 degree Celsius in Nungambakkam. The soaring temperature aided sharp spell of rains, according to officials of Meteorological Department. The same weather trend may continue for two days with light to moderate rains expected to occur over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Heavy rains may occur in select areas. Chennai may have a break from hot weather till Tuesday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-many-parts-of-city/article31440718.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newspaper vendors reach out to unsung heroes||This year, newspaper vendors in the city will not probably have enough savings to spend on emergencies or wedding gifts and will have to tone down their Ayudha Puja celebrations, a grand event for them. For, the Tamil Nadu Newspaper Vendors Association in Mylapore, West Mambalam and M.G.R. Nagar covering around 220 vendors has spent it all on COVID-19 relief for its members. “These are difficult times when we have lost access to the entire apartment complexes or streets due to one positive case. There are a few cases where offices are closed and we cannot deliver and hence collections are down,” said D. Prakash, a vendor in M.G.R. Nagar. He, along with the office-bearers of the M.G.R. Nagar unit, have distributed home needs to 50 of their vendor association members. At Mylapore, association office-bearers consisting of Nachiappan, Sundaram and Dillibabu gave away cash of Rs. 1,500 to each of 150 members, who include shopkeepers selling newspapers. The West Mambalam unit gave away provisions worth Rs. 1,500 to 60 members. Boys to be felicitated S. Murugan, an office-bearer, said that they plan to give a small incentive to delivery boys. “Since they are the ones who reach newspapers to homes, we will honour them shortly, ” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newspaper-vendors-reach-out-to-unsung-heroes/article31440720.ece
27 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Extension of lockdown on the cards||Chennai, its neighbouring areas and Madurai may face yet another extension of the lockdown beyond May 3 if the COVID-19 graph keeps climbing, according to a senior government official. One of the obvious reasons for the authorities to contemplate such a move is that all these areas fall under ‘red’ zones. After the first phase of lockdown between March 25 and April 15, the second is now in progress. It is scheduled to end on May 3. The rationale behind the complete lockdown is that only if there is “more curfew” is there a likelihood of “less social interaction”. In Chennai, residents will be served by at least 3,000 mobile vegetable units besides 4,949 pushcarts. On Saturday alone, over 5,000 tonnes of produce was sold through mobile units. In the last month, nearly 80,000 tonnes of vegetables and fruits was sold across the State. On an average, the people were buying around 7,200 tonnes of vegetables and fruits since the beginning of the lockdown in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extension-of-lockdown-on-the-cards/article31440756.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Zinc tablets to boost immunity of frontline staff||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday announced that frontline workers involved in the battle against COVID-19 would be given zinc and multi-vitamin tablets to boost their immunity. Employees from various departments such as Public Health, Revenue, Local Administration, Police and others have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. The medicines will be given to them from April 27, for a period of 10 days, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zinc-tablets-to-boost-immunity-of-frontline-staff/article31440747.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More time for payment of taxes||The State government has issued an order, giving three more months to assessees of property tax and water tax in urban areas to make payments for the previous financial year, 2019-20, in view of the COVID-19 situation in the State. The last date for the payment of tax was March 31. Besides, traders had to renew their licences by the end of March. As per municipal laws, the local bodies are empowered to take coercive steps against defaulters, such as issuance of notice, distraint of property and prosecution, apart from the levying of penal interest for belated payment of taxes and disconnection of water and sewer lines. The government’s order, issued by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department a few days ago, was meant for enabling the assessees to remit the taxes and the traders to renew the licences up to June 30 without any penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-time-for-payment-of-taxes/article31440752.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces measures to help farmers||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday announced a few measures meant to help farmers tide over the crisis caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami recalled that the government had earlier announced that farmers could store their produce for free in regulated market facilities for up to 30 days. Now, this had been extended by another month. He said the government had announced a moratorium on interest to be paid on loans taken against the produce at storage facilities for 30 days. This had also been extended by a month, he said. The Chief Minister also announced that the waiver of the 1% market charge on the sale of goods had been extended by another month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-measures-to-help-farmers/article31440753.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shop owner electrocuted in Ennore||A 46-year-old hardware shop owner was electrocuted in the early hours of Sunday. The name of the victim was given as Selvin of S.V.M. Nagar, Ennore. The police said Mr. Selvin runs a hardware shop near Thazhankuppam. He was electrocuted while opening the shutters of the shop early in the morning. Suspected cause Leakage in power line within the shop was suspected to be the cause of electrocution, the police said. The victim was rushed to the Government Stanley Hospital where the doctors pronounced him as brought dead. The Ennore police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shop-owner-electrocuted-in-ennore/article31440716.ece
27 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Showers cause blackout||Power supply in several areas in the city was disrupted due to heavy rain on Sunday, the first day of the four-day total lockdown. Several areas in north and south Chennai, including Villivakkam, T. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Velachery, Pallikaranai and Medavakkam were affected. A senior official of Tangedco blamed it on rain and strong winds, which damaged power lines, transformers and junction boxes. The electricity official said despite the maintenance staff working in limited numbers, power supply was restored in phases in the affected areas, including Tambaram, Pallavaram, Madipakkam, T. Nagar and Kodambakkam. Incessant rain hampered the restoration work, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/showers-cause-blackout/article31440715.ece
27 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Follow lockdown rules, says Ramadoss||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Sunday said that it was alarming to note that 104 children tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu and urged people to follow lockdown rules put in place. In a statement, he said around 104 children, less than 12 years old, had been affected by COVID-19 for no fault of theirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-lockdown-rules-says-ramadoss/article31440737.ece
27 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School prepares quiz for students||Amid the lockdown, a private school in Saravanampatti has been preparing online quizzes using Google Forms to keep students engaged. A team of 10 teachers from Lisieux CMI Public School (CBSE) prepare a set of 25 questions for students of Classes I to X. According to the school principal Fr. Dany Kokkadan, about 15 questions are on current affairs based on the previous day’s newspapers and the rest will be questions based on general knowledge. The quizzes will be uploaded from Monday to Friday atwww.lisieuxcmi.ac.in/quiz/ The school started preparing these quizzes from April 20 and has allowed students from other schools to participate since April 23. “If more participants are there, we are planning to give some rewards,” Fr. Kokkadan said. These quizzes are being organised in parallel to the online classes that are under way for Classes IX and X. From May 10, online classes will begin for Classes V to X. The classes will be 1.5 hours long, he noted. With only 100 students participating when the quiz began, the number has increased to nearly 1,000 students by the end of the week, Fr. Kokkadan claimed. The quizzes will help students to update their general knowledge and use the lockdown days in a productive manner, he opined. “This quiz competition will give the students some enthusiasm to read books and newspapers,” Fr. Kokkadan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-prepares-quiz-for-students/article31440757.ece
27 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mobile vegetable vendors feel the pinch||On Sunday, there were ropes and barricades at the entrance of the otherwise busy MGR wholesale vegetable market on Mettupalayam Road. Bags of vegetables stacked inside and a few men guarding those was the market scene. The extension of the market – the Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand – was no different. The traders at the market, more than 120 of them, had decided to keep the shops shut during the four days of total lockdown in the city from Sunday. “It is not enough if we alone come to the market. Our staff and workers should be able to come so that we are able to load and unload the vegetables. With the total lockdown, it is difficult for our workers and staff to come. We have discussed the issue with the officials too. Since there is no solution we decided to keep the shops closed,” said one of the traders. The market received 300 to 400 tonnes of vegetables a day. Sources in the Corporation said the impact of the wholesale vegetable traders shutting down their business was that a few traders, who were selling vegetables at door steps using their vehicles, could not get enough vegetables. A few of the 70-odd farmers and traders that the Corporation had helped for vegetable sales managed to run their business on Sunday as they had stocked vegetables. But whether they would be able to pull through till Wednesday with the stocks on hand was to be seen, said a Corporation officer. Some vegetables such as onions and potatoes could be stocked. But not all vegetables. The vehicles that sold vegetables to customers at the doorstep managed with lesser volume even on Sunday. “We used to send about 500 kg on a vehicle. On Sunday, we sent only 400 kg. We were unable to get carrots, cabbage, etc.” said another trader. He said the district administration should at least permit the traders to purchase locally from the farmers around Coimbatore. “We may manage on Monday too. But it will be difficult on Tuesday,” he added. It was not just the wholesale market that was closed. The farmers’ markets (uzhavar sandhai) also saw farmers and customers keeping away from visiting the facilities. Agriculture Marketing Department had kept open the four farmers’ markets. Sources in the Department said that as per Government orders they did keep open the four farmers’ markets – R.S. Puram, Vadavalli, Singanallur and Sundarapuram – but the farmers did not turn up. Nor did customers. The temporary vegetable markets at the bus stands in Gandhipuram and at T.A. Ramalingam Chettiar Higher Secondary School also remained shut on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-vegetable-vendors-feel-the-pinch/article31440773.ece
27 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 700 arrested in Coimbatore||The police registered 652 cases and arrested 740 persons in connection with violation of prohibitory orders in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The police also seized 639 vehicles from them. Those arrested were released on bail. Coimbatore rural police imposed a fine to the tune of Rs. 2.39 lakh on lockdown violators on Saturday.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:   239 cases registered   in Salem  The Salem City police on Saturday registered 239 cases and seized 184 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders. Salem district police on Saturday have registered 208 cases against 263 persons and seized 174 vehicles here. Namakkal police registered 170 cases against 181 persons and seized over 80 vehicles. Arrested for feasting The Salem City police on Sunday arrested 11 persons for feasting near Veeranam violating prohibitory orders. According to police, a few youth near Veeranam cooked chicken and posted videos of it on WhatsApp. Veeranam police arrested the youth and registered a case. They were later let out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-700-arrested-in-coimbatore/article31440779.ece
27 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Drone surveillance to be continued||Coimbatore city police will continue to use drones for aerial surveillance during the complete lockdown. Aerial surveillance was started when national lockdown began last month. On Sunday, the first day of the four-day total lockdown, city police used drones fitted with camera at places like Ramanathapuram. Drones will be sued for surveillance in accessible and congested areas. The police have tied up with a few studios for the use of drones. With the help of the operators, the police will check whether people gather or shops function in areas where they are used. A senior police officer said that aerial surveillance will be continued for the coming days too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drone-surveillance-to-be-continued/article31440781.ece
27 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Total compliance on the first day of complete lockdown||All the arterial roads and and public places across Madurai city wore a deserted look on Sunday as the residents stayed indoors on the first day of the four-day complete lockdown announced by the State government. With the closure of shops, markets and restrictions imposed on movement of vehicles, the whole city was free of pedestrian and vehicular movement. M.C. Saravanan, a volunteer who distributes vegetable bags across the city, said that only on Sunday that the residents truly followed the lockdown norms and stayed indoors. Jewellery shops remained shut, on the day of Akshaya Tritiya. “During testing times like these, safety is more important,” said K. Gokul Raj, Director of Tulsi Diamonds on West Masi Street. A Corporation official said that 55 mobile vegetable vendors did the rounds across the city. Each vehicle sold 75 vegetable bags and 50 fruit bags. “With the help of volunteers, groceries and vegetables are distributed to residents of containment zones in the city. Disinfection activities are also carried throughout the city as per schedule,” he said. The official said that around 11,500 people were served food at the 12 Amma Unavagams across the city. While total compliance to lockdown was witnessed in the city, shops were also closed in some parts of rural Madurai. K.M. Gopalan, a resident of Melavalavu village, said that shops in his village were closed on Sunday and that it would continue to remain so during the four days. “Only those people who were engaged in farm activities went outside home,” he said. Shops were also closed in Thuvariman village. Additional Director of Panchayat A. Chelladurai said that though there was no announcement by the district administration, shops were closed in a few villages of Kottampatti and Melur blocks. Collector T. G. Vinay said that the public supported the measures taken to prevent the spread of the pandemic by complying with the lockdown rules and not venturing out unnecessarily. No vehicles but for those permitted by police personnel were allowed to ply on the road. “Frontline workers were on the streets and ensured that regular checking is continued,” he said. A release from the civic body said residents can contact 84284 25000 in case of an emergency. Later in the day, officials in charge of the Zonal Task force, including IAS officer C. Kamaraj and IPS officer S. Murugan, and Collector T. G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan took part in a meeting to discuss measures to be taken in containment zones during the four-day lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-compliance-on-the-first-day-of-complete-lockdown/article31441008.ece
27 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Difficulty in getting medical products hits terminally ill||In the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, shortage in liquid disinfectants, hand gloves and disinfectant wipes in pharmacies has affected terminally ill patients, who require them the most, say their caregivers. They say that it is also difficult to procure adult diaper, which is an everyday requirement for these patients. R. Balagurusamy, managing trustee of Nethravathi Pain and Palliative Care Centre at Vilacheri, says that disinfectants in the form of liquids or wipes are essential to ensure hygiene of around 40 patients at the centre. “Most of them are bedridden and we need to regularly clean them with wipes or cloths dipped in disinfectant to ensure that they don’t develop bedsores. But, during this crisis, we are finding it difficult to get sufficient quantity of disinfectants,” he says. Krishnamoorthy, who takes care of a 89-year-old visually impaired terminally ill patient near Arapalayam, says that obtaining adult diapers from medical outlets is possible only after a long delay. “The patient constantly needs support to follow her routine. In the absence of a diaper, she gets anxious and emotionally stressed,” he says. One of the main problems is the difficulty in transporting medical products between States and within the city as well, says K. Padmaseshan, proprietor of ABS Firm which is trading medical products. “Truckers who deliver adult diapers from Salem, Hyderabad and Bengaluru say they face issues during transit. Hence, I have not been able to receive sufficient stock on time,” he says. Though the government and district administration have announced that there is no restriction on transporting medical products, there are still some issues at the ground level, says D. Murugesan, secretary of Madurai Mavatta Marunthu Vanigargal Sangam. “These issues have to be addressed,” he says, adding the public must not indulge in panic buying of medical products. Collector T.G. Vinay says that medicines are essential commodities and hence there will be no restriction on transporting them. Those who face difficulty during transit of medical products can call the toll-free number 1077, 0452 -2546160 or 9597176061 at the Emergency Operation Centre for assistance from officials, he adds.  Call toll-free number 1077, 0452 2546160 or 95971 76061 at Emergency Operation Centre for assistance   T.G. Vinay  Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/difficulty-in-getting-medical-products-hits-the-terminally-ill/article31441010.ece
27 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||1,568 tests conducted since reporting of first positive case||The Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has conducted a total of 1,568 tests since the first positive COVID-19 case was reported in Madurai. Collector T.G. Vinay said that swab tests were conducted for 200 people with influenza-like illness, for 338 people with severe acute respiratory illness and for 1,030 frontline workers with other issues. Of them, 75 have tested positive till date according to the State government’s health bulletin. Many patients are asymptomatic and 45 persons have been discharged till date. Thirty active cases are being treated at the GRH. The diagnostic team in Madurai predominantly uses Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president K Senthil says that the machine to perform the RT-PRC test can be used for testing 144 samples at a time. Results of negative cases will be available in four hours and positive cases in eight hours. With a recent set of cases without any travel history, there is a suspicion of community spread of the virus. The death of 71-year-old patient on Thursday night is an example. If the lockdown is lifted before the virus is contained fully, there will be a spike in the number of positive cases. So, we suggest random testing among the population immediately. Doctors at the GRH are working hard to break the chain. With strict monitoring of containment zones and random testing of samples from crowded areas, Madurai will stand a good chance at containing community spread, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1568-tests-conducted-since-reporting-of-first-positive-case/article31441004.ece
27 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kidnapped’ girl reunited with husband||Police have rescued a 21-year-old girl and reunited her with her husband within 24 hours. According to A. Kathir, Evidence, Executive Director of a non-governmental organisation in Madurai, following a complaint that the woman was ‘kidnapped’ by her elder brother, sister and relatives, a complaint was lodged with the Superintendent of Police of Pudukottai district and DSP of Alangulam sub-division. Muruganandam, 27, belonging to a Scheduled Caste community and an MBA graduate from Thennagar, a village near Karambakudi in Pudukottai district was in love with a girl belonging to another community for the last four years. The girl’s family objected to this and harassed her, following which she sought shelter in the house of Muruganandam. On April 21, Muruganandam married her. However, within about few hours, the relatives of the girl arrived there and abused the groom's family and by force took away the girl. When the police traced the victim and rescued her, she expressed her wish that she wanted to live with Muruganandam. Mr. Kathir said that inter-caste marriage was legal as the bride and groom were not minors. Only with her consent, the marriage was solemnised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kidnapped-girl-reunited-with-her-husband/article31441019.ece
27 April 2020||Madurai/Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees a rise of 15 positive cases||A total of 15 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 75. Madurai now stands fifth in the list of districts with the highest number of cases, according to the State Health bulletin. Five of the patients were below 18 years of age and the youngest of them were two eight-year-old girls. Three were above 50. Among those who tested positive was a firefighter who is working at Madurai Fire Station. Two of the patients were pregnant women. Seven of the 15 cases were from Sellur and three from Anaiyur. The others were from Periyar Bus Stand, Sikkandarchavadi, Doddapanaiyakanur, Vandiyur and Koodal Nagar. Most of the cases, according to Collector T.G. Vinay, were contacts of positive patients. However, in four cases, he said, the process of contact tracing was under way. Twelve patients were asymptomatic and all of those who tested positive did not have any travel history. The Collector said eight patients were also discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital. Virudhunagar district registered its second highest number of fresh positive cases – seven – on Sunday. Of those tested positive, four entered the district from other districts using e-passes on false grounds, Collector R. Kannan said. A sixth case has been recorded from Kumarapuram village. Officials suspect that the case may have been the main source of infection for others. The district administration has started screening all people trying to enter the district. It has decided to keep outsiders in quarantine for a day till their swab test results come out. The district has reported 32 positive cases, including 10 persons, who have been discharged from hospital after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-sees-a-rise-of-15-positive-cases/article31440997.ece
27 April 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||1,300 tonnes of rice arrives||For the public distribution, 1300 metric tonnes of rice arrived here in rail wagons from Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. According to railway officials, the consignment was off loaded from the wagons and transported to the warehouses by lorries. The rice would be despatched to ration shops across various southern districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1300-tonnes-of-rice-arrives/article31441000.ece
27 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy complains to Amit Shah about L-G||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Sunday that he had raised with Union Home Minister Amit Shah the “obstructionist” approach of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi in implementing free rice distribution to BPL families during the COVID-19 crisis. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said Mr. Shah, who had called him to assess the COVID-19 situation in the Union Territory, had agreed to resolve complaints about interference in the implementation of the scheme, which had been announced by the Centre. While the Congress has hit out in recent days at the Lt. Governor for interfering in the implementation of the rice relief scheme, Ms. Bedi had denied the charges stating that the distribution of free rice and grains was being organised in a fair manner based on a standard operating procedure. Mr. Narayanasamy also apprised the Home Minister of the U.T.’s request for financial assistance. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu had also been on the phone to enquire about the COVID-19 situation in the U.T., the Chief Minister said. The Chief Minister has asked the Centre to devise a plan to repatriate overseas Indian employees and students who needed to return to their home States. The government was engaged in efforts to restart sectors of the economy. While small shops such as textiles, electronics and electrical outlets, would be allowed to function, they would operate with half staff strength and ensure PPEs for employees. The government was also seeking to give work for 20,000 rural workers under MGNREGA and arrange soft loans to the tune of Rs. 10,000 to women SHGs, he said. The health department, meanwhile, has said it will begin RT-PCR screening for various categories of staff on the frontlines of COVID-19 management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-complains-to-amit-shah-about-l-g/article31440732.ece
27 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK seeks intervention of L-G on price rise||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has sought the intervention of Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi in controlling the spiralling price of essential commodities in the Union Territory. In a petition to the Lt. Governor on Sunday, AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan said the prices of essential commodities, including cooking oil and pulses, have shot up after the announcement of lockdown. ‘Artificial shortage’ Capitalising on the restrictions imposed by the government to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, the traders had created an artificial shortage and increased the prices of food items. The price of certain food articles had gone up by 10 to 30%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-seeks-intervention-of-l-g-on-price-rise/article31440722.ece
27 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Celebrating Akshaya Tritiya differently||Volunteers of the Rajasthan Samaj chose to celebrate the auspicious occasion of Akshaya Tritiya by serving sweets to abandoned cows in a shelter outlying the city. About 500 cows, forsaken for their lack of “market value”, are under the care at the shelter in Reddichavadi. On Sunday, volunteers transported 450 kg of jaggery-sweetened ragi halwa to the ‘goshala’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrating-akshaya-tritiya-differently/article31440726.ece
27 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai gets an RT-PCR laboratory||The Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital (PGMCH) now has a RT-PCR laboratory to carry out tests for COVID-19. The facility, which has been set up at the microbiology department of the medical college, was inaugurated by C. Vijayabaskar, Health Minister, on Sunday. In a Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) laboratories test nasopharyngeal swabs are collected from suspected patients’ nose and throat. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government has sought to expand the number of testing facilities in the State, and the PGMCH is the latest addition. Speaking to The Hindu , AL. Meenakshi Sundaram, Dean, PGMCH said that they received the RT-PCR testing machine on April 8 and raced against time to create the necessary infrastructure, impart training to medical and paramedical personnel, and procure ancillary equipment and reagent kits within one week. “Following the establishment of the facility, a test run was conducted and an an application seeking recognition was sent to Indian council of Medical Research, New Delhi,” Dr. Sundaram said. The approval was received on April 24. Dr. Sundaram said that since April 15, a total of 972 samples of people in containment zones and people with cold and fever symptoms were where lifted from Pudukkottai district. The results of 942 results were declared after they were tested at the Tiruchi K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College or Government Tiruvarur Medical College. “The pending 30 samples and all others collected in the forthcoming days would be tested at the Pudukottai facility itself,” Dr. Sundaram said. The laboratory was established at a cost of Rs. 52 lakh. “The chemicals used per test costs nearly Rs. 3,000,” Dr. Sundaram said. A team of five microbiologists and six lab technicians have been posted at the laboratory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukottai-gets-an-rt-pcr-laboratory/article31441032.ece
27 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Specialised treatment helped cure many COVID-19 patients’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that many COVID-19 patients had got cured and returned home due to specialised treatment and care provided to them. Various measures were being taken on a war footing as per the advice of the Chief Minister to contain the spread of the viral disease, Mr. Vijayabaskar said. Presiding over a meeting held with all government department officials here regarding the ongoing precautionary measures being taken in Pudukottai district to check the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Vijayabaskar said the central team which was on a visit to Chennai to take stock of the situation in the light of COVID-19 pandemic had appreciated the work taken by the State government to contain the spread of the virus. Awareness on COVID-19 and the ways to prevent its spread was also being created through the local body continuously to the people besides executing safety measures. Officials deployed at the frontline duty to curb the spread of the virus have been advised to protect themselves completely. The State government had taken steps to provide kabasura kudineer to these officials as well as to public to improve their immunity, he further said. All government department officials in Pudukottai district were working well in a coordinated manner to check the spread of the viral disease, the Minister said. The Minister later gave away 10,000 masks to the office of the Deputy Director – Health, Aranthangi and inaugurated the services of two new 108 ambulances for the benefit of the people. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari, Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthikumar and officials from various government departments participated, an official release said.  Visits village Later, he visited Mirattunilai village in Arimalam block where one person had recently tested positive for COVID-19 and inspected the safety measures being executed to prevent the spread of the virus. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Vijayabaskar said consequent to the report of a positive case at Mirattunilai, the district administration had brought 48 villages situated within five and three kilometre radius of Mirattunilai under its control. Medical teams had been deployed to examine those complaining of cough and fever. Spraying of disinfectants was being undertaken at the affected village and in its vicinity as a safety measure. Measures had been intensified across the State to prevent the spread of the virus by continuous monitoring, he said. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari and health department officials accompanied the Minister, an official release said. The Minister also distributed kabasura kudineer to officials working in the frontline at Mirattunilai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/specialised-treatment-helped-cure-many-covid-19-patients/article31441037.ece
27 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||BJP seeks action against MP||BJP State vice-president D. Kuppuramu has demanded police to register a case against Ramanathapuram MP Nawas Kani for his alleged remarks against the police who had booked cases against 11 Indonesian nationals. On April 14, the MP had condemned the police and the Tamil Nadu government for having booked cases against the Indonesians. After the foreigners were reportedly found to have violated the visa norms, the police had registered a case against them for conducting religious activities. When this was the situation, the MP's criticism against the police was not only shocking, but also condemnable, Mr. Kuppuramu told reporters here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-seeks-action-against-mp/article31440998.ece
27 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||People stay indoors in Salem district||On Sunday, the second day of complete lockdown, the district saw fewer vehicles on the roads with people venturing out only for medical emergencies. All shops other than pharmacies and a few petrol bunks remained closed throughout the day. District Collector S.A.Raman had announced a two-day complete lockdown in the district over the weekend. The district administration and the civic body had arranged vehicles to deliver groceries and other essentials at the doorstep of the people. The Salem Corporation has arranged 80 vehicles selling vegetables, fruits and other essentials in its limits. According to Corporation officials, arrangements have been made with Aavin for door delivery of milk between 6.30 a.m. and 7.30 a.m. Similarly, mobile vegetable shops would visit different areas between 7.30 a.m and 6 p.m. The Corporation has also set up control rooms in each of its zones for delivery of goods. Officials from the agriculture marketing department said that they have arranged over 140 vehicles in the district for delivery of essentials at the doorsteps. Farmer producer groups have also been engaged for door delivery services. Farmers have been provided identity cards by the department to ensure smooth delivery of produce. The farmers would have sold about 200 tonnes of produce since the beginning of lockdown. The district administration offers support to farmers to meet transportation costs, the officials added. J.M. Boopathi, president, Consumer Voice Foundation, said that the complete lockdown was a welcome move. He said that the frequency of mobile vegetables shops should be increased in residential areas to prevent panic buying by public as it would lead to public gathering at markets and at retailers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-stay-indoors-in-salem-district/article31440776.ece
27 April 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||A circus team finds the going tough||The word circus means acrobatics, antics of buffoons and amazing actions of trained animals. Only with these promises and the dream of making a good collection of funds during the Panguni pongal season in the fireworks hub, a team from Manamadurai landed in Sivakasi over a month back. “After all arrangements of setting up a huge tent, we could successfully run only one show. Next day, the police instructed us to stop shows as lockdown had been enforced due to COVID-19,” says S. Kathiresan, 55, who has been leading the family show for the last two decades. Of course, Kathiresan is not his original name and his father’s name too is not Subbiah. “My father had come from Nepal decades back. We had different Tamil names for familiarity among the local crowd,” he said. The team of 25 persons, all family members of Mr. Kathiresan and his three brothers, and other team members – a camel, two horses, two goats and four dogs – are trapped here without any resource. The teams perform various stunts, from bar exercises to lifting massive weight, from jumping through ring of fire to performing gymnasium over camel. “We should thank our stars, as the local panchayat president and the police helped us with some groceries. The police are supplying food packets for all of us for lunch daily,” he says. The four families that usually make around Rs. 15,000 in 15 days have lost everything and are left with no money. “Kind-hearted people have helped to feed our family members but the animals require fodder which is not available in adequate stock. We manage by plucking some greens here and there. If the district authorities supply feed for our animals, it would be of great help at this critical moment,“ he says.  We should thank our stars, as the local panchayat president and the police have helped us with some groceries S. Kathiresan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-circus-team-finds-the-going-tough/article31441012.ece
27 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not open TASMAC shops even after lockdown is lifted’||The women's wing of Tamil Desiya Periyakkam, ‘Magalir Aayam’ has called upon the State government not to reopen the TASMAC liquor shops after the lockdown is lifted. In a statement issued here on Saturday, Magalir Aayam president Lakshmi and general secretary Aruna have observed that closure of TASMAC shops for the past one month due to nationwide lockdown has brought a much-needed change in the families of habitual drinkers. Nearly 90%of consumers have come to terms with reality and were managing to live without consuming liqour daily. The State should move towards imposition of total prohibition, they said and added that if these shops were to be opened after the lockdown period the effort put in by the government machinery in checking the spreading of COVID-19 virus would get defeated as hundreds of men could throng wine shops and bars. The Mahalir Aayam has called upon the people of Tamil Nadu to use the following hashtags “#DontOpenTASMACShops” and “#DontOpenLiquorDistilleries” on Twitter from 8 a.m. on Tuesday (April 28, 2020).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-open-tasmac-shops-even-after-lockdown-is-lifted/article31441029.ece
27 April 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Now, pregnant women in Theni district have ambulance on call||After media reports on how two pregnant women in Bodinayakkanur failed to get transportation to reach home from hospital as autorickshaws were impounded by the police, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam called them on the phone and apologised to them. He also tweeted that it was unfortunate that such a thing had happened to the women, who were forced to walk home in the scorching sun. Further, he announced that in all eight blocks, an ambulance would be stationed for the exclusive use of pregnant women, and said they could avail of it by calling the number 045-46261039. He added that the SP had shifted the Inspector of Police from the Bodinayakkanur police station to put an end to the issue. The Deputy CM was inspecting the municipalities in Bodinayakkanur, Chinnamanur, Cumbum and Gudalur areas accompanied by District Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, Superintendent of Police, E. Sai Charan Tejaswi. Mr. Panneerselvam said Theni had not reported even a single COVID-19 positive case in the last 11 days and attributed it to the commendable work of the district administration and the wholehearted support for it from the residents. After the pandemic broke out, the district had reported 43 cases. However, 34 patients have been discharged from the Theni Government Medical College Hospital.   Deputy Chief Minister tweeted that it was unfortunate that such a thing had happened to the women, who were forced to walk home in the scorching sun||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-pregnant-women-in-theni-have-ambulance-on-call/article31440733.ece
27 April 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Crew honoured||The bus crew members who have been transporting the front line health workers from their homes to the Theni Government Medical College Hospital and back daily were honoured on Saturday. TNSTC Managing Director M.A. Murugesan said that the Corporation had the responsibility of transporting such key workforce in such a medical emergency faced with COVID-19 pandemic. The General Manager N. Ganesan said that 12 buses were being operated exclusively. Deputy Managers Mohamed Rowther and Saravana Kumar and Assistant Manager Manivannan coordinating with the respective branch depots on the movement of the special buses were also appreciated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crew-honoured/article31441001.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||People with disabilities resent being left out of Welfare Board||While several categories of workers in organised and unorganised sectors are able to avail the utility of the goverment schemes extended through the welfare boards, lakhs of people with disabilities find themselves left in the cold. Only those who had been provided with disability cards from 2006 onwards are considered members of the Tamil Nadu Welfare Board for the Differently Abled Persons. The Welfare Board formed through an enactment in the Assembly entitles the members to several social security and welfare schemes under the heads: personal accident, funeral expenses, natural death, education of wards, assistance for marriage, and assistance for delivery for differently abled female members. Those who had obtained the disability certificates earlier have been struggling in vain for all these years to become members of the welfare board, Kamaraj, an orthopaedically-challenged youth and a Tiruchi-based activist for the people with disabilities said. From 2006 onwards, the disability cards are being given with a seal signifying membership in the Board. “This is unfair. A certification of disability authenticated by medical professionals and endorsed by the Social Welfare Department is in itself a strong document for making a disabled person a member of the Board,” Mr. Kamaraj said. Those above 18 years of age are enrolled as members. As per the census 2011 of Government of India, there are 11,79,963 differently abled persons in the State. But, there are only 3.75 lakh are registered members, P. Simmachandran, State president of Tamil Nadu Differently Abled Welfare Association, who is a member of the Board, said. Sadly, there is no clarity on the functional status of the Board. After its formation in 2006 with one crore rupees as corpus fund, the Board functioned till 2011 and was inactive till 2016. “When the meeting was convened by the Social Welfare Minister in 2016, we learnt that the corpus has been increased to Rs. 10 crore. We are looking forward to an active role by the office of the Commissionerate of the Welfare of the Differently Abled to enrol all deserving people in the Welfare Board,” Mr. Simmachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-with-disabilities-resent-being-left-out-of-welfare-board/article31441026.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Daily wage labourers in dire straits start pledging jewels||With savings drying out, daily wage labourers, have begun to knock at the doors of moneylenders and pawnbrokers to meet their household expenditure. Though almost all sections of the people have been affected, the lockdown has hit the daily wage labourers and unorganised sector the most. More than a month has passed since these workers have gone for work. While a section of people manage to run their families with their savings, daily wage labourers such as construction workers, electricians, plumbers, loadmen and others find it extremely difficult to meet their needs. Many of them have begun pledging their jewels with affluent persons or pawnbrokers. “I am confined to my home for the last 32 days due to lockdown. I need to take care of six of my family members. I am the only breadwinner. The little savings I had and Rs. 1,000 assistance of the State government helped me to meet the day-to-day expenses for about 20 days. We are experiencing tough time. I do not have other sources. My only option now is to seek the help of moneylenders,” says R. Ravichandran (55), a construction worker in Samayapuram. But, he added that a moneylender, who used to help him out at crucial junctures, was now evading his requests. Now, he was looking for other moneylenders. It is said that many moneylenders were not ready to lend as they fear that they would be unable to collect the dues as the situation was still unclear. For, there was no certainty on when the curfew would be lifted. “Many people approach me for short term loan. If they have regular employment, I can take a risk and lend them money. There is still uncertainty over reopening of shops and business houses even after May 3. I do not want to take a risk in the prevailing situation,” says a Srirangam-based moneylender. Since many moneylenders are refusing to offer a loan, it is said that people, who were badly in need of money, were approaching small-time pawnbrokers, who prefer to operate out of their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-wage-labourers-in-dire-straits-start-pledging-jewels/article31441031.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale market to function from G. Corner Grounds||The district administration has announced that the wholesale market being operated near Palpannai along the Tiruchi- Chennai By-pass Road will henceforth function from the G. Corner Grounds. The decision was taken after concerns were raised over poor social distancing norms followed there. Following a review meeting chaired by Minister for Tourism Vellamandi N. Natarajan, the announcement was made that the G. Corner Grounds would function as a wholesale market for vendors from 9 p.m. on Sunday night. The market would function from 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. the next morning. District Collector S. Sivarasu said that there has been a gradual decline in number of COVID-19 cases in the district. To ensure that the numbers continue to reduce, the people need to continue to follow personal distancing norms and wear face masks. Mr. Sivarasu also said that no retail sale would be permitted at the G. Corner Grounds. There will be regular checks by police personnel and vehicles will be seized if retail vendors or public were found on the grounds, he said. Legal action would also be taken on those shopkeepers or vendors who sell to them, he added. The Tiruchi City Corporation Commissioner has been informed of the shift and will be supervising the market. Meanwhile, former Minister for Agriculture K. P. Krishnan has written a letter to the District Collector informing the decision taken by Tiruchi Mavatta Manitha Valar Sangam (Tiruchi District Human Development Association) to sell vegetables and fruits at the Kallikudi market from Monday morning onwards. Mr. Krishnan in a letter wrote that the market which was constructed with a budget of several crores has been left unused. The farmers have registered for stalls at the market and have even paid the registration fee, he added. At least 50 farmers will gather at the Kallikudi Market with whatever produce they have and will sell it at a reasonable price, Mr. Krishnan said, adding that the initiative will ensure that their produce is sold and that there was no shortage of fresh fruits and vegetables in the district. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sivarasu said that 35 shops have been allotted for the farmers in the market. “We have received the letter and will scrutinize its feasibility. A discussion is on and a decision regarding it will be made soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-market-to-function-from-g-corner-grounds/article31441034.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Robust response by NIT-T alumni members to tackle the pandemic||Alumni members of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) holding key positions in tech companies across the globe have responded overwhelmingly through their knowledge support, innovative devices, fund mobilisation, and production of personal protection equipment for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. An associate of Global Consortium of Cell Therapy Companies, Stempeutics, an Indian stem cell company of which B. N Manohar, an alumnus of ECE 1977 batch is the Chief Executive Officer, will shortly be supplying clinical-grade Mesenchymal Stem Cells to those in need. Manufactured in the Manipal GMP facility under approval of Drug Controller General of India, the multi-potent stem cells have been found to reduce the symptoms of pneumonia induced by COVID-19 and halt its advancement to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. S. K. Ramesh, an alumnus of 1981 batch ECE holding a senior position in California State University, Northridge, is involved along with his colleagues in creation of life saving face shields and other personal protection equipment for donating the same to healthcare workers in hospitals throughout Southern California. Blooom Energy, founded by K. R. Sridhar, who had completed his mechanical engineering degree from the then Regional Engineering College Tiruchi, and subsequently did his masters degree in Nuclear Engineering, and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, has undertaken the task of repairing ventilators on a bulk scale in partnership with Stanford Health Care. Chief Innovation Officer at Dulso, United Arab Emirates, Madhumohan Sreeram, an alumnus of NIT-T who had completed B.Tech in Chemical Engineering in 1982, has been in the forefront in carrying out sanitisation of the municipality of Dubai after identifying a suitable disinfectant QUATPLUS TB, which is a Quaternary Ammonium Compound product approved by United States Environmental Protection Agency and American chemistry council’s Center Biocide Chemistry (CBC). Richard Sekar, an alumnus who had completed Production Engineering in 1983 leads ‘Warriors Against Virus’ a team of 371 volunteers in the Bay Area, USA, for stitching facial masks for hospital requirement. IcarusNova, of which Sapna Behar, an alumna (1990, EEE), is the Director and Founder, has partnered with LifeSignals to design a wireless biosensor-based patch, with ISO 13485 accreditation, for early detection and continuous monitoring of COVID-19 symptoms. The patches when affixed on the chest area can monitor the temperature, breathing rate, trace ECG and heart rate as a real time data. The data can be transferred to the user’s phone through an app. The system reduces the risk of contamination between patients and other individuals. Admiral Superintendent of Naval Dockyard, Vishakapatnam, Sreekumar Nair (ECE, 1986), has led a team to design an innovative portable multi-feed oxygen manifold using a six-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. This becomes essential when the existing hospital facilities for critical care management becomes limited and a need arises for catering to multiple patients. Rapid trials have been done at Naval Hospital INHS Kalyani. The entire assembly could be set up within 30 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robust-response-by-nit-t-alumni-members-to-tackle-the-pandemic/article31441028.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Remedial measures for banana crop damaged by gale||The National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) in Tiruchi has issued an advisory to banana growers, recommending appropriate remedial measures for crops damaged by gale recently in Tiruchi, Karur, Erode and Coimbatore districts. The gale has severely damaged banana plantations, causing heavy loss to banana growers in some parts of the four districts. The continued lockdown due to COVID-19 and restricted movement of farm labourers has also hampered field operations of harvesting matured bunches besides cutting and removal of broken trees for further maintenance, NRCB Director S. Uma pointed out in a press release. The NRCB has recommended the following remedial measures for maintenance of the damaged plants depending upon the extent of damage and stage of the crop: In case of total lodging of whole plant without detachment of pseudostem from corm, the plants dislodged by the winds have to be erected to original position by heaping soil around base of the plant and proper stacking has to be given. The plant has to be applied with (50g DAP + 200g MOP) per plant along with foliar spray of 2% (19:19:19) soluble fertilizer. A week later, foliar spraying of 2% (20 g per litre of water) Banana Shakti (Micronutrient mixture) added with good quality surfactant/sticking agent is recommended. If the plants are broken at the neck region of pseudostem, the damaged leaves should be removed so as to allow emergence of new leaves. Apply 50g DAP + 200g MOP per plant along with foliar spray of 2% (19:19:19) soluble fertilizer, followed by 2% Banana Shakti foliar spray. To maintain the plants with totally detached pseudostem or stem broken near the ground level, cut and remove the damaged portion (if the banana variety is suitable for leaf purpose such as Monthan, Poovan and Karpuravalli ) and allow sufficient number of side suckers to grow it as a clump and apply 200g urea + 5kg FYM per clump for generating more leaves followed by foliar spray of 2% Banana Shakti. For plants that have not fallen but stressed by the strong wind, give proper staking to the plant with either single or double staking poles. Apply 100g urea + 200g MoP per plant and heap the soil around the base of the plant. Later, give foliar spray with 2% Banana Shakti. If the plants are fallen with immature bunch, harvest the fallen immature bunches and use them for preparation of value added products such as banana pickle. After clearing the field, farmers can grow suitable inter crops for getting additional income. For further clarifications, the NRCB scientists V. Kumar (Mobile: 9842635630/ 7339438881), K.J Jeyabaskaran (9344353587) or K.N. Shiva (9965726699) may be contacted, a NRCB press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remedial-measures-for-banana-crop-damaged-by-gale/article31441024.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cotton gloves given to policemen||Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju on Saturday gave away 6,000 pairs of cotton gloves to city police personnel, members of the Home Guard, Traffic Wardens, NCC cadets and volunteers. The cotton gloves were given as they were found to be more comfortable and could be washed, sanitised and re-used. The surgical gloves provided earlier to the city police personnel were found to be uncomfortable due to sweating, said police sources. The cotton gloves were given as a safety measure in the wake of spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cotton-gloves-given-to-policemen/article31441039.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown impact total in delta districts||The one-day lockdown in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts announced in the wake of COVID-19 spread was complete with public movements being very sparse. Police sources said the lockdown in Thanjavur district was total with police personnel mounting surveillance and vigil across the district. The situation was the same in Tiruvarur district where police had erected barricades at various places. Many roads and thoroughfares were deserted with the police advising and cautioning those who ventured out. In Nagapattinam district, though all the shops were closed, the police intercepted motorists and confiscated the vehicles at some places in the town area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-impact-total-in-delta-districts/article31441038.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.34 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 45 cusecs and the discharge was 999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31441041.ece
27 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||People make lockdown total in districts||The four-day total lockdown, which commenced here on Sunday, was total as residents stayed indoors throughout the day. With the rise in COVID-19 virus in different parts of the State, the government had announced total lockdown to ensure breaking the chain of virus spread. As there were reports of community spread among residents, the officials decided to tighten up the movement of people by implementing total lockdown. Earlier, when the district administration and the civic authorities permitted residents to move around to procure vegetables and other essential commodities till 1 p.m. people violated the basic safety protocols in public places and were not cooperating with the officials. The police had suggested for a total lockdown, which according to them, would make people stay home. Allowing people to move out of their dwellings during the early hours only precipitated the pandemic to spread faster. “We have no clue since people from even the containment zone stepped out. This meant they may be carriers and could spread the virus. Hence, to prevent this, the government was informed to tighten up...” police officers said. The intensified lockdown would continue for the next three days. This would be very effective, they hoped. As the COVID-19 had hit the normal life since March 24, many people who had planned to celebrate functions such as marriages and birthdays, had to either postpone or conduct them in a low key manner. On Sunday, at least five weddings took place in the homes of the bridegrooms, officials said. In one wedding held in Tirunelveli Town area, only seven persons, including the bride and the groom, were present at the marriage. It was all over in less than 15 minutes, a family member said. In another wedding that took place in the district, instead of the gold chain, which is normally tied as ' thali' it was replaced with the traditional thalikodi. The family members said that as the shops were shut, the gold chain could not be purchased. “As and when normalcy was restored, the thalikodi would be replaced with a chain by having a function at our native temple,” he added. In the neighbouring Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi too, the lockdown was full. Even essential commodities shops had downed shutters. Till last Sunday, meat shops and fish stalls were opened. However, the intensified lockdown kept the residents off roads that bus stands and make shift markets also wore a deserted look. The public support for the fight against COVID-19 was total and there was every possibility that the virus spread would certainly break soon, health officials noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-make-lockdown-total-in-districts/article31440996.ece
27 April 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Leopard trapped||A leopard was trapped by forest officials near Vikramasingapuram in Tirunelveli district early on Sunday. The officials said the movements of the leopard, which was roaming in and around Vembaiyapuram near here, were monitored through camera. On Sunday, the animal entered a trap, bringing relief to villagers. It was the third leopard to be trapped in the last two months. It was a female and aged around 1.5 to 2 years. The animal attacked pet dogs and goats in villages. On the direction of Kayrat Mohandas, Field Director/Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, and M.G. Ganesan, Deputy Director (Additional charge), Ambasamudram forest division, Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, the leopard was released inside core forest area at Kouthalaiyaru of Mundanthurai forest range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-trapped/article31440721.ece
27 April 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||In a case of suspected rash driving, two persons were killed on the spot on Sunday monring. Clinton and his friend of Kalakkad were riding a two-wheeler when they hit a wall near a flyover near Kadamboduvazhvu. The rider is suspected to have lost control and caused the accident. The Kalakkad police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-road-accident/article31440738.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘100 % successful on first day’||The city of Tiruppur wore a deserted look as the complete lockdown came into force on Sunday. Tiruppur is one of the five cities in the State which will be under a complete lockdown within the existing nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the spread of COVID-19. The lockdown began at 6 a.m. on Sunday and will continue till 9 p.m. on Tuesday. Vegetable markets, grocery stores and other outlets were all closed and appeared devoid of people, in sharp contrast with the heavy crowd witnessed on Saturday as people engaged in panic buying. Tiruppur Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar termed the first day of the complete lockdown as “100 % successful.” Around 80 mobile vegetable markets are available for home delivery of vegetables, out of which 30 are operated by Tiruppur Corporation. “We have given passes for the rest of the 50 mobile vegetable markets, which are private vehicles,” he said. To ensure the availability of vegetables for the mobile markets, the vegetable market in Thennampalayam remained open from 10 p.m. on Saturday to 5 a.m. on Sunday, he said. The public shall order vegetables and markets through the mobile numbers provided or online for home delivery, Mr. Sivakumar said. A total of 10 Amma Unavagams will be open for around two hours in mornings, afternoons and evenings, he noted. Out of the 60 wards in Tiruppur Corporation, 12 COVID-19 containment zones are currently present. The Corporation will disinfect all public places twice a day and hospitals (including Tiruppur Government Hospitals) five times a day, according to Mr. Sivakumar. Police personnel deployed Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan said that 550 police personnel from Tiruppur City Police were deployed across the city to monitor the complete lockdown. “People are highly compliant,” he observed. The police also cracked down on vehicles venturing unnecessarily in the city. A total of 104 vehicles were seized and 121 cases were booked for violating the lockdown orders in Tiruppur city on Sunday, Mr. Narayanan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-successful-on-first-day/article31440774.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive in Tiruppur||After two days of not recording any new cases, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of two new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 112. According to sources in the Health Department, the 40-year-old man and 22-year-old woman were neighbours of a patient, who had already tested positive. The two are admitted at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. Four new cases in Namakkal In Namakkal, four new positive cases, including a five-year-old male child, tested positive on Sunday. According to health officials, the new cases were reported from Kalapanaikenpatti and they were contacts of a previous patient from the same locality. The patients have been admitted at Karur Medical College Hospital for treatment. In Salem, a 29-year-old woman, who visited a temple in Andhra Pradesh recently, has contracted the disease. The patient has been admitted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive-in-tiruppur/article31440778.ece
27 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Twelve discharged from Tiruvarur GH||Twelve patients who had been receiving treatment for COVID-19 symptoms at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital have recovered and were discharged from the isolation ward here on Sunday morning. The patients, all belonging to Nagapattinam, were sent home in ‘108’ ambulances after instructions on maintaining personal distance and dietary information was given to them by hospital officials. They were also asked to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days before venturing out. A total of 49 patients, including 16 from Tiruvarur and 33 from Nagapattinam, who were tested positive for COVID-19 were given treatment at the Tiruvarur GH. The 12 Nagapattinam patients were given send off by doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals.   Ariyalur The district administration has home quarantined 29,917 individuals, including 30, on Sunday. Apart from them, the health conditions of 585 individuals under home quarantine after their return from other countries were being monitored. A total of 2,236 migrant labourers belonging to other States have also quarantined at various factories across the district. Five patients are under observation at the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twelve-discharged-from-tiruvarur-gh/article31441035.ece
27 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown leads to waste reduction in Coonoor||Despite the quantity of waste generated in Coonoor town coming down substantially ever since the lockdown due to COVID-19, plastic waste generated during the same period has remained constant, mirroring pre-lockdown levels. According to Clean Coonoor, an non-governmental organisation that handles the waste generated in the town, this shows that households account for most of the plastic waste generated. The analysis of the waste generated within the town over the last five weeks has shown that the total waste generated has almost halved from 20,000 kg a week to a little over 10,000 kg. Meanwhile, paper waste has reduced by 62 % and non-recyclable waste from 11,500 kg a week to 6,150 kg. However, the amount of plastic generated during the same period has remained almost constant, averaging between 2,600 kg to 3,000 kg each week. The composition of the garbage that has been making its way to the waste management park in Coonoor is indicative that apart from plastic bags and bottles, which have been outlawed in the Nilgiris for the last year, the significant portion of the plastic waste is from food packaging. Household level P.J. Vasanthan, trustee of Clean Coonoor, said in a statement, “It is presumed that in the absence of the commercial component, most of the plastic is generated at the household level since the lockdown.” “The analysis supports the view that the ban on single-use plastics has gone a long way in helping to reduce the generation of plastics in commercial establishments. Perhaps the next logical step would be to promote awareness among the public to try and avoid purchasing products that come wrapped in attractive, albeit unnecessary plastic packaging,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-leads-to-waste-reduction-in-coonoor/article31440783.ece
27 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of Chithirai festival hits their livelihood||The annual Chithirai festival in Madurai always draws a sea of crowd. However, the cancellation of the mega festival this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has not just disappointed several lakh of devotees but has also put in deep trouble some 200 Arunthathiyar families from Kariyapatti. Their three-month hard work to make water bags out of goat hide, used to spray water on Lord Kallazhagar, has now gone waste. “Each family has got some 200 to 300 hides ready to stitch water bags used exclusively during the grand entry of Lord Kallazhagar into the Vaigai river,” says K. Mullaivendan (30) of Kamarajar Colony. The Arunthathiyar family members who are into different jobs as manual labourers return to the work of processing goat hides into water bags. “It is a laborious work and takes a lot of time,” says K. Marimuthu, who is otherwise a loadman in a local market. The families buy the best quality of goat hide. “We have to ensure that the hides are not damaged while the goats are skinned for meat,” he says. From removing the hairs to make the hide look red, the preservation of hide takes a long process of four weeks. “We need to handle limestone water to various natural herbs to process them,” explains Mr. Mullaivendan. And invariably, these families borrow heavily from local people to buy scores of hides. “Almost the entire family is involved in this work that we have been taking up for several generations. People from other community usually do not prefer this job, as one needs to put up with the bad odour that emanates from the hides,” Mr. Marimuthu says. The families that start their work after Pongal complete the preservation work at least 10 days before the grand event of Lord Kallazhagar’s entry into the Vaigai. “We move with our family members and hides to Madurai and stay put near the Swami Sannithi,” he adds. For any devotee, who dress up like Lord Kallazhagar as part of their vow, the water bag is an integral part of their costume. With hundreds of people, across all age groups, turning up like Lord Kallazhagar, the water bags are sold like hot cakes. “We stitch the hides by ourselves and sometimes engage others as we need to complete the work within a short time. Our sale goes on till the day before Lord Kallazhagar’s entry into the Vaigai. We return home after taking a holy dip in the river,” Mr. Mullaivendan says. Each bag is sold from Rs. 400 to Rs. 700 depending upon the size. When they return home with money, it would be time for them to repay their loans. “We do not know whether these hides have any other utility so that it could fetch us some money,” Mr. Marimuthu wonders. Under the lockdown situation, these families, which have lost all their regular jobs, are burdened with high-interest loans. They are looking for some help from the State government to overcome the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellation-of-chithirai-festival-hits-their-livelihood/article31440990.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nationwide lockdown affects egg exports, prices||The export of eggs from Namakkal, the major hub for poultry production in the country has been affected due to nationwide lockdown and due to lack of facilities to send samples from here to Bhopal for tests. Nearly three crore eggs are exported from Namakkal to neighbouring States and foreign countries, especially to Middle East. However, the distribution of egg within the country has been affected due to the lockdown and this has affected egg prices as well. Egg exports to foreign countries has been affected as poultry farmers here haven’t been able to send serum and swab samples to the laboratory at National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal for avian influenza tests. P.V. Senthil, general secretary of Livestock and Agri Farmers Trade Association said, “egg exporters must send 20 samples once in 21 days to the laboratory for avian influenza tests and based on the results a health certificate is provided by animal quarantine department, which is essential for exports. A certificate is valid for 21 days. Since courier services have been affected due to lockdown, we haven’t been able to send samples for over two weeks and this has affected exports as well. This has turned out to be an opportunity for countries like Turkey and Ukraine which are offering competitive rates and trying to take over our markets.” Mr. Senthil said that though based on representations through the Namakkal MP and various organisations the Centre has granted permission to test samples at Southern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Bengaluru that too cannot be done due to lockdown. He said that poultry farmers here have been demanding for long to declare Namakkal, a disease-free egg export zone and improve testing facilities here. “Namakkal is a major poultry hub and we have been demanding declaring Namakkal as disease-free egg export zone and improving testing facilities here. It has become essential during times like this. The government must consider setting up of such facility at least at the International Livestock Park announced in Thalaivasal, Salem”, he said. He added that if declared, they would be able to export to 30-40 countries and improve trade in the region. Meanwhile, the egg prices have reduced to Rs. 3 in Namakkal on Sunday. P. Selvaraj, Zonal Chairman, National Egg Coordination Committee said, “the complete lockdown announced in five places has affected the prices as they are the major markets here. We supply about one crore eggs to these areas everyday. We hope the prices would improve in a week.” Petition submitted A.K.P. Chinraj, MP, said that he has represented to the Union Ministry regarding issues on testing and necessary measures are being taken. He added that the Union Ministry has granted permission for set up of testing facility in the district itself and it would be established soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nationwide-lockdown-affects-egg-exports-prices/article31440763.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore witnesses incident-free total lockdown on Day 1||The first day of the four-day total lockdown in Coimbatore city on Sunday was incident-free and saw near total compliance. Barricades were placed in more locations, sealing accessibility to main roads in many parts of the city. The vegetable markets wore a deserted look, shops were shut, and only those employed with essential service sectors went to work. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that day one of the total lockdown was complete and no unwanted movement of people or vehicles was reported. According to him, no case related to violation of prohibitory orders issued as part of lockdown was reported in city limits on Sunday. Mr. Sharan said that 1,200 police personnel were deployed for duty in two shifts on Sunday. The same duty pattern would be continued for the next three days. Apart from 12 permanent check posts along the borders of city and rural limits, police personnel were deployed at 22 temporary check points. Barring medical shops, nothing was open. Grocery stores, bakeries and a few other establishments that the State government had permitted too had shut shop. The only ones to be seen on roads were policemen on patrol duty and employees and government officers on essential duty. Coimbatore Corporation conservancy workers who had braved the lockdown were also not to be seen, as it was Sunday. The Corporation, however, continued its disinfection work at containment zones using a few temporary workers, said sources. As the government had permitted supply of milk, it went off without any problem. On pavements and in front of shops several homeless persons were seen sitting or sleeping, awaiting the arrival of food delivery vehicles from organisations that have been giving them food during the lockdown period. Amma Unavagams saw people waiting in long queues in the morning. Food distribution to the needy and the migrant workers by the distributors went off as usual, in co-ordination with the departments concerned. A team was formed to ensure that pharmacy shops remain open, according to an official. ( With inputs from Karthik Madhavan, Wilson Thomas, and M. Soundariya Preetha )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-witnesses-incident-free-total-lockdown-on-day-1/article31440771.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Will Vitamin C be of any help?||Everybody wants to improve the immune system to avoid infections, specially COVID-19. Vitamin C is the nutrient connected with immune system. It is often prescribed in short courses to promote wound healing and for faster recovery from infections, including cold. So it has been the interest of researchers in COVID-19 also. Large doses of intravenous Vitamin C are being tried in COVID-19 critical patients on ventilators in China. The results are still not out. In Australia, researchers reported that they did not find any benefit in using Vit C, while the U.S. is planning to try a combination of Vitamin C, Vitamin D, Zinc and hydroxychloroquine for prevention. Many of the internet sites offer vitamin C as immune boosters. Caution is required in consuming mega doses of vitamins without prescriptions, especially for long periods. A 74-year-old man in Belgium landed up in the hospital with weakness and vomiting. He was found to have severe kidney failure. He was dialysed and his kidney biopsy showed deposition of oxalate crystals, responsible for the kidney failure. On probing further it was found that he had been consuming for one week a “rejuvenating powder”, which he had bought online. The powder on analysis was found to be Vitamin C. Vitamin C or Ascorbic acid is a water-soluble essential nutrient. Being water soluble, it is not stored in the body and requires daily intake. It is a powerful antioxidant with an important role in controlling infections and promoting healing of wounds. It has numerous functions such as synthesis of collagen (important component of bones, cartilage, nervous system, immune system etc) chemical messengers in brain and hormones. Deficiency of Vitamin C is rare and but when it occurs, it is called scurvy. It was reported in sailors in the past since they had no access to fruit and vegetables. It manifested with bleeding gums, delayed wound healing, skin spots, hair loss and anaemia. The daily requirement of Vitamin c is 90mg in adult males, 75mg for females which increases to 120 mg in pregnancy. Smokers require additional 35 mg since smoking depletes Vitamin C. The source of Vitamin C is fruits, especially citrus fruits, and vegetables. Sailors were given an orange daily to prevent scurvy. Heat destroys Vitamin C. So prolonged cooking and leaching of the water can reduce the intake of the Vitamin. The Vitamin C consumed after absorption is metabolised in the body to oxalate and is removed by the kidneys. Large doses of Vitamin C called mega doses are popular to improve the immunity and promote wound healing. The scientific evidence for this is lacking or at best, controversial. Similarly mega doses have been taken for common cold. Normally the body can cope with this high dose by reducing the absorption and increasing the oxalate loss in urine. But in some people the oxalate can get deposited in the kidneys resulting in kidney failure. This is likely in patients with intestinal disorders and pre-existing kidney disease. The toxic dose reported has been anywhere from 480 mg to several grams taken over variable periods. Fortunately this is a rare complication but lay people and physicians should be aware since there is popular concept that extra vitamins in large doses are helpful during stressful situations. Of course, the toxicity of large dose oil soluble vitamins like Vitamin A and D are well known since they produce high calcium in blood leading to stones and kidney failure. The Eskimos traditionally would never eat the polar bear whose meat is very rich in vitamin A and D. It is very important that we maintain a balanced diet, regular exercise and exposure to sunlight as a routine in life. Mega doses of vitamins are best avoided without monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-vitamin-c-be-of-any-help/article31440736.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Industries look forward to restarting operations||Industries in Tiruppur and Coimbatore look forward for the government to lift the lockdown after May 3 and permit commencement of operations. The industry association heads earlier said that if the government permitted operation of units, they will restart operations. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said that if the government asked the units to operate, the MSMEs will start work. “We will adhere to whatever precautions we can - personal distancing, wearing of masks and checking temperature,” he said. Supply chain However the entire supply chain should be permitted to operate. Otherwise, the industries will not be able to get consumables and raw materials. If transportation is not permitted, the MSMEs will see only 40 % to 50 % operations as all the workers will not be able to come to the factories. “But, that is fine too to start with,” he said. According to Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, the government should allow the knitwear units to operate. Season business “We are doing season business. If we are not permitted to open the units after May 3, we will not be able to make samples for the next season and we will miss orders. It will be very difficult to regain lost orders,” he said. The industries will not be able to operate 100 % capacity immediately. The government should permit at least 25 % of the capacity to be run, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-look-forward-to-restarting-operations/article31440760.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||6 children among new cases||Kallakurichi, Ramanathapuram, Salem and Tiruvallur recorded one positive case each. Of the 110 children below the age of 12, who have been infected so far, 51 are girls. A total of 1,062 males and 492 females (total 1,554) fall in the age group of 13 to 60 years of age. Among those, people over 60 years of age include 64 women and 157 men. Among the 60 persons who were discharged from various hospitals in the State were 13 from Chengalpattu and 12 from the Tiruvarur government hospitals. Nine persons were discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on Sunday and 10 from the Thanjavur GH. Eight persons from the Madurai GH, two from Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital and six persons who were being treated in private hospitals were discharged. All those who were discharged would have to remain in home quarantine for the next 15 days. Currently 29,056 are under home quarantine and 26 persons are undergoing treatment in government quarantine facilities. As many as 1,838 persons who are suspected to have the infection have been admitted to isolation wards.  (*This is inclusive of two patients who died in other States and one patient who tested negative after his death.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-children-among-new-cases/article31440743.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Take precautionary measures while flying kites: Tangedco||In the last 10 days, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has been receiving several complaints of power supply disruption from different parts of the city and when the field staff visit the sites, the reason for the disruption is kites. With the lockdown, many people fly kites from the terrace during the evening hours. They use a strong rope and when the kite gets entangled in electricity lines they try to pull it away. This leads to feeder trips. Such incidents are more in specific localities that come under Pappanaikenpalayam, Kallimadai, and Peelamedu sub-stations, according to Tangedco officials. Most of these complaints come after 3 p.m. and there are at least 25 HT line faults because of this issue so far. Some also try to remove the kite from the power lines using rods and it is dangerous, the officials say. “We cannot ask the public not to fly kites. But, they should be careful and ensure that the kites do not go near the powerlines,” says one of the officials. In a press relesase, the Tangedco said that with the lockdown in Coimbatore to check spread of COVID-19, many people were flying kites from the terrace or multi-storeyed buildings. The kites get entangled in electricity lines and this leads to power cuts. This can lead to electrical accidents apart from power disruptions. Hence, the public should take precautionary measures while flying kites, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-precautionary-measures-while-flying-kites-tangedco/article31440759.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildar helps grieving woman, husband||Perur Tahsildar K. Radhakrishnan on Sunday helped a woman to see her deceased mother by sending her and husband in his official vehicle from Perur to her maternal house at Raja Street. The humane gesture by the revenue official received much praise in social media and Revenue Department circles. According to Mr. Radhakrishnan, he found a grieving woman and her husband standing outside his office around 4 p.m. on Sunday. Complete lockdown When enquired, the woman said that her mother living at Raja Street in the city passed away but she and her husband could not go there as the police personnel did not allow them to enter the Coimbatore Corporation limit where the four-day complete lockdown started on Sunday. Understanding their situation, the Tahsildar instructed his driver to drop them at the house of the deceased at Raja Street. Mr. Radhakrishnan told The Hindu that he did not know the whereabouts of the couple and also did not expect any praise in return for the act.  ‘Spontaneous act’ “It was a spontaneous act anyone would do for a grieving person,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tahsildar-helps-grieving-woman-husband/article31440767.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to conduct Chithirai festival without devotees||Farmers have urged the Collector to examine the possibility of conducting the annual Chitiral festival without the presence of devotees. Dharmaraj a farmer from Karuppayoorani in Madurai, said the entry of Lord Kallazhagar into the Vaigai was considered an important event by the people, especially farmers. A large number of people from different parts of the country, especially farmers, would congregate in Madurai and thank the Lord for a good harvest. They derived happiness from seeing the colour of the cloth adorned by Kallazhagar upon entering the river, as it signified the prospects for the next season. The State government had announced that the celestial wedding of Goddess Meenakshi with Lord Sundareswarar would be conducted without the presence of devotees. It also formed part of the Chithirai festival. Likewise, Kallazhagar could arrive at the Vaigai and return to the Alagar Hills, with the devotees remaining indoors and watching the event through webcast, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-conduct-chithirai-festival-without-devotees/article31441016.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||6,000 tonnes of paddy purchased through DPCs in Ramanathapuram||Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Sunday said the district administration had procured a little over 6,000 tonnes of paddy from farmers through 22 direct purchase centres. The crop was harvested on 1.27 lakh hectares in the district. The Department of Agriculture, in coordination with Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, procured the produce through DPCs and payments were made directly to the bank accounts of farmers, he told The Hindu . On the status of cotton crop, Mr. Rao said the harvest was expected to take place in the next 30 to 45 days from 2,450 ha out of 5,000 ha cultivated in the district. The remaining area was in vegetative stage. The district administration facilitated the setting up of two farmer producer companies, Ramnad Mundu Chilly Company and Vaigai Farmers Producers Company, and cotton was purchased from growers through them at Rs. 32 per kg. The Agriculture Business and Agriculture Marketing Corporation had earmarked Rs. 3 lakh each to the two FPCs for the purpose, which immensely benefited the growers, said Joint Director (Agriculture) S.S. Sheik Abdullah. In order to ensure that the goods reached the market on time, the district administration took steps to arrange for transport. As a special concession, 1% cess to the market was waived by the State government in view of the pandemic. Officials were now focussed on gingelly crop. Also, the summer showers experienced during the last two days was expected to benefit nearly 8,500 hectares of coconut. The Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE), as a CSR activity, had announced free tractor service to farmers for ploughing. So far, about 200 ryots from tiny and small segments had registered their names through a specially created App. Asked about complaints of fertilizer shortage from cotton growers, he said the stocks were moved to Chatrakudi, Mudukalathur and other areas swiftly. Vegetable procurement The district procured 60 to 70 metric tonnes of vegetables and another 40 to 50 tonnes of fruits daily from Madurai and Thoothukudi districts. They were sold to public through specially arranged make-shift markets, ensuring social distancing. Also, 215 mobile vehicles were operated to cover major towns, town panchayats and municipal limits. The containment zones and buffer zones identified in Paramakudi, Keelakarai, R S Mangalam and a few other locations were provided with exclusive vehicles to deliver vegetables and groceries, Mr. Rao said. The COVID-19 control room, which functioned round the clock, also had experts to give counselling to needy people, health officials said. All foreign returnees in the district had completed the quarantine period in their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6000-tonnes-of-paddy-purchased-through-dpcs-in-ramanathapuram/article31440993.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prison term for blocking funeral||The government, in a press release, said the ordinance was promulgated to prevent incidents of people protesting or obstructing the last rites of those who died from complications of the disease. “As per this ordinance, persons who prevent or try to prevent the conduct of the last rites in an honourable manner, has been criminalised and is punishable under Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 with a fine and imprisonment of a minimum one year and a maximum of three years,” the government said. The ordinance comes after two instances of the public blocking the last rites and using violence to prevent the last rites of those who died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prison-term-for-blocking-funeral/article31440744.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Miles to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miles-to-go/article31440728.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan nationals return home||As many as 113 Sri Lankan nationals, who got stranded in Tamil Nadu and Kerala due to the national lockdown returned to their country on a repatriation flight from Coimbatore on Sunday. A majority of them were students of various institutions in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Sources at the Coimbatore international airport said that the Deputy High Commission of Sri Lanka, Chennai, arranged the repatriation of the 113 persons. They said that those from Kerala and far away places in Tamil Nadu namely Chennai, Chidambaram and Theni were brought to Coimbatore on buses so that they can return to their country. The passengers were screened by a team of six doctors at the airport before departure. The medical team was instructed to check if any passenger had fever or symptoms of influenza like illness. All of them were found fit to fly. A special flight of SriLankan Airlines carrying them departed Coimbatore at 11.05 a.m. Sources with the SriLankan Airlines said that parents of a few students and an infant were among the 113 persons, who flew back to the island nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-nationals-return-home/article31440729.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welcome showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welcome-showers/article31440766.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dept. of Posts introduces new facility for cash withdrawal||The Department of Posts has introduced a facility wherein people with savings bank account with any bank can withdraw cash at their doorsteps through postmen using Aadhaar and fingerprint. A press release from the department said that account holders need not visit ATMs for withdrawing cash during the lockdown. People in need of cash should call 99947-33117/ 97904-07969/ 81229-36346 or 82207-65636 and the department after receiving the call will alert the postman in the particular area. The customer needs to provide his Aadhaar number linked to his bank account and he will receive OTP in his phone which he needs to disclose it to the postman. After entering the Aadhaar number, the customer has to place the finger on the biometric device to authenticate his identity after which he is permitted to withdraw a maximum of Rs. 5,000. The release said that the service is provided free of cost to the people during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dept-of-posts-introduces-new-facility-for-cash-withdrawal/article31440755.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 26   Coimbatore  No. of persons in hospitals: 231 (Male -91, Male child – 7, Female – 125, Female child – 8) Government hospitals – 156 Private hospitals – 75 No. of persons tested +ve – 141 (No new case on Sunday)  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 880 Number of persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 11 Samples lifted: 2,830 Declared: 2,772 Positive: 112 (Two fresh cases on April 26) Negative: 2,660 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 58 Results awaited: 29||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31440780.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - April 27, 2020||The Tamil Nadu government has announced complete lockdown for four days in a few cities. The decision to supply vegetables and fruits on vehicles is to be appreciated. If the spread of virus is to be controlled and the curve is to be flattened, physical distancing should be strictly maintained. It is possible only if the people remained indoors. It is noticed that people are coming out of houses on the pretext of buying essential commodities such as vegetables, fish, meat and groceries and making a mockery of the lockdown. The government has taken this prudent decision to make the essential items available at the doorstep to keep the people inside their houses. Let us hope that the complete lockdown brings the desired result. B. Nagalingam Pillai,  Nagercoil    It is very heartening to see the commitment of sanitary workers in Kodaikanal during the lockdown. It is essential for everyone to see the sincerity of these workers spraying chemicals despite exposing themselves. Once the lockdown is over, will the clutter be back? The push trolleys selling unhygienic food to tourists around the lake and other sightseeing places is usually appalling to see. Hopefully, these illegal roadside shops will be removed permanently. There are innumerable issues being faced by those residing in this wonderful hill station. However, a systematic approach will bring back its pristine beauty. G.S. Mani,  Kodaikanal     In rural areas such as Sholavandan and Vadipatti, those afflicted by cardiac problems, paralytic attacks and diabetes, find it difficult to get the right medicines. This affects the elderly and the physically challenged people the most. When people contact some of these outlets, their requests for home delivery are turned down because most of these shops are understaffed. Since the transport service remains suspended, shops do not have means to go to the city to get medicines. I request the authorities concerned to instruct medical shops in rural areas to stock up essential drugs in advance and deliver them at the doorstep of those in need.  Sainithii. M, Sholavandan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-april-27-2020/article31441009.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||While welcoming the initiative of Tiruchi City Corporation to issue colour-code passes to every family to restrict unnecessary movement of people to control the COVID 19 crisis, senior citizens like us would expect the authorities to permit lending of our passes to others in the neighbourhood to procure essential commodities. Senior citizens, in view of their health complications, would also expect the police to be considerate to their compulsion to withdraw pension from the nearest ATMs to pay the monthly bills, and permit them to use their vehicles instead of forcing them to walk long distances. P. Immanuel Amirtharaj Sakthinagar   The curfew passes issued in five colours to regulate movement of people during the COVID-19 lockdown period have not been distributed as yet in Cantonment area and surroundings. Early distribution of passes in these localities will help in preventing unnecessary confrontations between the residents and the law-enforcement authorities. M. Raja  Tiruchi   Sanitary workers involved in collection of wastes from households on alternate days are found moving about in mini vans without wearing masks or hand gloves. The workers are apparently vulnerable to infection. Government order to fine people found without wearing protective gear ought to apply to the sanitary workers also and also the drivers of mini vans. Kanagaraj Arthur  Ramalinganagar South Extension    The efforts taken by the government to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus for the last four weeks could go waste if the restrictions are eased without proper guidelines. The presence of alms-seekers, functioning of tea stalls and eateries along the Amma Mandapam Road, for instance, do not augur well for the continued effort for containment of the viral infection. In the event of the temple being opened, the situation will be back to square one. The authorities need to be conscious about the warning by World Health Organisation that a decline in virulence of COVID-19 is not a guarantee that its resurgence will not happen again. This is the time to be forewarned and get prepared for the worst. T.M. Ranganathan  Srirangam   Social distancing and self-isolation are the best ways to prevent spread of coronavirus. Only through strict enforcement of the prohibitory order can the offenders be made to fall in line. However, while violators deserve punishment, the propensity of a section of the police personnel to indulge in high-handed approach needs to be checked. Actions such as slapping the motorists and damaging the vehicles are unacceptable.  S. Raghavan Cantonment    As the extension of the lockdown period has led to scramble for withdrawal of cash, banks must be prompt in replenishing ATMs. Most of the ATMs in and around Lalgudi town has run out of cash, causing immense inconvenience to people looking to access their money for purchase of daily needs.  Murugappan SP  Lalgudi    Power disruption has become frequent in rural parts of Thanjavur. People struggle indoors due to the intense heat during the lockdown period. The power cuts are causing enormous discomfort for students preparing for the X std. public exam, expected to be conducted shortly. Electricity being a basic need, officials must not ignore this grievance in their pre-occupation with the measures to fight spread of coronavirus.  S. Krishnan  Thippirajapuram    The selfless services of the Group D staff who rise up to the occasion at times of emergencies need to be acknowledged through special allowances, on par with the recognition of role of healthcare and conservancy workers in the fight against the pandemic. The Group D staff are working extra hours unmindful of the challenges.  R. Pichumani  Thippirajapuram    In consideration of the immense sufferings the poor undergo during the curfew period, the government must waive the power bill for the next payment schedule. Many are not in a position to pay their power bills, and would be subjected to intolerable sufferings if the power supply is discontinued if they default on paying the bill.  S. Sethuraman  Thanjavur    The Centre has offered legal protection at the right time to the frontline staff involved in preventing spread of coronavirus from attack by the public The ordinance promulgated for booking those indulging in violence against doctors and public servants under non-bailable sections is a step in right direction. It is highly regrettable that the people have not understood the duty-consciousness of the doctors.  S. Krishnan  Thippirajapuram    As one of the famous temples in the State, Samayapuram Mariamman Temple attracts devotees in large numbers from across the State. The devotees have a grievance as no provision has been made for drinking water at the bus shelters on either side of the National Highway at the Samayapuram stop. The existing tank meant to fulfil drinking water needs of the devotees has been left abandoned. People need to walk to a distance of about 250 meters to purchase packaged water from petty shops. There has been no action from the authorities of National Highway, which is supposed to maintain the water tank, despite repeated representations.  Saravanan Natesan  Puthanampatti     The path to the Murugan Temple at Karattampatti near Thuraiyur town leaves much to be desired. The devotees have been requesting the administration to raise trees on either sides of the path and to establish a park so those returning from the temple could relax for a while. The absence of street light and drinking water also needs to be attended to.  M. Periyamalaiyan  Karattampatti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31441025.ece
27 April 2020||ADILABAD,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers hit the road to reach home in U.P.||A painter threesome, who are migrant workers, on Sunday crossed Adilabad town and the inter-State border with Maharashtra on the Penganga river bridge on NH 44 on their bicycles in an attempt to reach their homes near Nepal border in Uttar Pradesh. The trio started at Bengaluru, covering perhaps the longest distance that any migrant worker, individually or in group, has attempted so far on this route. The three cyclists have covered over 900 km from Bengaluru where they had landed about six months ago. Ajay Singh, who hails from Kupjangal Khadda in Kushinagar district, and Arun Kumar Chaudhry hailing from Pokharbhinda in Maharajgunj district have to cover about 1,200 km more to reach their homes. These places are very close to Nepal border and the trio hope to reach their destinations in 10 more days. They are, on the average, covering about 130 km a day. The three, all in their youth, seemed to be in good health . Dr. Ajay Khandal, a physician from Karimnagar belonging to Karimnagar Randonneurs, and Jyothi Bezawada of Goethe Zentrum, Hyderabad, both expert cyclists, opined that a healthy cyclist can ride about 300 km a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/migrant-workers-hit-the-road-to-reach-home-in-up/article31440677.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Poor, migrant workers await refill of ration||Amina Begum, a resident of Thubarahalli labour camp in the south-east periphery of the city, is worried about how she will feed her five children — all aged below 15 — in the coming days. The rations, an NGO provided at the start of the lockdown, are fast running out. “I have less than a kilo of rice and a few handfuls of dal left. If we do not get a refill in the next few days, the situation looks grim,” she told The Hindu . The dry ration kits distributed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and other organisations in the last week of March and first week of April were meant to sustain a family for three weeks, in some cases even less. But with the extension of the lockdown, people from lower income groups, who are dependent on these kits, are worried about whether they will get refills. Cooked meals What seems to have helped them stave off hunger and stretch their dry rations is the cooked meals being served by several NGOs and through the Hunger Helpline. “We are served only one meal a day, not even two. Many times, the rice being served is not even cooked properly. With rations running out how can we survive on just one meal a day?” said Babu Saab, a resident of one of the labour camps at Bellandur. Most of the civil society organisations admit that they are stretched for resources. However, a few of them have begun second round of distribution of rations. “Citizen initiatives — With Bengaluru, Hasiru Dala and Mercy Mission — together have recorded a demand for 50,000 families and nearly 36,000 individuals who are living alone across the city,” said Nalini Sekhar of Hasiru Dala, and added that this was only a fraction of the real demand on ground. “Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives has funded us and now we have resources to deliver ration kits to 35,000 families, which we started on Saturday,” she said. However, those working in the space since the lockdown was imposed argue that the government and other civic agencies step up to distribute rations to those in need. “When the first round the lockdown was announced and there was a crisis of hunger, the entire society stepped up. It has been a month since then. Civil society initiatives working on the ground have data of the demand. But the BBMP has to date made no efforts to collate this data and distribute relief in an organised way. Even after a month since the lockdown began, the civic body doesn’t have adequate data,” alleged Madhu Bushan, an activist working for relief with the urban poor. 58,000 ration kits The BBMP is yet to begin distribution of dry rations for the second round. Senior civic officials said they were collating data of the demand and geospatially mapping it. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the civic body had finalised orders for 58,000 ration kits for migrant labourers and another 1.5 lakh ration kits for the urban poor in the city. “We will begin the second round of distribution very soon,” he said. What has also affected the poor is that even those who have collected ration through the public distribution system have only got rice and no dal , despite an order to the contrary by the Union government. The State government has announced that dal will be issued through PDS in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poor-migrant-workers-await-refill-of-ration/article31440664.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic will deepen job and livelihood crisis of migrants: Study||Migrant workers, who constitute about 50% of the urban population and many of whom are engaged in what are called “3D jobs” (dirty, dangerous and demeaning) are likely to face job and livelihood crisis owing to COVID-19 pandemic, according to findings of a research done by the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai. Lockdown has left about 42% with no ration and 33% were stuck in cities with no access to food, water, and money. As many as 94% of them did not have worker’s identity card, said IIPS researchers R.B. Bhagat, Reshmi R.S., Harihar Sahoo, Archana K. Roy, and Dipti Govil in their paper titled “The COVID-19, Migration and Livelihood in India”. When migrants flee from the city, they not only lose their livelihood but possibly carry the infections to their native places, noted the study. “India is likely to face job crisis because of COVID-19. Migrant workers and workers in the informal sector are likely to be badly hit,” the paper said. Researchers studied migrant population of eight metro cities of Delhi, Greater Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Greater Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, and Pune and said these cities recorded 38% (2,587) of the total 6,761 cases of the country as on April 13. About 47% of the population in these cities are migrants, while 21.6% of them are inter-State migrants. Noting that the pandemic saw “one of the biggest streams of mass return migration in the country”, the paper said in-migration rates were higher in high-income States such as Delhi, Goa, Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Karnataka, whereas low-income States such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, and Odisha reported relatively higher rates of out-migration. About one-fifth of the migrants are inter-State. In urban areas, average wage earnings per day by casual labour engaged in works other than public works ranged from Rs. 314 to Rs. 335 among men and Rs. 186 to Rs. 201 among women in 2017-18. A large number of migrant workers and workers in the informal sector just have been surviving on subsistence wages. “The coronavirus outbreak and subsequent lockdown is going to affect them badly leading to their further impoverishment due to loss of livelihood. It may also affect hugely their food and nutritional intake, access to healthcare and education of children,” they said. Following lack of their inclusion in urban society, workers were grossly denied access to social security schemes, healthcare and other entitlements. Many schemes meant for the poor do not reach them due to lack of identity and residential proofs. Though the Working Group on Migration (2017) set up by the Union Ministry of Urban Housing and Poverty alleviation has examined the plight of the migrant workers and submitted its report to Union government in 2017, no action had been taken on the report, the research revealed. Noting that migrants were not considered as part of the urban community by the urban development and planning, the paper said: “Given its size and spread, management of migrants under lockdown represents a massive logistic challenge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-will-deepen-job-and-livelihood-crisis-of-migrants-study/article31440683.ece
27 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||IIHR offers help to mango growers in direct marketing and value addition||The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) has offered to help mango farmers who are in distress as the annual harvesting season for the king of fruits has begun just when the country is under the COVID-19 lockdown. As the main problem is that of finding bulk buyers in quick time for this highly perishable produce, IIHR has offered to handhold farmers in reaching out to buyers in apartment complexes in Bengaluru and industries through its network, besides offering technology for value addition and increasing shelf life. IIHR director M.R. Dinesh told The Hindu that the institute was looking at connecting mango farmers with not only the fresh fruit market, but also the processing industry. He said farmers could contact the institute’s technology business incubator — Business Entrepreneurship & Startup Support through Technology in Horticulture (BESST-HORT). Principal scientist and CEO of BESST-HORT C.K. Narayana said the business incubator would use its industry network to market mangoes. However, he sought to advise farmers to think towards coming together as a group or supply in bulk (a minimum of one tonne) so that it will be easy to market them with big apartment complexes. Those interested can contact Vaibhav, COO of BEST-HORT, on 81979 26903with details such as product name, price, organic/natural/inorganic, minimum order quantity, and so on. IIHR is also looking at the possibility of using its technical inputs to help farmers delay the arrival of their produce to markets by three or four weeks. This can be done by storing the produce in nearby cold storages, besides using IIHR’s protocols for post-harvest treatments that can help hold the crop for some more time, he said. Similarly, farmers with pickling varieties of mango may preserve the fruits in brine so that they can be stored for nearly a year and used later. The institute can offer technical guidance in this regard to mango farmers, said Mr. Narayana. Powder option For the growers of local varieties, which may not fetch good prices, the institute has advised that such fruits be harvested early, when the acidity is high, and dried in the sun for making raw mango powder. This can be sold to the spice industry, he said. The institute has also referred to its other technologies for osmotic dehydration of ripe and semi-ripe mangoes, mango concentrate, mango fruit bar, and squash that have a shelf life of six months, and also the technology for making probioticated mango beverage with the help of mango pulp. Dr.Narayana said that the institutes’s scientific ripening chamber technology for enhancing the ripening process of mangoes by exposing the fruits to ethylene gas released from liquid ethrel/ethephon in airtight rooms or chambers could also be tried for quick and quality ripening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iihr-offers-help-to-mango-growers-in-direct-marketing-and-value-addition/article31440692.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dementia patients, caregivers try to cope with locked down environment||What is being touted as the new normal is resulting in anger, frustration and fear among many. But for patients of dementia and theirs caregivers, the period has been all this and more. As governments try and emphasise upon the need to maintain social distancing and wear masks, among other things, to counter the COVID-19 pandemic, health workers say elders with dementia are at a loss to understand these concepts. For caregivers at residential centres and destitute homes with dementia patients, it has been a challenge. And for families who would otherwise rely on day-care centres, which are now shut, convincing them to stay home is turning out to be a daunting task. MNC employee S. Vidya Sagar’s 85-year-old father is a dementia patient. He would otherwise be taken care of at a day-care centre, which is now closed. His mother, also a senior citizen, is trying her best to cope with the situation. “I live two houses away from them, but I am working from home. The stress for the caregiver is very high as dementia patients have to be kept engaged. My mother is also a senior citizen and the constant caring gets to her,” he admitted. Radha S. Murthy, co-founder and managing trustee, Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), said patients of dementia are already in a confused state. “There is a risk factor for COVID-19 through comorbidity. Added to this, they cannot comprehend the situation. So it is difficult to make them understand why they should wear a mask, etc. In addition, they are heavily dependent on caregivers who we have in limited numbers now. And not being able to see family (for those in residential care) is adding to their agitation,” she said. Online support To help patients and their caregivers, dementia care and active ageing centres are setting up online counselling sessions to ensure that the routines followed in the day-care centres are not completely missed. Families are given physical exercises and cognitive activities that they can administer to the patients, also giving some homework. Physical activities that people are encouraged to take part include kickboxing, dumbbell exercises with water bottles, and chair aerobics, while the cognitive activities include simple maths problems, left-hand writing, sketching, and jumbled words. “These activities help in improving the attention, grasping power and memory of the patients. We would have already assessed them, so there are individual-based activities as well for some patients who may be interested only in one kind of activity. Though the physical exercise is advisable to be done under supervision, families can administer some basic cognitive activities based on a basic assessment,” said Chandana K., the project manager of an active ageing centre in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dementia-patients-caregivers-try-to-cope-with-locked-down-environment/article31440661.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Basaveshwara remembered||Prime Minister Narendra Modi led a host of leaders on Sunday in offering homage to the 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara on his birth anniversary. Speaking during his popular monthly address to the nation ‘Mann Ki Baat’, the Prime Minister said he was privileged to have had various opportunities to connect with the reminiscences of the social reformer. “Friends, today is also the birth anniversary of Lord Basaveshwara. It has been my good fortune that I had the opportunity to learn and connect with the reminiscences of Lord Basaveshwara and his messages,” he said. “I extend my felicitation to all the followers of Lord Basaveshwara in our country and the world.” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “My tribute to the great poet, philosopher, statesman and Saint Basavanna on his Jayanti.” In Bengaluru, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa paid tribute to the saint-philosopher at the Basava Jayanti celebrations organised by the Basava Samiti. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief D.K. Shivakumar, among others, participated in the programme. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy also tweeted his tribute to Basavanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basaveshwara-remembered/article31440701.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A policeman and his wife help the poor break fast||This Ramzan, a sub-inspector of police and his wife have started distributing home-cooked meals for iftar every evening for families in D.J. Halli and Shivajinagar. After his wife Mubasshira prepares a meal of rice bath, a pakora and a sweet, PSI Srinivas T. takes the food packets to households in D.J. Halli at 4.30 p.m. Every day, while caring for her own children, Mubasshira prepares food for over 60 people. Srinivas packs the same and takes it to pockets in Shivajinagar where urban poverty is stark and not all families have access to aid. The couple has been distributing food since the beginning of the lockdown but decided to make the meal extra special for those breaking their fast. On March 24, Srinivas, was deputed to Shivaji Nagar and later to D.J. Halli. “As part of the security duty, I visited a few localities and found real poverty. People living in slums were begging for food. Though many people were supplying food and ration, these weren’t reaching everyone,” he said. PSI Srinivas brought this to the notice of his seniors and with the help of a some friends, started pooling in money to buy groceries. “The bigger problem was finding someone to prepare the food. Mubasshira overheard the group discussing suggestions and volunteered. Over the weeks, Srinivas’ colleagues and friends started chipping in. “Whenever possible, we are also distributing monthly rations to families in need,” he added. These days, they’ve been providing food packets to as many as 100 people. Mubasshira has never been more busy. Since Ramzanbegan, she’s been getting up before dawn to prepare sehri, the meal consumed early in the morning before fasting. She then makes breakfast for her children before preparing for the evening iftar. “I am not tired of cooking for so many people. I’ve become used to it and am happy to be doing my bit to help,” she said. It’s not always easy to acquire ingredients, but so far, the couple has managed with help from their friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-policeman-and-his-wife-help-the-poor-break-fast/article31440666.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges, companies offer virtual internship, no stipend||With the lockdown continuing till May 3, many colleges and private companies have asked students to intern with them virtually. However, many companies that had promised stipends are now telling the students that they will not be paid any amount. The manager of a private company said, “We get a lot of interns during the summer. Most of them are pursuing MBA and they bring a fresh perspective to work. This normally helps both the company as well as the students. But now with the online internship, it may be difficult to recreate the same experience,” he said. Some companies are also choosing not to take interns as a lot of their information and software are confidential. But some others are trying to make it a seamless experience for their interns and have even conducted virtual induction sessions and are asking for mentors for each of them. Abraham V.M., Vice-Chancellor, Christ University, said that students were asked to work from home and continue their internship. “If the companies don’t offer the internship virtually, we have asked students to look for internship in other companies,” he said. Students have been told by the colleges to take internship even though companies are unable to honour the offers that they made. “We have cut the salaries of our employees in the range of 10 to 30% based on their salary structure. It is a testing time for us and our company’s financial health makes it impossible for us to pay interns. Interns who have already been made offers were promised a monthly stipend of Rs. 20,000. As we will not be able to pay them, they can feel free to cancel their internship,” said the HR manager of a start-up in east Bengaluru. Students whose internship solely rely on hands-on experience have been told to put the same off for now. “Our department told us that we can do out mandatory internship during the October break if we can’t right now. Most of our internships are hands-on, so we’ll most probably do them in October,” a student of the Department of Communication Studies, Mount Carmel College, said.  We have cut the salaries of our employees in the range of 10 to 30% based on their salary structure. It is a testing time and our company’s financial health makes it impossible for us to pay interns.  HR manager of a start-up in east Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-companies-offer-virtual-internship-no-stipend/article31440659.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will talk to banks to restructure educational loans: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday assured students from Karnataka studying in other countries that he would speak to the bank authorities to restructure educational loans availed by them. His assurance came during his online interaction with a group of Kannadigas in the U.K. When Sharavana Gurumurthy pointed out that several Kannadiga students, who have availed educational loan to study in the U.K., are in deep trouble currently due to COVID-19, Mr. Yediyurappa said that he will speak to the bank authorities to convince them about the need to restructure the loan once the situation turns normal. Urging Kannadigas in the U.K. not to be anxious over their parents or elders living in Karnataka, the Chief Minister said that in case of any need, the helplines can be contacted. His attention was drawn by the Kannadigas to those who are stuck in the U.K. as international flights have been cancelled. In response, he said the State government will coordinate with the Centre to bring Kannadigas home once the flights resume. The Chief Minister also interacted with U.K. Minister of State for Justice Robert Buckland, who appreciated measures taken up in Karnataka to contain the spread of virus, and also explained the measures taken in the U.K. Explaining the measures, he said that in the coming days, economic activities will be opened in phases, and maintaining food and essential commodities supply chain was important to ensure no one went hungry. A statement from the CMO said Mr. Buckland expressed happiness that the virus had not spread to rural areas of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-talk-to-banks-to-restructure-educational-loans-yediyurappa/article31440688.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP develops app for residents in containment zones||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has developed ‘BBMP Contains’ - a mobile application exclusively for residents living in containment zones that have been sealed. A trial run of the app, which aims at “timely redressal of grievances and effective monitoring of surveillance mechanisms,” will be conducted on a pilot basis in containment areas ot Mahadevapura zone, after which it will be rolled to other parts of the city. According to officials, the app will be a one-stop platform that will allow citizens to register all types of grievances including health-related emergencies, requirement of essential services, waste collection, power cuts, problems with water supply, etc. BBMP promises that their grievances will be attended to within 180 minutes. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, MD, Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., and in-charge of BBMP War Room, said the app was developed to empower people who will be updated on important government circulars, media bulletins, FAQs, and so on. Citizens in sealed areas can also use it to raise complaints against people breaking home quarantine rules, defying social distancing norms, breaking down barricades, etc. “Users can upload photos and videos of such violations,” said a senior civic official. The BBMP hopes that the app will improve the efficiency of the system and bring in more transparency and accountability. A team of police personnel, health official and a civic official under an incident commander are posted at containment zones to ensure standard operating procedures are followed. Once a complaint is submitted or a request is made, a team at the War Room will inform the nodal officers present in the containment zones to take immediate action. “A thorough validation and ascertaining of the genuineness of the complaint will be carried out. We have planned a trial demonstration of the app in the containment zones under Mahadevapura zone from Monday. It will be rolled out to others soon,” said Ms. Korlapati. A containment zone is a 100-metre radius around a COVID-19 positive case premise which will be sealed for 28 days from the date of the report of the latest COVID-19 case. As on April 26, there are 21 containment zones in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-develops-app-for-residents-in-containment-zones/article31440668.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Alcohol from FSL stolen||Around 1,080 ml of liquor that was locked up in the strong room of the highly secure Forensic Science Laboratory at Madiwala has been stolen. Based on a complaint by Vani N., Assistant Director, on Saturday, the police registered a case. “It was part of the 2,600 ml of liquor seized by the Kumbalgod, Ramanagaram, and Magadi police in 2019 under the Excise Act and had been sent to FSL for analysis,” an officer said. The incident came to light when an official went to check the stock and found the liquor bottles from the sealed box missing. The police suspect that an office help, identified as Anthony, had broken in. “We suspect that he took bottles for personal consumption as liquor sale has been banned since the lockdown. We are not ruling out the possibility that he stole the bottles to tamper with the case. He is absconding and efforts are on to track him,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alcohol-from-fsl-stolen/article31440670.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM may discuss lockdown relaxation during PM’s videoconference today||Staggered opening of lockdown and review of relaxation provided to industries and businesses in Karnataka recently are likely to be discussed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa during the videoconferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday morning. While he is set to discuss issues to be raised in the video conference with Home, Health and Medical Education Ministers, and senior officials ahead of the meeting, sources in the government said that the BJP government here will toe the line of the Centre in implementing lockdown norms. “Some non-BJP ruled States have decided to extend lockdown beyond May 3. BJP-ruled States will go with the Centre’s decision,” sources in Chief Minister’s office said. Over the last three days, several exemptions to businesses and industries have been made by the State and Union governments, and these exemptions will be reviewed. Meanwhile, a senior official said: “The lockdown has definitely helped. Staggered opening of businesses and life in general is the way ahead. Society cannot be kept under lockdown for a long time.” Places that attract crowd could remain closed for a few weeks beyond May 3, the official indicated. The official pointed out: “The thought is that government should withdraw from isolation/quarantine facilities that is draining huge amount of money. Instead, quarantine should be imposed by the community and government can come into picture only when the person tests positive.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-may-discuss-lockdown-relaxation-during-pms-videoconference-today/article31440686.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Landlord attacks migrant labourers for not paying rent||Several migrant labourers at Thubarahalli camp were allegedly attacked by their landlord after they failed to pay rent on April 24 and again on Sunday. One of the victims, Chand Pasha, 35, approached the Varthur police stating that the landlord assaulted him, his roommate and the neighbours, including a pregnant woman who had come to their rescue. Pasha, who was employed with a car cleaning unit at Marathahalli for the past six years, shared a room with Yakub Sheikh for which they paid Rs. 4,000 as rent to the landlord, Manje Gowda. He owns 60 sheds on a plot of land that he rents, said the police. Owing to the lockdown, Pasha has been unable to work. On April 24, Gowda and his associates ransacked their premises demanding they pay the rent. Pasha and Sheikh tried to reason with him, but the landlord beat them up. “He threatened to kill them if they did not vacate,” the police said. On Sunday, Gowda and his associates returned and abused the duo for not vacating. When the neighbours tried to intervene, the accused assaulted them too. Following this, several labourers from neighbouring areas gathered at the spot. The Varthur police have taken up a case and deployed personnel in the area to monitor the situation. A case has been registered. Gowda is on the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/landlord-attacks-migrant-labourers-for-not-paying-rent/article31440673.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Become a model in maintaining social distance, CM tells leaders||Urging people’s representatives to become a model for people in maintaining social distance, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday said that maintaining social distance was the only way to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “To protect ourselves and prevent spread of COVID-19, the only way is to maintain social distance. Ministers, MLAs, MPs and officials should maintain social distance and become a model to people. Let us compulsorily maintain social distance,” he tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/become-a-model-in-maintaining-social-distance-cm-tells-leaders/article31440689.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5,612 km of roads to be developed under PMGSY||To revive the rural economy after the lockdown by providing jobs, the State government has decided to develop 5,612 km of rural roads, on an estimated budget of Rs. 2,729 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). Out of the allocation, the Centre and the State will incur an expenditure of Rs. 1,274 crore and Rs. 1,455 crore, respectively. A sum of Rs. 1,100 crore has been released and tenders have been called for developing rural roads. A sum of Rs. 1 crore each has been released to 49 drought-hit taluks of the State for providing drinking water. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh each has been released to 127 taluks not hit by drought, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said. Referring to jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, he said the Centre had released Rs. 1,039 crore for providing wages and Rs. 821 crore for supplying materials. Wage under the scheme has been increased to Rs. 275 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5612-km-of-roads-to-be-developed-under-pmgsy/article31440695.ece
27 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Low-key Basava Jayanti in Dharwad district||Basava Jayanti, which is a major religious event and celebrated with grandeur every year, remained a low-key affair due to lockdown here on Sunday. Unlike in the previous years, the district administration and other organisations celebrated the event in a simple manner. Minister in-charge of the district Jagadish Shettar, MLAs Arvind Bellad, Amrut Desai, MLC Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa and others offered puja to Basaveshwara at a programme held at the Deputy Commissioner’s office here. Earlier, they garlanded the statue of Basaveshwara located in the Kadapa Maidan. Lockdown has also cast its shadow on the historic Kalmeshwar Jatra at Kelgeri. It has been a tradition to hold this car festival to mark Basava Jayanti. But this time, the temple authorities, following the government guidelines, held the event in a simple manner. By following social distancing, five members of the temple pulled a chariot made of thermacol by artist Manjunath Hiremath. They also modelled a clay idol of the deity and offered puja to it. The entire process of the car festival was completed within 40 minutes between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m. and the temple remained closed for the entire day to prevent large gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-key-basava-jayanti-in-dharwad-district/article31440852.ece
27 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Online essay writing and painting competitions||Children’s Academy Dharwad will hold online essay writing and painting online competitions. For I and II PU students, the topic is “Life after lockdown”. For high school students, the topic is “Lockdown and Me”. Essays can be written in English or Kannada and they should not exceed 650 words. The essays should have complete names, addresses, mobile phone numbers and details of schools and colleges. The essays should be sent to srinivas.wadappi@gmail.com. Details can be had on Ph: 9900223584. The theme of the painting and drawing competition for eighth, ninth and SSLC students will be “Prime minister Minister Narendra Modi’s vision on coronavirus or COVID-19”. The paintings should be mailed to senior artist Manjunath Hiremath, Kelgeri, Dharwad, email: hiremathmanjunath2@-gmail.com. Details can be had on Ph: 98880787122||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-essay-writing-and-painting-competitions/article31440853.ece
27 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Widespread rain||Several parts of Hassan district received fairly widespread rain on Saturday afternoon. Many roads were inundated and drains were overflowing in the city. Residents who have installed rainwater harvesting system were happy as their storage tanks got filled. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell, the district received an average rainfall of 7.1 mm in 24 hours ended 8.30 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/widespread-rain/article31440861.ece
27 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada reports one more positive case, another patient critical||A woman aged 47 was found positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday and the condition of a 67-year-old woman who is positive and undergoing treatment at the Government Wenlock Hospital is “serious”. The woman who was found positive on Sunday is from Narikombu village in Bantwal taluk. She was a contact of a COVID-19 deceased woman. According to Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary, the 47-year-old woman (patient number 501) worked at First Neuro Hospital in Mangaluru where the second COVID-19 victim in Dakshina Kannada, a 75-year-old woman, had been admitted earlier for stroke, hypertension and pneumonia. The statement said that patient number 501 was among 198 persons, including employees and others in the private hospital, whose throat and nasal swabs had been collected for tests. Of them, reports of 49 persons had been received till Sunday. The reports of the other 48 persons except that of the 47-year-old woman tested negative. Patient number 501 is now undergoing treatment at the Government Wenlock Hospital. A health bulletin from the State government said that the 67-year-old active patient, also from Bantwal, is in ICU at the COVID-19 hospital and continues to be on ventilator support. “Her condition is serious,” the bulletin said. Mr. Poojary held a meeting in Bantwal on Sunday in the wake of increasing positive cases being reported from Bantwal area. He said that Bantwal and Narikombu villages have been sealed down and a control room has been set up to help people in these areas round the clock. The Minister said that 11 officials have been posted in the two areas to provide banking services and ensure supplies of groceries, vegetables and milk at people’s doorsteps. Accredited Social Health Activists and other staff from the Health Department have been asked to visit 92 houses in Kasba Hobli in Bantwal and 213 houses in Narikombu village daily to assess the health status of people. There will be no relaxation in the two areas from lockdown till May 3. The Minister also directed Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh to take other stern measures required to deal with the situation in the two areas. The district has five active patients [till Sunday]. Earlier two died and 12 persons have been discharged, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dakshina-kannada-reports-one-more-positive-case-another-patient-critical/article31440855.ece
27 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Industries resume cashew processing after a month||Cashew processing industries have resumed their operations in the State with half of their workforce, after over a month. With this, the prices of raw cashew has now touched Rs. 85 per kg, but much lower than the prices the produce fetched during the same season last year. As April-May is the peak cashew harvesting season, raw cashew prices hovered between Rs. 100 and Rs. 10 per kg during the same time last year. Subraya Pai, president, Karnataka Cashew Manufacturers Association, Mangaluru, told The Hindu that of about 300 cashew processing industries in the State, a majority of them are in the coastal belt. There are some factories in the non-traditional areas of Kolar and Chintamani. If almost all factories in Udupi district have resumed their processing, about 50 % to 60 % industries in Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada have resumed their operations, he said. Mr. Pai said that raw cashew prices stood at Rs. 75 and less per a kg a week ago. After the factories resumed processing, farmers are getting Rs. 10 more per kg. Raw cashew prices are expected to shoot up further once all factories resumed their operations. He said that the industries have made their own vehicle arrangements to pick up and drop workers. Adhering to the guidelines issued by the government, the factories are managing with only 50 % of their workforce while ensuring that instructions on sanitisation, fever checking, social distancing are complied with. He said that a majority of the factories are now focusing on completing processing which was stopped abruptly when lockdown was announced. With icecream industries, sweet manufacturers, caterers, hotels and other sectors not accounting for cashew sales, the industries are facing a tough time. Mr. Pai said that cashew industries in the State provided employment to about 80,000 workers. Their annual raw cashew demand for processing stood between 2.5 lakh tonnes and 3 lakh tonnes. The domestic production stood at 40,000 tonnes. The remaining demand, about 2.5 lakh tonnes, is met through imports. He said that banks have still not extended the relief package recently announced by the Union government and RBI covering the MSME sector, to cashew industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-resume-cashew-processing-after-a-month/article31440857.ece
27 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University may allow colleges to handle some semester exams||With lockdown affecting the 2019-20 academic year, Mangalore University is thinking of conducting only the final semester examinations for its various undergraduate and postgraduate courses and allow colleges and post-graduate departments to handle the examinations of other semesters on their own. Speaking on the proposals ahead on conducting the examinations, Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya told The Hindu that the colleges can conduct the second and fourth semester examinations of the three-year undergraduate courses, evaluate the answer scripts and announce the results on their own as a one-time measure. The university will not consider the marks and grades of these semesters while announcing the final ranks of the respective courses on completion [of the courses]. The university will conduct only the sixth semester examinations (which is the final semester of the three year undergraduate course) and the examinations for repeaters of other semesters, evaluate the answer scripts and announce the results. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the postgraduate departments can conduct the second semester examinations of the two-year courses leaving the university to conduct the examinations for the final semesters and repeaters. In case of some three-year postgraduate courses too, the university will conduct the examinations for the repeaters and final semester students. But irrespective of semesters and undergraduate and postgraduate courses, the university will prepare the question papers and send them to the colleges and departments during the examinations, he added. The final semester examinations will be conducted first as undergraduate students will have to join the postgraduate courses and postgraduate students will have to apply for other courses or jobs. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university will place its proposals before its decision-making bodies and the State government, and the proposals will be implemented if the bodies and the government gave approval to them. The university is planning to conduct the examinations in June this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-may-allow-colleges-to-handle-some-semester-exams/article31440839.ece
27 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pumpwell flyover develops cracks||The new flyover at Pumpwell in the city has developed hairline cracks following the first showers in the city a day ago. The cracks are visible just above the gutter. The flyover was thrown open to traffic about three months ago. The embankment has also washed away in some places. Officials had to use earthmovers to remove the mud and silt which washed away from the flyover to the service roads after the rain which lashed the city early on Saturday. The concessionnaire of the project, Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd., has built the flyover. The flyover is part of the 90-km-long Talapady-Kundapur four-lane project of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Shishu Mohan, project director, NHAI, Mangaluru, did not respond to phone calls and message on the safety aspect of the flyover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pumpwell-flyover-develops-cracks/article31440859.ece
27 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Uncertainty haunts the artisan community||Having stumbled from one crisis to another that impacted their earnings in the past few years, artisans who makehandicrafts have reached a dead end, with the sector screeching to a halt during the lockdown imposed on account of COVID-19. Thousands of artisans and their families have been left in the lurch as export orders havebeen cancelled and retail sales have dried up. It has been nearly two months since the tourism and travel industry stopped functioning, and with it a sizeable chunk of handicraft sales — mostly souvenirs — took a hit. The bulk of handicrafts — mainly large wooden furniture and inlay works — is exported to European and Middle-Eastern nations, besides the U.S. and Canada. But once transport and communication ceased worldwide, all export orders were scrapped, leaving the artisans with unsold inventory. “With no clear sight of a return of normality, artisans are reduced to receiving ration and doles,” said S. Ramu of Mysore Handicraft Manufacturers’ Association. Association members said they were affected by demonetisation four years ago, after which came the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, bringing another blow to the sector. “Wooden items classified as furniture were imposed a GST of 28%, while wall hangings and inlay items fell in the GST slab of 12%. The artisan community was yet to recover from the dip in sales when the lockdown happened,” said N. Kumar, general secretary of Karnataka State Artisans’ Welfare Association, Mysuru. Bleak future Karakushala Nagar in Metagalli, on the outskirts of the city, has an air of despondency, given the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic and the lockdown. The locality, which houses 600 to 800 artisan families, is normally a beehive of activity of traditional art forms. But today, they are staring ata bleak future. About 60 km south of Bengaluru is Channapatna, which is renowned for toys and is a hub for handicrafts, but where the situation there is no different. Mayur, an entrepreneur and artisan of Kittanna Toys, said that in the absence of new orders, production has stopped even as there are no buyers for the existing stock. And going by the heavy toll — both human and economic — of the pandemic, handicrafts will be the last thing on the minds of the general public in a post-COVID-19 world, and hence the recovery is likely is take a long time. Ramanad Naik, MD of Karnataka Handicrafts Development Corporation, said he has already spoken to the government on the importance of supporting the artisan community to ensure their livelihood and safeguard the crafts. “We are preparing a list of active artisans, but the details of the package are yet to be finalised,” he said. According to Mr. Kumar, there are about 30,000 registered artisans in Karnataka, of whom nearly 5,000 are active.  The artisan community was yet to recover from the dip in sales [due to demonetisation and GST] when the lockdown happened N. Kumar,general secretary of Karnataka State Artisans’ Welfare Association, Mysuru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uncertainty-haunts-the-artisan-community/article31440694.ece
27 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 infection rate slows down in Mysuru||The growth rate of COVID-19 in Mysuru, which has the second highest number of cases in the State after Bengaluru, has indicated a slowdown in new infections after a surge in cases early this month. The number of active cases was dropping with improvement in the recovery rate and patients being discharged from hospital. The pandemic here was altogether different in early April when cases were reported almost daily after the first confirmed case on March 26. Since Thursday, only one case has been reported, taking the tally to 89. Till date, 38 patients have been discharged, including four on Saturday, squeezing the live cases to 51. The fall in new infections has brought much-needed relief to the district administration and healthcare professionals fighting the pandemic. Importantly, the number of persons in quarantine whose numbers were in several hundreds till recently, had reduced to 813 with many completing the two-week isolation period. As on Saturday, 3,898 people had completed the quarantine period. Also, the testing has been speeded up with the lab of MMCRI carrying out tests on about 300 samples daily. The staff at VRDL, the hi-tech virology lab here, was working in three shifts carrying out tests till 2 a.m. almost every day. Out of 3,079 tests done so far, 2,990 samples had tested negative. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar on Sunday said 1,000 tests per million people were being carried out here and added that 3,000 tests had been done so far. “Once we get the bio-safety cabinet, the Mysuru lab will undertake more tests as the CSIR-CFTRI, Mysuru, which had provided testing machines earlier, has offered to help us to augment the tests further,” he said. Mr. Sankar said cases had not spiked like earlier when multiple cases used to be reported recurrently with most of them linked to Jubilant Generics Limited in Nanjangud. “As we responded swiftly after the first case which was linked to Nanjangud, we could be able to contain the spread,” he said. As a precaution, the primary contacts of the infected persons linked to the factory are undergoing tests again. Mysuru was expecting rapid testing kits soon and the health teams had been oriented on the protocols to be followed for using them. “So far, we haven’t got the kits but we have been told that the kits are on the way,” said Mr. Sankar. More SARI cases About 300 ‘SARI’ cases had been reported and only two had tested positive for COVID-19. However, samples of all the cases had been sent for mandatory tests. “SARI cases used to be reported here even before the pandemic. They are getting attention now because of COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-infection-rate-slows-down-in-mysuru/article31440685.ece
27 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||As Europe struggles, exports look uncertain||With most European countries in the grip of the COVID-19 pandemic and many of them going through an extended lockdown period, uncertainty looms over mango exports from Karnataka. Growers producing export-quality fruits are keeping their fingers crossed with limited cargo flight operations. Even though it is an “off-year” for the mango crop, Karnataka was expecting a yield of about 8 lakh tonnes, with the first batch of fruits harvested from trees with “manipulated” flowering already hitting the markets and fetching a handsome price. The fruit varieties, mainly Alphonso, Badam, Saindoora, Mallika, Baganpalli and Kesar, are also exported to the Middle East, especially the UAE market, and the United States, but Europe has been the major market and the largest importer of mangoes. The mango markets, or ‘mandis’, in Ramanagaram and Channapatna have been operating for the past few days. Fruit arrivals are set to go up with harvesting in many mango orchards in the district picking up pace using the local workforce. The Srinivasapura mango market, reckoned to be the largest mango market in Asia, is expected to commence operations in the second week of May. Horticulture expert S.V. Hittalmani, who retired as the Additional Director of Horticulture, Government of Karnataka, told The Hindu that the State had exported mangoes worth Rs. 8 crore last year. This year, growers are worried about exports to European nations affected by COVID-19. Efforts are being made to address the uncertainty since these nations should also be in a position to import produce. Meeting The major exporters recently attended a meeting chaired by the Minister for Horticulture K.C. Narayana Gowda and claimed to have spoken to traders in the UAE, who have reportedly agreed to import the fruit. Sources said some cargo planes are “not keen” to transport perishable goods as they are not on the “priority” list at this juncture. Clearances from various departments are also required. Some carriers have been quoting a much higher cost for transporting the produce. “All of this has made exports doubtful,” a source said. However, the government is in talks with major exporters and ministries on the solution even as some enterprising growers have resorted to smart marketing strategies, including online sale to fruit lovers in Bengaluru city, amid the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-europe-struggles-exports-look-uncertain/article31440697.ece
27 April 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Basaveshwara’s birth anniversary celebrated||Birth anniversary of social reformer Sri Basaveshwara was celebrated in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Sunday. Due to the guidelines issued to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the celebrations were simple. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar and Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy garlanded the statue of Sri Basaveshwara at Basaveswhara Circle in Raichur. In a similar programme, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput paid floral tributes to Basaveshwara in Yadgir. Lingayat community members and others celebrated the seer’s birth anniversary in Shahpur by garlanding his statue. Those who gathered for these celebrations maintained social distancing as per protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basaveshwaras-birth-anniversary-celebrated/article31440847.ece
27 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Four arrested||Bhadravati Police have arrested four persons on the charge of stealing liquor sachets from a closed liquor shop in Barandur village. The names of the arrested were given as Somashekhar, G. Manikandan, Anand and Raja Naik. Liquor sachets worth Rs. 23,000 and motorcycle used in the crime have been seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested/article31440848.ece
27 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Work under way on flyover, service road||Work re-started on the long-pending flyover in Kundapur and the service road in Padubidri, both on National Highway 66 in Udupi district, a couple of days ago, and is expected to be completed before monsoon begins. These works were stopped after the lockdown was announced last month. The construction of the flyover at Shastri Circle in Kundapur has been going on at a slow pace for over a decade now. Before the lockdown, work was expected to be completed by April. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the administration had instructed Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd. that it should complete the work by the end of May as no construction could be take up once the monsoon begins, and then the work would get delayed by a year. “Hence, we have told them to utilise their manpower and machinery and complete the work. The company has promised to complete the flyover work in Kundapur and the other works in Padubidri by next month-end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-under-way-on-flyover-service-road/article31440841.ece
27 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Betel leaf growers find themselves in a tough spot||S.M. Minajagi helplessly looks at the betel leaves turning from green to brown on his 10-acre plot. He has incurred a loss of over Rs. 2 lakh a month from his farm, located at Kudgi village in the district, and has no idea when his misery will end. All betel leaf growers are facing a peculiar problem during the lockdown. They are unable to sell their produce even though their produce falls under the category of horticultural crop. “The government has announced that there is no restriction on the transportation of agricultural and horticultural crop. But since betel leaves are not considered essential commodities, we neither have buyers nor consumers,” he said. Kudgi is known for cultivating betel leaves supplied to many major cities in South India and Maharashtra. Noor Ahmed Dafedar, another grower, said the lockdown has hit hundreds of labourers involved in packing and transportation, earning around Rs. 500 a day, which is high among agricultural labourers. “Most of the leaves are directly consumed by people as they buy them from paan shops. Some of it also used at weddings and festivals. Now, as paan shops are closed and public functions are banned, our primary source of revenue has collapsed,” Mr. Dafedar said. Some philanthropists are purchasing fruits from farmers and directly giving them to consumers, but betel leafgrowers cannot hope for any such help either. Santosh Inamdar, Deputy Director of Horticulture, admitted that betel leaf growers were in a peculiar situation. “The leaves cannot be kept in cold storage for days as they are not fit for that. Since it is not an essential commodity, it cannot be sold directly. Therefore, nothing much can be done except to wait for the lockdown to end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/betel-leaf-growers-find-themselves-in-a-tough-spot/article31440699.ece
27 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||GESCOM working to ensure uninterrupted power supply||Amid lockdown announced by the government to control the spread of COVD-19, they work round the clock to ensure uninterrupted power supply. Yes. Engineers, technicians, linemen and other staff from Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM) in Yadgir have been working round the clock to ensure electricity supply to urban and rural areas after several hundred electricity poles were uprooted and transformers were burnt due to recent spell of pre-monsoon rain. By taking precautions, including maintaining social distancing during ground-level work, wiremen, linemen and other technicians have been erecting new electricity poles and also replacing defunct transformers. “As many as 200 electricity poles were uprooted and 40 transformers burnt in rain-related incidents. We have been under tremendous pressure to restore them within a stipulated period. Due to the lockdown, people in the urban and rural areas are staying indoors and their dependence on electricity has gone up when compared to other days as now they are continuously watching television, using household electrical equipment and computers and laptops for their work. Therefore, a GESCOM team estimated the damages quickly and started restoration work immediately,” D. Raghavendra, Executive Engineer, GESCOM, said. It was a time-consuming work for the staff and linemen to find out cable-cutting points and remove trees fallen on them. This forced senior officials to go to the trouble spots to give necessary directions to their staff. “As per the guidelines, all preventive measures have been initiated. The staff were provided hand gloves, sanitisers and face masks. They were also asked to ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during their work,” R. Raghapriya, Managing Director of GESCOM, Kalaburagi Division, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gescom-working-to-ensure-uninterrupted-power-supply/article31440844.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ramzan in the lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramzan-in-the-lockdown/article31440672.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Dakshina Kannada is a district of relative high literacy, but opposition shown by people during the cremation of two women who died of COVID-19 last week in Mangaluru stemmed from ignorance about the disease and its spread. It did not spare even a people’s representative. Residents of Boloor on the banks of Phalguni (Gurupura) River, last Sunday, offered stiff resistance to cremate the body of a 50-year-old woman from Bantwal who was brought at the last minute to the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mangaluru. Authorities, however, were able to cremate the body after convincing the residents. But they could not do so when another woman, a relative of the first victim, died on Thursday. Resistance was building up since morning anticipating cremation in Boloor prompting the authorities to conduct the rituals at Pachanady cremation ground, on the outskirts of the city. However, people gathered in large numbers there too, opposing the cremation. Local MLA — and doctor by profession — Y. Bharath Shetty (in picture), too supported the residents. Meanwhile, Bantwal MLA U. Rajesh Naik, in a humane gesture, offered his farmland to conduct the last rites of the deceased woman. He said: “No departed soul in my constituency should be denied a decent cremation.” However, the authorities by then had arranged the cremation at the Bantwal cremation land. This prompted the district administration to educate people through a video message from Nitte (Deemed to be University) Pro Chancellor M. Shantharam Shetty to allay fears among people. Dr. Shetty said coronavirus does not spread when the body is either cremated or buried as per the set protocol and appealed to people to allow decent last rites for the victims.   Former Minister and Congress MLA for Chamarajpet B.Z. Zameer Ahmed (in picture) has been on the receiving end from all sides after he suggested that the violence at Padarayanapura in his constituency could have been avoided if the health officials of the BBMP had created awareness about the need for quarantine in advance and not landed at the spot at night. This led to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa taking the MLA to task for what he called “irresponsible comments” and asked if the government needed his permission to go there. Senior Congress leaders too distanced themselves from Mr. Ahmed’s comments and said that they were his “personal views” and not that of the party. Though Mr. Ahmed had not condoned violence, all this chastising, including from his own partymen, appears to have put him on the back foot. He sought to end the controversy by saying that he had never said that government needed his permission to visit Chamarajpet and he would never say such a thing.   Agility is not a quality one would normally associate with bureaucracy, but that seems to have changed in times of COVID-19. Now, many bureaucrats are in the frontline of war against COVID-19. IAS officers’ regular meetings and daily briefings, and arrangements to ensure free rations to the poor and migrants has given some confidence to the public on the availability of essentials during lockdown. For some of the officers, particularly those managing control rooms, there is no holiday since the outbreak of the virus. But ask any IAS officer and they say that they are doing what they have always been doing. An IAS officer said that their work never gets attention because they are working in the shadows of their political bosses, taking blame or criticism for any wrongdoings or lapse in political decisions. Another insisted that they were “silently working and handling crises whether famine or floods.” Anil Kumar Sastry Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article31440681.ece
27 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Killed in attack by elephant||B. Narayanan, 55, a farm worker, was found dead in the Aralam farm in Kannur on Sunday. He was reportedly trampled to death by a wild elephant. The post-mortem examination revealed internal injuries, which could have been caused in the attack, said T. Soloman Thomas George, assistant wildlife warden, Aralam farm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/killed-in-attack-by-elephant/article31440940.ece
27 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Man shot dead after squabble||A 65-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by his 30-year-old neighbour after an altercation broke out between them over the burning of plastic waste at Pilicode in Kasaragod on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as K.C. Surendran, a daily wage labourer. According to locals, the accused, Sanal, a taxi driver, had an altercation with Surendran over the burning of plastic waste and refuse in the vicinity. Both the families were allegedly on bad terms with each other over boundary issues. The accused then allegedly fired his air gun, killing Surendran instantly. Sanal later surrendered at the Cheemeni police station and was later handed over to the Chandera police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-shot-dead-after-squabble/article31440932.ece
27 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Civil police officer suspended||A civil police officer was suspended for putting up a WhatsApp status against the salary cut imposed by the government on Sunday. T. Rajeesh, a civil police officer of the Vidya Nagar police station in Kasaragod, was suspended for displaying a status which read, “You should pay if you make us work”. The screenshot of the status was widely circulated among the police personnel and the Kasaragod District Police Chief James Joseph suspended the officer after investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civil-police-officer-suspended/article31440939.ece
27 April 2020||KASARAGOD/,KERALA||Relief for Kannur, Kasaragod||Kannur and Kasaragod, which fall under the red zone category, reported no new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. While the number of cases is spiralling across the country, 91.4% of infected people have recovered in Kasaragod. On Sunday, one more person was discharged from hospital, and the number of those who have left hospitals has reached 160. Only 15 patients are undergoing treatment. Despite a dip in the number of cases, 2,197 people are under observation. While 2,165 are in home quarantine, 32 are in hospitals. So far, 3,791 samples have been tested, and 3,104 have returned negative. Two more persons were admitted to the isolation ward. In Kannur In Kannur too, no sample was tested positive. As of now, there are 112 positive cases in the district. On Sunday, a 24-year-old resident of Cheruvancheri, was discharged from the COVID-19 hospital at Anjarakandy. At present, only 54 are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, 2,720 people are under observation, which include 2,606 in home quarantine, 55 at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 21 at the District Hospital, six at the Thalassery General Hospital, and 32 at the District COVID Medical Centre. As many as 2,851 samples were sent for test, and the results of 2,571 returned negative. A second phase of sample testing to determine the spread of the virus continued on Sunday. In the second stage, swab tests for those who are at risk of spreading the virus will be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-for-kannur-kasaragod/article31440931.ece
27 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Free food kits for 255 captive elephants in State||Captive elephants will get food kits, free of cost, during the lockdown period. As many as 255 captive elephants are expected to get the ration kit during the period. Each kit will contain rice, pulses, green fodder and palm fronds. Going by the data available with the State Forest Department, there are 494 captive elephants in the State. For 40 days The jumbo ration kit will be dropped on the doorstep of the elephant owners. Each animal will be allotted foodgrain and fodder worth Rs. 400 a day and the free ration package will be for 40 days. The government has earmarked Rs. 16,000 for every elephant. The Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH) has been assigned the responsibility of providing the food kits. The Forest Department has drawn up a list of elephants, whose keepers are finding it difficult to feed them during the pandemic. The government has decided to provide food for various domestic animals, including captive elephants. List of elephants The list of elephants, which was drawn up in consultation with the two associations of the elephant owners, was handed over to the DAH the other day, said Surendrakumar, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala. The feeding of an animal, said P. Sasikumar, president, Kerala Elephant Owners Federation, would cost its owners around Rs. 3,500 a day. The menu included rice and flattened rice weighing 5kg each, 2 kg green gram, 25 palm fronds and green fodder weighing around 400 kg. Some owners also fed the pachyderms plantains, he said. Most of the revenue from elephants is earned during the five-month-long temple festival season which starts in December. It is estimated that an elephant would be paraded at least 75 festival days during the season, thus covering the investment made on it besides earning a profit for its owner. Huge loss This year, the cancellation of social gatherings and temple festivals had resulted in elephant owners suffering huge loss, said G. Krishnaprasad, president of the Elephant Owners Association. The State government had earlier earmarked Rs. 5 crore for feeding the animals. The elephants would be fed using the funds released for animal welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-food-kits-for-255-captive-elephants-in-state/article31440962.ece
27 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vazhakkulam stays positive||Asia’s best-known pineapple market at Vazhakkulam, about 30 km east of Kochi, is neither holding its breath nor are farmers unduly worried as they await the results of COVID-19 tests on a group of people on Monday. About a hundred have gone into home quarantine and samples from some of them were sent to be tested as they constituted the primary contact group of a lorry driver, who has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The driver who took the load from Vazhakkulam spent about four days in the town, before taking the load to Chennai. He was tested positive after he returned to his hometown of Palakkad. “Negative results will be a relief, but there is no undue worry,” said Jose Perumpallikunnel, health standing committee chairman of Manjalloor panchayat and a pineapple merchant. The samples from people who interacted directly with the driver have been sent to be tested. They were home quarantined along with secondary and tertiary contacts as a precautionary measure, said Mr. Perumpallikunnel, as pineapple transport operations continued uninterrupted but with greater caution at the Vazhakkulam market. Pineapple Merchants’ Association secretary Jose Varghese said the COVID-19 scare had not brought business to a halt. “We are taking more care. A protocol has been adopted and all are following it,” he said about the way the market operations have been brought under greater scrutiny. Only sanitised lorries and other carriers are allowed into the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vazhakkulam-stays-positive/article31440925.ece
27 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Amid lockdown, this globetrotter turns 100||Journeying across continents and crossing the seas, C.J. Lazar, who spent most of his childhood in the village of Puthenpeedika in Thrissur, has had front row seats to history being made for a hundred years now. “Do you know how old I am?” asks Mr. Lazar from the Signature Aged Care home at Padamugal in the city. He will ring in his hundredth birthday on Monday, with cake, payasam that he requested, and a video call with his son and family in England who, with the travel restrictions in place, could not make it to Kochi for the big day that Mr. Lazar is excited about. From picketing a shop selling foreign-made cloth as a student during the colonial period to qualifying as an electrician during World War II and being posted in Bombay, Karachi and Burma, several places and significant historical markers dot Mr. Lazar’s long life. He later spent 33 years of his life working for a British engineering company in Uganda, Kenya and Sudan, with his wife Elannam, where he went on to challenge some of the segregation he witnessed. “All years I have spent very happy,” says the healthy centenarian. “One good thing is that I went around the world – Africa, Australia, Europe. When I used to get off [from work] I would go around the world. I liked travelling very much.” He eventually returned to live in Girinagar here in the late 1980s, living alone after Elannam’s death in 1993 and continuing to travel with his son and their family. Now, he spends his time reading or participating in programmes and activities with the 45 other residents of the home. With all the tumult he has witnessed in the world, what does he think about the COVID-19 crisis? “It’s a strange thing. Something will appear all the time – now it’s corona, next time something else. It will all be overcome and it will be peaceful later.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-lockdown-this-globetrotter-turns-100/article31440927.ece
27 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SCTIMST to lead capacity building||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Thiruvananthapuram, has been involved in capacity building in the State to set up virus testing centres as per the mandate of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Letters had been sent to about 30 medical colleges in the State to increase the testing facilities, over and above the four centres that conducted reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR) currently, Asha Kishore, Director, SCTIMST, told The Hindu . Many colleges had come forth with their initiatives already. The ICMR norms mandate medical laboratories to be accredited by the National Accreditation Board of Laboratories. It would hasten the process of setting up the virus-testing laboratory, said Dr. Kishore. Some yet to respond About 10-12 colleges in the private sector had not responded to the letter sent by the SCTIMST. As the process was part of the ICMR’s mandate to equip several institutions in every State to deal with the corona virus (SARS-CoV-2), all institutes which had the infrastructure and facilities should be equipped with virus testing. Since training was important to deal with the virus, the SCTIMST had been entrusted with the training part. Five medical colleges in the private sector were already in the process of completing the required formalities. The Director of Medical Education had been informed about the private-sector medical colleges that had not responded. “It is up to the government to encourage them to join the team,” she said. In govt. sector There were also institutes in the government sector which were not equipped to or did not have the required infrastructure and facilities to build a virus testing lab, she said. However, the government would be facilitating the setting up of labs in these centres. The ICMR would evaluate and approve these testing centres. These would be done after a video and photographic evaluation first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sctimst-to-lead-capacity-building/article31440952.ece
27 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Counselling centres offer solace||Snehitha Kendras and community counselling facilities under the Kudumbashree State Mission came to the aid of 1,04,000 persons between March 16 and April 23. The mission had engaged 360 community counsellors across the State after the lockdown came into force. Help in time Counsellors and Snehitha Kendras have come to the assistance of women facing violence at home. They have also offered refuge to women in distress, besides providing psychological support in times of need, said a communication from the mission. Every district has a Snehitha Kendra. The mission had taken into consideration the lockdown environment and the possibility of discord in many homes. It had succeeded in reaching the message of its availability during the lockdown period through various media platforms. Those who have sought help from the community counselling centres include those in fear of COVID-19, those with special needs, those facing domestic discord, children, and those addicted to drugs and alcohol. Around 30,000 people facing possible infection were given counselling. As many as 23,000 in isolation also received help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counselling-centres-offer-solace/article31440929.ece
27 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Woman killed in lightning||An elderly woman died at Mookannur, Angamaly, on Sunday evening after being struck by lightning. Ammini, 64, had ventured out of her house when lightning struck. Her death comes even as the State Disaster Management Authority termed the current spate of intermittent lightning from noon to night amid rain as a potential danger. The authority has exhorted people not to venture out of buildings when there is lightning. Doors and windows must be closed and electric gadgets disconnected. Contact with metals must be avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-killed-in-lightning/article31440928.ece
27 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||The heart is what matters||Subaida, who runs a roadside tea stall in Kollam, is winning accolades from all the corners for her rare gesture during the pandemic. When the 60-year-old with meagre earnings couldn’t whip up any money to contribute to the Chief Ministers’ Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF), she sold her two goats raising Rs. 5,510 that was handed over to District Collector B. Abdul Nasar on Saturday. No income from shop “I watch Chief Minister’s press meet everyday and when I heard about little kids contributing their kaineettam to the fund I also wanted to do something. Since lockdown, there is hardly any income from the tea shop, but with the support of my husband I sold two of my goats,” she says. Subaida lives with her husband and brother, both of them heart patients, at Sangamam Nagar, Port Kollam. Her husband had recently undergone a heart surgery and it is Subaida who handles the tea shop mostly. “I know it’s a modest contribution, but I feel a little relieved after doing this,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-heart-is-what-matters/article31440977.ece
27 April 2020||KOTTAYAM/Idukki,KERALA||High alert in Kottayam, Idukki||Kottayam and Idukki, both Green zones until recently, found themselves back in focus with two districts accounting for all the COVID-19 cases reported on Sunday. Five more persons, including two women, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam, taking the total number of patients in the district to 11, while Idukki reported six cases taking the total number of cases to 20. With the sudden spurt in cases, lockdown measures were tightened in both the districts According to health officials in Kottayam, a 53-year-old person from Vadayar, who had history of contacts with relatives from abroad, was tested positive for the infection. The second patient is a 32-year-old health worker from Olassa, who had sought treatment for cough. The two women who have been diagnosed with the viral infection are a 25-year-old postgraduate student from Channanikkad and a 33-year-old health-care worker from Kidangoor who works at a cancer specialty hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. They had appeared for a medical examination after developing cough. The fifth person to be tested positive during the day was a 56-year-old railway employee who resides at Velloor, near Thalayolaparambu. A native of Tamil Nadu, he had visited Nagercoil on March 20 and returned two days later. Taking into consideration the sharp rise in the number of cases, the State government has included Manarcad, Aymanam, Thalayolaparambu, and Velloor panchayats in the list of hotspots. Earlier, Vijayapuram and Panchikkad panachayats and six wards in Kottayam municipality too were listed as hotspots. According to District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu, the lockdown restrictions in Kottayam have been tightened and all the exemptions have been withdrawn. Restrictions will be imposed on vehicular traffic while offices in areas marked as hotspots would not be allowed to function, he said. Meanwhile, the authorities here on Sunday recommended home quarantine to 114 persons, taking the total number of people in home quarantine to 650. This also includes the 154 primary contacts of the eleven patients who have been tested positive for the infection since April 23. As many as 755 samples have been sent for examination from the district so far while an additional batch of 20 samples were sent on Sunday. In Idukki, the new cases were at Vandanmedu, Uppukandam, Elappara (two), and Vandiperiyar (two). A 24-year-old youth, who reached Vandanmedu from Malappuram on March 23, was diagnosed positive while the Uppukandam resident (Erattayar grama panchayat) came from Germany via Spain. A 41-year-old woman doctor at Elappara is believed to have got the infection from the mother of a youth who came from Mysuru and was tested positive earlier. The mother also got infected and had visited the primary health centre at Elappara. Another Elappara resident who got infected was a 51-year-old woman who had contacted the mother of the youth who came from Mysuru and was living near her residence. With regard to the cases at Vandiperiyar, a 37-year-old man and his seven-year-old daughter had travelled to Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu and is believed to have got it from there. District Collector H. Dinesan said that all those tested positive on Sunday were shifted to the isolation wards of the Idukki district hospital near Thodupuzha which has been converted to a COVID-19 hospital. Four COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on April 23.  Manarcad, Aymanam, Thalayolaparambu, and Velloor on hotspot list||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-alert-in-kottayam-idukki/article31440979.ece
27 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Private hospital staff allege social boycott||Staff of a private hospital in Kozhikode city have approached the District Collector claiming that some of them are facing social boycott ever since a nurse in the institution tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 recently. According to the complaint filed by a recreation club of the hospital, two staff members were waylaid by local residents at Perambra on Saturday night. WhatsApp messages This followed WhatsApp messages sent by a group of people saying that those who interacted with them were at risk. Health Department staff were also reportedly asking the staff to go on home quarantine even after it was pointed out that they did not have any contact with the nurse. A member of the technical staff was reportedly prevented from fetching water from a public well at Koodaranhi. She has been shifted to a hostel. Some others were not allowed to go to work. Local elected representatives too have been accused of misrepresenting facts. A dozen similar complaints have emerged now. The hospital management has lodged a complaint with the Kozhikode Rural police. Samples collected Meanwhile, 359 body fluid samples collected from COVID-19 hotspots in Kozhikode have been sent for lab tests, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree has said. They were collected from Edachery, Azhiyoor, Eramala, and Kodenchery grama panchayats as well as some areas within the Kozhikode Corporation, she said in a release on Sunday. People who had been in contact with COVID-19 patients, pregnant women, people aged above 60, community volunteers, Health Department staff, and those employed in local bodies and commercial establishments were covered.  Health Department staff reportedly asked the staff to go on home quarantine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-hospital-staff-allege-social-boycott/article31440922.ece
27 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police tighten steps to enforce lockdown||Noticing an increase in the violation of lockdown norms, the police have started stringent measures, including blocking of rural roads connected to Covid hotspots and district boarders. More than 15 roads in the Kozhikode rural area have been blocked to prevent the easy entry and exit of vehicles through already declared hotspots. In such areas, the entry and exit of emergency vehicles will be controlled through a single path. Arrangements are also in place to deploy bike patrol squads to book those who defy the district-level directives on social distancing and quarantine rules. Apart from Shadow police teams, the service of health workers will be sought to tighten the surveillance. No shops will be allowed to function in the hotspots in Azhiyoor panchayat. Eessential commodities for the residents will be delivered at their doorstep through telephone booking service. More rural roads connected to this panchayat closer to Kannur district are likely to be blocked for surveillance. Following reports that some migrant labourers have been using the railway tracks to secretly reach various locations, the police patrol will cover suspicious areas 24x7. Checking squads have made it clear that attempts to cross the district and State boarders without permission will be treated as offence. A decision has also been taken to instantly move suspicious travellers to the quarantine facilities managed by the Health Department. Those found roaming in hotspots too will be taken to the nearest quarantine ward. Health Department squads have been deployed to keep an eye on wanderers. An official attached to the Vadakara police station said attempts to facilitate illegal travel of people on goods carriers and ambulances had come down with the stringent action taken by the highway checking squads. Similar efforts would be made to identify those who misuse the emergency passes for travel during the lockdown period, he said. For the flawless enforcement of rules, police stations located near various hotspots had been given drone cameras for surprise inspections. Police officials said the legal actions taken so far using the drone camera visuals had largely helped them to stop the unlawful gatherings, outdoor activities and even illicit liquor brewing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-tighten-steps-to-enforce-lockdown/article31440924.ece
27 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand for IT Secretary’s resignation||Congress leader K. Muraleedhran, MP, has demanded that M. Sivasankar step down from the post of IT Secretary in the wake of allegations regarding the Sprinklr deal. He said on Sunday that the observations made by the Kerala High Court about the deal were a setback to the government. Some questions posed by the court about the government’s capacity to analyse data put the department in a spot, Mr. Muraleedhran claimed. The IT Secretary's reported visit to the CPI State council office brought disgrace to the government, he said. “While the Opposition sought a CBI probe into the deal, BJP State president K. Surendran was happy with a Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau investigation. The disagreements within the BJP also came out into the open when M.T. Ramesh, another senior leader, demanded a CBI probe,” Mr. Muraleedharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-it-secretarys-resignation/article31440921.ece
27 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Madin students bring out digital magazine in Spanish||The students of Madin College of Islamic Dawa at Perumparamba near here made the best use of their lockdown period by bringing out several online magazines, including one in Spanish language. The students named their magazine El Faro , which means lighthouse in Spanish. “Ours is the first religious institution in the State to bring out a magazine in Spanish,” said Shameer Thrippanachi and Swadakatullah Panangangara , managing editor and executive editor respectively of the magazine. The magazine has focused on the COVID-19 situation in Kerala, going in good detail into the steps adopted by the State administration to contain the disease even as the world floundered in the face of its onslaught. The Madin team also brought out magazines in Malayalam, English, Urdu, and Arabic during the lockdown. Online editions Madin Academy Chairman Sayed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari released six online editions of the magazines on Sunday. Congratulating the students, Mr. Bukhari said they had opened the window to the world during the lockdown. “It is something unique in language learning history,” he said. Madin Academy is offering students opportunities to study languages such as Spanish, French, German, Turkish, and Chinese through its Centre for Foreign Languages. Online classes are currently being held in these language programmes. The association between Madin Academy and Spanish government agency Instituto Cervantes, New Delhi, has helped a large number of students learn Spanish in recent times. Madin students are teaching Spanish in many institutes across the world. Hamid Hussain, who spent several weeks in Spain to hone his language skills, said that the demand for Spanish language skills was on the rise globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/madin-students-bring-out-spanish-e-magazine/article31440949.ece
27 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Crime rate dips in Malappuram||The COVID-19 lockdown has brought about a lot of difficulties for the people, yet it has considerably reduced the incidence of crimes in the district. Police officers said the data showing a sharp fall in crimes in Malappuram was an indication of the general trend across the State during the lockdown. Domestic violence Although people were confined to their homes for the past one month, the number of domestic violence cases has fallen sharply. Only 10 domestic violence cases were reported from the district from March 24 to April 24. During the same period in 2019, 20 domestic violence cases had been registered in Malappuram. Although the total number of police cases trebled in Malappuram during the lockdown month compared to March 24-April 24 last year, more than 95% of them were in connection with violation of lockdown norms. While 1,098 cases had been registered in March-April period in 2019, the number of cases filed during the lockdown was 3,805. “The number of cases increased, but crimes decreased considerably,” said District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem. “More than 95% cases were in connection with COVID-19 lockdown,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-rate-dips-in-malappuram/article31440937.ece
27 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Police step up vigil along district border||The police here have stepped up vigil against vehicles crossing the borders of the neighbouring districts of Kottayam and Kollam that recently witnessed a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases. District Police Chief (DPC) K.G. Simon told The Hindu that the police had decided to temporarily close certain roads in the district leading to the neighbouring Kollam and Kottayam districts, as part of the ongoing intensive COVID-19 prevention drive. 36 points He said the police had identified 36 points on the borders of the two neighbouring districts, and check posts would be set up at these places for intensified surveillance in the wake of the growing number of COVID-19 cases in Kollam and Kottayam. Traffic has been banned on the highway cutting across Kadambanad grama panchayat in Adoor taluk to enter Poruvazhy in Kollam where a new COVID-19 case was reported on Saturday. The police have even made public announcements in the panchayat limits on Sunday, calling upon the people to avoid unnecessary travel to Poruvazhy and not to purchase fish, vegetables, etc, from small-scale vendors coming from Chakkuvally and surrounding areas in Poruvazhy panchayat. The police also closed roads at Palathinkadavu, 7th Mile, Chathakulam, etc, where the two districts share boundaries. They had erected barricades, blocking vehicular traffic on the road near Paipad on the borders of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta, Mr Simon said. Drop in crime rate The DPC said the lockdown-imposed restrictions on people’s movement brought down the crime rate drastically in the district. As per the data prepared by the District Crime Records Bureau, crimes like murder, theft, sexual assault, crime against women, and road accidents came down in the first 30 days of lockdown in the district. Mr Simon said only 26 road accident cases were registered in the district during the one-month lockdown period against the 331 cases registered in the preceding month. No case of atrocity against women or sexual abuse of children (POCSO) were reported in the district during the lockdown period. Similarly, the number of murder cases in the district too had come down to just one during the first 30 days of lockdown, he said. Only two burglary cases had been registered during the period against 20 such cases registered in the previous month. Murder cases down Though the police registered 14 cases for murder attempts in various police station limits in the month preceding the lockdown, no such case had been registered in the first 30 days of the lockdown, the DPC said. However, Mr Simon said the police had registered a total of 10,107 cases for violation of lockdown norms in different parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-vigil-along-district-border/article31440981.ece
27 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Home quarantine cases down to 388 in Pathanamthitta||The district that became the epicentre of the second spell of COVID-19 in the State did not report any new case for the 13th day in a row on Sunday. A total of 10 persons, including three COVID-19 patients, were quarantined at the isolation wards set up at various hospitals in the district as on Sunday evening. In isolation Three infected persons were now at the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital, six persons at District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and one person at General Hospital in Adoor. The number of home-quarantined people, too, came down to 388, 344 of which came from other States and 44 were contacts of the infected people. Discharged As per a medical bulletin released by the district authorities here on Sunday evening, a total of 162 persons, including the 14 persons cured of the disease, got discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Sunday evening. So far, 17 throat swabs sent from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 while 3,025 others tested negative for the viral infection. 209 swab samples The Health authority is awaiting clinical examination results of 209 throat swab samples from the virology laboratory in Alappuzha. 6,790 persons screened The 144 surveillance squads deployed by the Health Department have screened 6,790 people for fever and other symptoms of the viral infection at 14 border points in the district on Sunday.  The Health authority is awaiting clinical examination results of 209 throat swab samples||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-quarantine-cases-down-to-388-in-pathanamthitta/article31440982.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Symptoms of silent transmission emerge||Kerala has been preparing to ease out of the lockdown in full confidence that the third stage of disease transmission or the community spread of COVID-19 has eluded the State. However, all such claims are beginning to fall flat. Now that Kerala has begun to report multiple cases of COVID-19 from various parts of the State — especially that of health workers — without any clear epidemiological link, it is becoming evident that silent disease transmission has been happening in the State. The outbreak has so far been slow and mild in Kerala only because the imposition of the lockdown just as the graph was beginning to climb effectively slowed disease transmission in the community. Epidemiologists point out that the frenzy over how Kerala “flattened” the epidemic curve, widely celebrated in international media, seems to have lulled the State into believing that contact tracing and quarantining can solve most of its issues. Kerala did some extremely good work as far as the initial containment of the disease is concerned, through systematic quarantining of imported cases of infection and aggressive contact tracing. “Kerala is still in the very beginning of the epidemic and we have not even seen the graph climb, to talk about flattening the curve. In a population of 3.5 crore, which is 100% susceptible to this new virus, 450-odd cases is definitely not the peak. I fear that we have been taking our tryst with COVID-19 very lightly. Our problems are only beginning because we are going to see COVID-19 peak in the rainy months ahead, when we will have to deal with all our annual infectious disease outbreaks,” a senior public health expert said on condition of anonymity. Steep increase likely Once the lockdown is lifted, in two weeks, the State could see an explosion in cases. The lockdown just bought the State some time to prepare itself and prime the health system to face the oncoming storm. “Because of the nature of the virus — that it can spread even when a person is in the asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic period — it is quite definite that it will get established in the community and that it will be there till a significant section of the population is infected . The severity of the outbreak will depend on who gets infected,” he added. Lockdowns will have to be repeated region-wise for initial control of the outbreak and diagnostic testing (PCR) will have to be seriously increased so that new cases are picked up and isolated immediately to contain spread. Role of private sector It is thus perhaps time to talk about the specifics of the State’s mitigation plan, how many isolation and critical care facilities are readied in public and private sector and list these district-wise. How well has the State been involving the private sector in preparing the mitigation plans and whether it has assessed the preparedness of individual private sector hospitals is another question. It is only on Saturday that the government announced that private hospitals too can test for COVID-19. Kerala so far has had little experience in treating severe cases, as almost all of its cases have been mild and with just two or three patients requiring ventilation. It is thus perhaps also time that clinicians, critical care physicians and intensivists in both private and public sector got together and discussed the latest developments in managing severe COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/symptoms-of-silent-transmission-emerge/article31440964.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Minister digs in his heels on Sprinklr deal||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday stubbornly refused to give in to the demand of the Congress to cancel the contract with the controversial U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr Inc. He dug his heels in on the issue in his weekly television programme titled ‘Nammal Munnootu’. Muckraking media Mr. Vijayan accused the media of muckraking and giving undue importance to controversies. The government would continue to engage Sprinklr to provide it with insight into COVID-19 occurrence and spread. It would not step back from the deal because a few vested interests had tried to malign it, he said. The High Court (HC) had handed the government a moral victory by rejecting the Opposition’s demand to annul the agreement. The government was in dire need of a big data analytics platform to crunch field health information when COVID-19 was at the gates of Kerala and threatened to scythe down the population. Sprinklr offered its services free. The State did not have a comparable IT tool in its inventory. Hence it hired Sprinklr. The government held proprietary rights over the personal health information of citizens collected by field workers. It would be protected, and no scope for its misuse or monetisation by Sprinklr existed.  Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala slammed Mr. Vijayan for using the visibility of his office to demonise the media and those who question or criticise his policies. He asked the Chief Minister to explain why he had “surreptitiously” chosen Sprinklr over the more experienced and credible public sector IT solution providers such as the National Informatics Centre. ‘No reprieve granted’ The HC had given no reprieve to Mr. Vijayan. The Chief Minister’s fear that the court would expose his lies had driven him to bypass the Advocate General and hire a highly paid lawyer from Mumbai at the expense of the taxpayer to defend his “affair with Sprinklr” in the courtroom, Mr. Chennithala said. The HC was critical of the Sprinklr. It ordered the government to anonymise the identity of surveilled persons and ordered Sprinklr from monetising the data or using the State’s emblem to promote its brand internationally, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-digs-in-his-heels-on-sprinklr-deal/article31440955.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||With ease in restraints, shops open to lukewarm response||Several commercial outlets reopened in the district on Sunday after over a month. Despite the government nod to resume businesses, only a few traders chose to reopen on the day in apparent expectation of poor sales. The shutters of some shops that sold non-essential goods, including textiles, bags, watches, and umbrellas went up for the first time since their closure on March 24 when the nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Heeding the government’s instruction, many traders focussed their efforts on cleaning their premises and dusting products. Along expected lines, not many commercial establishments registered close to average sales. However, traders remained hopeful of business picking up pace on Monday. Vendors of vegetables and fruits at Chala and Palayam, however, managed to sell much of their products. Under the watchful eye of police officials, the traders and customers wore masks and refrained from crowding. At East Fort, police officials ordered the closure of a few jewellery outlets that were reopened in violation of the guidelines. The trading community remains anxious with many pondering ways to pay rents and other expenses for April. Many had stocked up in anticipation of a spurt in business during Easter and Vishu, but in vain. Border vigil Surveillance was intensified at the inter-State border points with the Tamil Nadu government imposing a four-day ‘complete lockdown’ that began on Sunday. While motorists were not permitted to cross the border, goods vehicles were thoroughly screened and movement was strictly regulated. Moreover, over five narrow passages were barricaded using mud to prevent inter-State pedestrian and vehicular movement. The Thiruvananthapuram City police apprehended 101 people for violating lockdown norms. These included 58 people who failed to wear masks outdoors. As many as 53 vehicles were also seized. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 569 cases, arrested 568 people, and seized 404 vehicles. The Rural police also recorded the arrests of Mohanan of Ayiroor, Babu of Marayamuttom, Madhu of Anavoor, Sunil of Kilimanoor, and Jyothi and Prakash of Kattakada with alleged possession of 10 litres of arrack and 75 litres of ‘koda’ in separate cases. Seven Tamil Nadu natives were also apprehended by the police during attempts to illegally cross the inter-State borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-ease-in-restraints-shops-open-to-lukewarm-response/article31440984.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||80-year-old woman recovers||An 80-year-old woman, who was diagnosed with COVID-19, was confirmed to have recovered from her illness on Sunday, leaving just one patient in the district. The Kallattumukku native had been diagnosed with the disease on April 9 after she contracted the infection from her 61-year-old son who had returned from the Middle East in March, following which he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on April 1. Ever since, the woman was being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital. A 44-year-old Varkala native is currently being treated at the hospital for the infection. The district administration released a patient flow-chart on Sunday to trace his contacts. He had arrived from Sharjah on March 20 and tested positive after 34 days on April 23. Different hospitals During the period, he had visited the Varkala taluk hospital, General Hospital, SAT Hospital, Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Paripally Government Medical College. The district administration placed 193 people more under observation as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts. With this, the number of people who are being monitored in the district has gone up to 1,976. Among them, 1,836 people are quarantined at their homes. As many as 137 people were removed from the surveillance list after completing the 28-day isolation period. Seventeen persons were admitted to hospitals with various symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/80-year-old-woman-recovers/article31440985.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ex-soldiers seek help to return from M.P.||Several Keralite soldiers who retired from service on March 31, but have been stranded in Madhya Pradesh due to the COVID-19 lockdown, are seeking the State government’s help to return home. Around 25 of the former soldiers who are waiting out the lockdown at sub units under Headquarters 1 Signal Training Centre in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, have been e-mailing requests to the Kerala government seeking permit letters to facilitate their safe passage through multiple States. Without the permission letter of the civil administration it would be impossible for them to travel through Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and enter Kerala, they said. Alarmed While they were safe inside the cantonment for now, they said they were also alarmed by the COVID-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh. For the moment, however, their hopes stand dashed by a response from the Kerala government which stated that it would be unable to facilitate their travel as of now, “as per the extant guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.” Domestic issues “A majority in our group are men who have opted to leave the Army early due to domestic concerns. One soldier, for example, opted for VRS to take care of his mother who is a cancer patient. It goes without saying that we are prepared to follow all health protocols during our journey,” said Pratheesh S.S., an ex-soldier who hails from Kattakada in Thiruvananthapuram district. Most of these former soldiers who are awaiting an opportunity to return to Kerala hail from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. Others belong to Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod. According to them, soldiers from States like Karnataka, Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh who had also retired on March 31 have left for their home States. Lockdown extended The Keralite soldiers had expected a decision after April 14, but have been forced to stay put after the national-level lockdown was extended to May 3.  Around 25 of the former soldiers who are waiting out the lockdown have been e-mailing requests to the Kerala government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-soldiers-seek-help-to-return-from-mp/article31440938.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online registration for NoRKs begins||The Department of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) on Sunday commenced online registration for the people stranded abroad due to the ban on international flights following the pandemic. Technical glitches on official website www.norkaroots.org delayed the registration process right from the morning. Finally, it was sorted out by 6.30 p.m. paving the way for the NoRKs around the world to register on the link www.registernorkaroots.org that leads to the section “Welcome to Home land”. It has been made clear that the registration is only for making quarantine arrangements and for monitoring the registered persons during the quarantine period and does not guarantee any priority for travel from abroad or concession in airfare. Medical certificate The data being collected while registering will be shared by NoRKA-Roots with departments concerned and will be processed for further action related to COVID-19, ensuring privacy of the data. All will have to produce a medical certificate declaring them negative for SARS-CoV-2. The return journey will be subject to clearance of Union government. Arrangements will be made in the four international airports of the State for the screening of the NoRKs. Only driver Only the driver of the car will be allowed to pick up the NoRKs from the airport. Relatives and friends will not be allowed to accompany them. Those showing symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness during the screening at airports will be taken directly to COVID centres or hospitals. About three to 5.5 lakh NoRKs are expected to return home and the government anticipates 9,600 to 27,600 will have to be kept under surveillance with COVID protocol even if they test negative.  No guarantee in priority for travel from abroad or concession in air fares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-registration-for-norks-begins/article31440944.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tens of thousands set to return: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday asked the State to prepare for the arrival of “tens of thousands” of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from COVID-19-hit countries in the Gulf. The Centre had informed Kerala that it was considering allowing airlines to operate special flights for them. It would also explore the scope of ferrying them in transport ships. Hundreds of blue-collar workers displaced by the outbreak in Gulf countries were desperate to come home. An estimated 10% of the State’s population are employed abroad, and their remittances have helped prop Kerala’s economy for long. Jobless Many of them have lost their jobs following the outbreak. They were living in abject poverty in cramped conditions in labour camp dormitories. They had little access to food and medicine and survived mostly on the charity of Malayali organisations and the assistance of the UAE government. The government was concerned whether they could even afford the air ticket home. The plight of the breadwinners and their inability to return home have anguished a large number of families in Kerala. The Congress has repeatedly sought attempts to expedite their return. Mr. Vijayan too had made several appeals to the Centre to let them come back. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had expressed fear whether the return of NoRKs in large numbers from epidemic hotspots would increase the COVID-19 caseload in the State. Preference Mr. Vijayan said pregnant women, aged and ailing citizens, amnestied prisoners, those with expired visas, fishers and single women would get precedence. The government has mandated that those returning to the State from abroad isolate themselves at home for 14 days even if they are asymptomatic. It would move infected persons to hospitals and others requiring quarantine to well-appointed rooms in commandeered hotels, guest houses and hostels. The Chief Minister had chaired a meeting with NoRK representatives by video link earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tens-of-thousands-set-to-return-cm/article31440946.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,000 swabs for RT-PCR tests collected||The Health Department undertook a massive exercise on Sunday, wherein 3,000 nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swabs were collected randomly from all districts from amongst the general population for COVID-19 testing using RT-PCR. The objective was to detect any hitherto undetected COVID-19 positivity amongst the general population. This sample survey is apart from the routine PCR samples done by the State. While 15% each of the samples were collected from primary contacts of confirmed cases, health workers in non-COVID hospitals and other health workers and field-level health staff, 10% samples each were collected from the elderly, inter-State travellers, pregnant women and other frontline workers. Five percent each were collected from quarantined persons with co-morbidities above 30 years, secondary contacts of confirmed cases and contacts of travellers in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3000-swabs-for-rt-pcr-tests-collected/article31440960.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation to provide free seeds, compost||Responding to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s call to people to take up farming activities, the city Corporation will be providing seeds and compost for free to the public to promote organic farming in houses. The programme also completes a cycle in the civic body’s waste management programme, as the compost is sourced from the aerobic bins and the kitchen bins kept in households to process waste. According to the officials, the organic farming starter kit will be given free of cost to the first 20,000 people who register with the Corporation. The civic body had recently opened registration in its Smart Trivandrum mobile application as well as on the website. “We have been receiving enthusiastic response from the public, with hundreds of people already registering with the Corporation main office as well as the zonal offices. The first kits will be distributed from Monday at the health circle offices,” said a Corporation official. V.K. Prashant, MLA, has also launched a travelling market for seeds, organic compost, and farm implements. The vehicle, which will be flagged off from Ambalamukku at 10 a.m. on Monday, will travel to all corners of the Vattiyurkavu constituency over the next week. The initiative has been launched along with the Kerala Agro Industries Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-provide-free-seeds-compost/article31440986.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Pineapple challenge’ to be extended||The Agriculture Department plans to extend the ‘pineapple challenge’ and procurement of cool-season vegetables to all districts to help farmers, Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar said. The initiatives had been launched in select districts to help farmers sell their produce after the COVID-19 pandemic affected exports. The ‘pineapple challenge’ was launched in Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts. The pineapples were sold through outlets opened by the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council, Keralam (VFPCK). Farmers in Idukki Similarly, the department is planning to sell cool-season vegetables grown in Vattavada-Kanthalloor and Devikulam in Idukki district through Horticorp. This will benefit farmers who grow cabbage, cauliflower, carrot, beetroot and also passion fruit. Since the border with Tamil Nadu remains closed due to the pandemic, the government intends to procure maximum volume of vegetables from Idukki and make them available across the State, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veggies-to-be-procured/article31440947.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways to take parcels to the doorstep||In a bid to boost the new ‘short parcel trains’ introduced in the wake of the lockdown, Railways will commence pick up and delivery of parcels on the doorstep of the citizens. Initially, the doorstep service will be from Thiruvananthapuram to Vallathol Nagar area. “We will be launching a 24-hour helpline number for the citizens to contact Railways. On getting the call, the logistics team will entrust the personnel to collect the parcel from the doorstep. The railway porters who had been rendered jobless will be roped in and the fee for conveyance will be a source of income for them,” Divisional Commercial Manager Bala Murali told The Hindu . Railways will only collect the shipment charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-take-parcels-to-the-doorstep/article31440953.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Equip Kerala for post-COVID-19 age’||Former Chief Secretary C.V. Ananda Bose has stressed the need for Kerala to usher in an investment-friendly climate to attract companies seeking to relocate from China in the post COVID-19 phase. He was participating in a discussion organised by the Bharatiya Vichara Kendram here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/equip-kerala-for-post-covid-19-age/article31440987.ece
27 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Quiet start to Thrissur Pooram||The Kodiyettam (flag hoisting) of the Thrissur Pooram was held on Sunday without the usual celebrations and Ezhunnellippu. The Kodiyettam was held at Paramekkavu and Thiruvambadi temples, the main organisers of the Pooram. The rituals, which are usually witnessed by a huge crowd, were attended by just four persons each. Though initially it was decided to conduct the Kodiyettam at the Paramekkavu temple alone, a meeting convened by Ministers A.C. Moideen and V.S. Sunil Kumar decided to conduct it at Thiruvambadi too. However, Kodiyettam was not conducted in other participating temples. The flag mast was erected at the respective temples. The priests then took the idols for Arat. The idol of the Paramekkavu Bhagavathy was taken to the Vadakkunnathan temple by the priest and taken back after Arat in the pond at Kokkarni Parambu. The Thiruvambadi Bhagavathy’s idol was taken to Padinjare Chira (West Pond) of the Brahmaswam Madhom and taken back to the temple. Rituals connected to the Pooram will be held at the respective temples in the coming days. The Thrissur Pooram is on May 2. At a ministerial-level meeting it was decided to conduct the festival without any fanfare, in the wake of the COVID-19 threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quiet-start-to-thrissur-pooram/article31440942.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Virtual’ vows during lockdown||They are living in two different places separated by over 2,500 km but it did not stop them from getting married on Sunday. P. Anjana, 28, from Pallippad, near Haripad, who is staying in Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, and Sreejith Nadesan, 30, from Changanassery in Kottayam, tied the knot via a video calling app. Their marriage turned virtual after the lockdown prevented Anjana, an analyst in an IT company in Uttar Pradesh, from travelling to Pallippad from UP. Video call On the wedding day, Mr. Nadesan, along with his parents and close relatives, reached the bride’s house at Pallippad, where her father stays. The bridegroom then made a video call to Anjana. Mr. Nadesan then symbolically put a wedding chain (mangalsutra) around the bride’s neck on the screen. Following this, Anjana tied a locket with thread on her neck in the presence of her mother and brother. The entire ceremony was conducted in accordance with the lockdown guidelines. The couple got engaged on November 9, 2019. According to Mr. Nadesan, an employee with a bank, their marriage was originally planned in January, but it was later shifted to April 26 for convenience. The newly wed couple is planning to organise a party for relatives and friends once the lockdown ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-vows-during-lockdown/article31440975.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Waiting for orders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waiting-for-orders/article31440934.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Reflections of the times?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reflections-of-the-times/article31440936.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Long road to normalcy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/long-road-to-normalcy/article31440967.ece
27 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to sell groundnut seeds through Rythu Bharosa Kendras||The age-old practice of producing own seeds on the farm for the next season has come back again after several decades, thanks to COVID-19. The State government’s intervention has slightly modified the practice to some extent, but it is for the farmers’ good. The government proposes to sell groundnut seeds through Rythu Bharosa Kendras at village level from May 15. While it was sold at Rs. 47 a kg on subsidy last year, this year’s price is yet to be decided. All these years procurement and processing of groundnut seeds has been through private agencies securing contracts in the tendering process, but the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government has changed it for saving time and money. Against a projected requirement of 6 lakh tonnes of groundnut seeds in Anantapur district alone, the Agriculture Department proposes to provide 3.3 lakh quintals at a subsidised rate. Early start Going by the last year’s experience when the State government had to face the ire of the farming community due to lack of sufficient stock of seeds, the procurement of K-6 variety of groundnut this year began early in February when the rabi crop harvesting begins and will continue till the first week of May. By Saturday, the department procured 93,063 quintals. Due to elections in 2019, the procurement stopped midway. After the results were announced on May 23, the process began afresh and by that time the demand rose phenomenally, forcing the government to procure seeds even from neighbouring Karnataka at a higher price. The Andhra Pradesh Seeds Corporation proposes to procure 20,000 quintals, an NGO, Wassan, working with 96 Farmer Producer Organisations is expected to procure 80,000 quintals and under Andhra Pradesh Drought Mitigation Programme 30,000 quintals will be procured, said agriculture Joint Director Habib Basha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-sell-groundnut-seeds-through-rythu-bharosa-kendras/article31441046.ece
27 April 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers innovate to beat lockdown blues||The lockdown imposed to fight the dreaded coronavirus disease has deprived different sections, particularly workers of various sectors, artisans and auto drivers, of their livelihood. Hit hard by the restrictions, many switched over to selling vegetables and fruits to make both ends meet. While some auto drivers are going round the streets in their autorickshaws, equipped with a mike, announcing the wide variety of vegetables being made available at the customers’ doorstep, others have chosen to park their vehicles at various junctions in the city to sell the vegetables and fruits. A middle-aged woman was seen deftly trying to convince customers to buy vegetables, which she spread out beside the road near the Regional Passport Office in Marripalem VUDA Layout. She is not a familiar face there and inquiries reveal that she is the wife of an auto driver. “For the last three weeks, we have been parking our auto here and putting up the stall here. The lockdown has robbed my husband of his daily earnings. We have no other assets and we thought this is the best alternative,” says Syamala. “I sell vegetables from 5.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. every day. We are getting an average income of Rs. 300 a day. My daughter is studying in Class X and son Class VII and we have to pay their tuition fee. I want to continue this business even after the lockdown,” she says. Raju, a carpenter, set up his vegetable stall, at the other end of Marripalem VUDA Layout, beside the National Highway. “I have two sons and a daughter and we have no other means of livelihood,” he says. Eswar Rao, a scrap dealer at Kancharapalem, has switched over to selling fruits on the road outside the rythu bazaar. His sister, who worked at a department store till recently, was seen assisting him. The craving of the younger generation for ‘pani puri’ has not gone down with the lockdown. In fact, youngsters are yearning to have something crispy after a ‘tiring’ day at home doing nothing. ‘Pani puri’ stalls at various locations in the city have closed and some enterprising youngsters saw an opportunity to cash in on the demand. “I buy the ‘pani puris’ from the Rajasthani ‘pani puri’ makers and sell them here. They are selling like hot cakes,” says Srinivas, who opened a makeshift stall at Muralinagar during the relaxation period. Some are selling bread near rythu bazaars after procuring them from the manufacturing units. After all, sweet are the uses of adversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workers-innovate-to-beat-lockdown-blues/article31441064.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka plasma donor wants to inspire others||Karnataka’s first plasma donor, whose plasma will be administered to a COVID-19 patient, hopes to inspire others to come forward and help in the fight against the pandemic. The 40-year-old HR professional said he did not think twice about signing up as a donor when he heard that HCG Hospital in Karnataka had got approval for plasma therapy. “I got in touch with the hospital and told them I wanted to do this. I felt that it was my moral responsibility. I wanted to make a difference,” he said. He contracted the virus in the end of March after travelling to Dubai. “As soon as we landed at the Bengaluru airport, we were taken to a hospital and given strict instructions to follow home quarantine. A week later, I started showing symptoms.” He spent over a fortnight in the hospital and initially found it challenging as he had high fever. The HR professional said that he too had done his homework and read up extensively on plasma therapy. As Karnataka’s first donor, he hopes that more people who are hale and hearty and have recovered from COVID-19 would come forward and donate their plasma. The team at HCG Hospital conducted a series of blood tests on Sunday and he will be able to donate his plasma in a day or two. Uses antibodies Vishal Rao, associate dean of HCG, said the plasma therapy used antibodies from the blood of cured patients, to treat severely ill COVID-19 cases in the clinical trial setting. “The recovered patient’s blood develops antibodies to fight against COVID-19 and the plasma of this cured patient has medicinal properties that when infused to the infected serious patient, will assist in elimination of coronavirus in infected patients who are in a serious condition,” he said. HCG Hospital has tied up with the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMRCI) for plasma therapy. The Central Drugs Control Organisation under the Director General of Health Services has approved a research proposal to study the use of convalescent plasma therapy in treating COVID-19. The therapy that holds promise in treatment of COVID-19 cases will be tested on at least 12 critically ill patients in the State in the initial phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-plasma-donor-wants-to-inspire-others/article31440595.ece
27 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP MP’s Twitter account locked||Twitter India has locked Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Uttara Kannada and former Union Minister Anantkumar Hegde’s account, over tweets that “violate Twitter norms” and has asked him to delete those tweets to unlock it. Mr. Hegde, in a press statement, said the action by Twitter was over his tweets that “reveal explicitly the modus operandi and hidden agenda of Tablighi Jamaat movement within India and around the world.” The MP, known for his controversial and communal comments, recently wrote a two-part article — “Islam Politics” and “Are Tablighis carrying out Virus Jihad?” — alleging a conspiracy by Tablighi Jamaat to spread COVID-19 not only in India but around the world as well. He has also accused the Jamaat of involvement in several terror attacks around the world over the last 40 years. The two-part series has been published on his personal website and their links published on Twitter. Following his account being locked, Mr. Hegde said he was “least bothered about the Twitter account that has now been blocked” and that he “would never delete his tweet and stands firm on the statement.” Meanwhile, he alleged that the action by Twitter was motivated. He said he has lodged a complaint with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah about an opinion poll for a referendum on Khalistan, a separate Punjab in 2020 on Twitter being promoted as an advertisement on the platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-mps-twitter-account-locked/article31440582.ece
27 April 2020||CHENAI/Hyderabad/Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six children among new cases in Tamil Nadu||Andhra Pradesh witnessed another spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, the highest so far, with 81 new ones being reported in eight districts. The tally went up to 1,097, although no deaths were reported. A 45-year-old woman, who tested positive for COVID-19, died at a designated hospital in Bengaluru, raising the virus deaths tally in Karnataka to 19. In Andhra Pradesh, as many as 6,768 samples were tested during the 24-hour period, taking total testing so far to 68,034. Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh, particularly Vijayawada, was in focus with 52 cases in a single day, taking the tally to 177. The cases in the district doubled in three days, as two “super spreaders” met several people and played indoor games in different areas of the city despite having a history of travel outside the State. West Godavari reported 12 new cases and Kurnool four. Guntur, Kadapa and Prakasam reported three new cases each, and Anantapur two. Meanwhile, 60 persons recovered and were discharged. In a bid to track people showing symptoms such as fever, cold, cough, respiratory issues and others related to COVID-19, the Health Department has launched a mobile application for pharmacies. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana stood at 1,001 as 11 more were detected up to Sunday evening. All 11 new cases were reported in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. Officials said all contacts of COVID-19 cases were tested and containment measures imposed in Suryapet, Gadwal and Vikarabad districts. The State Health department said of the 1,001 cases, 660 were active cases, 316 were discharged, and 25 people had died. Karnataka toll touches 19 A Karnataka Health Department bulletin said the woman who died was admitted on April 24, and was a resident of Bengaluru Urban district with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and pneumonia. She was also diabetic, and had a history of tuberculosis. Three new cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday, two of them from Kalaburagi, and one from Dakshina Kannada. All three were in contact with those who had tested positive earlier. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka stood at 503. A total of 24 patients were discharged on Sunday, eight from Bengaluru Urban, and the total going up to 182. Of 302 active cases, six were in the intensive care unit. Of 30 districts in Karnataka, 20 had reported COVID-19 cases. Of these 20, four had no active cases as of Sunday, with the patients discharged after recovery. Health workers hit In Kerala, new COVID-19 cases with no epidemiological link from districts not designated as “red zones”, including among health workers sent alarm bells ringing about possible silent transmission at the community-level. Of 11 new cases on Sunday, six were from Idukki and five from Kottayam district. In Idukki, one person had returned from Spain, and two from Tamil Nadu. The other three were contacts of people who contracted the disease from the community, one of them a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-fresh-spike-andhra-pradesh-records-81-cases/article31440598.ece
27 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to intensify fever survey||Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta on Sunday asked the medical and paramedical staff on COVID-19 duties to intensify the fever survey on a war-footing and complete first phase of the exercise in one week. Addressing a meeting with the medical officers here, the Collector said that in addition to the survey, the field staff should zero in on the primary and secondary contacts of the COVID-19 positive cases and arrange for the rapid tests, besides monitoring the quarantine and the isolation facilities. The survey was intended to identify those having hypertension, diabetes, cancer, and those under dialysis, Mr. Bharat Gupta said. Their Aadhaar numbers should be uploaded on the MMS app, so that emergency medicare could be extended to them as and when the need arises. The field officials have also been told to arrange delivery of medicines at the doorstep of patients who get treated on the telemedicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-intensify-fever-survey/article31440622.ece
27 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,500 litres of ID liquor seized||A special police party on Sunday morning raided a brewing unit at a forest location at Kodavandla Palle in Rompicharla mandal and seized 1,500 litres of ID liquor and a big quantum of fermented jaggery wash and utensils, besides arresting two youth. According to SI Hariprasad, the personnel were moving along the forest road, when they came across an ID liquor-making unit nearby. Acting on the information, a special party was dispatched there, who seized and destroyed the stock and arrested two youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1500-litres-of-id-liquor-seized/article31440623.ece
27 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gather full health information of red zones’ residents: Collector||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has asked the teams working in cluster containment zones to complete field surveillance and get the complete health profile of people living in areas designated as COVID-19 red zones. The Collector along with Officer on Special Duty, Kamal Raj, DIG, Guntur Urban, PHD Ramakrishna, Joint Collector A.SA Dinesh Kumar and Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha visited areas in Anandapet, Chakalibazaar, which have witnessed many cases, and gave several suggestions to the field-level teams. “Ensure that the complete health profile of the people with symptoms or without symptoms is gathered. You should also make sure that those are discharged from isolation centres or quarantine centres stay home. Give priority to elderly people and also get the medical history of people who are calling telemedicine lines,’’ said the Collector. Doorstep delivery The Collector also suggested that ORS packets be kept ready in the cluster containment zones in view of the severe summer. OSD, Medical and Health, Kamal Raj, who has been drafted for COVID-19-19 duties, asked the teams to ensure that no one in red zones steps out and asked the staff to ensure that all supplies are delivered at the doorstep. Later, the officers inspected Red Cross Volunteers who were appealing to people to stay indoors in the Red Zones using a public address system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gather-full-health-information-of-red-zones-residents-collector/article31440625.ece
27 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donate blood, KTR tells party cadre||TRS working president K.T.Rama Rao called upon the cadre to raise the party flag on their homes and donate blood marking the 20th formation day celebrations of the party, which he wanted to be a low-key affair given the corona restrictions. KTR himself donated the blood at Pragathi Bhavan on Sunday and Grater Hyderabad Municipal Cororation Mayor Bonthu Rammohan also joined him in donation. Maintain social distance and coordinate with the hospitals for donation, he said asking them to continue the programme for a week to avoid large gatherings.He also asked the 60 lakh TRS members and its supporters to donate to the CMRF or within their limits to reach out to the needy during these difficult times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donate-blood-ktr-tells-party-cadre/article31440583.ece
27 April 2020||Jogulamba-Gadwal Dt.,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gadwal police patrol 50-km Krishna riverbed on foot||The sun beats down, but policemen in Jogulamba-Gadwal district, one of the eight COVID-19 hotspot districts in the State, continue their foot patrolling along the 50-km stretch of Krishna riverbed here. As part of a special drive to check the movement of migrant workers and to stop locals from going to neighbouring Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, 45 policemen are patrolling the Krishna riverbed on foot, having noticed the movement of people here earlier. About 130 migrant labourers have already been apprehended and sent back to wherever they had come. The riverbed in the district, now dry, touches AP and Karnataka, which makes the job of policemen here even more challenging. Constantly monitored by Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao, the teams keep a distance of five metres from each other, walking in a straight line rather than in groups, in keeping with social distancing norms. Eye in the sky Though the task is ‘something new’ for the force here, thanks to the vast and open stretch of dry riverbed here, the patrolling cops are able to spot people from afar. However, they have support in the form of drones, with drone operators alerting the ground staff about the presence of people, especially when found in large groups. People in Gadwal share a very old and deep relationship with Kurnool. A lot of people travel to Kurnool from here even for the smallest of their needs, Ms. Rao told The Hindu . “It becomes an exacting task for us to keep a check on so many people who constantly try to escape our eyes to cross the border. However, thanks to several recent measures, we have been able to bring down the movement of people, with minimal violations being reported now,” she said. Violations down Alampur Circle Inspector M. Venkataramiah, who is in-charge of the patrolling team, said that each team, comprising an SI and four constables, walk for at least 10 km every day to curb the illegal movement of people, especially migrant workers, who choose cross-country routes to reach their destination during the lockdown. “Initially, when the lockdown was announced, the movement of people crossing the inter-state border was high, but gradually it has come down. Now we catch four or five people per day, but the operation will continue, as many a time they come in a group of 25 to 30 people,” he said. Once caught, the police will provide water and food to the migrant workers and send them back in an empty goods vehicle. “In the first week of April, we noticed a group of 25 people were on their way to Chhattisgarh from Tamil Nadu. They were on foot. We intervened and sent them back to Tamil Nadu in a goods carrier,” Mr. Venkataramaiah said, adding that they also stop people from Gadwal district who want to go to Kurnool through internal routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gadwal-police-patrol-50-km-krishna-riverbed-on-foot/article31440877.ece
27 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3-year-old girl struck dead by lightning||A three-year-old girl died after she was struck by lightning while she was playing alone outside her residence in a fisherfolk village of Danavayipeta in East Godavari district on Saturday afternoon. According to Thondangi Sub-Inspector Ch. Vidya Sagar, Madada Madhuri was struck by lightning. She was declared brought dead by the doctors at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada. The victim’s father M. Srinu ekes out a living by fishing. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-year-old-girl-struck-dead-by-lightning/article31441065.ece
27 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor donates money after simple wedding||Actor Manikantan Achary tied the knot at a simple function at a temple at Eroor, Tripunithura, on Sunday. His bride Anjali and he were engaged six months ago. Despite advice that the wedding should be postponed due to the lockdown, they decided to get married on the scheduled date and donated a part of the funds earmarked for the marriage to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). The gathering at the Ayyambillykavu Bhagavathy temple was limited to close family. Most people who attended the small function wore masks. After the wedding, the couple handed over the amount to Tripunithura MLA M. Swaraj. Mr. Achary shot to fame with Rajiv Ravi’s film Kammattippadam . He later acted in several Malayalam and Tamil films. Facebook message In a Facebook post on his marriage, he sought the blessings of his friends and extended family members for his marriage. He said that in these times, he would like to celebrate his wedding on social media and would like everybody’s mental presence for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-donates-money-after-simple-wedding/article31440586.ece
27 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||164 tourists from Europe leave Kerala||A hundred-and-sixty-four tourists from Europe, stranded in Kerala since the national lockdown on March 24, left for Zurich on Saturday night from Cochin International Airport by a special flight by Swiss Air. A communication said that Swiss consul-general (Bengaluru) Sebastien Hug oversaw the mission to airlift the Swiss nationals along with Syed Ibrahim, honorary consul of the German honorary consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.  There were 115 Swiss citizens in the flight that also carried tourists from Germany, Austria, Norway, Denmark and France. Most of the passengers from Kochi were tourists in Kerala, while the others were brought in from neighbouring States, said K. Rajkumar, regional joint director of Kerala Tourism. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said most of the stranded foreign tourists in the State were repatriated. Rani George, secretary, Kerala Tourism, said most of the guests who returned Saturday night used the registration portal of the Swiss consulate, while others sought the help of the Kerala Tourism helpdesk. Saudi tourists On Monday morning, a batch of 136 Saudi nationals will fly back home from Kozhikode by a Saudi Arabian airliner. Next in line is repatriation of about 50 Canadian tourists who will join others and fly back home from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/164-tourists-from-europe-leave-kerala/article31440584.ece
27 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP’s kin test positive||Lok Sabha MP Sanjeev Kumar’s father, two brothers, their wives and son of one of the brothers were shifted to the isolation ward in the Government General Hospital here following their presumptive COVID-19 test turning positive on Saturday. The MP told the media that his brothers, who stayed in two neighbouring houses at Narasingraopet in the city, tested positive. Two of his brothers were private doctors. Though their wives too were doctors, but they were not practising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mps-kin-test-positive/article31441047.ece
27 April 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of new cases comes down in Kurnool, Anantapur||The number of new COVID-19 positive cases has come down in Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Sunday with Kurnool reporting four and Anantapur reporting only two, taking the tally to 279 and 53 respectively. ‘Operation Kurnool Fights Corona’ has been initiated in all the red zones of the district to cut down the spread of the infection and to protect all green zones, Housing Principal Secretary and COVID-19 Special Officer Ajay Jain said on Saturday. Appreciating the tremendous effort put in by the medical, police and sanitation staff in containment zones, he exhorted them to continue the good work to keep the number low. The wholesale market in Peddapadu would also be divided into four, and new ones were set up at different locations to avoid scope for crowding, he added. Out of 279 positive cases in Kurnool district, 31 persons have been discharged, nine persons died and 239 were undergoing treatment at the COVID hospitals. As many as 149 cases were reported from Kurnool town and 58 from Nandyal. The silver lining is that none of the patients were in a serious condition and none required ventilators. Tally reaches 53 in Anantapur Meanwhile, Anantapur posted two new cases on Sunday, bringing the tally to 53. Both the cases were from the Government General Hospital. There are 35 active cases, while four had died of COVID-19. As many as 14 persons have been discharged so far. Two new areas in Anantapur city were declared red zones and restrictions on movements were imposed in Kamala Nagar and Sai Nagar. While the 52nd patient is a 34-year-old woman, the 53rd patient is a 24-year-old youth and both are primary contacts of patient number 17 and 46 respectively. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao and District Forest Officer R. Jagannatha Singh interacted with all field-level staff fighting the virus in various ways. All measures were being taken to ensure that there was no movement of people in the red zones, the officials said while throwing light on the relief measures being taken up for the people in these areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-new-cases-comes-down-in-kurnool-anantapur/article31440621.ece
27 April 2020||MULASTANAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Mulastanam declared State’s child-friendly gram panchayat||Mulastanam panchayat of Aalamuru mandal in East Godavari district has been selected for the ‘Child-Friendly Gram Panchayat-2020 Award from Andhra Pradesh. The panchayat is one among 30 panchayats from several States and Union Territories chosen by the Union Panchayati Raj Ministry for the award, which was instituted to incentivise best-performing panchayats in the country. Mulastanam, with 416 children, has achieved zero child marriages, nil dropout rate, and several other milestones during the 2018-19 academic year, all of which helped it win the award. Another major achievement was that none of the children in the age group of six months to five years were malnourished. Mulastanam Panchayat Secretary U. Renuka told The Hindu that it was a proud moment for them. “In the category of Girl Child Hygiene, all the 216 girls (10-19 age group) have used sanitary pads and are aware of healthy practices. We never had a history of any early marriage or child marriage in the panchayat in recent years,” said Ms. Renuka, who has been serving in the panchayat for the past five years. Ms. Renuka said that she got to know of the panchayat being selected for the award from her higher officials. Residents were happy on hearing the news. “The panchayat staff focus on preventing early age marriages and functioning of government schools are a few parameters that brought our panchayat a national-level recognition,” said D. Ramakrishnamma, a village elder. The panchayat has a dedicated village-level child protection committee that is active functioning on the children's issues and welfare round the year. The students’ school attendance rate is above 90 percent in all the five government schools functioning in the panchayat in 2018-19. “It’s a proud moment to be associated with this local body at a time when it gets the recognition from the Central government,” added Ms. Renuka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mulastanam-declared-states-child-friendly-gram-panchayat/article31441062.ece
27 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||37 patients discharged in Ongole, Nellore||In a positive development, 37 patients — 22 in Ongole and 15 in Nellore — were discharged while three others tested positive in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. With this, 23 persons each in Prakasam and Nellore districts have been cured, thanks to round-the-clock treatment provided by the medical teams for the last 24 days. The number of patients under treatment stood at 33 with three more persons — two from Gudlur and one from Ongole— testing positive in Prakasam district. In Nellore, the number of active cases came down to 47 as 23 persons, including the first patient in Andhra Pradesh, a student who had returned from Italy, were cured. The discharged persons will be home quarantined for another 14 days. Patients under treatment were recovering fast. “More patients will be discharged this week,” Dr. Sriramulu, Superintendent, Government General Hospital, Ongole told The Hindu . Emotional scenes were witnessed as 22 patients, a majority of them who had returned after attending a religious congregation in New Delhi, thanked the team of doctors, nurses and paramedics on being discharged from the two hospitals in Ongole. Sample testing While 11 persons were discharged from the GGH, Ongole and an equal number of persons were released from KIMS hospital late on Saturday. The health authorities heaved a sigh of relief as 3,046 samples have turned negative so far in Prakasam district. Results of another 4,996 samples were awaited. Meanwhile, local BJP leader Yashwant Singh distributed sanitisers and masks to 200 sanitary workers in Nellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/37-patients-discharged-in-ongole-nellore/article31440675.ece
27 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 police stations located in red zones||More than 2,000 police personnel have been working in red zones in the State during the lockdown. They are working in highly vulnerable conditions round the clock. According to the official sources, about 200 red zones have been created in wake of the increasing COVID-19 cases in the State. Officials of the Medical and Health, Police, Revenue and other departments have been supplying essential commodities at the doorstep of people in many red zones and imposed restrictions. Police have been monitoring the situation through drones in red zones and giving instructions to the residents from time to time through the public addressing systems. Of the total 1,152 police stations in the State, 200 are located in red zones. A few stations were attached with staff quarters and the families of the police too were staying in these unfavourable conditions. Staff quarters located in red zones were being disinfected regularly and Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) kits were supplied to the police personnel working in red zones. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, while thanking the family members of the police for their cooperation during the pandemic, has appealed to the children and the aged to take all steps to prevent the virus. “The Police Department distributed PPE kits to the staff deployed in red zones and masks, gloves and sanitisers to those allotted COVID-19 duties in the State. Dos and don’ts have been issued to the police working in red zones,” the DGP said. DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju said that 60 drones have been pressed into service to monitor the situation round the clock in red zones. The police were speaking to the residents directly and warning those who were seen repeatedly in red zones. “We are preparing health and risk profiles of police personnel deployed for COVID-19 duties across the State. Police personnel and their family members staying in red zones were asked to be cautious,” the DIG, who reviewed the situation from the AP Police Headquarters on Sunday said. The police stations located in red zones are being regularly disinfected with sodium hypochlorite solutation, the DIG added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-police-stations-located-in-red-zones/article31440627.ece
27 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health Minister asks Rapid Response Teams to get cracking||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Sunday asked the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) to remain alert, with new COVID-19 positive cases being identified in the State, including Srikakulam district. Mr. Srinivas rushed to Srikakulam district which was coronavirus-free till recently, following the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Now, the government has its focus on the district as more than four lakh migrant workers have close contacts there. Helpline centres “The entire district administration, including the RRTs, should remain alert round the clock. Patients and suspected cases should be admitted to hospitals immediately. If necessary, all the PHCs will be converted into fever hospitals. Village secretariat buildings can also be used as temporary facilities. All helpline centres should function effectively,” said the Minister. Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam, Minister for Roads and Buildings Dharmana Krishnadas, who also participated in the review meeting, directed Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammi Reddy to enforce the lockdown norms strictly in the Patapatnam containment area, where three cases were confirmed on Saturday and another positive case on Sunday. Mr. Nivas informed the Speaker and Ministers that strict orders had been issued to make people stay indoor. Tracing and quarantine “About 1,445 foreign returnees and their 4,271 close relatives are following the quarantine rules strictly. We have collected the data of 230 persons who had returned from New Delhi. Around 480 persons had come to their native places from Mumbai recently. Around 15,483 persons who had close contacts with them have also been sent to quarantine facilities,” said Mr. Nivas. He urged the people with suspected symptoms to alert either the village volunteers or health workers immediately to help the administration take appropriate measures. Mr. Nivas told media that household survey had been intensified in Kaguvada, Sidi, Korasavada and other 15 villages, which fell under the containment zone. “Water, medicines and essential commodities will be delivered at the doorstep of people in the zone,” he added. Special hospital Later, the Health Minister made a surprise visit to the red zone area of Patapatnam. He asked the police to deploy additional forces to prevent unwanted movement of people. “A COVID-19 hospital with 30 beds is being set up in the community health centre at Patapatnam,” the Health Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-minister-asks-rapid-response-teams-to-get-cracking/article31441051.ece
27 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tour guides are in dire straits||About 20 years ago, the Department of Tourism, then in unified Andhra Pradesh, had recruited 20 youth as tour guides on a daily wage basis. Today after two decades, about 13 are left — they are in their mid 40s with families — and continue to work as daily wagers. But their life has never been that difficult, as it is today, especially during lockdown, which is imposed across the country to break the chain of spread of COVID-19. Since February, the tourism industry has been taking a beating, as the flow of tourists have been dwindling and after lockdown from March 24, it has come to a total halt. “There is no tourist, so there is no guided tour and we do not get any payment. And all the 13 families are in dire straits and struggling to meet both ends,” said S. Srinivas, who is now 45-years-old, has a family with two college going kids. The tour guides are rotated for various State-run programmes such as Araku programme, local heritage tour, Vizag-Srikakulam tour and Bhadrachalam tour. If it is Araku programme the tour begins at 7 a.m. and one guide is assigned to each bus to Araku. The visit include Padmapuram Gardens, Borra Caves, Coffee Plantation, Tribal Museum, Galikonda view point and Chaprai. The tour ends at around 9 p.m. on the same day and each guide gets paid Rs. 900 per day. For Vizag – Srikakulam circuit, each guide is paid Rs. 900 for a trip to Arasavalli temple, Sri Kurmam, Salihundam and Sri Mukhalingam. The 12- hour tour begins from 7 a.m. For local heritage tour, each guide is paid Rs. 700 per day. “But since we are paid on a daily basis, if there is no tour, there is no payment. On an average we make around Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 7,000 per month and during season (October to March) we earn around Rs. 10,000. But since last two months all tour programmes have been cancelled and so there is no payment. And we do not know when it will resume,” he said.  Fixed scale system In 2007, before the State was bifurcated, the then Managing Director of APTDC Chandana Khan had implemented fixed scales of Rs. 10,000 for about 40 tour guides. “This has now gone up to Rs. 18,000 per month. We demand that we be put in fixed scale system, otherwise survival with family will be a difficult proposition,” said Mr. Srinivas. All the tour guides are graduates and have undergone training in Tourism and Travel Management. “We have given a representation to Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, about eight months ago, and awaiting a favourable response,” said the tour guides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tour-guides-are-in-dire-straits/article31441069.ece
27 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CERT-In to conduct security audit of COVID-19 data||In the wake of the controversy surrounding the Sprinklr deal, the Kerala government has decided to carry out a security audit by CERT-In, the nodal agency responsible for dealing with cyber security threats, of the various data collected by government departments and agencies related to COVID-19. The Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM) Director has been authorised to entrust the agency empanelled under CERT-In (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) under the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to carry out the audit work. The agency will have to execute the security audit of the data stored in the Amazon cloud platform in line with the guidelines of the government. The KSITM Director has been asked to execute a Non-Disclosure Agreement with the agency before commencing the audit, which shall include conditions to ensure security of data shared for audit purposes. High-level meeting The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Information Technology Department had made a presentation to the Chief Minister, who also handles IT portfolio, on processing and utilisation of data for containment activities of COVID-19. The government felt it necessary to analyse the data collected using data analytics techniques and tools and to ensure the security of the data collected and captured in the Cloud system, says the order issued by the Electronics and Information Technology Department. Incidentally, the government order has been issued on April 21 when the Sprinklr row was raging in the State. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has roped in the U.S.-based company to collate the personal health data collected by field-level workers from nearly 1.75 lakh people categorised as “vulnerable and potentially exposed” to the pandemic. Opposition slams govt. The Opposition was critical of the government for procuring a healthcare worker mobile application from the firm using disaster management funds to input the details of persons under surveillance without inviting tenders, seeking legal opinion, and the approval of the Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cert-in-to-conduct-security-audit-of-covid-19-data/article31440588.ece
27 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala set to seal all inter-State borders||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed the police to seal all inter-State borders to discourage movement of people between Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Chairing a meeting of District Collectors and District Police Chiefs by video link on Sunday, Mr. Vijayan reportedly flagged the up and down travel through the porous boundary Kerala shared with neighbouring States as a significant cause for fresh COVID-19 flare-ups in border districts such as Idukki. He said Tamil Nadu was in the middle of an intense lockdown in five districts from April 26 to April 29. They included Coimbatore and Tirupur, which shared a common frontier with Kerala. Hence, it was essential for the police to seal the borders of Kerala. Law enforcers should sanitise cargo vehicles at borders, and examine drivers and crew for COVID-19 symptoms. Temperature checks at border check-posts would be made mandatory. The police had earlier told the government that tightening of lockdown restrictions had spawned a mafia that moved people between States and districts for cash. The racketeers had contracted a network of ambulance, cargo and container lorry drivers to facilitate the illegal act. An official said some persons living on properties straddling inter-State borders helped the racket and used the same method and routes to smuggle bootleg liquor and other contraband. Surveillance squads State Police Chief Loknath Behera had attended the conference. He reportedly mooted a slew of measures to prevent the illegal movement of people, including the formation of special squads informed by aerial surveillance drones. An official said the police would halt the up and down travel through inter-State railway lines, unconventional border paths, forest trails, plantation areas and even the sea route. Mr. Vijayan asked the police to ensure that people in hotspots remained indoors. They should secure such neighbourhoods and guarantee food, medicines, and essential supplies reached households. High-risk localities should have only entry and exit points. He said there were reports that people had crowded for prayers at some mosques to partake in Ramzan prayers. The government could not allow such congregations in the interest of public safety, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-set-to-seal-all-inter-state-borders/article31440589.ece
27 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Doodh Duronto’ flagged off||Even as logistical hassles haunt the entire nation due to the lockdown, where the mismatch between excess availability and short supply of perishable products is feared to compound the food security woes in the long run, South Central Railways came up with a major intervention by taking milk from the dairy-rich Chittoor district to the national capital. Scheduled to run between Renigunta and Hazrat Nizamuddin to meet the milk requirements of Delhi, the first of the proposed two ‘Doodh Duronto Special’ trains (railway milk tankers) started here on Sunday. This is in tune with the nod given to the railways to operate both freight and parcel trains on regular basis to transport essential items to all parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doodh-duronto-flagged-off/article31440587.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 new cases in 24 hours set alarm bells ringing in Vijayawada||The city has turned into yet another COVID-19 hotspot with over 150 cases reported in its most densely populated areas so far. Krishna district reported 52 cases during the past 24 hours and 50 of them are from the city which already has over 100 cases. The coronavirus outbreak was more prevalent in Krishnalanka and Karmika Nagar near Machavaram due to two super spreaders. In the past two days, 48 cases were reported in Krishnalanka and 32 in Karmika Nagar. Khuddus Nagar and Gymkhana grounds area in Gandhi Nagar also reported four new cases each and two cases were reported in Gudavalli of Gannavaram mandal. Meanwhile, the spike in cases in the city has put officials on their toes. Flag march District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz and Commissioner of Police Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao conducted a ‘flag march’ with police vehicles and police personnel to sensitise the public about the need for maintaining social distance and also to warn of strict action if lockdown rules are violated. Mr. Imtiaz said that violation of the lockdown had caused the virus to spread further. It had been observed that people at home were meeting their neighbours without maintaining social distancing. Everyone should behave in a responsible manner for the situation to become normal, he said. So far 7,500 tests were conducted in the district, he added. Mr. Tirumala Rao said that police would hereafter act strictly against violators as the situation was worrisome due to the huge number of COVID-19 cases. He said the lives of people are more important than anything else and continuous patrolling would be organised in the red zone areas. Teams of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation led by veterinary assistant surgeon Ravichandra have raided meat shops that were open in the morning despite closure orders by the corporation on Sunday in Ajith Singh Nagar, Payakapuram, Rajiv Nagar, Jakkampudi Colony, Ramalingeswara Nagar and other areas. Officials seized 2 metric tonnes of seafood and 250 kg of chicken and mutton from them. Some of it was found to be stale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-new-cases-in-24-hours-set-alarm-bells-ringing-in-vijayawada/article31440620.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patients discharged from hospital to get Rs. 2,000 each||The State government has decided to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 to the COVID-19 patients discharged from hospitals to enable them to buy fruit and nutritious food. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said this at a review meeting on Sunday. When the officials said that 231 patients had been discharged till date, the Chief Minister directed that they too be extended the financial assistance. Explaining the status of COVID-19 cases in the State, the officials said two persons were responsible for the spread of coronavirus at Krishnalanka and Karmika Nagar in Vijayawada. Similarly, a Delhi returnee was the reason behind the spread in West Godavari district, they added. Instances of discrimination The officials brought to the Chief Minister’s notice a few instances wherein persons who recovered from COVID-19 faced discrimination in their locality. Responding, the Chief Minister asked them to create awareness among people and take measures to make them understand facts about the disease. Referring to the Nadu-Nedu programme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy made it clear that the works taken up under it in the hospitals be completed as per schedule. “It is essential to provide the required infrastructure in the hospitals to enable them to face any eventuality. Ensure that other emergency services are not affected, and fill the vacant doctor and nurse posts,” he said. The officials told the Chief Minister that the State topped others in terms of conducting COVID-19 tests per million ratio. The after-effects of lockdown, health of high-risk patients, and other crucial issues were being discussed with the experts, they said. Meet with Modi today Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be explaining the status of the lockdown to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video-conference scheduled for April 27 (Monday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patients-discharged-from-hospital-to-get-rs-2000-each/article31441053.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah comes to the rescue of Telugu students in Kota||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday came to the rescue of around 200-odd Telugu students stranded at Kota in Rajasthan, due to the lockdown. Responding to a newspaper report about the difficulties being faced by the students undergoing coaching for NEET and JEE there, the Vice-President spoke to the Lok Sabha Speaker and the local MP Om Birla and informed him that the students were suffering as the hostels were near-empty and there was no proper arrangement of food for students stranded there. Mr. Naidu also urged Mr. Birla to ensure medical facility to the students since the coronavirus was widespread in Kota. He said since the students could not return home due to the lockdown, proper arrangements be made to ensure food and other facilities for them till the lockdown was lifted. Mr. Birla assured the Vice-President that he would ensure all possible help to the students by speaking to the officials concerned and also by asking one of his staff members to make himself available to the students at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-comes-to-the-rescue-of-telugu-students-in-kota/article31441055.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special teams to ensure power supply to hospitals||The State power utilities have constituted special teams and set up centralised call centres in the districts to monitor the power supply during lockdown with focus on uninterrupted supply to the hospitals and quarantine centres. The officials are ensuring that the employees take all the precautionary measures at the work places and follow the social distancing guidelines. According to an official release, Energy Secretary N. Srikant is personally keeping a watch on the situation and has issued instructions to the officials to make equipment and materials available in the districts in order to tackle the technical snags and breakdowns, if any, caused by, among other things, adverse weather. Such incidents were quickly attended to in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Nellore, Chittoor and Srikakulam districts a few days ago. Control room Apart from dealing with the operational and maintenance issues, the department has set up a control room with number 9491048957 for handling staff issues in coordination with the Police Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-teams-to-ensure-power-supply-to-hospitals/article31441057.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lorry driver booked for spreading virus to 25 persons||Police registered a case against the lorry driver who reportedly was responsible for the spread of coronavirus to about 25 persons in the Krishna Lanka area here. The area has been subsequently declared as a red zone. The driver travelled to West Bengal with a load of fresh fish and from there he went to Odisha with edible oil. Later, he proceeded to East Godavari district and returned to his home here a few days ago. The man, who did not show any symptoms, played cards and housie with his family members, friends and neighbours. A couple of days ago he tested positive and subsequently more than 20 persons associated with him were found to have contracted the disease. “The irresponsibility of the driver has caused the spread of virus to about 25 persons. Another NRI who moved closely with his family members and friends in Karmika Nagar infected more than 20 persons,” said Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. Lockdown violators warned The Krishna Lanka police registered a case against the driver, who is undergoing treatment, under appropriate sections. Officials shifted all the persons to a quarantine centre. Mr. Tirumala Rao said many people were moving around on the streets violating the lockdown rules. Despite repeated appeals, some people were coming out of homes unnecessarily. “We are identifying those coming out of their homes using drones. Public are requested to cooperate with the officials. Police will act tough against those who violate the lockdown,” the Police Commissioner warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lorry-driver-booked-for-spreading-virus-to-25-persons/article31440633.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exempt MSMEs from paying power bill: Kanna||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has written a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, requesting him to exempt the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) from paying their electricity bills for three months. Letter to CM “The MSMEs have been badly hit by the lockdown and are desperately looking for assistance from the government. The exemption in electricity bills will give them some relief,” Mr. Lakshminarayana pointed out. He also suggested that the government should defer the payment of electricity bills until the normal business conditions were restored. This would help the MSMEs in surviving the tough times and recover. In a separate letter, Mr. Lakshminarayana said that an insurance cover of not less than Rs. 10 lakh be provided to each media professional who were working during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exempt-msmes-from-paying-power-bill-kanna/article31441056.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pensioners to get full payment||The State government has decided to pay full pension to all categories as per the usual scale and procedure. In a GO 37 that was issued on Sunday, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney said, “The government, after having considered the hardships being faced by the pensioners, hereby orders for the payment of full pensions to all the categories of pensioners, as per the usual scale and procedure.” Plea against deferment The order assumes significance in the wake of a case filed in the High Court challenging the government’s decision to defer pensions until further orders. The petitioner argued that deferring pensions was unconstitutional. The government issued orders on March 31 and April 4 deferring the payment of Salaries/ Wages/ Remuneration/ Honorarium/ pensions. Ms. Sawhney, in GO 37, said that the government orders that the deferred payment of salaries/ wages/ remuneration/ honorarium, as per the pattern prescribed in the earlier GOs , would continue for April payable in May. The officials shall ensure that the order is implemented, sans deviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pensioners-to-get-full-payment/article31441054.ece
27 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide input subsidy to farmers: Pawan||Highlighting that farmers have been badly hit by the unseasonal rains even as the lockdown has dealt a severe blow on the agriculture sector, Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan has demanded that the State government must provide them with input subsidy help mitigate the losses.  “Paddy, maize and horticulture farmers have borne the brunt. The rain during the harvesting season has caused heavy losses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-input-subsidy-to-farmers-pawan/article31441058.ece
27 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chandanotsavam’ sans devotees||The annual 'chandanotsavam’ of the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy atop Simhachalam hill began at around 2 a.m. and was over by 7.30 a.m on Sunday. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, it was a low-key affair this year. For the first time, devotees and VVIPs were not allowed to have darshan of the presiding deity in His ‘nijarupa’. The rituals were performed by two main priests with the assistance of two others. Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao and chairperson of the Simhachalam Devasthanam Trust Board Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju were present. Mr. Venkateswara Rao offered the ‘silk vastrams’ to the deity on behalf of the government, which had sanctioned Rs. 10,000 for the purpose. Later, speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Sanchaita said none of her family members accompanied her. “I was present in my capacity as chairperson of the trust board and being a member of the royal Vizianagaram family,” she added. Ms. Sanchaita also presented ‘silk vastrams’ from her side. Had it not been for the lockdown, the temple would have been kept open for about 40 hours to enable the devotees to have darshan, said an officer of the devasthanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chandanotsavam-sans-devotees/article31440630.ece
27 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain likely at some places in State today, tomorrow||Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by gusty winds, with speed reaching up to 40 to 50 miles per hour, are likely to occur at isolated places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts of north coastal Andhra Pradesh, at isolated places over south coastal AP, Rayalaseema and in Yanam of Puducherry till April 30. Heavy rainfall is also likely to occur at isolated places in Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts and in Yanam on Monday and Tuesday. Very heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in Chittoor district of Rayalaseema and heavy rain occurred at isolated places in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Nellore and Vizianagram districts of coastal Andhra Pradesh till Sunday morning. Meanwhile, the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) has warned fishermen against venturing into the sea during the next 24 hours, commencing from 6 p.m. on Sunday. It warned of the possibility of strong surface winds from south-westerly direction, speed reaching 45 to 50 km/hr along and off coastal AP. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45 to 55 km/hr is likely to prevail over north Bay of Bengal, along and off West Bengal and Odisha coast during the next 24 hours. The chief amounts of rainfall (in cm) received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday are: Anakapalle (Visakhapatnam) 11, Prathipadu (East Godavari) 10, Tada (Nellore) 9, Visakhapatnam (Visakhapatnam) 8, Srungavarapukota (Vizianagaram) 8, Visakhapatnam Airport 7, Vepada (Vizianagaram) 7, Gantyada (Vizianagaram) 7, Bhimadole (West Godavari) 6, Chodavaram (Visakhapatnam) 6, Vizianagaram (Vizianagaram) 6, Sullurpeta (Nellore) 5, Gudivada (Krishna) 5 and Elamanchili (Visakhapatnam) 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-likely-at-some-places-in-state-today-and-tomorrow/article31440628.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Game on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/game-on/article31440593.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soldiering on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soldiering-on/article31441060.ece
27 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Chicken and mutton back on the plate||Poultry business seems to have surmounted the stigma of COVID-19 being transmitted through chicken and, to some extent, mutton. Meat has made a comeback on the menu in middle class and lower middle class households. From the Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 a kg in March, chicken in retail is being sold for Rs. 160-180 per kg now while the price of retail goat or sheep meat is between Rs. 600 and Rs. 1,000 per kg depending on the ‘tenderness’. Demand shoots up “There is good demand for poultry fowl at present, thanks to erosion of the stigma and simultaneous lifting of curbs on transportation of chicken feed and eggs too,” said N. Manohar Reddy, a leading poultry farmer in Adilabad. “I have begun rearing two batches now due to the demand,” he disclosed. Ashfaq Qureshi, a chicken retailer, is dressing about 30 birds per day and double the number on Sundays at present. He used to sell meat of about 50 birds daily on weekdays before the stigma associated with COVID-19 set in. The number had fallen to just eight to 12 birds per day in February and March. While butchers have reopened some of the shops, chicken and goats are being slaughtered mostly in private homes and being supplied to regular customers across the district. The price of goat and sheep meat, however, is in the range of the prohibitive but that does not deter non-vegetarians. Business strategy “The butcher calls us the day before he is slated to cut a goat and tells us the price per kilogram. If we object to the high rates, he circulates a picture of the goat to be cut to convince us about the tenderness of the meat that would be extracted from it,” a regular customer revealed of the business that has come into vogue since COVID-19 hit the market and subsequently, the lockdown. The butchers, nevertheless, say that the market will see a bigger jump if all the restrictions relating to the lockdown are lifted. “It will ensure that all those who are scared of moving out now will throng our shops,” a butcher predicted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chicken-and-mutton-back-on-the-plate/article31440882.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 cases maximum in youth, lowest among children||The highest number of COVID-19 cases detected in Telangana are among youngsters in the age group of 20-30 years while children between six and 10 years accounted for the least number of cases. Nearly 9% of the cases were reported among geriatric population or those above the age of 61. Women make for around 33% of the COVID-positive cases. The State has crossed the 1,000-mark with 11 fresh cases reported on Sunday. The Health department has been mapping the number of positive cases according to the age group. As per data provided by the department, the number of cases continued to rise with the increase in age. However, it descended among people above 41 years of age. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that a majority of the cases (59%) were of people aged between 20 and 50, who have more immunity. He added that the recovery rate among them will be high. “Of the total, 67% of cases are among men,” Dr Rao said. However, regardless of the age group, people with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension have been advised to be cautious. Though the cases among geriatric population is low, officials have urged them to stay indoors and to take regular medication if they have diabetes and hypertension or other such underlying condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-cases-maximum-in-youth-lowest-among-children/article31440874.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team lauds govt. on COVID-19||The Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) touring the city for the second day on Sunday lauded the steps taken by the State government to contain COVID-19 pandemic. The Central team headed by Additional Secretary of the Ministry of Jal Shakti Arun Baroka and comprising senior public health specialist Chandrasekhar Gadem, director of the National Institute of Nutrition Hemalatha, director of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs S.S. Thakur and associate professor of the National Institute of Disaster Management Sekhar Chaturvedi, visited several places to study the efforts taken by the government to check the spread of the virus. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Hyderabad Collector Swetha Mohanty, Additional Commissioners Ravi Kiran and Praveenya, and Deputy Commissioner Ashok Samarat, were along with the Central team and explained to them about the steps taken. The Central team is on a three-day visit to the State to examine the conditions that led to the announcement of lockdown. They visited Mehdipatnam Rythu Bazaar and inquired about the sale of essential commodities with shopkeepers and even checked the circles drawn as a social distancing measure in front of vegetable markets. Khairatabad zonal commissioner Praveenya told the team that 120 mobile vans, manned by SHGs, are supplying vegetables and fruits in different parts of the city. Interaction with vendors The team members interacted with vegetable vendors and asked them about the place from where they were buying vegetables. They were told that with the support of the marketing department, three to five farmers are bringing vegetables to the city and the same is sold in colonies with a marginal profit of Rs. 2 to Rs. 5. They checked the mobile Rythu Bazaar rate chart and expressed satisfaction. Later, they visited the quarantine centre at Nature Cure Hospital and interacted with doctors and medical staff. They inquired about the facilities available at the hospital, facilities for COVID-19 testing lab and kits and those provided to people who are quarantined. The Hyderabad Collector informed the team members that nutritional diet is provided to the quarantined. The team also inspected the sample testing lab. Mr. Baroka appreciated the doctors, nurses and lab technicians for their contribution. Containment zone The team visited the Malakpet containment zone, checked the barricades and discussed the duties performed at the zone with emergency services and health teams. The officials at the containment zone informed the central team that public are not allowed on roads and deputed volunteers are buying essential commodities for people living under the containment zone. They also informed that a fever survey is being conducted on a daily basis by going to every house. If COVID-19 symptoms are found in any person, tests are done with acute care, they said. The team members also checked the containment guidelines being implemented at the field level. Team meets DGP Earlier in the day, the IMCT visited the State police headquarters and interacted with senior officers, who gave them a detailed presentation on the work done by the police department. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy gave a PowerPoint presentation to the team on how the police traced COVID-19 positive patients and their primary and secondary contacts and sent them to quarantine. He also explained about the measures being taken by the police department in providing food and other essential commodities to migrant workers, homeless and those in need of help. He underscored on how the police are deployed at government installations and containment zones and helping pregnant women and other patients. He told them that more than a lakh vehicles were seized for defying lockdown. The team later visited city Police Commissioner’s office and held discussions with Anjani Kumar and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-team-lauds-govt-on-covid-19/article31440893.ece
27 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR has ensured State will not face water war, says KTR||In a world where water wars are predicted, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao ensured that the State would remain safe from them in future with the water revolution he has embarked upon through the Kaleshwaram project, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao argues. As the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) celebrates its 20th anniversary on Sunday, KTR, who is also the TRS working president, sees the face of Telangana changing rapidly with several revolutions in the offing with water revolution being the first one and the rest being its off-shoots. The water revolution is not a six-year-old idea but it took birth on the day the party was established on April 27, 2001, in Jaladrushyam on the banks of Hussainsagar. Lifting Godavari water from 90 metres above the sea level to 618 metres is an unparaleled effort in independent India and in its course from Medigadda to Mallannasagar, Telangana is secured with 270 tmcft of water with 70% of the total 46,000 tanks and lakes filled. It is the world’s biggest multi-stage lift irrigation project. No other party could achieve so much in 20 years of its existence and just six-year rule, KTR argues, adding people have reposed faith in KCR in election after election. Such faith in a leader is unparalleled and his every word is gospel while TRS is the lifeline of Telangana. “People eagerly wait for KCR’s press conferences as they are so reassuring injecting confidence even in dire times.” So is the party and leadership aiming to play a bigger role at the national level. “We are already inspiring the country,” the IT Minister says arguing Telangana model is the buzz word now. It has replaced the Gujarat models and West Bengal models that people used to refer to. The Rythu Bandhu scheme extending investment support to every farmer is the inspiration for the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and so is the Jal Jeevan mission, which is an off-shoot of Mission Bhageeratha that ensures piped drinking water to every household. Around 11 states in the country have studied the scheme to be implemented. Since its formation Telangana attracted the global giants of IT to its land and all known companies have their biggest offshore centres here. Their faith is justified with the government ensuring law and order and safe work environment. Far-sightedness The farsightednes of our leader is an inspiration for several schemes and such ideas emanate from the passion to love their land and people, KTR argues. “If we aren’t the role model who else it will be.” Telangana dialect, once ridiculed as rustic and identified with villains, is now the mainstream on television, news programmes and even feature films. The achievement is no less than the water revolution. The water revolution will pave way for Green Revolution, Blue Revolution, Pink Revolution and White Revolution, benefiting all the communities. KTR recalls how the FCI chairman has described Telangana as rice bowl of India now. Paddy cultivation has more than doubled from 16.89 lakh acres in the Rabi season last year to 39.24 lakh acres due to abundant Godavari water. Same is the case with all cereals and pulses. It is also bringing in the blue revolution, increasing the acqa culture due to the tanks and lakes filled and Kaleshwaram project ensuring ground water level rising while the pink revolution is in the offing with Telangana emerging biggest market for meat due to the supply of lakhs of sheep to the sheep rearing communities. The State-owned Vijaya Dairy is now in a position to give dividend to the government, an indication of the White Revolution. The youngest state is all set to be the most prosperous, KTR says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-has-ensured-state-will-not-face-water-war-says-ktr/article31440904.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ready to donate plasma for therapy: Tablighi Jamaat||The Telangana and Andhra Pradesh chapter of the Tablighi Jamaat is ready to cooperate with the State government and donate plasma for convalescent plasma therapy trials to treat COVID-19 patients. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior Tablighi Jamaat worker said that three mosques had served as quarantine centres for workers and others as well. He said that if and when the State government requires plasma donations, workers who were quarantined, and also those who were discharged after being treated for COVID-19, would donate. “In letter dated April 21, Maulana Saad (emir of the organisation) encouraged us to cooperate with the authorities and donate plasma to help other COVID-19 patients. We are more than willing to do that, if this is required from us. We will motivate our workers to donate. To spread awareness, we will speak to the emirs of different areas in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and work with the governments as we have done in the past,” said Masood Junaidi, a senior Tablighi Jamaat worker, who is also a businessman. ‘Not about religion’ He said that once the State government gives the nod, each district and city and neighbourhood emir would convince workers to come forward and volunteer. “This is not about religion. It is about helping one another,” he said. In the recent past, at least three mosques of the Tablighi Jamaat were turned into quarantine centres. These include the Jama Masjid Moazzampura in Mallepally and the Masjid-e-Alamgir in Shanti Nagar.  We will motivate our workers to donate plasma. To spread awareness, we will speak to the emirs of different areas in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Masood Junaidi, Tablighi Jamaat worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-to-donate-plasma-for-therapy-tablighi-jamaat/article31440871.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IOC resumes Paradip-Hyderabad petroproduct pipeline work||National oil marketing company Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has resumed work on its prestigious, cross-country Paradip-Hyderabad petroproduct pipeline project in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. It restarted recently after the Centre permitted certain relaxation during the lockdown, subject to approval of the State government concerned. With approvals from local administration, limited manpower and precautionary measures, the work was underway at about 15 locations in AP and 10 places in Odisha, across districts, an official associated with the project said. Some 7-10 people are on the job at each location, attending to the leftover work comprising welding, lowering and back filling. Most of them are migrant workers who stayed back and taken care by the company and its contractors at the camps, the official said. Of the total 1,212 km for which the pipeline will run, welding work as well restoration of the farm lands has been completed on 1,000 km., including on much of the 160 km in Telangana. The pipeline, however, will be of little use in Telangana unless the accompanying, crucial terminal in Malkapur, near Hyderabad, is ready. The terminal on about 70 acres that will be the culmination point for the pipeline as per the present plan is likely to take about two years to be completed, the official said, adding work in Telangana will resume after the lockdown or once similar relaxations are allowed. The IOC had conceived the pipeline project for improving fuel availability – petrol, diesel, kerosene and aviation turbine fuel – in the region by supplying the products from its Paradip refinery to the demand centres in Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The estimated investment on the pipeline is Rs. 3,800 crore and it is designed to handle 4.5 million tonne products annually. A host of associated facilities such as pumping stations, terminals and depots will support the pipeline. The one month when no work could be taken up in view of the COVID-19 triggered lockdown was part of the season when such projects witness brisk activity for various reasons, including favourable weather conditions. Once monsoon sets in, early June, the fieldwork will again be impacted, the official said, adding the pipeline project was unlikely to be completed as planned by August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ioc-resumes-paradip-hyderabad-petroproduct-pipeline-work/article31440886.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Allow migrants to go back home’||Over 70 writers, intellectuals, university teachers and social activists have, in a joint statement, demanded the State government to facilitate the journey of migrant workers, who wished to go back to their home states in these turbulent times of lockdown. Reliable and safe transport with the State bearing the expenditure must be provided to them. They should also be assured adequate food and sustenance till they reached their places. The receiver states must take adequate health screening precautions at the first point of entry into their territories before allowing the migrants to reunite with their families. The Telangana government must negotiate with other states for the safe return of its own workers wherever they were stranded, the statement by former Supreme Court judge B. Sudarshan Reddy, Telangana Jana Samiti president M. Kodandaram, Prof. G. Haragopal and Chukka Ramaiah said. They reminded that migrants were guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (d) to move freely throughout the country and Article 19 (1) (e) to reside and settle in any part of the country. They are citizens of the country with the right to be with their loved ones in times of crises. Also, emotional and social security along with community support could take care of their basic needs. But, lockdown was very harsh on this group as they were internally displaced from their native places without any support system or lobby working in their favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allow-migrants-to-go-back-home/article31440894.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corona spread contained: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrashkhar Rao has expressed satisfaction that coronavirus spread had been on the decrease in the State due to total implementation of the lockdown. Mr. Rao said that if people extended their support to the lockdown for some more days and follow the guidelines provided by the government on containment of the virus, the situation would further improve for the better. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would interact with the CMs through video conference on Monday and then the situation in the country would be known. He held a high-level review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Sunday on the implementation of the lockdown, measures taken to contain spread of the virus and other issues. Medical and Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, Chief Advisor Rajiv Sharma, and principal secretaries Narsing Rao, Shanta Kumari and Ramakrishna Rao participated. Mr. Rao reviewed the situation in Hyderabad and other areas. He enquired about the assistance given in the containment centres and instructed that the essential commodities should be supplied at the centres so that people were not put to suffering. He also inquired about the treatment given to those admitted with coronavirus in the Gandhi Hospital. He felt that the death rate caused by coronavirus in the State was far less than the national average, which was some solace to the State. “If the present lockdown continues for some time, people maintain their personal hygenie and take precautions, the virus spread will totally come down in the days to come,” he pointed out. “The Prime Minister will have a video conference with all the Chief Ministers in the country. The Chief Ministers will explain situation in their states at the conference. There will be some estimate on the situation in the country and in the states. Opinions on the next plan of action will also figure at Monday’s conference. Hence there will be clarity on future course of action,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corona-spread-contained-cm/article31440908.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH-incubated firm gets DBT funding||A startup incubated at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been selected for financial support for developing an ‘in vitro lung organoid model’. OncoSeek Bio Pvt. Ltd. was incubated at ASPIRE-BioNEST located in the university’s School of Life Sciences which provides a plug-and-play life science ecosystem of incubation. The Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) announced funding support to 16 projects out of 500 proposals received for COVID-19 research consortium and OncoSeek Bio is one of them. “Current animal models available for research on COVID-19 are either difficult to get into India or create them in time, to address the pandemic. The company envisages creating novel in vitro platforms for the research under the support,” said founder-CEO of OncoSeek Bio Pvt. Ltd., Suresh Poosala, on Sunday. OncoSeek Bio has a vision to develop in vitro and in vivo platforms for specific diseases for therapeutics screening. A team consisting of Mr. Poosala, Bharadwaja Vadloori and Shanmuga Priya has been conducting research on cell culture models for a few diseases including cancer. Under the COVID-19 grant received from BIRAC/DBT, they plan to expand the team and enhance the scope of current in vitro platforms to a different state-of-the-art research level. Under this grant proposal, the company plans to use their novel platform to screen drugs/ peptides/ molecules/ agents/ compounds targeted against the virus or the host cell. It plans to create this capability in the next six months. ASPIRE manages the innovation and entrepreneurial activities at the UoH through incubation of startup companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-incubated-firm-gets-dbt-funding/article31440876.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Provide special flights for Gulf-stranded ’||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay on Sunday appealed to Union Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar, to provide special flights to bring back Telangana workers stranded in the West Asian countries of United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and others. In a communication to the Union Minister, a copy of which was released here, the BJP chief mentioned a story which appeared in these columns on Sunday, highlighting the sad plight of the stranded labour forced to live in cramped accommodation with bare minimum facilities in ‘Belhana camp of Ajman Aijurf, Ajman’. He said many people from his constituency of Karimanagr had gone to the Gulf for work in the last four decades but the coronavirus pandemic rendered many of them jobless, without support. The lockdown in those countries and even here and the ban on international travel from last month had left them stranded. Mr. Sanjay said he had been receiving several distress calls from stranded labour and from their dependent families here on the pathetic conditions they were living in and also that some of them had tested positive for the virus. The families feared for their safety and security, he said. The Government should take urgent steps to rush to their rescue, he said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-special-flights-for-gulf-stranded/article31440902.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoU to handhold MSMEs||The National Institute of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (NI-MSME) has entered into an online memorandum of understanding with Mumbai-based Asian Centre for Economic and Entrepreneurship Development and Education to handhold MSMEs to overcome challenges post-COVID-19 crisis. The MoU was aimed to improve productivity of MSMEs, strengthen start-up segment and extend incentives to enterprising industrialists. NI-MSME director general Glory Swaroopa, director (marketing) Sandeep Bhatnagar and Mumbai organisation’s chairperson and lead mentor Ravinder Bhan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mou-to-handhold-msmes/article31440887.ece
27 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR urged to release full pension||The Telangana Pensioners’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take steps to ensure payment of full pension to retired government employees. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, JAC chairman K. Lakshmaiah and others recalled that the government, which imposed a 50% cut in pension on account of the financial crisis due to coronavirus, however, modified the order reducing it to 25%. Even this solace will pose problems to pensioners as they incur huge medical expenses, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-urged-to-release-full-pension/article31440890.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First Ethiopian freight flight lands at RGIA||The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport got connected to Ethiopia with touchdown of the maiden cargo flight of Ethiopian Airlines here on Sunday. Ethiopian flight ET 3612 from Addis Ababa landed in Hyderabad at 8.16 p.m. and was scheduled to depart at around 11.30 p.m. This new direct connection throws open new opportunities to reach out to the markets in Africa and beyond leveraging the robust cargo network of the Ethiopian Airlines, said an official spokesperson. Expected to be operating once per week, Ethiopian Airlines will be operating Boeing 777-300 aircraft with a capacity of 50 MT per flight. With the latest addition of Ethiopian Airlines, the Hyderabad airport is now handling 12 freighters weekly along with some special cargo charters, connecting with all major international destinations such as USA, European countries, Middle East, Africa, Far East, moving emergency supplies. Among the key scheduled freighters operating from Hyderabad airport include Cathay Cargo, Turkish Cargo, Qatar Cargo, Lufthansa Cargo, SpiceXpress Cargo (domestic and international) and BlueDart Cargo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-ethiopian-freight-flight-lands-at-rgia/article31440896.ece
27 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homeguard succumbs||A home guard with Shahalibanda police station, who met with an accident on Thursday, succumbed on Sunday morning. B. Satyanand (42) suffered severe head injury when he fell off his bike near Shamshergunj T junction while trying to avoid hitting a dog. Police said he was not wearing a helmet. “He died while undergoing treatment at 10 a.m. on Sunday,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homeguard-succumbs/article31440895.ece
27 April 2020||ISNAPUR (SANGAREDDY),TELANGANA||Philanthropists come to the aid of those in distress||Ten-year-old Anjali and her mother Tara wait in front of their makeshift house for more than an hour awaiting their turn to get some essentials in the hot summer afternoon on Sunday. A few minutes before that Murali Rao and Bhanu, both in their mid 40s, were able to receive 25 kg rice, a bag of vegetables, a packet of groceries and oil packet, all worth more than Rs. 2,000. Sumangali and Prarthana were also among those who waited on the road leading to Maheswara Medical College. There are about 40 families who migrated from Mysore and surrounding areas and used to sell plastic flowers and other materials for a living. Since the Janata Curfew and subsequent lockdown, their lives turned upside down. They could not sell anything since then. All of them are residing in makeshift houses made either with clothes or plastic covers thereby relived of the burden of paying rent. Some of them are using their vehicles as temporary accommodation. The government had extended rations for them, but it has dried up. Knowing about their plight, two persons — G. Revanth and Dasari Kiran — came all the way from the city and extended help. “We are struggling for the past few days. Though the government extended rations, it is already over,” Sumangali told The Hindu . “People are showing their humane side. A large number of persons came forward and extended financial help,” said Mr. Revanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/philanthropists-come-to-the-aid-of-those-in-distress/article31440899.ece
27 April 2020||Jogulamba-Gadwal Dt.,TELANGANA||Keeping violations to a minimum||The eerily deserted roads of Gadwal seem straight out of an apocalypse movie. Take a right turn from Erravalli crossroad on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway towards the town and you wouldn’t find even a single civilian on the whole 16-km stretch. Once inside the town, one witnesses the same scene, except for shops that are open for essential services, and police check posts and pickets. As far as these shops are concerned, they aren’t crowded either. The importance of social distancing has been driven home so effectively by the police here that residents are policing themselves now, even in the absence of khaki . One can spot people standing two-three feet from each other in neat queues outside shops, while in other urban areas such a scene is witnessed only when the police arrive or the supermarket security refuses entry when people don’t follow social distancing norms. The situation is much under control now and the credit for that goes to Jogulamba-Gadwal police for having exercised caution since mid-March, when the State started reporting more COVID-19 cases from foreign returnees. They wasted no time in identifying and tracing foreign returnees first, and then Markaz returnees, both enormously demanding tasks. “Cooperation from the public is very important to implement lockdown effectively. Initially, convincing them not to go out, especially to Kurnool, was a difficult task. But, things have streamlined now,” said Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao. Police here have seized close to 1,000 vehicles, issued more than 3,000 challans and booked cases against 193 people who flouted lockdown rules. “We are using drones for effective implementation of the lockdown and enforce curfew in all lanes and bylanes of 14 containment zones in the district. Cases are being booked against those who are not following social distancing norms in the red zones,” Ms. Rao told The Hindu . She said that the district has reported more than 45 positive cases and have tested over 1,000 people so far, a majority of them contacts of Markaz returnees. Ms. Rao has ‘hand-picked’ people and formed field-level teams, comprising policemen from Special Branch and Task Force to trace, test and quarantine the suspects. “We didn’t face any problem in tracing the suspects and their contacts,” the 2014 batch IPS officer maintained. She ruled out any link to the positive cases reported in the district with neighbouring Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keeping-violations-to-a-minimum/article31440879.ece
27 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Police brave all odds for relentless vigil||A decade-and-a-half ago, police here worked relentlessly for maintenance of law and order during the fight against naxalites by combing operations in jungles. Some had become martyrs in the exchange of fire with naxalites or when they triggered landmines and claymore mines. Now in 2020, police are waging a war against COVID-19 in the districtby risking their lives and working in odd working conditions during the lockdown and curfew. . Police are braving mosquitoes and insects at night and the blistering heatwave conditions during the daytime for strict implementation of lockdown. Sometimes they are discharging duties without food and water when posted at remote or odd locations. “When we fought the naxalites, it was very clear that their enemies were the police, elected representatives and informers. But there is no particular enemy for coronavirus. It attacks each and every person exposed to it,” said Satyanarayana, a constable in the town. Incidentally, the representatives of various voluntary organisations came forward and donated masks, sanitisers, and gloves and also served food to police personnel on duty. In some other locations, the local residents are offering them tea and snacks while they discharge their duties in the colonies. To boost their morale, Commissioner of Police V.B. Kamalasan Reddy sometimes participates in the patrolling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-brave-all-odds-for-relentless-vigil/article31440897.ece
27 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Migrant workers walking home given shelter||More than 100 migrant farm workers, including their family members, from Maharashtra on an arduous trek back to their villages were spotted by volunteers of Annam Seva Foundation, a town-based NGO, here on Sunday. They were shifted to a temporary shelter in the town by the volunteers of the NGO with the help of Revenue and Police officials. They were provided food and drinking water at a private function hall on the bypass road here. “We found more than 100 migrant farm labourers, including several women and children, walking along the NSP canal bund at Venugopal Nagar heading back to their homes in Maharashtra on Sunday morning,” said Annam Srinivasa Rao, founder of the Annam Seva Foundation. They reached Khammam en route their villages in Nanded district from Enkoor mandal where they found themselves stranded owing to the lockdown. They were all visibly tired after a long trek from Enkoor mandal, in heatwave conditions, said Mr Rao, who is also a para-legal volunteer. “Initially, they were in no mood to listen to us and kept insisted on going ahead on the long march to reach their homes,” he said, adding that they moves to the temporary shelter after repeated counselling. “We had come from Nanded district to work on the chilli farms in Enkoor mandal to harvest the produce in the second week of last month,” said Shyamrao Rathod, presently sheltered in a function hall here. “The sudden imposition of lockdown left us stranded and we could not afford to stay in Enkoor mandal any longer, leaving our elders in a pathetic condition back home,” he told The Hindu . "If permitted, we will proceed to our villages on foot by making transit halts on the roadside to reach our homes more than 450 km away in the next few days," said another migrant labourer, unmindful of the adverse impact of heatwave on the children accompanying them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrant-workers-walking-home-given-shelter/article31440911.ece
27 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||‘State failed to help migrant workers’||Member of Parliament D. Arvind on Sunday said that despite the Centre extending a financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore to Telangana since the lockdown was imposed, the government was unable to provide food to migrant workers. Addressing media persons at the party office, the MP said the State government had failed to provide arrangements for farmers at paddy purchase centres and acquire farm produce at remunerative price. Reeling out details of the Centre’s assistance to the State under as many as 11 heads, he said Rs. 652 crore had been remitted directly to bank accounts of 32.87 lakh farmers and Rs. 789 crore to 52.60 lakh women under PM Kisan Samman Fund Yojana and Mahila Jan Dan Yojana. Similarly, Rs. 180 crore had been given under Ujwala Scheme and Rs. 127 crore for construction workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-failed-to-help-migrant-workers/article31440909.ece
27 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||26-sgr-corona-free||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao declared Sangareddy district ‘Corona Free’ stating that all those who tested positive were found negative and got discharged from hospital. He said they would be kept at home quarantine for some more time. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating a COVID sample collection centre at district hospital on Sunday, he said that this was possible due to everybody’s cooperation. He added that people should be cautious for another six months to one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/26-sgr-corona-free/article31440889.ece
27 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Residents of two hamlets quarantined||Collector Rajeev Gandhi Hanumanthu on Sunday inspected Errabelli thanda in Velair mandal where a 13 year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19. Accompanied by Commissioner of Police V. Ravinder and District Health and Medical Officer K. Lalitha Devi, he asked officials to erect barricades, closing the hamlet. The Collector asked officials to conduct thermal screening in every house within 1-km radius of the boy’s home. Special teams were deployed to trace the persons who were in contact with him. Samples of the seven primary contacts of boy’s family members were sent for testing and have turned up negative for the virus. However, they have all been kept under home quarantine for 28 days. Police have barricaded all roads around the quarantine zone and deployed forces to ensure isolation of the residents. Dharmasagar and Velair police installed check-posts at the entry and exit points of the areas preventing people’s movement. “The boy was a primary contact of a 10-year-old patient from Warangal. We have identified Errabelli and Mutharam thandas as containment zones,” he said. He said that people could call toll free number 1800 425 1115 if they face any hardship and stated that medical teams are visiting every house that comes under ‘no-movement zone’ twice a day to enquire about the residents’ health status. Gram Panchayat officials have begun doorstep supply of essential commodities in the two hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/residents-of-two-hamlets-quarantined/article31440883.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||SSC student murdered||An SSC student, who was 16 years old, Jadi Yeshwanth, resident of Sardarbasthi of Kagaznagar town in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, was stabbed to death by a 36-year-old man, M. Praveen, late on Saturday night. Poice said that after indulging in a petty quarrel with Yeshwanth, the accused got a knife from his house located close to the spot and stabbed him six times, killing him on the spot. Kagaznagar CI D. Mohan said a case was registered and investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ssc-student-murdered/article31440907.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Central team gives the go-by to social distancing||Physical (oft-mentioned as social) distancing has become the buzz word since the novel coronavirus announced its presence in the country. Lockdown has been imposed to enforce the distance and supermarkets and vegetable sellers too are following the distancing norms strictly. Police have been roughing up people riding double and triple and confiscating vehicles too, all in the name of distance enforcement. The Inter Ministerial Central Team that visited the city on Sunday did not seem to concern itself too much with the distancing norms.Headed by Arun Baroka, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, the team had four other members, and was followed by a retinue of local officials from GHMC, including Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar and District Collector Shweta Mohanty. The team visited various locations including the containment zone in Malakpet. The officials were said to have entered the zone too and observed the regulation of people’s movement there. The volume of the team, together with police escort, seemed formidable, especially when they were seen huddling together, giving the go-by to the norms.As per the state government orders pertaining to lockdown, no congregation of more than five persons should be allowed in public places. The only saving grace was the masks worn by all team members.    The age-old names to denote agricultural seasons — kharif and rabi — are discontinued by the Telangana government. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao defended the migration of names to ‘vana kalam' and `yasangi' respectively to make farmers well acquainted with the seasons. Experts feel the usage of name ‘vana kalam’ for kharif was understandable as it runs through the rainy season but yasangi for rabi may not reflect the true climatic conditions. For, the word yasangi is derived from vesavi (summer) and used in a distorted form as yesangi and, now, yasangi. The rabi crop generally lasts from December to April and, therefore, to relate yasangi to summer may be too early. On the other hand, the farmers in coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh use the names ‘salwa' (kharif) and ‘dalwa' (rabi) while world over the seasons are called monsoon and winter crops.   The lockdown may have left a bitter experience for many sections, including the governments and media organisations. But, the fact remains that the governments and media depend on tax and advertisement revenues, respectively, for implementing welfare and development programmes and disseminating information in a viable way.Although it’s indisputable that their resources are being squeezed to limits to keep the show going, the distress appears to have brought out some brighter shades in life and the way we live it. From online ordering of essentials such as medicines, groceries, fruits and vegetables to online classes from school to university level, the contact-less ways have increasing influence on life. It has done some good to audio-visual media too as several educational institutions are hiring time-slots on television channels to have online classes for their students. As a writer said in the past “everyone loves a good drought”, perhaps there are sections savouring the present conditions too.    The Fisheries department has finally decided to address the shortage of fish in the market. Major chunk of fishing activity in the State will be reported during March-June every year when water levels in the irrigation sources come down. But, more than a month after the season commenced, the activity is yet to commence this year on account of the lockdown. Realising the need for harvesting the fish in these sources as early as possible, the department has released list of tanks where fishing could commence. The department issued the instructions to avert possible economic loss to the more than three lakh fishermen whose livelihood depends on fishing. Sharing information The stoic silence maintained by Gadwal district administration in sharing information about coronavirus cases has made the rumour mill work overtime. The district level officers are at a loss for words when weird stories about the cases were churned out in local media. Even when Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar visited the district to review the COVID-19 situation on April 22, he reportedly encountered the anguish of media personnel over the non-transparency of administration in sharing information. Gadwal has been categorised as ahigh-risk district with 45 coronavirus positive cases so far.  (V. Swathi, N. Rahul,   B. Chandrashekhar, M. Rajeev and Abhinay Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-team-gives-the-go-by-to-social-distancing/article31440903.ece
27 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Hunger hotspots not targeted for food distribution: GNEM report||Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch (GNEM), a civil society group, has in its report, “Taking Stock: Assessing Distribution and Distress in Gurugram during the COVID-19 Lockdown” said the administration did not specifically and systematically targeted the hunger hotspots for food distribution in the district. Many such spots around the industrial pockets found no mention in the official announcements, it added. Indicating a considerable gap between the demand and supply of food, the report revealed that the distress calls for food the organisation received increased sevenfold, from eight calls a day to 60, after the extension of lockdown on April 14. Flawed system The administration’s focus on mapping and intervening in hotspots through establishment of containment zones and enhanced screening was duly announced and reported. However, hunger hotspots that emerged clearly in our data, especially in clusters around industrial pockets like Dundahera, Sarhaul, Manesar, Dharuhera, Khandsa and Naharpur did not find mention in any official announcement, said GNEM in its report. It further added that they provided the list of high concentration areas to the administration’s food and hunger control room, however, “hunger hotspots were not specifically and systematically targeted by the administration for food relief”. The nine-page report said the rate of demand for dry rations and cooked food supplied by the organisation consistently outstripped supply since the start of the lockdown. Demand-supply “Even with nearly 10,100 ration kits delivered until April 21, which provided food security for 40,400 people, GNEM has only been able to cater to 68% of those in need. GNEM has served close to four lakh cooked meals since the first week of April but is only able to meet 74% of demand. The story will be similar for other civil society groups involved in relief work,” the report said. Based on the group’s findings from food distribution efforts during COVID-19 lockdown, the report said the number of calls they had to verify spiked once the lockdown extension was announced, thus establishing rising distress with the passage of time. The calls indicated that the anxiety over food increased during the period because most of the workers had little or no savings. The extension of lockdown until May 3 created panic among them and the line of credit with the local grocery shops for many snapped. Those without a locally-registered ration card had no support from the government nor was there any cash-support scheme in place. On the Distress Ration Cards scheme, the report said many people had not received the coupons yet; getting rations seemed distant and uncertain given that verification processes were also involved. The report said the process for distribution of distress ration coupons remained “unclear and entirely opaque”. The report suggested to make system of distress ration coupon distribution public, reopen registration for Rs. 1,000 cash relief to daily-wagers and set up a single helpline and a public grievance portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hunger-hotspots-not-targeted-for-food-distribution-gnem-report/article31440821.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||52 workers at Hindu Rao Hospital kept in isolation||The city reported 293 positive cases with eight recoveries and no deaths on Sunday, the government said. The total number of cases now stands at 2,918. The last time over 200 positive cases was reported in Delhi was on April 13 with 356 cases. Fifty-two healthcare workers at Hindu Rao Hospital — who came in contact with a nurse who had tested positive for COVID-19 — have been sent for testing and are currently in isolation, said a senior municipal official on Sunday. Services to resume today The hospital which was shut down on Saturday, will resume services of casualty and emergency wards, including flu clinic and three OPDs, with restricted entry of patients and attendants from Monday. “The hospital was closed for entry and exit to ensure that no identified contacts left. We will not admit any new patients till everything is fully sanitised,” said North civic body commissioner Varsha Joshi. Around 170 patients were admitted to the hospital during this time. Samples of at least seven healthcare staff have been collected and the rest will be done starting Monday, the official said. There is no evidence of where the nurse got infected, Ms. Joshi said, adding: “In a lot of cases, there is no established contact history.” Meanwhile, a Resident Doctors’ Association at the hospital wrote to the Medical Superintendent putting forth various suggestions to help prevent such incidents like following guidelines laid out by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, rotation duty, regular screening of people working in high-risk areas, ensuring the availability of protective equipment all the time to staff, ensuring hostel facilities for resident doctors at the hospital, making RDA part of policymaking, and ensuring proper care and treatment for doctors who may fall ill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/52-workers-at-hindu-rao-hospital-kept-in-isolation/article31440830.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CM asks people of all faiths to donate plasma||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday requested all people — who have recovered from COVID-19— to come forward and donate plasma. He said plasma therapy has been showing positive results — saving lives of several critical COVID-19 patients. He said people of all faiths and religions are coming forward to save the lives of those infected with the virus. “COVID-19 can infect anyone. If people of all faiths — Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christians, Jain, Buddhist, and others — stand united, the whole world together cannot defeat us,” he said. He added: “What if the life of a Hindu patient is saved by the plasma donated by a Muslim — who has recovered from COVID-19 —and vice-versa.” Mr. Kerjiwal said this week has shown signs of improvement with fewer COVID-19 cases and fewer fatalities in Delhi as compared to last week. “While there were 566 people admitted to the hospitals last week, just 34 people were admitted this week. The recovery rate has also doubled this week with 580 people recovering as against 260 people recovering last week. Also, the number of deaths have reduced,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal added that he had announced that the government would review if there could be any relaxation on restrictions during the lockdown on April 27 but it has been decided that apart from allowing standalone shops in residential areas to open, there were no relaxations till May 3. “We have worked hard to ensure stability in our battle against COVID-19 and we should not let anything push us back,” he said. A decision on resumption of services in Delhi will be decided based on Centre’s decision on the nation-wide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-asks-people-of-all-faiths-to-donate-plasma/article31440825.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Help society in fight against COVID-19’||Tablighi Jamaat chief Muhammad Saad has requested all Muslims — who have recovered from COVID-19 — to come forward and help society and the government by donating plasma to infected persons. “A majority of our brothers have recovered. It is required that such people should donate blood plasma to others who are still fighting the disease and are under treatment,” he said. Members agree Over 129 recovered members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who were treated at AIIMS Jhajjar, have agreed to donate their blood for plasma therapy to treat COVID-19 patients in Delhi. A total of 142 people were under treatment here. Hospital sources said members of the group readily agreed to donate their blood and that now the hospital was working out the logistics for the donation and their stay. “During this time of crisis, it is important to take care of peoples’ needs... But an even greater responsibility that we have at this time is to save the life of a sick person and expend our own life and wealth so that he/she can be cured of a terrible disease... If a person falls into a well, it is incumbent upon all others to pull him out and save his life because they have the capability to do so,” he appealed. Plasma therapy involves transfusing plasma retrieved from the blood of persons who have recovered from COVID-19 into a person suffering from the disease. A 49-year-old patient admitted at Max Saket was among the first Indians to undergo plasma therapy for COVID-19. The patient has recovered and has been discharged, said doctors at Max Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/help-society-in-fight-against-covid-19/article31440826.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||Stand-alone, neighbourhood shops can open: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Delhi government will allow standalone shops in residential areas to open following Central government orders but will provide no other relaxation in the lockdown till May 3. Shops in containment zones, he said, would continue to remain shut. “Markets, complexes, and shopping malls will remain shut. Only standalone and neighbourhood shops such as those in residential areas will be allowed to open and those that fall under the containment area will remain closed,” the CM said. However, out of approximately 75,000 eligible stores, only about 300 may have opened said President of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), Praveen Khandelwal. Crucially, there was “no established meaning” for standalone and neighbourhood shops, Mr. Khandelwal said. Consequently, police personnel who themselves did not know how to identify them were not allowing stores to open. Such complaints were received from market leaders across the city, some of who justified the action as the directives were ambiguous. Practical difficulties Suresh Bindal, a garments trader in Chandni Chowk and president of the IPEX group housing society, said that most people who inquired with police about reopening stores were informed that no such order had been received. Besides, Mr. Bindal was of the opinion that shops did not have to be opened up, “from a health stand point.” “When police personnel are falling sick themselves, what is our standing to be able to function properly?” asked M.R. Bindal, arguing that store owners and traders would not have the capacity to conduct regular temperature checks and ensure safety precautions. He further said that it would be a task to have employees come to work given movement restrictions and issues with the supply chain.  Mr. Khandelwal concurred, stating that while Sunday was only the first day after the order was issued and consequently problems of supply-chain management hadn’t crept up, it would likely be a big challenge.  Among other concerns are if the producers and wholesalers of non-essential commodities aren’t allowed to function and the transportation of employees. The CAIT, meanwhile, wrote to the union Home Secretary, Ajay Bhalla asking for a clarification on the MHA’s order. It stated that there were several interpretations about “neighbourhood shops” by authorities, because of which shops exempted from lockdown could not open. It also argued that there was a lack of consensus among administration and law enforcing agencies, which was impeding traders. The traders’ body also asked for clarification on the need for movement passes for employees of such stores, and called for the setting up of a friendlier mechanism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stand-alone-neighbourhood-shops-can-open-cm/article31440832.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Truck driver, helper held for ferrying 25 labourers||A truck was seized and two persons were arrested for allegedly ferrying 25 people, including minors, to Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur in south Delhi’’s Kotla Mubarakpur, the police said on Sunday. Truck driver Om Prakash (48) and his helper Manoj (27) were nabbed while the others — migrant labourers and their families — were sent to shelter homes, they added. “A case under relevant sections of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act have been registered against the arrested persons,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. The incident came to fore when truck was stopped for picket checking in South Extension at 10.30 p.m. on Saturday. “During interrogation, it was revealed that the labourers and the arrested persons belonged to Chattarpur,” Mr. Thakur said, adding: “These labourers stay in different areas of the city — Narela, Bawana, Rithala and Indira Gandhi Camp, and Lodhi Road.” The labourers said they decided to travel to their hometown after they got to know that a truck would come from Chattarpur to Delhi with goods and would return to MP. They then contacted the driver on Saturday morning. The driver charged Rs. 1,000 per person in lieu of dropping them at Chattarpur, the officer said. Nine people boarded the truck from Narela and six from Karnal bypass, the officer said. Next, the driver picked up 10 people from near Safdarjung and AIIMS Hospitals. All the labourers including their children have been sent to a shelter home in Fatehpur Beri, the DCP said. Meanwhile, in south Delhi’’s Sangam Vihar, police received information that 20 families of migrant labourers were planning to leave Delhi as they had run out of ration. The families were then provided with dry ration and were convinced to stay in their rented accommodations, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/truck-driver-helper-held-for-ferrying-25-labourers/article31440835.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sanitisation drive in Jahangirpuri||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation carried out an intensive sanitisation drive for the second day in a row at Jahangirpuri on Sunday. The drive was carried out with a special focus on containment zones here, area officials said. Four-hour exercise The drive, which lasted four hours, covered seven square kilometres of Jahangirpuri and Sanjay Enclave and was completed using a 3,000 litre tanker, the official added. Legal action On Sunday, police made announcements informing people that if domestic helps were seen exiting from households, legal action would be taken against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sanitisation-drive-in-jahangirpuri/article31440833.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delivery boy arrested for stealing articles from house||A delivery boy was arrested for allegedly stealing a laptop, mobile phone and Rs. 5,000 cash from a house in Malviya Nagar, the police said on Sunday. The police were informed about the incident on April 18, an official said, adding all the stolen items have been recovered. The accused, Tushar Sansanwal (21), is a resident of Katwariya Sarai. “Around 20 days ago, the complainant took a lift from a scooty-borne delivery man to reach his house in Malviya Nagar. The delivery boy also shared his mobile number and asked him to call him if any item needs to be delivered,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. The complainant contacted Sansanwal on April 18. When he came to the house to deliver some items, he decamped with the articles, the DCP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delivery-boy-arrested-for-stealing-articles-from-house/article31440827.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 suspects kept in quarantine for 28 days: DMC||The Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) on Sunday alleged that the people brought to quarantine camps from the centre in Nizamuddin will be completing 28 days on April 27, which is twice the mandatory period for COVID-19 suspects. The DMC in a letter to Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said: “It will in the fitness of things that all such people who have spent 28 days in these camps and did not test positive should be allowed to go home...while the lockdown continues.” It added that keeping these people in detention for more than twice the mandatory quarantine period is creating ill-will in the Muslim community and may lead to court cases. The DMC also alleged that on the first day of Ramzan, inmates at Wazirabad quarantine centre were kept hungry as pre-dawn food was not supplied to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-suspects-kept-in-quarantine-for-28-days-dmc/article31440834.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||On the front line||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/on-the-front-line/article31440824.ece
27 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab could see more areas under cotton cultivation||Punjab can see around three lakh acres more under the cotton crop this kharif (summer) season against the previous year as farmers could shift from paddy (rice) on account of possible labour shortage in the State. Also, State government’s push for crop diversification would be another factor that could aid the acreage under cotton, farmers and traders told The Hindu . “Farmers are definitely going to sow more cotton this season than the last year. There’s currently a shortage of labour and if it continues, there’s a good chance that farmers will prefer sowing cotton instead of paddy, wherever it’s possible. Labour from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have an expertise in planting paddy but with many of them back to their native places there will be some difficulty,” said Rakesh Rathi, former president of India Cotton Association Limited. “Also farmers may sow less guar crop as its prices have remained subdued and shift to cotton, especially in Abohar, Mansa and other surrounding areas. In Haryana also area under cotton can go a little up,” he added. In Punjab and Haryana, Bt cotton is sown in over 95% of the total area, the rest 5% cotton is usually the indigenous (desi) cotton varieties. Cotton is usually planted from mid April to till late May in most parts of the two States. . “Paddy is a labour intensive crop and if migrant labour doesn’t return in the coming months then surely many farmers, where sowing cotton is a viable option will go for it. I am sure the area under cotton will increase this season in Punjab. Also the government is promoting cotton sowing,” said Surjit Singh, president Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari). The Punjab government has set a target of enhancing the area under cotton cultivation from 9.7 lakh acres last year to 12.5 lakh acres in 2020, in a bid to promote crop-diversification. Government data shows that in year 2018 cotton was sown in 6.62 lakh acres and in 9.7 lakh acres in 2019. Amid the ongoing curfew, following the COVID-19 outbreak, the agriculture department has coordinated with the Cotton Corporation of India to buy last season’s remaining cotton produce from farmers at the MSP and for this — 19 markets in the cotton belt have already been made operational.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-could-see-more-areas-under-cotton-cultivation/article31440814.ece
27 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hizbul activist arrested in Punjab||Punjab Police on Sunday said it had arrested an activist of the Hizbul Mujahideen outfit and recovered Indian currency worth Rs. 29 lakh from his possession. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the arrested activist has been identified as Hilal Ahmed Wagay, a resident of Nowgam, falling in Avantipura police station of Pulwama district of Kashmir. “Hilal was nabbed by a team of Amritsar Commissionerate Police, which was on patrol duty late evening on April 25 near Metro Mart in the city. An FIR under Sections 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 20, 21 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (Amendment 2012) has been registered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hizbul-activist-arrested-in-punjab/article31440810.ece
27 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Relax moisture norm for wheat purchase’||Congress leader and chief party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday urged Haryana government to give relaxation in moisture specifications for the wheat procurement from 12% to 18% in the wake of untimely rainfall that had damaged the harvested wheat crop lying in the grain markets and fields across the State. Mr. Surjewala alleged that the State government has failed to provide adequate procurement arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/relax-moisture-norm-for-wheat-purchase/article31440816.ece
27 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||No lockdown relaxation in Ghaziabad||In line with the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision not to extend the Home Ministry’s directive, permitting shops of some non-essential items outside containment zones to open with riders, to the State, the Ghaziabad administration maintained a status quo in the city. “We are in a crucial phase in the fight against COVID-19 and the lockdown has helped us counter its threat. By giving relaxation, we don’t want to negate the advances made,” said District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey.  Stringent steps In fact, the district administration made the conditions of the lockdown even more stringent. The grocery store now could open only till 4 p.m. and the vegetable and fruit shops have to down their shutters by 2 p.m. The administration has also issued an advisory to government officials who travel to Delhi. They have been asked to leave the city by 9 a.m. The advisory further said that a larger number of third and fourth-grade officials of Delhi and Central government reside in Ghaziabad. “According to the directions of the Central and Delhi government only 33% of them are required to be present on a given day. But it has been noticed that a large number of them are crossing the border after showing their identity cards. To reduce this traffic, we have asked them to get daily or weekly passes issued from their respective departments. Without these passes, they would not be allowed to cross or enter the Ghaziabad border,” the advisory said. Meanwhile, the daily wagers are struggling to make the ends meet. The Sector 5 market of Vaishali, the hub of commercial activity, wore a deserted look on Sunday. The physically-challenged Vijay Kumar Diskhit was trying to knead the flour. ‘Beggars better placed’ “I didn’t have the physical strength to walk down to Kannauj, my home town. My friend, who somehow managed, has left the responsibility of his tea stall to me. But who knew that people would stop even having tea.” Pointing at beggars, who could be seen in large numbers in the marketplace, Mr. Dikshit said they were placed better than him. “At least people show sympathy towards them.” Before he could complete his sentence, Toofan walked in and spat on the road. When reminded of the Prime Minister’s Man Ki Baat , the auto mechanic said, “Sahib, old habits will take time to change.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-lockdown-relaxation-in-ghaziabad/article31440812.ece
27 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||COVID-19: Meerut man alleges negligence in uncle’s death||The death of a 65-year-old grocery store owner because of COVID-19 in Meerut on Saturday evening has brought to light the alleged negligence of the health department. A relative of the deceased has alleged that his uncle was not admitted to the district government hospital despite showing symptoms since April 20. “His COVID-19 report came 12 hours after his death, three days after sample was taken,” alleged Rajan Singhal, nephew of the deceased. “On Monday, when he showed symptoms, he went to the hospital but the doctors gave him medicines for cough and fever and sent him back. When he started showing clear symptoms, we informed the Chief Medical Officer and the District Magistrate’s office. On Tuesday, an ambulance took him to Meerut Medical College and Hospital but he was sent back on foot with some medicines,” Mr. Singhal told The Hindu  Samples taken According to Mr. Singhal, on Wednesday, a three-member team visited the man’s residence and took his and his wife’s sample. “On Friday, when his condition deteriorated, both again went to the hospital. There, he suffered a paralytic attack. After that, my uncle was admitted and aunt was sent back.” On Saturday, when the family members inquired about his health, they were told that he had passed away. “When we insisted that we won’t take the body without COVID-19 report, on Sunday morning we were told that he tested positive. The hospital health staff took the body to the cremation ground and performed the last rites,” he added. R.C. Gupta, Principal of Meerut Medical College, told The Hindu that an explanation had been sought from the doctor on duty. He said, “The sample that was taken on April 22 was for pool testing and it came out negative. When he came on April 24, he had very high blood pressure, cough and fever. He suffered brain stroke...He was admitted in the evening and his sample for COVID-19 was sent on Saturday and within 24 hours the report came.” The CMO could not be reached despite repeated attempts.  When we insisted that we won’t take the body without his COVID-19 report, on Sunday morning we were told that he tested positive. The hospital health staff took the body in an ambulance to the cremation ground and performed the last rites Rajan Singhal  A relative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-meerut-man-alleges-negligence-in-uncles-death/article31440819.ece
27 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Wedding industry loses its shine in U.P.||Snehlata spent the better part of Saturday calling up friends and relatives to inform them that her daughter’s wedding has been postponed. The ongoing lockdown has put a damper on their plans. “We had scheduled the wedding on Akshay Tritiya as the three-day period is considered auspicious... I was hoping against hope that somehow we would be able to go through with it,” said Snehlata, a senior bank official in Delhi. “My daughter was ready to go ahead with10 guests, as per the government order, but the groom’s side did not agree,” she said, adding that they had booked a banquet hall and paid Rs. 1 lakh in advance. “Now, the manager is requesting us to reschedule the wedding after the lockdown ends,” she said. With the Uttar Pradesh government extending the ban on public gatherings till June 30, marriage plans of thousands of families are in the lurch while the big fat wedding industry is bracing up to lose some of its mass.  ‘Can’t afford salaries’ Vivek Mohan, a caterer who runs a banquet hall on lease, said the lockdown will cause high unemployment. “Ours is a seasonal industry. What we earn during the season, we spend for the next four-five months. After June, the auspicious dates are in November. I can feed my permanent employees during the lockdown but I will have to take a call on how many I would like to retain once the lockdown ends. I cannot afford to pay salaries for six months without work,” he added. The farmhouses on NH-9 and Delhi-Meerut Road host lavish weddings during the season. “They take bookings for minimum 500 people. I do not think even after June, the government will allow such large gatherings. Many of them will have to shut shop or turn into smaller banquet halls. My halls were booked till May 8 but all the events have been cancelled. This will affect caterers, flower providers, bandwallahs, as well as the jewellery and clothing industries,” said Pawan Singhal, who runs one of the biggest banquet halls in Modinagar. The priests too have not been spared grief. “With temples in residential complexes shut and weddings postponed, the pandits are suffering,” said Surendra Sharma, the head priest of a temple in Ghaziabad’s Raj Nagar Extension, which was sealed after two residents tested positive for COVID-19. “The RWA president issued a letter that I would be held responsible if people assembled at the temple, but nobody asked me how I will make ends meet during the lockdown or who would clean the temple or perform the daily aarti,” he added. “I still have some savings, but what about priests in rural areas and small towns who depend on what they get from yajman (host) from day-to-day rituals,” he asked, adding: “Unlike other daily wagers, pandits are not trained to do any other job and their social standing does not allow them to do menial jobs,” the priest added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/wedding-industry-loses-its-shine-in-up/article31440815.ece
27 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||U.P. workers in Gurugram return home||More than 500 migrant workers staying in various relief camps across the district were on Sunday transported back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh in State roadways buses. The workers from other parts of the State were also transported back in large numbers through the day. More than a month after the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of COVID-19, around 550 migrants workers, including women and children, were transported back to their native villages in different parts of Uttar Pradesh in 19 State buses on Sunday. Fourteen people belonging to Uttarkhand and five from Punjab were sent back on Saturday. Sub-Divisional Officer-cum-Duty Magistrate Arvind Kumar, in-charge Manesar IMT Sector 8 relief camp, said that thirty people were transported back to Bulandshahar and Budaun in a bus on early Sunday morning. Mr. Kumar said that two people from Uttrakhand at the relief camp were sent back on Saturday. He, however, said there was no official communication on the workers from Bihar staying in the camp. Labour Inspector Sushil Kumar, in-charge Manesar Gaushala relief camp, said the camp had 114 workers from Uttar Pradesh and they had received the schedule to transport them back. “The workers are being made to sit maintaining the social distancing norms. A bus with a capacity of 50-odd people has only 20 people travelling,” said Mr. Kumar. Ramesh Chand, who along with his wife, two daughters and a son, had boarded the bus for his home town Etawah, said they had been staying at Sector 15 Part-I relief camp for more than a month after their landlord forced them to vacate the room as they could not pay the rent. Mr. Chand, who recently underwent an eye surgery, said that he was out of job, but his wife and children worked. Long walk Amjad, working at a furniture unit in Jaipur, said he had walked several hours and taken lift in different vehicles to reach Gurugram after the lockdown in a hope to go back to his place at Shahranpur in Uttar Pradesh. But he was caught by the police and sent to a Sohna relief camp. “The staff at the camp was very cordial and after a month they felt like our family,” said the 26-year-old. A highly placed source in Haryana government said there were many women, young girls and children among the inmates and keeping them in the camps for so long was a huge responsibility.  TVs and yoga classes “The government installed televisions in camps, held yoga classes and conducted counselling sessions to keep them in good physical and mental health. Since they were quarantined having spent more than a month in the camps, it was decided to better send them back,” the source said, adding that there could soon be some decision on the workers from Bihar as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-workers-in-gurugram-return-home/article31440807.ece
27 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Bangladeshi handed over||A Bangladeshi national who claimed to be a COVID-19 patient was on Sunday handed over to the border guards of Bangladesh after he swam across the Kushiara river into southern Assam’s Barak Valley. Officials of the Border Security Force said an Indian fisherman spotted the Bangladeshi national and alerted them. “The Bangladesh border sentinels took him into their custody with precautionary measures as the man claimed he had been infected,” a district official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bangladeshi-handed-over/article31440817.ece
27 April 2020||Patna,||Officer who made policeman do sit-ups transferred to HQ||The Bihar officer, who had made a policeman do sit-ups for ‘daring’ to check the valid pass for the movement of his vehicle during lockdown in Araria district on April 20, was transferred to Patna Headquarter through a department notification on Saturday. Araria District Agriculture Officer Manoj Kumar has been transferred to Patna as Deputy Director in the department. Kishanganj District Agriculture Officer Santlal Prasad Shah has been given the additional charge. Mr. Kumar had shot into limelight after a video went viral on social media in which a policeman, Ganesh Tatma, was seen doing sit-ups while holding his ears. He was reportedly angry when his vehicle was stopped by Mr. Tatma. The State Agriculture Department tweeted to clarify that “1. DAO, Araria, transferred out of Araria as Dy Director, training in HQ. He is NOT promoted.... 2. Department proceedings against him already been initiated. 3. FIR already filed”.  Meanwhile, the Opposition leaders have questioned the Nitish Kumar government over the transfer. “Is it good governance? …this action will downplay the morale of the State police,” said Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Danish Rizwan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/officer-who-made-policeman-do-sit-ups-transferred-to-hq/article31440818.ece
27 April 2020||Srinagar,||A subdued Ramzan in the Valley||Kashmir is observing a subdued Ramzan this year due to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown and restrictions on public gatherings. Street markets selling Ramzan-related paraphernalia, including dates that are eaten to break the day-long fast, are closed. Niyaz Ahmad, a trader associated with cross-Line of Control (LoC) trade, which was suspended by the Union Home Ministry in March 2019, said: “Over 1.99 lakh kg of dates worth Rs. 6 crore would hit the Valley markets every Ramzan from the now-banned route connecting J&K with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir).” Due to the rising cases of COVID-19, locals are not visiting mosques for congregational prayers, including for the essential two-hour-long Ramzan prayer called ‘Tarawih’, which is held after sunset. “For the first time, families are holding Tarawih prayers at home. I have never seen such a sombre Ramzan,” said 73-year-old Rasheed Khan, a resident of Rajouri Kadal. Even Iftaar parties, where people gather to break fast, have been cancelled. “We would hold Iftaar for over 300 people every evening,” said a caretaker of the Masjid Bilal Mosque in Lal Chowk. Deputy Commissioner (Srinagar) Shahid Choudhary said this Ramzan is not the same anywhere in the world. “But we are trying to make it less difficult in Srinagar. Over 50,000 packets of Ramzan food and essentials kits are ready for dispatch,” he added.  No beating of drums Sehar Khans, who beat drums to wake people up for sheri (pre-dawn) meals, have also stopped doing the rounds in the city, which has over 15 red zones where movement is restricted. “The best way to protect ourselves is to offer prayers at home... People should not rush towards mosques,” Kashmir’s grand mufti Nasir-ul Islam said, adding: “People across Kashmir should donate food and clothes to the needy in these challenging times.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-subdued-ramzan-in-the-valley/article31440809.ece
27 April 2020||Madrid,||6 weeks on, Spain lets children step out||Spanish children were allowed outside on Sunday for the first time in six weeks as countries eased lockdown measures and reopened economies gutted by the COVID-19 pandemic that has infected nearly three million people worldwide. Governments from France to Italy and the United States are gearing up for a partial easing of severe restrictions that have kept more than half of humanity indoors for weeks on end. Coronavirus cases around the world rose to 2.9 million and deaths have doubled since April 10 — hitting nearly 2,03,000 people on Sunday — with well over half of them in Europe, according to an AFP tally. The daily toll in Western countries appeared to be levelling off and even falling, but fears abound in many places of a second surge after restrictions on movement are lifted. New rules Spanish families embraced new rules allowing children outside for the first time since March 14, with kids hopping on bicycles and scooters on the streets of Madrid — some wearing small masks and gloves. Under the revised rules, children are allowed out once per day between 9.00 a.m. and 9.00 p.m., but cannot venture more than one kilometre from their homes. The new rules were rolled out as the death toll in the hard-hit country dropped to 288 people on Sunday, the lowest since March 30. With more than 23,000 fatalities, Spain has the third highest death toll in the world after Italy’s 26,000 and more than 53,000 in the United States. Other hard-hit countries across Europe are also starting to look toward a slow crawl back to normality. Italy on Sunday said schools would reopen in September, while many business could resume work next week, and France was expected to unveil details of its de-confinement plan on Tuesday. Belgium said schools and businesses will reopen from mid-May, while Germany started to reopen some shops last week. U.S. President Donald Trump has repeatedly said he wants to resume business in the world’s biggest economy, even as medical advisers have cautioned against easing lockdown too soon or too fast. Mr. Trump faced criticism after suggesting that coronavirus could be treated by shining ultraviolet light inside patients’ bodies, or with injections of household disinfectant. Trump’s daily briefings He lashed out at the media on Twitter, accusing journalists of posing hostile questions, and suggested his daily coronavirus briefings were not worth his time. “They get record ratings, & the American people get nothing but Fake News. Not worth the time & effort!,” he wrote. While new reported cases appear to have plateaued at about 80,000 a day, the world remains in wait as companies and governments race to develop treatments and, eventually, a vaccine.  Meanwhile in Beijing, a new set of regulations were introduced to combat the pandemic, banning “uncivilised” behaviour such as not covering the mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/6-weeks-on-spain-lets-children-step-out/article31440525.ece
27 April 2020||Tokyo,||Tech-challenged Japanese struggle to work from home||When the Japanese government declared an emergency to curb the spread of the coronavirus earlier this month and asked people to work from home, crowds rushed to electronics stores. So much for social distancing. Many Japanese lack the basic tools needed to work from home. Contrary to the ultramodern image of Japan Inc. with its robots, design finesse and gadgetry galore, in many respects the country is technologically challenged. But the bigger obstacle is Japanese corporate culture, experts say. Offices still often rely on faxes instead of email. Many homes lack high-speed Internet connections, and documents often must be stamped in-person with carved seals called “hanko,” which serve as signatures. So many Japanese really cannot work remotely, at least not all the time. A survey by YouGov, a British market researcher, found only 18% of those recently surveyed were able to avoid commuting to school or work, even though a relatively high 80% of people in Japan are afraid of catching the virus. No clearly defined job One factor, says Yuri Tazawa, a pioneer in Japan of “teleworking,” or working from home, is that Japanese workers often do not have clearly defined jobs like Americans do, so companies expect their staff to be in constant communication with each other, working as teams. Ms. Tazawa is offering an online crash course on how to immediately start working from home, using just mobile phones, if a personal computer is not available. She calls the approach a “hypothetical cloud office.” Unlike regular Zoom meetings, in which workers check in and out for discussions, she is proposing using Zoom for just voice connections, keeping it on throughout the work day so that employees can feel as if they’re in the same room. Some of Japan’s biggest companies, like Toyota Motor Corp. and Sony Corp., already have announced work-from-home policies. The main problem is with the small and medium-sized businesses which make up about 70% of the economy. Nicholas Benes, a corporate governance expert who has been offering a free webinar on teleworking, said interest was surprisingly low. A lack of up-to-date IT systems means Japan lags in nurturing flexible work practices, office rules, management methods and even attitudes toward remote work. It’s one factor contributing to relatively low labour productivity. “Telework requires that managers trust and delegate much more decision-making to employees because it takes too much time in email or Skype to check with the boss,” said Mr. Benes. Japanese companies still rely on nuances of face-to-face interaction, or being able to “smell the air,” or “read the air,” Mr. Benes said. Fax is sacred And then, there’s the fax machine. A third of Japanese households have faxes, according to a government study. Many respectable institutions shun emails and insist on receiving documentation by fax only. Futoshi Takami, a “salaryman,” as Japanese workers are called, says he had to work from the office until mid-April, when he was finally told he could work from home. But so far, he’s gotten few directions about what he’s supposed to be doing. He might soon be assigned to take some online classes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tech-challenged-japanese-struggle-to-work-from-home/article31440527.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic is China’s biggest crisis since Tiananmen, says academic||China’s response to COVID-19 has shown both the weaknesses and strengths of its system, says Richard McGregor, Senior Fellow at the Lowy Institute and author of The Party: The Secret World of China’s Communist Rulers, adding that the Communist Party is fighting battles on many fronts both at home and abroad. Is the pandemic the Party’s biggest challenge since Tiananmen and 1989? Every challenge looks like the biggest crisis, but I would say the answer is yes. The global financial crisis in 2008 was a big challenge. They got through that through a massive stimulus programme. This time is a little bit different. We’ve not only got what is going to be an extended economic downturn, plus a global political fight over the origins of the virus, and responsibility and accountability for it. They are fighting on a number of fronts. China’s recovery has been portrayed at home as a vindication of its political system. Has this narrative been successful? Can you imagine even a month ago that China would be heralding its handling of this crisis as a vindication for their system? We should say, of course, that in some respects, that sort of propaganda is as much directed internally as it is externally. But I think this really shows the deep weaknesses and also some of the strengths of their system. There was certainly a cover-up at some levels. There was a bureaucratic mess, fighting between the localities and the centre. In other words, a lack of openness, lack of transparency, endemic bureaucratic problems, and a fear of offending and reporting to the centre. Once China started to take it seriously, we did see a quite remarkable demonstration of the power of the party-state, when you think what they managed to do in a short period of time. I don’t believe every Chinese figure to the tee, but there’s no doubt that we’ve got rapidly declining infections and large parts of the country getting back to normal. We saw the good side and the bad side of the system. Will China emerge from this stronger or in a worse-off position globally? It’s really hard to say. In many Western countries, China is going to be in a worse off position. The U.S.-China relationship continues to break down at a rapid pace. China’s relations with a lot of European countries — France, Germany, Britain — has been strained by this. It’s also going to depend on what happens in the U.S. with Trump in the [presidential] election, and whether the U.S. economy and political system can right itself. That’s another unknown. It’s also going to depend on countries surrounding China immediately, like Japan, South Korea, and of course, India. But without some sort of open accounting of what happened in Wuhan, which China is resisting, it’s hard to see how they come out of this with their reputation enhanced. Scholar Wang Jisi recently said China-U.S. decoupling is now irreversible. Would you agree? I’m not so sure. Political decoupling might be; economic decoupling or trade decoupling is another matter because the two countries and global systems generally are so enmeshed. It’s very difficult to unwind them. There’s going to be a lot of countries hedging their bets with China. But you know, China’s logistical strengths, its industrial clusters, its ports, its railways, in other words, the ability to trade and do business, are immensely powerful. So I’m a bit cautious to overstate that at the moment. India has amended FDI policy to tighten scrutiny of Chinese investments. Is this broader backlash temporary or long-lasting? I think it’s more long-lasting... The boom in outward Chinese FDI, which we saw in 2015-16 — that’s over for the moment. It might not matter as much to China as it did a few years ago because China itself is advanced far along up the industrial chain. But yes, I think this is now a permanent feature of the landscape.  Without some sort of accounting of what happened in Wuhan, which China is resisting, it’s hard to see how they come out of this with their reputation enhanced||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandemic-is-chinas-biggest-crisis-since-tiananmen-says-academic/article31440521.ece
27 April 2020||Seoul,||‘Kim Jong-un’s train’ spotted at Wonsan town||A train likely belonging to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has been spotted at a resort town in the country’s east, satellite photos reviewed by a U.S.-based think tank showed, as speculation persists over his health. The train was parked at a station reserved for the Kim family in Wonsan on April 21 and April 23, the respected 38 North website said in a report published on Saturday. 38 North cautioned that the train’s presence “does not prove the whereabouts of the North Korean leader or indicate anything about his health”. “But it does lend weight to reports that Kim is staying at an elite area on the country’s eastern coast,” it said. Rumours on health There has been growing conjecture about Mr. Kim’s health since his conspicuous absence from the April 15 celebrations for the birthday of his grandfather Kim Il-sung, the regime’s founder — the most important day on the North Korean political calendar. Mr. Kim has not made a public appearance since presiding over a meeting of the Workers’ Party politburo on April 11 and inspecting drills by fighter jets at an air defence unit, which was reported by state media on April 12. Daily NK, an online media outlet run mostly by North Korean defectors, has reported Mr. Kim underwent a cardiovascular procedure earlier this month and was recovering at a villa in North Pyongan province. Undergoing treatment Citing an unidentified source inside the country, it said Mr. Kim, who is in his mid-30s, had needed urgent treatment due to heavy smoking, obesity and fatigue. South Korea, which is still technically at war with the North, has played down the report. CNN, quoting what it said was an anonymous U.S. official, reported that Washington was “monitoring intelligence” that Mr. Kim was in “grave danger” after undergoing surgery. But on Thursday, U.S. President Donald Trump rejected reports that Mr. Kim was ailing. “I think the report was incorrect,” Mr. Trump told reporters, but declined to state when he was last in touch with him. “We have a good relationship with North Korea, as good as you can have,” he said. Mr. Trump has met Mr. Kim three times in historic summitry and has voiced admiration for him, although hopes have dimmed for reaching a comprehensive agreement. Reporting from inside the isolated North is notoriously difficult, especially on anything to do with its leadership, which is among its most closely guarded secrets. On Thursday, citing an unidentified government official, South Korean broadcaster SBS reported that Mr. Kim appeared to have been in Wonsan for at least the past four days and would soon return to the public eye. The report added that the military was monitoring Mr. Kim’s train, which had been seen in Wonsan, while his personal jet — frequently used by Mr. Kim on his trips to Wonsan — remained in Pyongyang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kim-jong-uns-train-spotted-at-wonsan-town/article31440529.ece
27 April 2020||Sydney,||Australia launches app||Australia has launched a smartphone app to trace people who come in contact with coronavirus patients despite privacy concerns. The COVIDSafe app uses a phone’s Bluetooth wireless signal to store information about people’s interactions, and can be accessed by health officials if a person contracts coronavirus. Australia has recorded just over 6,700 cases of COVID-19 and 83 deaths. The rise in infections has slowed considerably in recent weeks, with just 16 new cases recorded across the country on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-launches-app/article31440522.ece
27 April 2020||Kabul,||Kabul, April 26, 2020 (AFP) -||U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad said on Sunday that the Taliban should observe truce, while Afghanistan tries to tackle its coronavirus crisis. “Ramadan offers the Taliban an opportunity to embrace a humanitarian ceasefire to reduce violence and suspend offensive military operations until the health crisis is over,” he tweeted.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-april-26-2020-afp/article31440531.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||At the edge of a new nuclear arms race||In mid-April, a report issued by the United States State Department on “Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments (Compliance Report)” raised concerns that China might be conducting nuclear tests with low yields at its Lop Nur test site, in violation of its Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) undertakings. The U.S. report also claims that Russia has conducted nuclear weapons experiments that produced a nuclear yield and were inconsistent with ‘zero yield’ understanding underlying the CTBT, though it was uncertain about how many such experiments had been conducted. Russia and China have rejected the U.S.’s claims, but with growing rivalry among major powers the report is a likely harbinger of a new nuclear arms race which would also mark the demise of the CTBT that came into being in 1996 but has failed to enter into force even after a quarter century. What does CTBT ban mean? For decades, a ban on nuclear testing was seen as the necessary first step towards curbing the nuclear arms race but Cold War politics made it impossible. A Partial Test Ban Treaty was concluded in 1963 banning underwater and atmospheric tests but this only drove testing underground. By the time the CTBT negotiations began in Geneva in 1994, global politics had changed. The Cold War had ended and the nuclear arms race was over. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, or the USSR, had broken up and its principal testing site, Semipalatinsk, was in Kazakhstan (Russia still had access to Novaya Zemlya near the Arctic circle). In 1991, Russia declared a unilateral moratorium on testing, followed by the U.S. in 1992. By this time, the U.S. had conducted 1,054 tests and Russia, 715. Negotiations were often contentious. France and China continued testing, claiming that they had conducted far fewer tests and needed to validate new designs since the CTBT did not imply an end to nuclear deterrence. France and the U.S. even toyed with the idea of a CTBT that would permit testing at a low threshold, below 500 tonnes of TNT equivalent. This was one-thirtieth of the “Little Boy”, the bomb the U.S. dropped on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945 — its explosive yield was estimated to be the equivalent of 15,000 tonnes of TNT. Civil society and the non-nuclear weapon states reacted negatively to such an idea and it was dropped. Some countries proposed that the best way to verify a comprehensive test ban would be to permanently shut down all test sites, an idea that was unwelcome to the nuclear weapon states. Eventually, the U.S. came up with the idea of defining the “comprehensive test ban” as a “zero yield” test ban that would prohibit supercritical hydro-nuclear tests but not sub-critical hydrodynamic nuclear tests. Once the United Kingdom and France came on board, the U.S. was able to prevail upon Russia and China to accept this understanding. After all, this was the moment of the U.S.’s unipolar supremacy. At home, the Clinton administration in the U.S. satisfied the hawks by announcing a science-based nuclear Stockpile Stewardship and Management Program, a generously funded project to keep the nuclear laboratories in business and the Pentagon happy. Accordingly, the CTBT prohibits all parties from carrying out “any nuclear weapon test explosion or any other nuclear explosion”; these terms are neither defined nor elaborated. Why it lacks authority Another controversy arose regarding the entry-into-force provisions (Article 14) of the treaty. After India’s proposals for anchoring the CTBT in a disarmament framework did not find acceptance, in June 1996, India announced its decision to withdraw from the negotiations. Unhappy at this turn, the U.K., China and Pakistan took the lead in revising the entry-into-force provisions. The new provisions listed 44 countries by name whose ratification was necessary for the treaty to enter into force and included India. India protested that this attempt at arm-twisting violated a country’s sovereign right to decide if it wanted to join a treaty but was ignored. The CTBT was adopted by a majority vote and opened for signature. Of the 44 listed countries, to date only 36 have ratified the treaty. China, Egypt, Iran, Israel and the U.S. have signed but not ratified. China maintains that it will only ratify it after the U.S. does so but the Republican dominated Senate had rejected it in 1999. In addition, North Korea, India and Pakistan are the three who have not signed. All three have also undertaken tests after 1996; India and Pakistan in May 1998 and North Korea six times between 2006 and 2017. The CTBT has therefore not entered into force and lacks legal authority. Nevertheless, an international organisation to verify the CTBT was established in Vienna with a staff of about 230 persons and an annual budget of $130 million. Ironically, the U.S. is the largest contributor with a share of $17 million. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organisation (CTBTO) runs an elaborate verification system built around a network of over 325 seismic, radionuclide, infrasound and hydroacoustic (underwater) monitoring stations. The CTBTO has refrained from backing the U.S.’s allegations.  Competition is back The key change from the 1990s is that the U.S.’s unipolar moment is over and strategic competition among major powers is back. The U.S. now identifies Russia and China as ‘rivals’. Its Nuclear Posture Review asserts that the U.S. faces new nuclear threats because both Russia and China are increasing their reliance on nuclear weapons. The U.S., therefore, has to expand the role of its nuclear weapons and have a more usable and diversified nuclear arsenal. The Trump administration has embarked on a 30-year modernisation plan with a price tag of $1.2 trillion, which could go up over the years. Readiness levels at the Nevada test site that has been silent since 1992 are being enhanced to permit resumption of testing at six months notice. Russia and China have been concerned about the U.S.’s growing technological lead particularly in missile defence and conventional global precision-strike capabilities. Russia has responded by exploring hypersonic delivery systems and theatre systems while China has embarked on a modernisation programme to enhance the survivability of its arsenal which is considerably smaller. In addition, both countries are also investing heavily in offensive cyber capabilities. The new U.S. report stops short of accusing China for a violation but refers to “a high level of activity at the Lop Nur test site throughout 2019” and concludes that together with its lack of transparency, China provokes concerns about its intent to observe the zero-yield moratorium on testing. The U.S. claims that Russian experiments have generated nuclear yield but is unable to indicate how many such experiments were conducted in 2019. It suggests that Russia could be testing in a manner that releases nuclear energy from an explosive canister, generating suspicions about its compliance. The New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START) limits U.S. and Russian arsenals but will expire in 2021 and U.S. President Donald Trump has already indicated that he does not plan to extend it. Instead, the Trump administration would like to bring China into some kind of nuclear arms control talks, something China has avoided by pointing to the fact that the U.S. and Russia still account for over 90% of global nuclear arsenals. Current context Both China and Russia have dismissed the U.S.’s allegations, pointing to the Trump administration’s backtracking from other negotiated agreements such as the Iran nuclear deal or the U.S.-Russia Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. Tensions with China are already high with trade and technology disputes, militarisation in the South China Sea and most recently, with the novel coronavirus pandemic. The U.S. could also be preparing the ground for resuming testing at Nevada. The Cold War rivalry was already visible when the nuclear arms race began in the 1950s. New rivalries have already emerged. Resumption of nuclear testing may signal the demise of the ill-fated CTBT, marking the beginnings of a new nuclear arms race. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and presently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/at-the-edge-of-a-new-nuclear-arms-race/article31440509.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Protecting the poor from becoming poorer||Globally, governments are faced with hard choices in controlling the spread of COVID-19. Prioritising public health through social distancing and population lockdowns comes at a huge economic cost. While there is still considerable uncertainty about how badly India will be affected by the COVID-19 outbreak, there is no uncertainty that the population lockdown will force significant and widespread deprivations on people at the lower end of the income distribution. Within a short time after the population lockdown was imposed in India, the slowdown in economic activity has resulted in the loss of livelihood among the economically vulnerable. Seen another way, economically vulnerable groups are being forced to sacrifice disproportionately more for the better health of society. COVID-19 and its control measures will affect the health, human capital and income of vulnerable populations in multiple ways over the short and long term. To mitigate these deprivations, it is necessary for government safety net programmes to provide broad-based long-term support focused on specific vulnerable populations. Short- and long-term effects The morbidity and mortality rates are disproportionately higher in countries, and among people, at the lower end of the income distribution. The Spanish flu in 1918 left about 50 to 100 million people dead worldwide. Poor countries like India bore the brunt of the pandemic. India lost 18 million lives, or 6% of the population, the highest anywhere. In contrast, the U.S., where the flu might have originated, experienced 6,75,000 deaths. Similar social inequities are seen in the current COVID-19 pandemic — note, for instance, the disproportionately higher mortality rates among minority groups in the U.S. These inequities are not surprising: economically vulnerable people have poor nutrition which lowers immunity; they live in crowded spaces making it easier for a disease to spread; and they have inadequate access to safe water, sanitation, and quality health care. Deaths and illness due to COVID-19 will directly cause economic losses. The death of an earning family member is a huge financial loss anywhere, but particularly so for those living on the margins of the economy. Those unable to work, particularly those in the informal economy, due to COVID-19-related illness will experience substantial income losses. Studies on productivity losses due to other infectious diseases have reported that the poorest households lose as much as half their income. Epidemics continue to affect survivors long after they are over. Studies on populations exposed to tropical diseases and poor nutrition in-utero or during early childhood have found that the effects of the disease continue into later years of life by affecting cognitive ability, educational achievement, and income as adults. A study on the long-term effects of the Spanish flu, “Is the 1918 Influenza Pandemic Over? Long-Term Effects of In Utero Influenza Exposure in the Post-1940 U.S. Population”, by Douglas Almond, reported that children born to infected mothers were 15% less likely to graduate from high school, the wages of men were 5%-9% lower because of infection, and the disability rate 20% higher compared to birth cohorts not affected by the flu. Importantly, these effects were greater in socially vulnerable populations. There is no reason why COVID-19 will not have such long-term intergenerational effects on economically vulnerable populations. As such, relief programmes need to have a long-time horizon. Population lockdowns and the associated loss of economic activity has affected employment and livelihoods on a massive scale globally. India has the largest number of people under lockdown anywhere. By all accounts this lockdown has had a significant effect on the movement of people, job losses and incomes. For example, a CMIE survey indicates that 44% of households currently report a loss in income, up from around 10% in early March. A recent telephonic survey carried out by the National Council of Applied Economic Research in Delhi found that 84% of respondents reported loss of income, and nearly 30% experienced shortages of food, fuel and medicines. These outcomes were concentrated among the poorer households and in rural areas. Historically, economic downturns are associated with loss of livelihoods, decreases in dietary intake, poorer dietary quality and poorer health care consumption. The effect of the lockdown on pregnant women and children is particularly important. Studies have shown that women’s nutrition or access to health services like tetanus immunisation during pregnancy can have long-term effects on the future educational achievement of children. Poor nutrition during pregnancy or in early childhood has been associated with increased infant and child mortality. The closing of schools due to the lockdown has deprived many children of their only nutritious meal through school-feeding programmes. Moreover, children who experienced poor nutrition in-utero or during their early years find that their cognitive levels, educational achievement, and adult incomes are impacted.  Extending safety nets The Central government and several State governments have announced a range of important measures to address the economic hardship faced by vulnerable households. They promise to provide free or subsidised food to low-wage households, and direct cash transfers to vulnerable groups such as senior citizens, farmers, rural workers, construction workers and widows. The effectiveness of these safety nets will depend on the adequacy of the relief package, how well they reach the neediest groups, and efficiencies in the delivery system. It is important to note that these are one-off measures intended only for a short period of time. However, the economic and health deprivation caused by COVID-19 will have long-term effects. More challenging is addressing the long-term health and economic effects of COVID-19. It will require extending current relief measures for a longer duration, to a few years. To prevent human capital deprivation in the future, both long- and short-term relief measures will need to target specific populations like pregnant women and young children. Recent government actions in this direction are helpful but they are focused on the short term. As such, governments need to take a long-term view of mitigating the many economic and human capital effects of COVID-19 and its control measures. Krishna Rao is Associate Professor, Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/protecting-the-poor-from-becoming-poorer/article31440518.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Rollback the distrust, remember the core values||Sanity, said a line in an old movie, exists in every contract. It is so in every social compact that precedes the establishment of any society or social grouping. One is reminded of it by recent reports of expressions of hostility and downright hatred by a section of our people against another. Are these expressive of atavistic impulses of yore or generated by more recent trends seeking social hegemony premised on an imaginary past? Foundational values The basic values of India’s Constitution assert the principles of justice, equality and fraternity and are reiterated by all sections of social and political leadership. Yet, those who profess to be their followers tend to forget them time and again. We have in recent weeks witnessed social debates and contestations, normal in a democracy, derail into aggressive assertions that typecast fellow citizens as enemies or undesirable creatures. The trend even finds its reflection in pronouncements of public figures and officials. Both have been prone to forget that even if a citizen is charged with an offence against the law or found to be guilty of it by the due process of law, he or she does not cease to be a citizen and stands deprived of rights and duties of citizenship. The conclusion is inescapable that the sole purpose of such typecasting is to find an excuse for an administrative failure and instead cast a slur, stigmatise and socially degrade a group of fellow citizens. The trend is so pervasive that it finds expression in sections of our citizens living in foreign lands; it is so aggressive that it offends local sentiments and norms of behaviour; so alarming that it has invited reaction from otherwise friendly local hosts and compelled our authorities, belatedly, to state the official position at the highest level. This ailment of the mind is being reflected in the discharge of normal duties by officials at different levels and is alarming enough to induce a group of 100 of our most eminent former civil servants to appeal, recently, to State Chief Ministers “to instruct all public functionaries to be particularly vigilant to prevent social boycott of any community in the State and to ensure that all the entitlements including medical and hospital care, rations and financial assistance are available equally to all those in need”. Why is this happening? What have we forgotten or disowned? The plurality of our society and its diversity is an existential reality. The imperative of coexistence and tolerance has been accepted down the ages. Sages and society leaders have reiterated it time and again. We need only to recall Swami Vivekananda’s advocacy of religious pluralism, to his vision of India “being the junction of two great systems — Hinduism and Islam — having a Vedantic brain and Islamic body”. Approach worth reiterating This same approach in a more practical sense was reflected in the Inter-communal Unity Appeal made in October 1923 by a group of Indians led by Lala Lajpat Rai, Mufti Kifayatullah, Swami Shraddhanand, Maulana Azad, Kasturba Gandhi and 95 others. All sections of our public need to be reminded of its pragmatic approach: “If any individual or group of individuals belonging to any community commits an act of violence against, or attacks the person, property or honour of women or places of worship (mandir, mosque, church or gurdwara, etc) of his neighbour or townsman or helps those who indulge in such misdeeds, he is, from the religious point of view, guilty of a great sin; and that it is the duty of co-religionists of such offenders to stand up and resist such miscreants and to protect those who are so attacked.” Why can we not show the mirror in this shape to our professedly religion-minded public and urge it to follow in word and deed? The present approach of distrust is disquieting, resulting in resentment, and injection of suspicion and viciousness in social relations. It impacts adversely on the promotion of fraternity. Is it serving any purpose, either of fighting the pandemic or of expediting the process of proceeding against those who may have transgressed the law? Alternatively, is it serving a political purpose? History tells us that human relationships are fragile and need constant nursing; the same holds for societal relations. We have in our own times witnessed the fragmentation, even destruction, of societies elsewhere. Social peace is thus a pre-requisite for progress and development. Let sanity prevail. Let this be our motto. Hamid Ansari is Former Vice President of India (2007- 2017)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rollback-the-distrust-remember-the-core-values/article31440511.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Separating the wheat from the chaff in journalism||The Press Council of India’s (PCI) statement against the attack on the Editor of Republic TV , Arnab Goswami, reminded me of a recent Twitter crowd-sourcing effort by Alan Rusbridger, Chair of the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism and former Editor of The Guardian . Mr. Rusbridger wanted readers to provide “examples of chaff”. He was referring to American politician Adlai Ewing Stevenson II’s assertion that “newspaper editors are men who separate the wheat from the chaff, and then print the chaff.” An interesting sentence of the PCI’s statement read: “Violence is not the answer even against bad journalism.” It is important that not only the PCI but also the government and the courts notice the difference between editors who put out the chaff in the public domain and those who strive to deliver the wheat. Mr. Goswami moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the FIRs filed against him for allegedly defaming Congress President Sonia Gandhi. He approached the apex court a day after at least 16 complaints were filed against him in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, and Chhattisgarh. His plea was filed on April 23 evening, and the Supreme Court, on April 24, granted him a reprieve for three weeks. One yearns for the courts to display the same swiftness in hearing journalists who, against multiple odds, try to give their readers and the audience substantive news and credible analysis. A case languishing in the court Let us first see the fate of a case in the Supreme Court. A PIL sought permission for private FM and community radio stations to air news. In my column, “Liberating the radio?” (October 21, 2013), I pointed out that news is not permitted and politics is proscribed under clause 5 (vi) of the Policy Guidelines for setting up Community Radio Stations. Many community radio stations have had to confine themselves to broadcasting the developmental agenda of the NGO concerned or the donor agency. The irony is that while several of them have ‘community radio reporters’, these reporters are not expected to produce and broadcast any news. The only news that is permitted is All India Radio’s bulletin without any modification whatsoever. When the case came up for hearing before the first Bench of the apex court in 2013, comprising then Chief Justice of India (CJI) P. Sathasivam and Justice Ranjan Gogoi, the judges said, “You rightly mentioned that radio is accessible to everybody. There is no problem in case of TV channels. Only TV channels are allowed to broadcast news. Radio channels have access to every village, nook and corner. We will examine the issue. We will impose some conditions…. (before granting permission).” Justice Sathasivam went on to complete a full term as Governor of Kerala after retiring as CJI, and Justice Gogoi, who was elevated later as the CJI, is now a Member of Parliament. But there is no progress in this case. Providing little relief The Executive Editor of Kashmir Times , Anuradha Bhasin, moved the Supreme Court in August 2019 seeking directions to ensure that mediapersons and journalists from Jammu and Kashmir are able to freely practise their profession. “The information blackout set in motion is a direct and grave violation of the right of the people to know about the decisions that directly impact their lives and their future. The Internet and telecommunication shutdown also means that the media cannot report on the aforesaid developments, and the residents of Kashmir thus don’t get access to information that is otherwise publicly available to the rest of India,” she said. Early this year, the court came up with some progressive observations but little in terms of relief. The declarations of the Bench of Justices N.V. Ramana, R. Subhash Reddy and B.R. Gavai, on the freedom of speech and expression and the freedom to practice any profession, and about the medium of the Internet, were commendable. However, the Bench did not accept the plea of the petitioners to quash government orders suspending and later shutting down Internet, mobile and fixed-line telecommunication services. It is ethical to protect the rights of even those who provide the chaff. Journalism will suffer irreparable damage if legal relief is denied to those who provide us the wheat. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/separating-the-wheat-from-the-chaff-in-journalism/article31440514.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe return||A month after one of the most stringent global lockdowns was imposed in India to tackle the pandemic, the travails of the migrant worker have shown no signs of ending. The government told the Supreme Court in late March that arrangements had been made to provide temporary shelters with food for migrant workers and as of then, none of them was on the road, just days after the lockdown had triggered an exodus of people to their native places. But reports have shown that thousands continue to travel long distances, most of them by foot, to escape distress conditions or to their families. Meanwhile, lakhs of workers, who were dependent upon daily and casual labour, are still stranded in Mumbai and Delhi without wages. The functioning of shelters in several places has been uneven across States and metropolitan cities. With the ongoing lockdown hurting the economy, the Finance Ministry’s relief measures have been insufficient in providing for their needs. Some migrant workers, who stare at a continuing loss of livelihoods in their adopted places of work, are better off depending upon the social safety nets and familial support structures in their native places. They should be allowed to avail these in a dignified and humane way. Restarting work under the MGNREGA that went dormant in the earlier period of the lockdown, has provided an incentive for workers to leave for their native places. It is evident that the option of keeping workers at their respective places is no longer viable and the Centre must work at ways to allow for their transport to their native places. India, among other Asian countries such as its neighbours in the subcontinent, Malaysia and others, has managed to avoid the high fatalities and infection rates that have been seen in Europe and North America. The lockdown has helped, but it has come at a huge humanitarian and economic cost. The question of whether to extend a lockdown amid an economic crisis is a moral dilemma that can be resolved only through practical steps that compensate the poor and the workers in the unorganised sector, and protect the old and the infirm. Maharashtra, the State with the highest incidence of COVID-19 cases, besides having the largest number of migrant workers, has urged the Centre to plan and resume railway services for the labourers once the lockdown ends on May 3; it is a request the Centre must heed. It is futile trying to blame workers for flocking to railway stations as had happened in mid-April. States such as Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are also gearing up to facilitate their return. These steps are welcome. Allowing migrant travel in a safe way by train that provides for the necessary physical distancing is the least that the government can do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/safe-return/article31440505.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic and panic||The Tamil Nadu government’s order intensifying the lockdown in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruppur and Salem from April 26 briefly convulsed these cities with panic, threatening to undo the gains achieved from avoiding crowding, maintaining physical distancing and preparing the public for a calibrated exit from restrictions. If the idea was to halt the rising rate of infections, which cumulatively touched 1,821 on April 25, the government’s announcement of a ‘complete lockdown’ was counterproductive. Thousands crowded grocery stores, vegetable shops and petrol pumps, with many ignoring safety norms. Anxiety over access to essential goods, particularly among those who do not store articles for long periods, triggered panic buying. Confusion also marked the issue of new passes for delivery agents in places such as Madurai, attracting massive crowds. Such chaotic events are an invitation to disaster, since the dangerous virus is also highly contagious. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami must worry that the government’s commendable efforts to manage the pandemic while raising health system capacity during the lockdown have suffered a jolt. Tamil Nadu’s hard-won gains from quarantine of travellers, systematic screening and monitoring of individuals at higher risk, contact tracing and community surveillance face an unexpected challenge. Although its fallout will be known in the days ahead, the crowding episode could pass off as an aberration if the focus returns to raising administrative efficiency. This should not be difficult, since the government has a white list of permitted activity. Barring emergencies, care needs of patients with chronic non-COVID conditions and death of kin, the average citizen can weather a lockdown reasonably well if food, medicines and other essentials are available. Longer shutdowns will create other stresses, since no household maintenance work is possible and spares are not available. But the crowding challenge during the lockdown is posed mainly by the use of personal vehicles. Restricting this is feasible if governments can bring essential articles virtually to one’s doorstep or make them available within walking distance. Physical distancing and a ‘no mask, no service’ rule should apply. An expanded permit system for delivery agents not just from online platforms, but authorised local merchants could address this. Such an approach was envisaged even in the Home Ministry’s lockdown order last month, and it assumes greater significance now. Creating scannable codes can help essential services function smoothly and enable easier policing. A system of codes may be inevitable, when select activity such as movement of industrial workers is permitted in future. Periodic lockdowns may also become common, when there are infection spikes. The administration needs refined tools and a consultative process with all sectors for this new normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pandemic-and-panic/article31440504.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Did SARS-CoV-2 begin from a lab?||Theories about the origins of the COVID-19 outbreak have been spreading as fast as the virus itself. Many have focused on the presence of one of China’s most advanced virus research laboratories, the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV), to suggest SARS-CoV-2 may have originated in a lab. What does the evidence tell us? The first popular lab theory, put forward in a January 26 article in the Washington Times , suggested COVID-19 was the result of biological warfare gone wrong. The article, which likely spawned a million WhatsApp forwards, quoted a former Israeli military officer as saying the virus “may have originated in a laboratory in the city of Wuhan linked to China’s covert biological weapons program.” A March 17 study by several virologists, including Kristian Andersen of The Scripps Research Institute and Ian Lipkin at Columbia University, concluded the evidence suggests SARS-CoV-2 was not engineered. The study, “The proximal origin of SARS-CoV-2”, concluded based on available genome sequence data, that has now been mapped in several countries, that “it is improbable that SARS-CoV-2 emerged through laboratory manipulation of a related SARS-CoV-like coronavirus.” The virus sequence was 96% identical at the whole-genome level to a bat coronavirus. It suggested two possible origins: “natural selection in an animal host before zoonotic transfer” and “natural selection in humans following zoonotic transfer.” If we can now assume the origins were natural, the source remains a mystery. Whether the original source, presumably a bat, was being studied at a lab (we know the WIV did indeed research bat coronaviruses), sold at a market, or infected another animal that was sold at a market remains a matter of pure conjecture. Could the virus have leaked from the lab in an accident? Some lab leak advocates have pointed to 2018 U.S. State Department cables expressing serious concerns over safety practices at the WIV. Others cite a February 6 study by Xiao Botao of the South China University of Technology, which has since been deleted. Though widely cited, the paper has not been peer-reviewed, is just one page long, and only cites circumstantial evidence, pointing to the WIV and Wuhan Center for Disease Control being 12 km and 280 metres from the first infection cluster at a seafood market. The likelihood of lab origins hinges on whether SARS-CoV-2 was one of the viruses being studied at the lab. Scientists at the WIV have denied this was the case. Opening up the lab to foreign researchers might shed some light, but even that may not quell doubts given the secrecy with which such labs operate, more so those located in China. The Chinese government putting in place new rules that require research on the origins to be vetted has only raised more doubts. What may disprove a lab origin theory is if an intermediate host is identified, suggesting a natural spillover, but that could take years. In a strange irony, scientists at the WIV, including top expert Shi Zhengli, published a paper in Nature in December 2018 on the “Origin and Evolution of Pathogenic Coronaviruses” warning of the increasing dangers of spillovers of bat coronaviruses, because of human activities bringing them in close proximity to bats. Their prior research, in fact, helped map the SARS-CoV-2 genome in record time. Now that their warnings have come true, they find themselves being blamed for the new virus. There is no evidence to prove or disprove a lab leak. In the scientific community, new theories are usually regarded as credible based on the evidence with which they are offered; they aren’t believed to be true until evidence disproves them. That isn’t, however, how the rest of the world operates. This may explain why the lab leak theory appears to be less popular with scientists than it is with politicians, journalists and foreign policy experts. Which side of the debate you stand on may have less to do with a question of science than your political beliefs, even if this still unanswered question is one perhaps best left to the scientists. ananth.krishnan@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/did-sars-cov-2-begin-from-a-lab/article31440515.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A nation-wide clean-up campaign||Americans across the country observed Wednesday last (April 22) as ‘Earth Day’ in a massive demonstration of their concern over problems facing the planet and all forms of life — not only man — who live on it. Politicians of all hues, workers and students all joined in the countrywide teach-ins, marches and clean-up campaigns. In New York, the city officially closed down two main thoroughfares to automobile traffic and there were rallies even on Wall Street. Kids, who normally throw trash on streets, were busy cleaning up. Most speakers dealt with what they called the threat to biosphere and man’s existence and the need for world-wide action to save environment from pollution. The New York Mayor John Lindsay rode an electric-driven car to an engagement in Brooklyn, then returned by subway to walk with his wife down Fifth Avenue to Union Square. Behind him demonstrators pushed a tree mounted on wheels, their contribution to a healthy environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-nation-wide-clean-up-campaign/article31440512.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Why insurance doesn’t tango with investment||Many investors take decisions to invest funds in equity markets based upon the IIP which the Government of India releases. IIP is the Index of Industrial Production. It is a barometer of performance of certain manufacturing sectors in the country. IIP would have direct impact on the movement of equity markets. My IIP Many a time, the same investors’ own ‘IIP’ is in a mess. Here the interpretation of ‘My IIP” is ‘My Insurance or Investment Plan.’ They either don’t have an insurance cover or it is combined in the form of life insurance policies that also have investment components. Why take life insurance Life insurance policies in India are taken either to save tax or help some relative, friend, associate who is an insurance agent to achieve his or her insurance premium collection target or number of policies target. A friend of mine from Ahmedabad always says jokingly, most Indians die in the months of February or March. This is because many of us purchase life insurance policies in the month of February or March to save income tax. Whenever a life insurance policy is purchased along with an investment component, I find it weird. Why purchase a policy which gives benefit if the insured does not die? If the individual is so certain that he is not going to die, then, why purchase the insurance cover? In that case, opt for a pure investment product. This will ensure that the entire amount, equivalent to the premium, will be invested instead of a portion of it being used for obtaining life insurance cover. Also, as a cardinal principle, never combine two financial products. For some reason one does not perform or its functionality is no more needed in an overall financial plan, it cannot become redundant. “At the time of taking a home loan, we had also taken a life cover to ensure that in the case of any eventuality to me, Smita and children can repay the outstanding home loan from the proceeds of the life insurance cover,” said Venkatesh, an IT professional from Bengaluru. “Because of prudent financial planning, we have paid back the home loan about five years earlier than originally planned, however, we have to continue paying life insurance premium as there is an investment component. If we surrender or stop the policy now, we will lose substantially,” he added. Somewhat similar is the story of Harsh Jha. Immediately after his marriage, he purchased a life insurance cover along with an investment component. Over the years, he and his wife Swati have earned and created substantial wealth. Once wealth crosses a particular level, there is no need for a life cover. This is because, in the case of death, there will be sufficient wealth to meet the financial responsibilities of the family. Death of family member Let me explain this briefly. In the case of the death of a family member, there will be an emotional loss. If that family member is also generating income, surviving members will suffer a financial loss as income earned by him or her will stop. Therefore, life insurance is needed for all the members of his or her family. In case of the Jha family, if they were to discontinue the policy as they have accumulated substantial wealth and death of an individual will not cause any financial loss to their surviving family members, their life cover would also come to an end. In both the above instances, if there were separate life insurance covers and investment plans based on the financial planning strategy, appropriate manoeuvring could have been done. The example of Jash and Bijal was also interesting. They had purchased a life insurance policy along with an investment plan, popularly known as ULIP. At the time of selling the policy, they were told that over a longer period of time, ULIPs perform well. In their case, compared with other similar ULIPs in the market, the performance was below par. However, they were stuck with it because there was insurance cover attached to it. Professionally, I have always insisted upon having an insurance cover. Purchasing of insurance should be done much before embarking on a journey of investment and wealth creation. That is the bigger priority in life than investment. In fact, in the case of health insurance, I feel instead of having only one health insurance policy, there should be portfolio of health insurance covers to mitigate the risk of a variety of health issues. However, never combine insurance and investment instruments. Before tracking IIP numbers, focus on ‘My IIP — My Insurance or Investment Plan.’  (The writer is a financial planner and author of ‘Yogic Wealth’)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/why-insurance-doesnt-tango-with-investment/article31440494.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s just more than taking a policy||We saw some basic insurance principles that govern the contract in the last instalment of Cover Note. Let us see some more principles that spell out rights and responsibilities, and some obligations and common sense procedures you should follow. You have entered into an insurance contract with a valid insurable interest (financial ownership in the event of a loss) in what is insured and are conducting yourself with utmost good faith by disclosing all material facts. When a loss takes place, at which point you will be entitled to prefer a claim, you have to observe the principle of loss minimisation (act as a prudent uninsured) and you will be indemnified (compensated) for your loss as per policy terms. After this comes the principle of subrogation. This means the insurer, after paying you the claim as per the terms of the policy now comes into all your rights against the party or parties that caused your loss. If your property was damaged by somebody’s vehicle, in the normal course you would try to get him to pay for the repairs. Since you are insured, the insurance company steps in and compensates you. Once that is done, your right to compensation is transferred to the insurance company which can proceed against them to recover their expenses. (If they recover anything in excess of that, you are entitled to it!) There are sixth and seventh principles of insurance that are not a part of your responsibilities but form the bases for determining the liability and its extent under an insurance contract. They are the principle of proximate cause and principle of contribution, and apply under certain circumstances. Apart from the legal foundations of insurance, which gives you these responsibilities, you have other responsibilities when you buy a policy. Ensure correct information in your proposal form. This includes personal and contact information that should be updated as and when required. Aadhaar link These days Aadhaar is linked with insurance policies, a process that protects your interests. So, please ensure the proposal form and the policy spell your name and give your address as it appears in your Aadhaar. PAN number is also a necessity in insurance proposal forms and later, in case of claims. If an error occurs, immediately pursue it with the insurance company and get it corrected. Always pay for your policy via cheque or Internet banking or any recorded method of payment such as credit cards. This establishes your premium payment because, according to Indian law, risk commences only after premium is received by the insurance company. If you issue a cheque, do verify that the debit appears in your bank account and maintain a copy and a record of all the documentation you share with your insurance company such as cheque number, bank statement, copy of your proposal form (which the insurance company has to supply to you as per regulations when they issue the policy), any correspondence with the insurance company and, of course, the contact information of your insurance company branch and the agent who sells the policy. Create a method to track the renewal dates of various insurance policies.   (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/its-just-more-than-taking-a-policy/article31440495.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Franklin closed 6 funds||What has Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund done? Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has decided to wind up six debt funds with combined assets under management of almost Rs. 26,000 crore. It said this had been done on account of illiquid, low-rated instruments in their portfolio. The schemes that have been shut are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Why was the fund house forced to take this step? The fund house said that it had decided to wind up the schemes to preserve the value, at least, at the current levels, for, the value was getting eroded due to a combination of redemption pressures and mark-to-market losses following the lack of liquidity on account of the COVID-19 impact on markets. Franklin also said that some of the schemes that were closed had direct exposure to high-yielding securities across the rating spectrum but the instruments rated below ‘AAA’ were the most impacted. What does it mean for investors? Investors will not be able to redeem their investments for the time being as the fund house has barred both purchases and redemptions. Franklin said it would endeavour to return the ‘maximum value possible’ to the investors. Further, while the net asset value of the schemes would continue to be published, investors will not be charged any investment management fee, going forward. Franklin said it would proceed with the liquidation of the assets and the funds with the shortest duration would be liquidated at the earliest. It has, however, added that selling all the securities in the market immediately would hit the valuation hard and hence, it would evaluate the opportunities once the COVID-19 situation improved and liquidity returned to the market. Will this hit other fund houses or schemes? While this would definitely impact investor sentiment and debt schemes could see a spurt in redemptions, the mutual fund industry has been quick to point out that the Franklin Templeton issue was a one-off instance and not an industry-wide phenomenon. The Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), the industry body of fund houses, has said that credit risk funds — the worst affected of the lot — constituted a mere 5% of the overall debt schemes. Also, a bulk of the assets were rated at least AAA or above. AMFI also said while regulations allowed mutual funds schemes to borrow up to 20% of their assets to meet liquidity needs for redemption/dividend pay-out, only four funds, out of a total of 42, had borrowings aggregating to Rs. 4,427.68 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/why-franklin-closed-6-funds/article31440496.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask US||Q. My parents are senior citizens. My father has subscribed to a group health insurance policy covering self and spouse (my mother) through a nationalised bank where he has a savings account. The annual premium for this policy is paid through a cheque drawn on this account. If I make a deposit into this account towards the premium, can I claim deduction under section 80D? T.S. Mahadevan A.Under section 80D, an assessee can claim deduction for the health insurance premium paid by you for yourself, your dependants (spouse and children) and your dependant parents based on the limits prescribed. In your case, if you are going to pay the premium on behalf of your parents, then you can claim the benefit of the deduction up to Rs. 50,000 as they are senior citizens. Further, the insurance policy should be in the name of the person claiming the deduction. Q.My daughter had taken a health insurance policy for her mother a few years back. Now, she has left for higher studies. She has not claimed any deduction u/s 80D till date. Now, I want to know whether the premium paid by her can be claimed by her mother u/s 80D?  A.P. Jayarajan A.Under section 80D, an assessee can claim deduction for the health insurance premium paid by him for self, dependants (spouse and children) and dependant parents based on the limits prescribed. In your case, only your daughter can claim the benefit based on the limits prescribed in the section. You may change the proposer’s name from that of your daughter to your wife’s for claiming the benefit in future and the payment done by your wife. Q.I am a central government servant. I have invested Rs. 1 lakh in PPF and Rs. 50,000 in SBI Insurance. My NPS tier 1 deduction is Rs. 68,000. Will I be able to claim extra Rs. 50,000 benefit apart from the Rs. 1.5 lakh? Amit Mishra A.Under 80CCD(1B) of the Income Tax Act, any individual making a voluntary contribution to the prescribed pension fund / scheme shall be allowed a deduction of up to Rs. 50,000; this is over and above the limit of Rs. 1,50,000 under 80C that can be availed of. Q.Is the education loan to fund studies abroad eligible for deduction under 80E? What is the document required for claiming the deduction? Charan Kumar P. R. A.Deduction under section 80E can be claimed for the interest paid on education loan for higher studies, including foreign studies, taken from any bank or approved financial institution or approved charitable institution, up to 7 assessment years from the year of repayment, making it eight assessment years. Although there is no mention about any document, in the act or the rules, to be maintained, it is advisable to obtain a loan certificate from the financial institution clearly mentioning the interest and principal portion as a record to be preserved. Q.My friend, a senior citizen, has medical insurance for Rs. 1 lakh. Recently, he had undergone a heart surgery, which cost him about Rs. 3 lakh. The insurance company paid him about Rs. 50,000. Could you please explain the procedure for claiming income tax deduction for medical expenditure under sections 80D, 80DD, 80DDB? M.P. Kannan A.Under 80D, in case of senior citizen, a deduction of up to Rs. 50,000 can be availed of for the medical insurance premium paid for self and dependants. No other expenses incurred for surgery and medicines can be availed of as you are insured under Mediclaim policy. It is also to be noted that the benefit under sections 80DD and 80DDB cannot be availed of as they pertain to specific disabilities for dependants and self, respectively, such as autism, cerebral palsy, among others, and does not cover heart surgery.   (The author is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article31440502.ece
27 April 2020||Coimbatore,||‘Fans are the heartbeat of Indian cricket’||After Sachin Tendulkar and R. Ashwin expressed their reservations over playing in empty stadiums, quite a few former and current cricketers too echoed their sentiments. The likes of Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, Cheteshwar Pujara and others told The Hindu how playing without spectators will rob the game of charm and excitement. “Fans are imperative for a performer — be it in sport, theatre, cinema, music, entertainment or anything else,” said Gavaskar. Share the happiness In fact, Tendulkar had a few more thoughts to share on the subject. “They (spectators) are extremely important. Without them, God knows where I would be. Anything good that happens to you in life, you need people around you to share your happiness — be it the personal ones or your teammates. I have always been fortunate to have them around,” said Tendulkar. Cheteshwar Pujara was of the view it is best to stay flexible given the tough current situation. “If the situation demands that spectators will not be allowed, then we will have to be prepared for that as well. After all, it is for the sake of safety of both players and fans.” Former India fast bowler L. Balaji stated, “Fans are the heartbeat of Indian cricket. They have a huge influence. For me, they are almost like the 12th man. They can be compared to football crowds in European leagues. They bring so much energy to the game and to players.” “There can be a lot of heat and pressure with the fans around, but I enjoyed them. They have motivated me, and thanks to them, I was able to raise the bar,” said fellow international Hemang Badani. Revenue generators “Our lives depend on them. If they are not around, then sports is nothing. They are also revenue generators. The television rights, the sponsorships and the advertisements depend on the amount of fan-following a sport has,” added Badani. All said, it will be a completely new experience for the players. “It is something that I have not experienced. It will be a big challenge,” summed up Tendulkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fans-are-the-heartbeat-of-indian-cricket/article31440649.ece
27 April 2020||Melbourne,||Pujara toughest Test batsman: Cummins||Australia’s World No. 1 pacer Pat Cummins finds India’s middle-order mainstay Cheteshwar Pujara the toughest batsman to bowl at in Test cricket, describing him as a “pain in the back” for his team. Influential role With his solid batting at number three, Pujara played an influential role in India’s historic triumph in Australia in 2018-19. In a Q&A session arranged by the Australian Cricketers Association (ACA), Cummins said: “There are a lot of them out there, unfortunately. But I am going to go with someone different, and he is (Cheteshwar) Pujara from India. He was a real pain in the back for us.” Man-of-the-Series Pujara helped India claim a maiden Test series victory in Australia last year amassing a staggering 521 runs at an average of over 74 with three hundreds and a half-century. Cummins recalled the difficulty the Australian bowlers faced in dislodging Pujara. Ultra concentration “He (Pujara) was an absolute rock in that series. (He was) really hard to get out. Just ultra concentration all day, day after day. “He is the hardest one in Test cricket so far, I think,” Cummins added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pujara-toughest-test-batsman-cummins/article31440639.ece
27 April 2020||LONDON,||Britain keen to have live sports||The British government plans to hold talks with major sports bodies next week on returning to the field as soon as possible as it feels that resumption of live action will a big boost to national morale. Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden informed MPs that he had been having “productive talks” with governing bodies from across British sport on restarting following the coronavirus shutdown. England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) chief executive Tom Harrison said his organisation was asked by Dowden's department to lead a cross-sport group also including football, horse racing, tennis and rugby. A source said that the upcoming meeting, the first of many, represented a “quickening of the pace” and was intended to help sport resume “within weeks”, if progress was made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/britain-keen-to-have-live-sports/article31440651.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Solid foundation the key to Nirupama’s success||A pioneer often has a path of thorns to negotiate. The trail they blaze makes it easier for those that follow. In a two-hour online chat with tennis coach M. Balachandran, Nirupama Sanjeev recalled the solid foundation that her late father K.S. Vaidyanathan laid for her tennis career that saw her rise to World No. 134 in 1997. She counts beating Mirjana Lucic, who later rose to No. 20, and winning the 1998 Asian Games mixed doubles bronze with Mahesh Bhupathi among her notable achievements. Trying to bring up her daughter Sahana on the principles instilled in her by her cricketer father, Nirupama said: “I was clear in my mind that Sahana has to play one sport. Every day 4 to 6 p.m. is playing time. Here in the US, there are so many options — football, golf, gymnastics. She picked tennis. I was relieved as I could spend time with her on court. The next two years will give us an idea.” With husband Sanjeev Balakrishnan also hailing from a naturally gifted athletic family — his brother Rajeev was one of India’s best sprinters and competed in the 4x100m relay at the Sydney Olympics — Nirupama was clear about providing the fundamentals for her daughter, apart from the sporting genes. Small things “My dad always told me, love the sport. Take pleasure in the small things. During rough times, if you don’t love the sport, you can’t sustain for long,” she said. “If you are looking only for laurels, you are in trouble. For a long time, we didn’t see much money,” Nirupama said. Impressed by Ramanathan Krishnan, who made the Wimbledon semifinals twice, Nirupama’s father made sure that she and her brother Ganesh had a court to play whenever required, at one club or another. Philosophy “My father’s philosophy was drills, rallies, and matches. Very systematic. If you kept at it, how can you not get better,” she said. Suggesting that success had to be earned slowly, Nirupama felt early success for a young player may not be good. “Too good, too early, I am more worried. This road is not easy. Youngsters better lose and learn. I hated losing, but I had to deal with it and come up with solutions, to be better. My dad taught me to never give up,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solid-foundation-the-key-to-nirupamas-success/article31440788.ece
27 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||BFI & SAI conduct training sessions for coaches||With emphasis on fundamentals and team work, Basketball Federation of India and SAI are engaging more than 600 coaches across India in an interactive session daily till May 7. As many as 58 of these are from Telengana — many of them are not qualified coaches, but are enthusiastic about teaching basics like dribbling, passing and shooting. “Serbians Veselin Matic and Zoran Visic are conducting the classes for the coaches picked by the respective State Basketball Associations,” said FIBA technical delegate Norman Isaac to The Hindu . “The idea is that the fundamentals in coaching have to be very strong at the grassroots level. They [Matic and Visic] believe it is difficult for players to change technique at a later stage.” “The sessions include video clips and power-point presentations highlighting the difference in how practice sessions are conducted in advanced countries and in India,” Norman says. “The coaches are also told to consider the biological factors when coaching the young talent. They also emphasise the need for making sessions interesting,” he said. “Most importantly, it is insisted that the players must be taught to play in all five positions. The Serbian coaches stress that the players have to be taught to identify their own strong points, to exploit the others’ weaknesses, to work as a team, and different kinds of drills for each position,” Norman said. “The coaches are told to educate players the significance of scouting the other teams as that will help a lot in planning team strategy.” “In practice, a coach should be the official and hence must know the rules and educate the players too. The other aspect of focus is shooting — pointing out that NBA players take 600/700 shots during every practice session,” Norman said. “I must tell you this is turning out to be a very good exercise. Given the kind of feedback the coaches are giving I am sure we will benefit a lot.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-sai-conduct-training-sessions-for-coaches/article31440862.ece
27 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Jeremy not worried about Olympic qualification||Youth Olympics weightlifting champion Jeremy Lalrinnunga, who is confined to his room at the NIS Patiala campus, is watching true story-based war films to keep his morale up in the time of lockdown. As he cannot undergo regular training due to the restrictions and is keeping fit by doing bare minimum exercises, the 17-year-old from Mizoram is watching movies like Fury, Hacksaw Ridge and Midway to stay away from frustration. “I watch true story-based war movies and action movies. Such movies teach you to keep fighting till the end without giving up,” Jeremy told The Hindu . Jeremy also relies on the Bible to lift his mood. “Whenever I feel low, I read the Bible, pray to God and call up my parents.” Jeremy is not unduly worried about his Olympic qualification. “I don’t think much about it. Whatever happens, happens for the best. In case I don’t qualify, I will have no regrets. I and my coach (Vijay Sharma) tried for the Tokyo Olympics. I competed in several events and gained experience. There is 99% chance of qualifying. Rest is in the hands of God.” The teenager, who won his maiden National crown in 67kg in February, seeks inspiration from his past. “In November 2015, I suffered a cut in my upper abdomen while playing with my friend. It happened accidentally as he had a blade in his hand. I had eight stitches and I spent about a month in recovery. But I got back my form and broke two records — 90kg in snatch and 198kg total — in 50kg category in my first sub-junior National championships (February 2016). There is no reason why I cannot do it again,” said Jeremy.  I watch true story-based war movies and action movies. Such movies teach you to keep fighting till the end without giving up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeremy-not-worried-about-olympic-qualification/article31440786.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Once I scribbled adidas on my spikes, now I wear custom-made shoes: Hima||Sportswear giant adidas now manufactures custom-made shoes for Hima Das with her name printed on them but country’s top quarter-miler on Sunday revealed that there was a time when she had to write the famous brand name manually on her sub-standard spikes. “When I started running, I ran barefoot. But in my first Nationals, my father brought running shoes with spikes on them. It was just a normal pair of running shoes. I wrote ‘adidas’ on the shoes with my hand. You never know what fate can do, adidas is now making shoes with my name,” the 20-year-old said in an Instagram chat with cricketer Suresh Raina. After Hima won the 400m gold in the 2018 World U-20 Championships in Finland, the top German brand roped her as its brand ambassador and later made custom-made shoes for her that has her name on one side and ‘create history’ on the other. She said “people started following athletics more than ever after the 2018 Asian Games” in Indonesia where she won a silver in individual 400m and a gold each in women’s 400m and mixed 400m relay races. Extra motivation “People know the athletes and fans chant your name, it gives you extra motivation,” the Assamese athlete, known as “Dhing Express” due to her native town, said. She said she now gets more time to prepare for the Tokyo Games. Hima also revealed Sachin Tendulkar is her role model and meeting the cricket icon was the best moment of her life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/once-i-scribbled-adidas-on-my-spikes-now-i-wear-custom-made-shoes-hima/article31440641.ece
27 April 2020||KOLKATA,||EB terminates contracts||In a big blow to the players and officials, I-League side East Bengal has terminated all the existing contracts, citing ‘Force Majeure’ in the wake of COVID-19. The players have approached FIFPro for justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eb-terminates-contracts/article31440784.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Kapil live!||Catch the 1983 World Cup-winning captain and Indian cricketing legend Kapil Dev in a live chat on Sportstar ‘s Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on April 27 (Monday) at 5 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kapil-live/article31440645.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Play Ashwin in the shorter formats, says Saqlain||Pakistan spin great Saqlain Mushtaq fails to understand how a proven performer like R. Ashwin has been kept out of India’s limited-overs set-up, saying a successful Test bowler is bound to succeed in the shorter formats.  “He knows how to get batsman out in the five-day game, which is much tougher than limited-overs cricket. Anyone can do the containment job but someone who knows how take wickets can contain also. He knows both. How can you keep him out? You have to back your best players.” “After Ashwin, you have tried many off-spinners but none of them has been of his class.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/play-ashwin-in-the-shorter-formats-says-saqlain/article31440650.ece
27 April 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal terminates contracts||In a big blow to the players and officials, I-League side East Bengal has terminated all the existing contracts, citing ‘Force Majeure’ in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Left with no option, the players have knocked on the doors of the Football Players Association of India which has assured full support and referred the matter to the world body for players (FIFPro). Confirming this, East Bengal’s top Spanish winger Jaime Santos Colado said the entire team was not happy with the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-terminates-contracts/article31440863.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Zarina: A fiercely independent artist||Zarina, as she was known, made an indelible mark in the international art world as one of South Asia’s leading artists. Widely recognised in her lifetime, she will be remembered as a fiercely independent woman artist who achieved artistic recognition on her own terms, through powerful yet restrained works that drew on her linguistic and cultural heritage and experiences of estrangement, dislocation and loss. Aligarh’s milieu Zarina was raised within the cultural and intellectual milieu of the Aligarh Muslim University, a world that informed her aesthetic sensibility, encompassing her father’s history books and the strong feminine bonds of the zenana. She took up printmaking while married to an officer in the Indian Foreign Service, first woodblock carving in Bangkok, then learning experimental ink and intaglio techniques at the Atelier 17, the cosmopolitan Paris studio run by Bill Hayter (the subject of a focused exhibition in 2016 at the Metropolitan Museum, Workshop and Legacy: Stanley William Hayter, Krishna Reddy, Zarina Hashmi ). Zarina is best known for her series of etchings and woodblock prints that express the estrangement of migration, geographical dislocation and exile, captured in works such as Travels with Rani 2008, a dotted diagram of all the towns and train stations she and her family had passed through, forming a mind map of an undivided subcontinent. She experimented with papermaking techniques, testing the limits of the medium with expert craftsmen in India, moulding and piercing paper into sculptural and architectural forms that resembled packed earth, terracotta and stone ( I Whispered to the Earth 1979, Wall II 1979, Fence 1980, Pool I, 1980, Tate Collection). The opportunity to leave Delhi for the United States in the 1970s brought personal and artistic freedom, but also many years of quiet struggle. After itinerance for many years between training in Japan, teaching in California and New York, her family in Aligarh, Delhi and Karachi, and an artistic circle in New York, she was able to base herself in her studio in Manhattan while continuing to exhibit regularly in India. With strong opinions and immense self-discipline, Zarina resisted being pigeon-holed into the prevalent art world orthodoxies. Her peers included Judy and Krishna Reddy, Ram Rahman, Mehli Gobhai and Meena Alexander among others, and she joined postcolonial feminist networks, co-curating an exhibition with the Cuban artist Ana Mendieta at the A.I.R Gallery titled Dialectics of Isolation: An exhibition of Third World women artists in the United States in 1980. The exhibition WACK! Art and the Feminist Revolution at MOCA in 2007 led to critical attention, and her first major museum exhibition. The retrospective exhibition Paper Like Skin travelled from the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles (2012) to the Guggenheim, New York and the Art Institute of Chicago (2013). Zarina’s works on paper, in print and collage, and her sculptures, made from paper pulp or metal, found homes in prominent museum collections such as the Tate Modern in London, the Metropolitan Museum, MoMA, Whitney and Guggenheim in New York. Her work is in many private collections and recent exhibitions have been held at the Kiran Nadar Museum in New Delhi (2020) and the Ishara Art Foundation in Dubai (2019). Of exile It was in the poetics and yearnings of exile that she grounded her work, after the Partition and its upheaval fractured their lives in Aligarh, a world relentlessly yearned for; ‘Language ties my work together. Urdu is home’, and this included its capaciousness for metaphor and multiple meanings. ‘ Ghar ’ was always the floorplan of her father’s academic bungalow in Aligarh, described poignantly in Letters from Home 2004. In recent years, claiming that time was running out and that she wanted to use up all the scraps left in her studio, she had worked mostly with paper collage, referencing Faiz, Ghalib and Iqbal in the titles of inky starscapes, lines such as ‘ Akhri shab ke humsafar’ or ‘Sitaron se age jahan aur bhi hain’ . Zarina departed on Saturday for the world beyond the stars, cared for and survived by her sister’s children in London. Zarina apa , as I called her, was a role model for how to live an independent life without compromise, navigating the world with the dignity, etiquette and razor-sharp wit of Aligarh.  (Nada Raza has been a curator for South Asian art at the Tate Modern museum)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/zarina-a-fiercely-independent-artist/article31440635.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Nathamuni’s qualities||In our Acharya we must see God Himself. To understand the Supreme One, we need the help of the Vedas and other difficult texts. But an Acharya is right before us, making it easier for us to worship. If a man had a vessel full of water in his hands, would he not use it? Will he wait for it to rain, collect the rainwater and then use that? When an Acharya is present before us, to show us the right path, is not worshipping him the right thing to do? That is why Alavandar, in his Stotra Ratnam, praises Nathamuni, said Valayapet Ramachariar, in a discourse. A Sri Vaishnava’s wealth lies in jnana, bhakti and vairagya, and Alavandar praises these three qualities of Nathamuni. We are drawn to an Acharya because of his qualities. In the Kishkinda Kanda, when Lakshmana speaks about Rama to Hanuman, he extols Rama’s virtues and says that he became Rama’s slave because of these qualities of Rama. Nathamuni was the sort of Acharya, who would attract people by his possession of desirable traits. Alavandar uses adjectives adbhuta, achintya and aklishta, when talking of Nathamuni’s qualities. His qualities cannot be comprehended by us. They are astounding. His jnana is not something that came to him after tapas. It was the Supreme One’s gift to him. His jnana is aklishta jnana. Vishnu Puranam says that only jnana that pertains to Vedanta is jnana. All other knowledge is inferior. Only an Acharya with Vedantic knowledge can help us attain moksha. If an Acharya lacks jnana, can he guide us? Can a leaky boat help us cross a river? Nathamuni’s jnana is about the Lord’s roopa, His svaroopa, His kalyana gunas etc. His bhakti is like a deep, unfathomable ocean. Vairagya is the quality of not attaching importance to anything that is worldly, and is a characteristic of Acharyas like Nathamuni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/nathamunis-qualities/article31440578.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 07:51 IST,||Sudoku - April 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-27-2020/article31441337.ece
27 April 2020||April 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Lesser patients in a pandemic||What’s possibly worse than being infected with COVID-19? Living with a health condition that requires instant or regular medical care, say many who have been struggling to get their chemotherapy sessions, or dialysis, or even a diagnosis of a life-threatening ailment amid the nationwide lockdown.  A nine-month-old toddler with a possible malignant tumour on his spine, a woman in the 17th week of her pregnancy and a 68-year-old kidney patient requiring dialysis thrice a week are among several such people coping with much more than just their medical conditions as the healthcare system fights a pandemic with limited resources.  Whether one is rich or poor seems to matter little in the face of the COVID-19 outbreak as hospitals – both State-run and private – reel under staff crunch and lack capacity to tackle the contagion as well as other chronic and common ailments. The patients, on the other hand, are grappling with an endless wait for medical intervention while living with the fear of contracting the virus during procedures at hospitals.   Stranded without care   Several people staying in night shelters near the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in south Delhi said they are facing a double setback as their medical treatments have been halted and they cannot even return to their villages, mostly located in Bihar.  Among them are Salma Khatoon, whose nine-month-old son Ayaan requires a surgical removal of an aggressive tumour on his spine; Sonu Kumar, 27, who needs an open-heart surgery and injections are available only at facilities such as AIIMS; Sunita Devi (42) and Rekha (28), both breast cancer patients awaiting attention, and Shobha who, after living for three months in the Capital, is still waiting for her cancer treatment to begin.  “The doctor told us that my son needs to be operated upon to be able to walk. We made the payments and did the paperwork... we have been here since February, look how much the tumour has grown,” said Ms. Khatoon as she showed the growth on the toddler’s backbone. “We took money on interest for his treatment. What do we do now?”   Stalled treatment   Lal Bahadur Chaudhury, 78, a resident of Samastipur in Bihar, came to the Capital in December last year to get treatment for throat cancer. While his treatment was halted following the lockdown, the eye surgery of his wife, Ramlekha Devi, scheduled for April 24, was postponed indefinitely.  “All kinds of tests were conducted and I was undergoing treatment but now everything has been stopped. I was asked to visit the doctor on April 17 but when I went, they changed the date and asked me to come on April 29. I am not sure if I will be able to meet the doctor that day,” said Mr. Chaudhury.  Mohammed Rizwan, 55, had arrived in the city from Bhagalpur in Bihar on March 20 for treatment of a tumour in his neck. As all OPD services at AIIMS were temporarily suspended following the lockdown, he could neither get a diagnosis nor a train ticket to go back home. He is staying at his relatives' place now, waiting for passenger train operations to resume soon.   “The doctors in my town said I have high chances of cancer in my neck. I came here with my elder son hoping to return in a week after getting the problem diagnosed at AIIMS, but everything is shut now,” said Mr. Rizwan.   More tests, more stress     For those undergoing chemotherapy and dialysis sessions, the lockdown has brought another set of woes with the COVID-19 test being made mandatory before any treatment, regardless of the complete absence of any contact history or symptoms.  These, according to those attending to the patients, have added to the stress of travelling multiple times, providing samples every second week and waiting for sessions as both hospitals and private labs are functioning with skeletal support staff.  “We had to pay Rs. 4,500 for the [COVID-19] test. The sample collection, however, could be done only in the second half of the day. We had gone early morning for the chemotherapy session but had to return home and then go again in the afternoon and come back. In the process, the chemo session was postponed and is now rescheduled,” said a west Delhi resident whose mother is suffering from cancer.  “We have been told that she would have to undergo a COVID-19 test every 14 days. While the monetary aspect can be taken care of, the travelling won’t be easy for most patients. Weakness of body and immune system is common in cancer and it has made the fear of infection from the extra travelling and hospital visits more worrying,” she said.   Delayed delivery   At east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, 22-year-old Kshitija Khanna had to change her hospital because of the lockdown. Ms. Khanna, who lost her father five years ago, used to go to a Karol Bagh nursing home thrice a week for dialysis. Now she visits a hospital closer home in Karkardooma and has also reduced the treatment to twice a week.  “My mother, younger sister and I are dependent on our grandfather for money. One dialysis session costs Rs. 2,500 and we don’t have our own vehicle. A neighbour helps me visit the hospital,” said Ms. Khanna, adding that her medicines are also not available in nearby shops and she has to order them online. “Earlier, they were delivered in two days, but during lockdown they arrived after five days. There’s a sense of uncertainty.”  Kewal Aggarwal, 68, a resident of East of Kailash, suffers from chronic kidney disease and has been on dialysis for the last one and a half years.  “My father visits the National Heart Institute dialysis centre every alternate day. We got a COVID-19 test done which came out negative, but someone else who used to visit the centre tested positive and passed away. My father was then placed under home quarantine,” said Mr. Aggarwal’s son Karan, a businessman. “Patients at centres like these are facing issues mainly due to lack of adequate technical staff. Another issue is that the third-party administrators of insurance companies are not reimbursing the claims as they, the backbone of the insurance sector, have not been allowed to function. Claims worth lakhs of rupees are pending. While people like me can handle such issues, what about those who don’t have resources?” he said.   Restricted hospital visits   For those whose relatives are already admitted in hospitals, the going has gradually got tougher. “My father-in-law, in his late 60s, is in ICU at a private hospital for the past two months after a severe brain injury. Earlier, we were able to meet him at least twice a day, but now our visits have been restricted. Regularly meeting family members helps improve brain activity, which I worry has been impacted somewhat due to our lack of access to him,” said a south-east Delhi resident.  The lockdown has been particularly tough for Gurugram resident Manavi, an 18-year-old with intellectual and developmental disability. Her mother Ruchika Sethi, a waste management activist, said Ms. Manavi used to spend four-five hours outside the house daily, going to the market and cycling, to keep herself busy.  “Since we have restricted settings now, we use a lot of music and dance and get her involved in housework. It is very challenging and lengthens housework but it is the only way we are able to sustain ourselves in this period,” said Ms. Sethi, who runs the ‘Why Waste Your Waste’ campaign.  An 80-year-old retired professor of zoology, diagnosed with stage-III carcinoma of tonsil, however, has chosen to see the silver lining and is counting on small mercies. “At the hospital, he doesn’t have to wait long for his turn for radiotherapy. In fact, on many days, the staff seem to be waiting for him. There are no traffic, parking issues,” said his son.   Online help   Lack of physical access during the extended lockdown has pushed many towards social media. Renuka Rautela, 29, who is 17 weeks pregnant, said when the OPD of the hospital she was visiting shut down, she started contacting her gynaecologist via WhatsApp and phone calls. A resident of Gurugram, Ms. Rautela said accessing good doctors and certain facilities like ultrasound remains largely challenging.  “I called five big hospitals for an ultrasound; three of them said they were not conducting it, and one did not have any dates for a month. That put me in a lot of stress. Later, I went to a hospital I would not have visited normally. I was worried about contracting the virus as immunity depreciates during pregnancy,” she said.  Reetika Kalita, 25, spotted rashes on her eyelids a few days ago. “I thought it would go away but it kept getting worse,” said Ms. Kalita, who believed she hand contracted tinea or ringworm. When going to the hospital seemed too risky, she reached out to a dermatologist using a mobile application. Following a text chat, Ms. Kalita sent the doctor photos of the rashes, which were used for her diagnosis.  For 24-year-old Ambika, a resident of Manipur who studies in Delhi, the lockdown brought added stress when her hair loss problem returned. She had been suffering from alopecia (spot baldness) for the past six months and was undergoing regular treatment at a clinic here.  Fearing contracting the virus and in absence of public transport, she decided to ring up the clinic, which then set up a video chat with her doctor. The doctor assessed her condition and wrote a prescription. Ms. Ambika then made the payment for the consultation through an e-wallet and ordered the medicines online. She said hair fall has stopped now.   Race against time    Saundarya Srinivasan, 29, from Ghaziabad, has had a congenital heart condition since she was six months old. With two surgeries behind her (at 6 and 23 years) and a great deal spent on medication over the years, she and her family were devastated to find that her aortic valve was 70% damaged. “I asked my mother and brother if they would be open to the idea of crowdfunding,” said Ms. Srinivasan. They told her to do what she felt she needed to, and Ms. Srinivasan raised Rs. 11 lakh in about 10 days.  Her surgery was fixed at Medanta – The Medicity, Gurugram, but as the number of COVID-19 cases started increasing, the family had to shift the date twice. “I would have had to ask my friends to donate blood, but I didn’t want to expose them to the virus,” said Ms. Srinivasan. For her family though, it was a double-edged sword. “They were nervous about going to a hospital, but also about delaying the surgery.” Finally, her surgery has been fixed for May 15. “I am in a bad state, and I really need to do this,” she said. “It’s a pandemic – we just don’t know how long it will last.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lesser-patients-in-a-pandemic/article31440796.ece
27 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reconsider decision on freezing DA, DR, teachers’ body tells Centre||Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Associations (FEDCUTA) has urged the Central government to reconsider its decision on freezing the Dearness Allowance (DA) of government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) of pensioners at current levels till July 2021. The federation said that the move would impact teaching and non-teaching staff of Central universities and their affiliated colleges. “The freezing of DA has in one stroke been applied to a period of one-and-a-half years, which scarcely fits the description of a temporary measure taken under exigent circumstances. All of this suggests that the government is perhaps taking advantage of the current crisis to impose an unjustified pay cut on employees in order to balance its books,” the teachers said. The teachers also alleged that the decision to freeze DA also comes in the background of the government suffering significant revenue losses on account of recent concessions given in corporate taxes which have not been reversed in view of the COVID-19 crisis. ‘Sanction for pay cut’ “The government’s decision will mean that a significant loss of income will be imposed on employees and pensioners, many of whom survive on very tight budgets. This in effect gives a sanction to private sector employers to impose a pay cut on their employees at a time when the government has the responsibility of ensuring that the wages and salaries of employees are protected,” the FEDCUTA said while urging the government to review its decision of freezing DA and DR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reconsider-decision-on-freezing-da-dr-teachers-body-tells-centre/article31440797.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||Woman narrates ordeal of arranging bed, ambulance||A resident of Old Delhi took to Facebook on Sunday to detail the harrowing experience involved in arranging a bed and an ambulance for her uncle who had tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Describing her experience, Saima Furqan, a Unani doctor, questioned the government’s way of handling the COVID-19 crisis. “Exactly at 10:30 AM [on Saturday] I started contacting the big names [hospitals] in the city [sic],” Ms. Furqan wrote. “The first one to be contacted was Max Saket who refused admission due to unavailability of beds. This was followed by ringing all designated private hospitals in the city. The BL Kapoor, the St. Stephens who appeared to be designated only on paper. They are not even admitting COVID-19 positive patients. My colleague tried the other big names like Artemis, Fortis but all in vain. Ultimately we decided to give a last try to Ganga Ram Hospital. Thankfully with the support from another colleague doctor who has some known person in the administration, we were able to get a bed reserved for my patient [sic],” the post also read. While reserving a bed had taken half of the day, it was 2 p.m. when she started trying to arrange a COVID-19 designated ambulance, she wrote. “I and my other colleagues initiated the process of calling the ambulance at the ambulance emergency number which could not be connected, one number after the other. The Delhi police, the state helpline, the national helpline, the private ambulance service providers, the DSO, the SSO, the central ministry and so on... We tried every single number and 100s of calls. We used all possible sources and all possible measures [sic],” Ms. Fuqran said. When she reached out to the police, she said they were allegedly “more interested in knowing whether my patient had any contact with Tablighis or I intentionally did not report the case to the authorities. The DSO was informed exactly the moment we received the report but even until today nobody from the govt came to sanitise the house and test the family members,” she wrote. It was only after three hours, when her uncle’s condition had reportedly already deteriorated, that the ambulance arrived and he was taken to a hospital. In light of her experience, she wrote, “I was blessed with some of the best sources, so I was able to admit my patient but what about those who neither have the source nor the money? Just when I was completing the billing formalities, I saw people being refused admissions even though they had money in hand...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-narrates-ordeal-of-arranging-bed-ambulance/article31440799.ece
27 April 2020||New Delhi,||Petition seeks feeding of stray animals||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking directions to the Central government, the city government and civic bodies here to provide food and water to stray animals during the lockdown. The plea said stray dogs and other animals are largely dependent on garbage and leftover food from restaurants, canteens and marketplaces, all of which are shut at present. It said that the people who used to feed them are not venturing out of their homes due to the lockdown, and therefore, the strays have been starving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/petition-seeks-feeding-of-stray-animals/article31440789.ece
