29 July 2020||special correspondentJAIPUR,||Rajasthan Cabinet seeks House session on July 31||Rejecting the conditions laid down by Governor Kalraj Mishra for holding the Assembly session, the Congress government in Rajasthan on Tuesday sent yet another revised proposal to Raj Bhavan to summon the House for a sitting from July 31. The Cabinet note did not mention if the government would seek a vote of confidence during the session. After the Governor twice returned the Cabinet’s recommendation to the call for an Assembly session, the government sent in a third proposal. In his last missive on Monday, Mr. Mishra said only a written undertaking on the trust vote as an agenda of the session could form the basis for summoning the House on short notice. A Cabinet meeting, presided over by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his official residence here, deliberated on the specific conditions put forward by the Governor for a 21-day notice to enable all MLAs to attend the proceedings, video recording and live telecast if there is a floor test and precautions against the spread of COVID-19 during the sitting. No going back According to official sources, the new Cabinet note drafted in consultation with all Ministers, did not mention whether a vote of confidence would be sought during the session. The government has, however, insisted that the session should begin on July 31, the date it proposed earlier. “The Cabinet wants the Assembly session from July 31. We are sticking to our [original] demand,” Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas told reporters after the meeting. He said the government hoped that the Governor would approve the proposal while respecting the Constitution, which had clearly defined his role to function with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Khachariawas said the government did not want any confrontation with the Governor and said the latter could have set a date for the session, as 10 days had already passed since the government proposed a sitting of the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-cabinet-seeks-house-session-on-july-31/article32217250.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||China says disengagement at most localities along LAC is ‘complete’||China on Tuesday said border troops had “disengaged in most localities” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), but defence sources said disengagement had only been “partial” at one of the locations that Beijing appeared to be referring to. China also acknowledged for the first time that issues were yet to be resolved at Pangong Lake, which is likely to be taken up at the fifth round of Corps Commander-level talks set for later this week.  Incomplete exercise Disengagement has been completed from stand-off sites at Patrolling Point (PP) 14 at Galwan Valley and PP 15 in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. It is, however, only partially completed at PP17A, another patrolling point in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, and also incomplete at Pangong Lake, defence sources said, adding that there was no change in the ground situation with the first phase of disengagement remaining incomplete. These issues, in addition to further disengagement, would be taken up during the talks. “The talks will most likely be in the second half of this week,” a defence source said. “Firm dates are yet to be confirmed.” On Tuesday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry was asked by Chinese media to confirm whether “Chinese and Indian troops have completed disengagement at three localities, namely, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Kongka Pass” and if “the only area where disengagement is left to be implemented is along the Pangong Lake.” Kongka Pass is east of Gogra-Hot Springs. This was the first time that the Chinese media had specifically referred to issues in the Gogra-Hot Springs and Pangong Lake areas along the LAC. Previously, they had only spoken of differences in the Galwan Valley, where a clash on June 15 that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers, marked the worst violence on the border since 1967.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-says-disengagement-at-most-localities-along-lac-is-complete/article32217247.ece
29 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Larvae in meals kill appetite of doctors||Resident doctors posted on COVID-19 duty at King George’s Medical University in Lucknow are losing their sleep and appetite over the “poor quality” of food and lodging arrangements made for them at the hospital. Larvae and insects were found floating in their meals recently, the Resident Doctors’ Welfare Association (RDWA) of the hospital alleged on Tuesday. Photos of a meal with larvae in it were shared by the association in a complaint letter sent to the university Vice-Chancellor. The photos were also shared on social media by doctors, including former president of RDWA, KGMU, Neeraj Mishra and former president, RDWA, All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Delhi, Harjit Singh Bhatti. Sharing a copy of the letter to the V-C, Mr. Mishra tweeted: “Nothing worst can be, if our so called ‘Corona warriors’ have to repeatedly cry for food & accommodation during life’s one of the toughest duties.” Lodging issues When contacted, president of RDWA, KGMU, Kaweri Dande confirmed that they had written to the administration about the “poor quality of food” but said they were yet to get a response or any assurance from them. In the complaint to the V-C, the RDWA also said that resident doctors are not provided proper accommodation when they are on round-the-clock duty for two weeks and later in quarantine. In some rooms, even the fans don’t work, let alone the air conditioners in the humid weather, the RDWA said, adding that no action had been taken despite many written and verbal complaints by the doctors. “It’s inhuman to treat our frontline healthcare warriors with such grim facilities when governments all over the world are doing so much for their well-being,” the RDWA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/larvae-in-meals-kill-appetite-of-doctors/article32217404.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||After two-day slump, State reports 1,000 plus cases||Kerala slipped back to the 1,000-odd cases a day pattern after a short gap of two days, to register 1,167 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Over 81% of the new cases – 949 cases – are locally acquired infections, an indication that local transmission has intensified across the State with a few districts affected more significantly than the others. Source of infection could not be ascertained in 55 cases. The cumulative case burden of the States crossed the 20,000 mark to reach 20,894 cases, of which the current number of patients undergoing treatment in hospitals is 10,093. So far, the State has reported 10,724 recoveries, with 679 recoveries being reported on Tuesday alone. Four deaths Four deaths were added to the official toll figure on Tuesday, one each from Ernakulam, Kasaragod, Alappuzha, and Thiruvananthapuram, taking the State’s COVID-19 toll to 67. So far, over 500 health-care workers in the Sate have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, sending the crucial workforce in many institutions in quarantine. On Tuesday, 33 of them were affected. With the disease spreading from the non-COVID pool in almost all hospitals, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked all hospitals to take additional precautions in the non-COVID section. When community transmission becomes intense, any patient or person coming to a hospital should be treated as a potential carrier of infection. Expert team  Mr. Vijayan said that an expert team would study all existing safety and infection control protocols in hospitals and assess any gaps in the current system. Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Malappuram, and Thrissur recorded over a hundred cases on Tuesday. Mr. Vijayan said the disease transmission in the capital district was progressing in a major way with one in every 18 tests turning out to be positive. This was lower than the State’s average wherein one in every 36 tests turned out to be positive. Of the 222 cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram, 212 were locally acquired infections. The district currently had 2,936 patients in hospitals, about 29 % of the total active cases in the State. The State tested 19,140 samples in the last 24 hours. The State has quarantined over 1.5 lakh persons, of whom, 9,818 persons with mild symptoms were isolated in hospitals. The number of hot spots in the State now is 486.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-two-day-slump-state-reports-1000-plus-cases/article32217531.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. rejects lawyers proposed by police||The Arvind Kejriwal-led Cabinet on Tuesday rejected the panel of lawyers proposed by Delhi Police to argue cases related to the north-east Delhi riots and anti-CAA protests in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court. Delhi Police had proposed a panel of six senior lawyers, including Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Aman Lekhi as special counsel, in 85 cases related to the riots and protests. The decision, which the Cabinet said sought to “ensure independence between investigation and prosecution” and address questions raised on the “fairness” and “impartiality” of the force in the investigation of these cases, has paved the way for a fresh round of confrontation between the Delhi government and the office of Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal. The Cabinet, the Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement, observed that courts had already raised “serious questions on fairness of investigations” done by Delhi Police in riots cases and a free and fair trial would not be possible by “a panel of lawyers selected by Delhi Police itself”. ‘Routine matter’ The Cabinet has issued directions for the appointment of the “best lawyers in the country” to represent the Delhi government in such cases. According to sources, while observing that Mr. Baijal’s office had special powers to disagree with the government, the Cabinet said this was in the “rarest of rare” cases and the appointment of prosecutors was a routine matter unfit to be referred to the President. Mr. Baijal’s office chose not to react immediately but Raj Niwas sources said a detailed response to the decision was expected on Wednesday.  The AAP government had earlier rejected Delhi Police proposal stating that its standing counsel Rahul Mehra and his team were capable of contesting the riots cases. This was followed by disagreement on Mr. Baijal’s part who then wrote a letter to Mr. Kejriwal, asking him to refer the matter to the Council of Ministers and take a decision “expeditiously, preferably within a week”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-rejects-lawyers-proposed-by-police/article32217401.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||At 2,967 tigers, India’s capacity at peak||A detailed survey released on Tuesday reveals that nearly a third of India’s tigers are living outside tiger reserves and nearly 17 of the 50 reserves are approaching the peak of their capacity at sustaining their populations. India hosts 70% of the world’s tigers. At 2,967, experts say, India may slowly be approaching its peak carrying capacity of tigers. For the first time, said a scientist associated with the survey, there was an attempt to segregate how many tigers were largely present within the reserves and how many flitted in and out and were dependent on the core reserve for sustenance. This was to guide conservation policy. The reserves, by definition, are a “source” and suitable for nourishing a growing tiger population because of prey availability and territory. However, when they get too crowded, tigers venture out further from “sources” and form “sinks” and much of wildlife population dynamics is about understanding this source-sink relationship. “Generally, there’s a 60-40 split in tigers from source-sink, but this can vary. However, we are approaching the maximum capacity of several good reserves, and the focus should be on developing under-utilised reserves and not over-nourish those that have a good population,” said Rajesh Gopal, secretary general, Global Tiger Forum. When releasing the report, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said and other wildlife were a kind of “soft power” India had to show on the international front. “The Ministry is working on a programme in which efforts would be made to provide water and fodder to animals in the forest itself to deal with the challenge of human-animal conflict which is causing deaths of animals”. In the tiger reserves in Uttar Pradesh, there were several more tigers that depended on the source but lived outside it. In Corbett, there were 231 tigers within the reserves, but 266 were ‘utilising it.’ Kanha in Madhya Pradesh had 88 inside and 108 dependent on it. The Pench reserve in Maharashtra had 53 inside but 82 utilising them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-2967-tigers-indias-capacity-at-peak/article32217253.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Issue medical bulletins in Telugu: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued fresh directions to the State government in a batch of PIL pleas related to COVID-19, giving it two weeks’ time to implement them and the earlier ones. After listening to an explanation by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on government’s strategy to tackle the pandemic, the HC instructed him to appear for hearing on August 13 with the status of compliance of the court’s orders. Along with the CS, a battery of top officials attended the hearing on Tuesday through video conferencing following instructions passed by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy on July 20. Having raised several queries over non-implementation of the bench’s earlier instructions on adherence to ICMR’s guidelines, enhancing sample tests and containment zone policy, the bench directed the CS to ensure medical bulletins were issued in Telugu. “For 80% of the State population, English is still a foreign language. It would be easier for them to understand medical bulletin if it is in Telugu,” the bench said. Referring to ICMR’S guidelines on testing secondary contacts of COVID patients, the bench said the government cannot afford to deviate from them. The bench said the government’s claim that minors and senior citizens were more vulnerable to COVID creates an impression that persons in the age group of 21-50 years were relatively less susceptible to the virus. This would embolden persons of that age group to move around freely. But the data in medical bulletin suggests that persons in the age group of 21-50 years were falling prey to the pandemic. The CS, explaining that probable rate of incidence of coronavirus among minors and senior citizens was higher, agreed to rectify the anomaly in the medical bulletins. Mr. Kumar, replying to a query from the bench, said that “no refusal” was the government policy when it comes to treating COVID patients at government hospitals in general and Gandhi hospital specifically. He assured the bench that procedure for admission of patients in hospitals for ailments other than COVID would be simplified. He said that display boards would come up at hospitals indicating the availability of beds with ventilators, oxygen and other specific facilities so that people would have options for availing treatment from hospitals closer to their homes. Mr. Kumar told the court that government received 726 complaints from citizens against private hospitals of which 66 were on “excessive billing”. Ten complaints pertained to insurance issues, four on inadequate safety precautions at hospitals. However, majority of the complaints (636) were on cleanliness and other general matters. “The complaints are coming down and we are forwarding them to District Medical and Health Officers concerned for action,” the CS told the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/issue-medical-bulletins-in-telugu-hc/article32217475.ece
29 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Belagavi sees 228 new cases, Dharwad records 173||The districts of Belagavi and Dharwad continued to see a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, and, on Tuesday, Belagavi recorded 228 cases, while Dharwad registered 173 cases. Both the districts recorded six deaths each. Dharwad has a total of 3,556 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-sees-228-new-cases-dharwad-records-173/article32217459.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||With 7,717 new cases, State tally nears 4 lakh||The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra rose to 3,91,440 on Tuesday with addition of 7,717 new cases, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. With 282 patients succumbing to the infection, the death toll mounted to 14,165, he said. A total of 10,333 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 2,32,277, while the count of active cases dropped from 1,47,592 on Monday to 1,44,694 on Tuesday, Mr. Tope said. A total of 19,68,559 people have been tested in the State so far. Mumbai, which has been steadily reporting more than 1,000 cases every day, added just over 700 cases in the day, its lowest one-day rise in two months. With 717 new cases, the city’s tally is now 1,10,846. The death toll 6,184 after 55 more patients succumbed to the infection. A total of 2,467 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered patients to 84,411. Dharavi, once a hotspot in the city, also saw one of its lowest surges, with just three cases taking its tally to 2,543. The area currently has only 88 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-7717-new-cases-state-tally-nears-4-lakh/article32217654.ece
29 July 2020||NAGERCOIL,||Hunt on for former MLA over minor’s rape||The Nagercoil All-Women Police are on the lookout for former MLA ‘Nanjil’ A. Murugesan, who is accused of having raped a 12-year-old girl in 2017. He was expelled from the ruling AIADMK on Monday for bringing disrepute to the party. According to the police, the girl, who hails from the district and is now 15 years old, was rescued a few days ago after she eloped with a youth. The latter was booked for kidnapping since the girl is a minor. When she was produced before a local court for the purpose of recording her statement, she accused Murugesan, who allegedly had an illicit affair with her mother, of having raped her in 2017. Following this, the girl was placed under the custody of the District Child Welfare Committee. Subsequently, the District Child Protection Unit lodged a complaint with the Nagercoil All-Women Police, who registered a case against Murugesan under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Murugesan has since gone underground, and special teams are on the lookout for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hunt-on-for-former-mla-over-minors-rape/article32217321.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports 58 deaths and 7,984 new COVID cases||A day after surpassing one-lakh COVID cases, the State again reported close to 8,000 fresh cases and 58 deaths during the past 24 hours as of Tuesday morning. At 7,948 new cases, it was the third-highest single-day tally reported so far. The overall tally has gone up to 1,10,297 and the death toll stands at 1,148. With the recovery of 3,064 patients in the past day, the number of recoveries went up to 52,622 and there are 56,527 active cases, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Meanwhile, the State has tested a record number of 62,979 samples in the past day and the capacity per day has been increased to the same. The State’s tests per million ratio at 32,761 is the highest among all the States. Guntur’s death toll crossed 100 with 11 new deaths. Kurnool reported 10 deaths while Visakhapatnam reported nine. They are followed by Chittoor and East Godavari that reported five deaths each. Similarly, Krishna, Nellore and Vizianagaram reported four deaths each and Anantapur reported three deaths. Kadapa, Srikakulam and West Godavari reported one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-58-deaths-and-7984-new-covid-cases/article32217241.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Wanted to teach Gehlot a lesson, says Mayawati||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had “unconstitutionally” merged all six MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) with the Congress in Rajasthan, and he did the same in his earlier tenure too, for which “we wanted to teach him and his party a lesson”, BSP chief Mayawati said on Tuesday.  “In Rajasthan, after the election results, the BSP gave unconditional support of all its six MLAs to the Congress. Unfortunately, Mr. Gehlot, out of his malicious intent and to damage the BSP, merged them with the Congress unconstitutionally,” Ms. Mayawati said here. “The BSP could have gone to court earlier but we were looking for the time to teach the Congress and Ashok Gehlot a lesson. Now we have decided to go to court... We will go even to the Supreme Court.” She reiterated that the party had asked the six MLAs to vote against the Congress government if a trust vote takes place in the Rajasthan Assembly, failing which “their party membership will be cancelled”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wanted-to-teach-gehlot-a-lesson-says-mayawati/article32217248.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Centre unable to pay States’ GST dues: official||Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, headed by BJP MP Jayant Sinha, at a meeting on Tuesday that the government is in no position to pay the GST share of States as per the current revenue sharing formula, sources said. According to at least two members who attended the meeting, Mr. Pandey’s comments were in response to a question on the revenue shortfall due to the pandemic. The members then questioned him on how the government could renege on the commitment to the States. At this, “he [Mr. Pandey] pointed out that the GST Act has provisions to rework the formula for paying compensation to the State governments if the revenue collection drops below a certain threshold,” one of the members said on condition of anonymity. The Finance Ministry on Monday said the Centre had released the final instalment of Rs. 13,806 crore of GST compensation for the financial year 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-unable-to-pay-states-gst-dues-official/article32217251.ece
29 July 2020||Kolkata,||Governor takes exception to Mamata’s remarks||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saying that he took strong exceptions to the remarks made by her during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “There are some who do non-coperation despite holding Constitutional posts and keep harassing the State. It should not happen,” Ms. Banerjee had said on Monday. While the CM had not referred to anyone directly, her remarks indicated that she may be referring to the Governor. “I am stunned and shocked, as are many at your observations yesterday.... I take strong exception to such uncharitable, unfounded and unmerited stance. These are unbecoming of the position you hold. Significantly, you have not even once adverted anything like this in any manner to me anytime,” Mr Dhankhar said in a letter to the CM. The Governor also shared the letter on social media, and added that he had been “constrained to respond to the hurtful and unwarranted observations @MamataOfficial yesterday”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-takes-exception-to-mamatas-remarks/article32217603.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi/ Srinagar,||BJP destroyed mainstream politics in J&K, says Omar||Hitting out at the Centre for failing to keep any of the promises made when it decided to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir and dilute Article 370, former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah said the ruling party has “destroyed” the political mainstream in the erstwhile State. “The BJP through its actions has done more to destroy mainstream politics than any separatist or militant organisation has been able to do since 1989-90. We [political parties] were reduced to objects of ridicule,” Mr. Abdullah, who is the vice-president of the National Conference, told The Hindu in an interview. Ahead of the first anniversary of the August 5 decisions, Mr. Abdullah said all the problems the government claimed it would solve by its moves that were passed by Parliament still remain a year later. Mr. Abdullah also admitted that he had thought of quitting politics in the past year, but decided against it so as not to “allow parties inimical to J&K’s interests to take centre stage”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-destroyed-mainstream-politics-in-jk-says-omar/article32217402.ece
29 July 2020||Belagavi,||Preparations begin for vaccine trials||Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi, on Tuesday began preparations for the first phase of trials of Covaxin, the vaccine molecule developed by Hyderabad-based company Bharat Biotech to prevent COVID-19. The hospital has finalised a list of the first batch of volunteers. Their blood samples were collected on Tuesday. “We can say that the process of vaccine testing trials has begun,” hospital director Amit Bhate said. He said that the hospital would conduct the first and second phase of testing using a group of around 200 volunteers. The hospital has also circulated messages on social media inviting volunteers for tests. According to the message, healthy men and women in the 18-55 age group who are willing to provide blood five or six times in the coming six months are eligible. Persons with diabetes or hypertension are not included in the first batch. The hospital has clarified that a study on 50 volunteers in AIIMS Delhi and AIIMS Patna has revealed that the vaccine is safe. However, the hospital has said that the volunteers will not be admitted. They will be under observation while they are at home, Dr. Bhate said. He said that the trial can take three-six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preparations-begin-for-vaccine-trials/article32217457.ece
29 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||452 in Ballari, 283 new cases in Kalaburagi||Ballari and Kalaburagi districts continued to report a high number of new COVID-19 cases for the third day on Tuesday. While the former reported 452, the latter registered 283 cases and six deaths. With these new cases, the total rose to 5,382 in Ballari and 4,778 in Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/452-in-ballari-283-new-cases-in-kalaburagi/article32217458.ece
29 July 2020||Kolkata,||Lockdown norms to stay till Aug. 31||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced extension of two-day complete lockdown every week in the State till August 31. She said the lockdown restrictions would also continue. For seven days in August, there will be a complete lockdown, which, the CM said, was essential to break the chain of transmission of COVID-19. She said there would be a complete lockdown on August 16, 23 and 30. The State would also observe lockdown on August 5, 8, 17 and 24. Ms. Banerjee said she wanted to enforce complete lockdown on Saturday and Sunday but had to make changes due to festivals like Eid-Ul-Adha and Independence Day. “Schools and colleges will remain closed till August 31,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-norms-to-stay-till-aug-31/article32217604.ece
29 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Veteran actor Raavi Kondala Rao no more||Popular veteran actor Raavi Kondala Rao died of heart attack on Tuesday evening while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Somajiguda. He was 88. His wife Radha Kumari, well-known actor and his co-star in nearly 100 films, died in 2012. Born in Samarlakota, Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh in 1931, Kondala Rao was noticed by the Telugu audience in Krishna-starrer Tene Manasulu in 1965 and excelled in a range of characters in nearly 400 films thereafter. One of the popular films he wrote the story and acted was Pelli Pusthakam (1991), which won him many accolades. The other significant films he wrote dialogues for are Bhairava Dweepam , Sri Krishnarjuna Yuddham and Brundavanam . A journalist and an author, Kondala Rao was the associate editor for the then popular Telugu film magazine ‘Vijaya Chitra’ from 1966 to 1990. Later, he joined Chandamama - Vijaya Production combines as writer and executive producer. Kondala Rao preferred to stay in Hyderabad, despite many attempts made by his only son, who lives in Chennai, to live with him. His passion for writing made him live here unmindful of his failing health. “But his spirit was amazing. Till a couple of weeks ago he was busy writing for a new book besides articles for Sitara online edition,” informed a close friend. CM mourns actor Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed his condolences over the death of Ravi Kondala Rao. He was one of the finest character artiste of his times, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veteran-actor-raavi-kondala-rao-no-more/article32217245.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Monsoon session from September 7||The monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature will begin on September 7 and not August 3 as scheduled earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-session-from-september-7/article32217657.ece
29 July 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata, North 24 Parganas account for 70% deaths in Bengal||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 2,134 new COVID-19 cases and 38 deaths. Of these, 18 were from North 24 Parganas, and 10 from Kolkata. Together, they account for 70% deaths in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-north-24-parganas-account-for-70-deaths-in-bengal/article32217605.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Colleges turn lenient||This year, students are finding college admissions more difficult owing to COVID-19. Many degree colleges in Bengaluru have eased their admission process by reducing cut-offs and simplifying entrance tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colleges-turn-lenient/article32217275.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,||BSY safe at least till Dec.||Contrary to speculation that Dy.CM Laxman Savadi’s visit to Delhi is an indication of efforts to replace Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the BJP high command is reportedly in ‘no mood to look at such political issues’ in Karnataka till December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsy-safe-at-least-till-dec/article32217276.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Active cases in Delhi dipped by half in July’||Despite lifting of the lockdown, Delhi has been able to reduce its active cases by half since the beginning of July, according to Delhi government data. The city has also seen reduced positivity rate, bed occupancy and deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-in-delhi-dipped-by-half-in-july/article32217406.ece
29 July 2020||Patna,||Sushant’s father files FIR against Rhea Chakraborty||Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father K.K. Singh has filed an FIR against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna. A police team from Patna has reached Mumbai to investigate the case. Mr. Singh is said to have registered the case on the advice of CM Nitish Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sushants-father-files-fir-against-rhea-chakraborty/article32217407.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Centre should be party in SC on Maratha quota’||State Minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the Cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, on Tuesday criticised BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for misleading people over the Maratha quota issue and asked him to convince the Centre to be a party in the ongoing case in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-should-be-party-in-sc-on-maratha-quota/article32217656.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao’s family can visit him: HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital at Vile Parle to submit, within three days, a report on the medical status and line of treatment given to poet-activist Varavara Rao, 81, who is admitted there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varavara-raos-family-can-visit-him-hc/article32217655.ece
29 July 2020||Chennai,||State records 6,972 new cases, 88 deaths||A total of 6,972 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. The State recorded 88 deaths, including that of a five-year-old. While Chennai accounted for 1,107 cases, Virudhunagar saw a surge, with 577 testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-6972-new-cases-88-deaths/article32217323.ece
29 July 2020||Chennai,||25 inmates in Perurani jail test positive||At least 25 remand prisoners lodged in the Perurani district jail in Thoothukudi district have tested positive for COVID-19. While the infected, mostly asympto-matic, have been shifted to a government facility, other prisoners have been quarantined in the same jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-inmates-in-perurani-jail-test-positive/article32217324.ece
29 July 2020||Chennai,||Working with India to make clean power accessible: U.K. Minister||The United Kingdom, which holds the Presidency of the next UN Climate Change Conference, COP26, planned for next year, is committed to building resilience to climate change among communities and working with India on clean energy, Lord Ahmad, U.K. Minister of State (Minister for South Asia and the Commonwealth), said on Tuesday. Speaking to The Hindu via video conference, Lord Ahmad, who was on a virtual visit to India, said green finance was high on the agenda. “The Green Growth Equity Fund (GGEF) with the U.K. and the Indian government co-investment of £240 million, is starting to mobilise private investment. BP [the oil and gas major] recently committed over £55 million ($70 million) towards this,” he said. “India matters to us. From the strength of the Indian diaspora, I know also that Britain-Indian relations matter to us. I believe it is important to strengthen the partnership on a whole raft of issues,” Lord Ahmad said. “Last week I was engaging directly with the new Indian ambassador to the United Nations. We look forward to working in the multilateral sphere and within the Commonwealth sphere.” Crucial linkages Lord Ahmad said as progress was made with the (COVID-19) Oxford vaccine in the U.K., the relationship through the private contract agreed with Astra Zeneca and the Serum Institute (of India) on production of the vaccine was notable. At a time of crisis, India and the U.K. could work collaboratively. “Due to the pandemic, we had to delay COP26. India has a lot of expertise on solar energy and we on wind energy. The relationship with India is a pivotal one,” he observed. COP26 should be profiling good practice, Lord Ahmad said. He had held discussions with Chief Minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani on the positive steps taken by that State on Tuesday. The U.K. Minister said Britain recently completed 67 days of coal-free power (April-June) adding that it would phase out coal completely in the next 5 years. “Earlier this month, we announced a new green recovery package, including a £3 billion investment to create green jobs and upgrade buildings. Over £1 billion would go to make buildings, including schools and hospitals, greener,” he said. A common commitment to move to cleaner fuels was necessary, although the pace at which this could be done would vary by country. Boosting renewables The U.K. had contributed analysis and market simulations for India’s Real-Time Power Market which launched on June 1, to get more renewables on the national grid at more competitive rates. Lord Ahmad said India’s momentum on climate action, despite the current crisis, including a solar auction on 30 June which set a record low tariff was impressive. In March, the U.K. was confirmed as the first co-chair of the Governing Council of the global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). The Coalition is an India-led initiative to upgrade infrastructure from design, construction, operation and maintenance perspectives, and make renewable energy accessible and affordable. The U.K. would strengthen its collaboration, in areas such as increased use of renewable energy by Indian Railways to help it become a net zero carbon emitter by 2030. The Minister said the U.K. recognised that air pollution was one of the biggest threats to public health and the government had announced its ambitious clean air strategy last year, which would cut the costs of air pollution to society by £1.7 billion every year in 2020, rising to £5.3 billion every year from 2030. Britain was working with Indian partners on a clean energy transition. The U.K. Department for International Development (DFID) power sector reform aimed at making utilities cleaner, smarter and more efficient. UKRI research partnerships would help develop the next generation of solar buildings and through the Newton–Bhabha fund, Catapult innovation centres were partnering institutions in Bangalore to develop electric mobility and air pollution solutions. Asked about the British partnership in flood protection and aquifer recharge under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA), Lord Ahmad said, “We are working together through the MGNREGA to build climate resilient livelihoods”. This focused on drought proofing, flood defences and river structures for aquifer replenishment. The Infrastructure for Climate Resilient Growth (ICRG) has invested in climate-resilient livelihood strategies in Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Bihar. Also, India’s Ministry of Earth Sciences was collaborating to harness land, sea and atmospheric data to aid monsoon forecasting. The GGEF first investment in India had gone to Ayana Renewable Power, with a target of 6 GW in 5 years. The Fund has also invested in e-mobility and integrated waste management. Leading solar alliance India was demonstrating leadership with the International Solar Alliance and the U.K. was working with it and other countries to mobilise more than $1 trillion of investments in solar energy by 2030. Separately, the U.K. was supporting a £40 million programme for technology advancement and market development of electric cooking, using solar and other energy sources. This programme, in operation in 15 ISA member-countries, was now establishing itself in India. Within the context of the Commonwealth, India could offer its experience to small island states, such as tiny Vanuatu, facing climate change impacts. Lord Ahmad’s visit was preceded by an announcement of a joint collaborative programme on anti-microbial resistance (AMR) in India. The research aimed to develop a better understanding of how waste from antimicrobial manufacturing in India could be fuelling AMR. The five projects were planned for September 2020 and the U.K. was contributing £4 million from the U.K. Research and Innovation Fund for International Collaboration, and India was matching this, for a total of £8 million. The Minister’s virtual visit included scheduled meetings with Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs Minister V. Muraleedharan, regional governments and others, on opportunities in wind power and a tour of a U.K.-funded solar plant in Rajasthan.  India has a lot of expertise on solar energy and we on wind energy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/working-with-india-to-make-clean-power-accessible-uk-minister/article32217233.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala hospitals to screen non-COVID-19 wards||After a gap of two days, Kerala slipped back to the 1,000-plus cases a day pattern registering 1,167 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Over 81% of new cases – 949 – were locally acquired infections. Source of infection could not be ascertained in 55 cases. The cumulative casestouched 20,896, of which the current number under treatment in hospitals was 10,093. Four deaths were reported on Tuesday, one each from Ernakulam, Kasaragod, Alapuzha and Thiruvananthapuram, taking the toll to 67. COVID-19 was taking a toll on all major hospitals, turning many institutions into disease transmission hubs. So far, over 500 health care workers tested positive, sending the workforce in many institutions into quarantine. On Tuesday, 33 of them were affected. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan asked hospitals to take precautions in non-COVID sections. When community transmission was intense, any patient or person coming to a hospital should be treated as a potential carrier. Mr. Vijayan said disease transmission in Thiruvananthapuram showed one in every 18 tests to be positive. The State’s average was one in 36 tests. All 212 out of the 222 cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram were locally acquired infections. The district currently had 2,936 patients in hospitals, about 29 % of the total active State cases. The State tested 19,140 samples in 24 hours and quarantined over 1.5 lakh persons, 9,818 with mild symptoms in hospitals. A day after passing one-lakh COVID-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh again reported 7,948 fresh cases and 58 deaths on Tuesday. The overall tally rose to 1,10,297 and the death toll to 1,148. There were 56,527 active cases, the Health Department said. The State tested 62,979 samples in a day and the positivity rate of 17.49 lakh tests was 6.20%. Guntur’s death toll crossed 100 with 11 new deaths. Kurnool reported 10 deaths, and Visakhapatnam nine. Availability position of beds for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals was made available by Telangana’s Health Department on Tuesday, along with containment zones in Greater Hyderabad. COVID-19 cases were put at 57,142 as 1,610 more tested positive as of Monday. A total of 15,839 samples were tested in a day. The new cases included 531 from GHMC, 172 from Rangareddy, 152 from Warangal Urban and 113 from Medchal Malkajgiri. There were 13,753 active cases and 480 had died.  A total of 6,972 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and the deaths of 88 persons, including a five-year-old child, were recorded in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 1,107 were in Chennai, while Virudhunagar saw a surge, with 577 fresh cases. The State’s COVID-19 tally touched 2,27,688, of which 57,073 were active cases  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Chenai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-hospitals-to-screen-non-covid-19-wards/article32217204.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Notification on 74% FDI in defence soon’||The government is going to come out with a decision on 74% Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in defence and a notification is likely in the next few days, according to V.L. Kantha Rao, Additional Secretary, Department of Defence Production. Separately, the Defence Ministry said the second draft of the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) 2020, now renamed as the Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) 2020, was put out in public domain on Tuesday for comments from stakeholders and public. On the target to indigenise spares and sub-assemblies of imported military hardware, Mr. Rao said, “We will try and do at least 900 items this year and we have a target of 5,000 items in five years.” He was speaking at the Lockheed Martin - Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers suppliers conference. In May, the government announced a series of measures to promote domestic defence manufacturing. These include a negative import list, separate budgetary allocation for domestic procurements, indigenisation of spares and components and raising the FDI cap through automatic route from 49% to 74%. Mr. Rao said Indian manufacturers did well when it came to exports. “Government companies did $100 mn exports last year; the private sector 10 times, over a $1 billion, last year,” he said. However, when it came to overall defence manufacturing, the major share was with the public sector, which accounted for about $8 billion. The private sector did around $2 billion. The increase in exports by the private sector comes as several major defence companies like Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Thales and Dassault Aviation are increasingly sourcing components from India for their global supply chains. For instance, all C-130 transport aircraft manufactured by Lockheed Martin have components sourced from their joint venture with Tata group in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notification-on-74-fdi-in-defence-soon/article32217211.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||EC objects to Murmu’s statement||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Tuesday took exception to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) G.C. Murmu’s statement that the Assembly election would be held after delimitation. Such statements virtually tantamount to interfering with the EC’s constitutional mandate, it said. Issuing a statement in response to a media report quoting the L-G on Tuesday as well as previously reported statements, the EC said it “takes exception to such statements and would like to state that in the constitutional scheme of things, the timings etc. of elections is the sole remit of the Election Commission of India”. The EC said it considered all relevant information, including topography, weather and regional and local festivities, before deciding on the timing of elections. ‘New dynamic’ “For example, in the current times, COVID-19 has introduced a new dynamic, which has to be and shall be taken into consideration at the due time. In the instant case, the outcome of delimitation is also germane to the decision. Similarly, availability of Central forces and railway coaches, etc. for the transportation of CPFs are important factors. All this is done after meticulous homework by the senior officials of the Commission and a detailed assessment in due consultation with concerned authorities,” it stated. The EC noted that it visited the States concerned as required and consulted all stakeholders. “It would be proper for authorities other than the Election Commission of India to refrain from making such statements, which virtually tantamount to interfering with the constitutional mandate of the Commission,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-objects-to-murmus-statement/article32217231.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘COVAX Facility aiming to deliver 2 billion doses by end of 2021’||With the world and India entering the middle phase in a two-pronged fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, including public health measures to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus and the race to develop a viable vaccine solution, global and regional cooperation has never before been as important as it is today. Poonam Khetrapal Singh , regional director, World Health Organisation South-East Asia Region, discusses the big questions on vaccine issues, institutional learnings, transnational collaboration and challenges for India. Edited excerpts:  When do you think India could realistically expect a COVID-19 vaccine to be available at scale and what steps in vaccine development remain until we reach that point? Different vaccines are being developed using different technologies and platforms and are likely to have different efficacies, product profiles and characteristics. This robust vaccine pipeline gives us hope, even if there are many unpredictable factors which will determine their success. There are promising results from the clinical trials for some vaccine candidates, which is very encouraging. However, we need to wait for the completion of the trials and their outcomes to be in a better position to understand by when the vaccines will be ready for use. It is important that the potential vaccines meet the recommended mandatory standards of efficacy and safety before they are used for mass vaccination of human populations. India is among the largest vaccine manufacturers and is rightly called the pharmacy of the world. Undoubtedly, it would play an important role in making the COVID-19 vaccines available globally. Is WHO doing anything about ensuring equity in access, once a vaccine is available? Please tell us about the COVAX Facility. In April 2020, a global collaboration of governments, global health organisations, civil society groups, businesses and philanthropies came together to form the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, or the ACT-Accelerator. The idea is to form a plan for an equitable response to the pandemic. There are four pillars under the ACT Accelerator, of which vaccine is one. A COVAX Facility has been established recently under the vaccine pillar to manage the large, diverse portfolio of vaccines that are under development, to ensure a global sharing of risks associated with their development and an equitable access based on fair allocation of the available vaccines. The COVAX Facility is a mechanism designed to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines worldwide. By connecting a pool of demand to a pool of supply, it will allow countries access to a broad portfolio of vaccines and provide manufacturers access to a demand-secure market. All countries are being invited to participate in the Facility. The participating countries are expected to receive access to vaccines procured by the Facility at the negotiated price. The Facility aims to deliver 2 billion doses by end of 2021 to prioritised population groups in all participating countries. WHO is committed to and will continue to advocate to countries to ensure that as medicines and vaccines are developed, they are shared equitably with all countries and people. In your view how should the vaccine delivery system be designed to deliver at the massive scale that’s required? The vaccine delivery systems will have to be country-specific and will have to adjust to meet the requirements of the potential COVID-19 vaccine. Innovative vaccine delivery strategies, leveraging existing vaccination platforms targeting high-risk groups such as health care workers will have to be utilised. The principles of a vaccine delivery system should ensure key components such as availability of key personnel and the cold chain storage and transportation capacity as well as any potential gaps/needs in either of these. Strengthening information systems to allow timely monitoring and reporting of doses administrated and vaccination coverage at national and subnational level will be essential as also a functional vaccine safety system that allows reporting of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) committee. Communication and demand promotion should be an integral part of the system. How efficacious will the vaccine be in terms of protecting people from the virus? Who will be prioritised and will booster shots be necessary? There are 23 vaccines in clinical trial. We expect more to follow as there are at least 160 candidate vaccines in total. We are engaging with developers and others to ensure that we have standard end points and data collection mechanisms to regularly monitor both efficacy and safety of the candidates. These trials, once completed, will help to understand better the extent and duration of protection. Different platforms are being used for the development of different vaccines. The characteristics of vaccines, therefore, vary. Only once we have the results of the different trials, we will be in a position to inform whether boosters will be required or not. An equitable distribution of a safe and efficacious vaccine is one of WHO’s priorities and we will continue to advocate with member countries and work with them, providing guidelines and updated information on the population at risk and those who should be vaccinated on a priority. What would you describe as India’s biggest challenge in tackling the pandemic? India took early and decisive measures since the start of the outbreak and has since been scaling up capacities — ramping up testing, building and readying hospitals, training health workers, procuring medical needs, etc. However, we are aware of the varying capacities at the national and State levels. Also, it’s not unusual in a country as big as India and its population size, that the measures taken may often not be uniformly sufficient across all areas. Scaling up capacities and response is dynamic in a country like India and remains a constant need and challenge.  India is among the largest vaccine manufacturers and is rightly called the pharmacy of the world. Undoubtedly, it would play an important role in making the COVID-19 vaccines available globally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covax-facility-aiming-to-deliver-2-billion-doses-by-end-of-2021/article32217239.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi/ Srinagar,||‘Article 370 move has left no space for mainstream leaders’||A year after the Centre’s decision to dilute Article 370 and bifurcate Jammu & Kashmir into two Union Territories, former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah says the government has been unable to resolve any of the issues it claimed the move was aimed at  The government has made many claims about what it has achieved with its decisions on Article 370 and bifurcating the State. How do you see the situation in Jammu &Kashmir? One year later, we are forced to ask what has changed? Are those people who were alienated, feeling any less so? Is violence any less? Has investment suddenly started flowing in? Is corruption any less and is governance any better? Has there been a reverse exodus of the Kashmiri Pandits, whom we were told had been held back because of Article 370? The truth is, not a single claim stands the test of scrutiny. Even the government of India was forced to admit, when it was asked to justify the ban on 4G internet, that levels of violence have gone up. During your detention, did you think about quitting politics? Of course. I’d be lying if I said the thought never crossed my mind. I’m only human and I had all these doubts and questions in my head. But I realised that to walk away would throw my party into chaos, and I owe it to my party to be responsible. Also, that would create the sort of political vacuum that would allow parties inimical to Jammu Kashmir’s interests to take centre stage. BJP leaders have said the people of J&K have now accepted the August 5 decision, that there were not many protests over it. How do you react? I think it is extremely unfortunate that these leaders are actually incentivising violent protests. Why are they trying to create an atmosphere where Kashmiris feel forced to come out and protest? And if Kashmiris have accepted the decision, why is the government still banning 4G Internet? Every day we hear of youngsters joining militant ranks…. Just because you cannot see protests don’t confuse it to mean there is no anger and a sense of hurt that prevails over what happened on August 5. They have made the point that people were happy to see National Conference leaders behind bars.... I won’t disagree. The BJP through its actions has done more to destroy mainstream politics than any separatist or militant organisation has been able to do since 1989-90. We were reduced to objects of ridicule. People said [Farooq Abdullah] was served right for saying ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’. They said Mehbooba Mufti and I were being served right for putting down protests in 2010 and 2016. We stood with the nation, and we were ridiculed for standing with the nation. Instead of patting themselves on the back, BJP leaders should be worried that this is the sentiment towards mainstream leaders, and there’s no space left for mainstream leaders. Was some of the government’s justification valid, that present laws discriminated against women, refugees, Ladakhis etc.? Yes, I accept there was an element of gender bias in 35A, which could have done with correction. With regard to refugees, those refugees were not state subjects of J&K. A State has a right to choose who its domiciles should be. Other States do the same. If there was any element of discriminatory nature in the domicile law, why did the BJP not change it while in government in the State? Why did they have to completely dismember J&K and alter the constitutional relationship between J&K and the rest of the country? Today the very same Ladakhis who were celebrating Article 370 and 35A removal are screaming for protections that Article 370 and 35A afforded them.  What if nothing changes and the August 5 decision is now set in stone? I am unwilling to accept it is set in stone. As long as we have a judiciary we can approach for justice, I will not accept it is set in stone. I believe if we make a strong enough case, the judiciary will not be able to ignore what we are saying. I believe there is a recourse by taking our grievances in the highest court of the land with the hope they will hear us and justice will be done. Justice not to me as an individual or the NC as a party but justice for J&K.  We stood with the nation, and we were ridiculed for standing with the nation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/article-370-move-has-left-no-space-for-mainstream-leaders/article32217217.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,||Seafood exports take a hit||The Rs. 6,000-crore seafood export business in Kerala has taken a hit with the pandemic curbs bringing down fishing activities, closing down fishing harbours and landing centres as well as putting severe restrictions on pre-export processing centres. Fishing harbours are closed along the Kerala coast. So are most of the processing units in districts such as Alappuzha, said Alex K. Nainan, president of the Kerala chapter of the Indian Seafood Exporters Association. He said these restrictions had resulted in a situation in which raw material from other States too cannot be processed here. He said export orders for the March-April season could not be fully processed as the restrictions came into effect. Value-addition activities aimed at the coming season had not been carried out either because of the continuing restrictions and efforts to contain the pandemic. The State Fisheries Department has issued restrictions on activities in the coastal areas from Thiruvananthapuram to Kochi considering the spread of the pandemic. The serious spread of the pandemic in the coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, and Ernakulam has brought all fishing activities to a standstill. Fishing boat owners, in the meanwhile, said the annual trawling ban slated to end on July 31 would see more shrimp being caught giving a boost to activities in the processing sector. However, Joseph Xavier Kalapurakkal of the Boat Operators Association said the restrictions had scaled down activities substantially. “The restrictions on workers from other States operating in boats launched from Kerala centres is one of the reasons that will see reduced fishing activities, especially for shrimp catch,” he added. Around 20,000 fishers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu are also being quarantined in Kerala. These workers have been asked to produce COVID-negative certificates before they can be employed. Mr. Kalapurakkal said boat owners had been incurring heavy expenses in maintaining the group of workers ahead of the end of the trawling ban and expressed the hope that the season would be profitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seafood-exports-take-a-hit/article32217536.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||NIA arrests DU professor in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested an associate professor of the Delhi University (DU) for allegedly promoting “Naxal activities and Maoist ideology” in a case pertaining to the Bhima Koregaon riots of 2018. Associate Professor Hany Babu M.T, 54, from Noida in Uttar Pradesh, teaches at the English Department of the Delhi University. He was questioned at length by the NIA in Mumbai in the past four days. The case was transferred to the agency in January. The accused has been arrested under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The NIA said, in a statement, that the case arose out of another one registered in Pune on provocative speeches delivered during Elgar Parishad organised by the activists of Kabir Kala Manch at Shaniwarwada, Pune, on December 31, 2017, which “promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence resulting in loss of life & property and State-wide agitation in Maharashtra”. “During investigation, it was revealed that senior leaders of CPI (Maoist), an organisation banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, were in contact with the organizers of Elgar Parishad as well as the accused arrested in the case to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities,” the agency said. Mr. Babu will be produced before the NIA special court in Mumbai on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-du-professor-in-bhima-koregaon-case/article32217220.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Will verify reports on L-G’s remarks’||The Union government on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it would verify media reports quoting Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) G.C. Murmu as saying 4G Internet should be restored in the Valley. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana initially asked the J&K administration and the Centre to respond on August 5. However, the law officers expressed reluctance over the date, saying “the officers may not be available on August 5”. The court finally scheduled the next hearing for August 7. Mr. Murmu’s reported recommendation caused a stir as the Centre has been maintaining, and has even filed an affidavit in the court, that the situation was not ripe to restore 4G Net owing to heightened terror activities in J&K. It had agreed to review the situation again after two months. The hearing began with Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the J&K administration, asking for an adjournment. He said he had received a rejoinder from the petitioner, Foundation for Media Professionals, to the affidavit and needed time to respond. Senior advocate Huzeifa Ahmadi and advocate Shadab Farasat submitted, “Media reports show that the L-G has also favoured restoration of 4G speed. I have annexed them with my rejoinder... While the Union of India says it cannot be done now, it has also said the Union Territory can consider”. Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal said, “We will verify it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-verify-reports-on-l-gs-remarks/article32217236.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM to blame for Urjit Patel’s exit from RBI, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reluctance to go after wilful bank defaulters led to the resignation of former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Urjit Patel. “Efforts to clean the banking system cost him his job. Why? PM didn't want him to go after wilful defaulters”, Mr. Gandhi tweeted and tagged a news report. The report stated that “moves to dilute a new bankruptcy law caused disagreements between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and the central bank, according to former Reserve Bank of India Governor Urjit Patel”. The report referred to Mr. Patel’s recently launched book Overdraft: Saving The Indian Saver , in which he says that the decision to ‘dilute’ the bankruptcy law caused a rift between the central bank and the Union government. It also referred to Mr. Patel’s former colleague and ex-Deputy Governor of RBI Viral Acharya’s yet-to-be released book, in which Mr. Acharya argues that proposed changes to the governance structure of RBI resulted in the departure of the former RBI Governor. Mr. Patel, who succeeded Raghuram Rajan as RBI Governor in August 2016, had one of the shortest tenures and resigned in December 2018, citing ‘personal’ reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-blame-for-urjit-patels-exit-from-rbi-says-rahul/article32217219.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana app for COVID-19 patients||Availing services of private doctors to treat COVID-19 patients on home quarantine, Telangana government has developed a new app christened Home Isolation Tele-medicine and Monitoring (HITAM). 170 doctors enrol Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar while appearing in a batch of PIL pleas informed Telangana High Court on Tuesday that the app was being tested on a pilot basis for the past six days. Close to 170 doctors were already enrolled for this app, said the CS describing it as one of the unique initiatives to tackle COVID-19. Mostly private and retired government doctors were being chosen for this project, said the CS making it clear that government did not want to disturb in-service doctors for this. Each doctor was being assigned 50 patients. “The doctor will prescribe medicines for the patient through the app messages. The doctor would also collect details of the patient’s family members and guide them,” Mr. Kumar explained. Soon, it would be made available to all citizens. “This app will make lives of COVID patients comfortable. Indirectly, government is extending family doctor facility to citizens,” the CS remarked hoping the concept would be a success. Describing the COVID situation as “unprecedented”, the CS said even IAS officers were getting infected. “Several of my officers and district collectors got affected while discharging duties,” he said replying to a query from the court. Another initiative of the government to tackle the pandemic was bringing together hotels and private hospitals to create COVID care centres, he informed the court. COVID patients who can afford treatment at private hospitals would be provided rooms or beds at the hotels. The hotels vary from one star to three stars and charges would be fixed accordingly. This would create more beds or rooms for the patients, the CS said. Already, 857 rooms/beds were created at hotels at 10 places in the city following consultations with private hospitals, he told the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-app-for-covid-19-patients/article32217181.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Reconsider CET decision, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to reconsider, by Wednesday, the decision to conduct the Common Entrance Test-2020 for various professional courses as per the schedule on July 30 and 31 in view of the “drastic change” in the COVID-19 situation in the State when compared with the scenario that existed on May 13, when the test schedule was announced. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order while hearing a batch of PIL petitions seeking postponement of CET-2020. Hearing of the petitions will continue at 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The Bench noted that more than 5,000 COVID-19 cases are being reported every day from the past two weeks in the State and around 2,000 cases a day are being detected in Bengaluru city alone. It sought to know how the students from containment zones would be able to attend the CET. The Bench pointed out that Bengaluru city alone has more than 5,000 containment zones and the standard operating procedure (SOP) dealing with the containment zones prevents persons residing in such zones from coming out. The Bench orally observed that CET is not like holding SSLC exam, where a second opportunity has been provided for those who could not attend it, as the entrance test is held only once and many students may miss the it owing the present situation. Meanwhile, after conducting a meeting with officials of different departments, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said preparedness for the CET was assessed. “All the deputy commissioners, and officials of Transport, Police and Health departments were also present at the meeting. All the departments have done full preparations for conducting the CET. Nobody will be put to inconvenience,” he said. He said they would present this before the High Court on Wednesday and seek the court’s “instructions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reconsider-cet-decision-says-hc/article32217183.ece
29 July 2020||KOCHI,||NIA questions Sivasankar for 10 hours||After an intense interrogation session that lasted nearly 10 hours in the Kerala gold smuggling case, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) let M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, go on Tuesday night. The top official was allowed to go after grilling by around 9 p.m. The official is understood to have left for his Thiruvananthapuram residence at the end of the quizzing session. It was for the second consecutive day on Tuesday that the investigation agency interrogated the top bureaucrat at its Kochi office in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. On Monday, the agency had grilled him for close to nine hours. The bail application of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair will come up before the NIA special court on Wednesday. Last week, when their bail applications were heard, counsel for the investigation agency requested the court to postpone the case as the Assistant Solicitor General wished to appear. Considering the request, the court postponed the case for Wednesday. Remand extended Meanwhile, the additional chief judicial magistrate court (Economic Offences) in Kochi extended the remand of Swapna and Sandeep for five more days. The application was moved by the Customs Department on Tuesday. The court noted that the statements of some high-profile persons were being recorded by the Customs Department and the NIA. It accepted the contention of the Special Public Prosecutor that it was essential to cross-check the statements of the accused and test their credibility to unravel the truth. A woman officer not below the rank of superintendent shall keep a surveillance on Swapna while in custody. The accused should be given an opportunity to interact with her children through electronic means, the court directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-questions-sivasankar-for-10-hours/article32217197.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||States leverage digital resources as pandemic keeps schools shut||States across the country have been forced to jump onto the digital education bandwagon over the last four months due to the interruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. As the new academic year gets under way with schools still closed across the country, the Human Resource Development Ministry on Tuesday released a State-wise report documenting the spread of digital classrooms, e-textbooks and mobile learning apps. There are three broad pathways being followed to ensure continuous learning, according to the report, depending on the level of available technology. Where videoconferencing tools are available, live classes are being held with teacher-student interactions. According to the report, digital classrooms are being tried in 25 States and Union Territories, although the extent of their reach in each State is unclear. Where digital technology is completely absent, States are dependent on broadcast classes via television in at least 25 States and Union Territories, and radio is being used in 18 States and Union Territories. The most common type of distance learning seems to be asynchronous digital education, which does not require the level of connectivity needed for live online classes, but instead uses already prepared digital content hosted on platforms such as the Centre’s DIKSHA. All States are using the platform, which has had 200 crore page hits and 60 lakh course completions since the lockdown, according to the report. Teachers are also using WhatsApp to communicate with their students, and point student to the relevant DIKSHA resources for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-leverage-digital-resources-as-pandemic-keeps-schools-shut/article32217215.ece
29 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||With doctor on video call, neighbours help woman give birth||Remember the scene from the Hindi blockbuster movie 3 Idiots in which the protagonist, an engineering student, along with his friends, helps a woman give birth in a college recreation hall? An equally filmi scene unfolded in real life at Hanagal, a small town in Haveri district of Karnataka, on Sunday. On Sunday afternoon, Vasavi Fattepur, a resident of Kittur Chennamma Road in Hanagal, who was expecting her second baby, developed labour pain ahead of the scheduled date. On being alerted by her husband Raghavendra, their neighbours Madhulika Desai, Ankita Vedambhattanavar, Jyoti Madi and others rushed to help. Labour progressed quickly and the baby was almost delivered by the time the women reached her house. “I rushed home and came back with gloves, mask and took the baby first,” recalled Ms. Desai. Mr. Raghavendra had, by that time, called the ambulance, only to be informed that it would take at least 30 to 45 minutes as the ambulance had gone on COVID-19 duty. By that time, other women in the neighbourhood — Vijayalaxmi Joshi, Madhuri Kamanahalli, Mukta Kamanahalli and Shivaleela Pattar — too turned up to help. “We were worried. So we called up Dr. Priyanka Mantagi to seek advice. We made a video call on WhatsApp and she told us what to do. We bought a new blade, followed all the precautions as advised by her, and cut the umbilical cord. All women in the neighbourhood chipped in and we are happy that we saved the baby,” Ms. Desai said. Dr. Mantagi, a native of Hanagal, is pursuing her postgraduate course in gynaecology and obstetrics at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. When the call came, she was attending to her duties at the hospital. “In the video call, I could see what the situation was like. I just assured them that there was nothing to worry. I told them how to cut the umbilical cord after tying both the ends,” Dr. Mantagi told The Hindu . By the time they completed the procedure, cleaned up the baby, covered it in warm clothes and asked the mother to feed the baby, the ambulance and health staff arrived at the spot to take the mother and baby to the hospital. “We are happy that both the mother and the baby are safe and healthy. They are now in Navalgund, at Vasavi’s parents’ home,” Ms. Desai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-doctor-on-video-call-neighbours-help-woman-give-birth/article32217187.ece
29 July 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi BJP leaders’ statements add fuel to leadership rumours||The statements by two BJP leaders added fuel to the rumours that the party high command was considering a change in leadership in the State. Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who spoke to journalists at the government circuit house here on Tuesday, said that if Laxman Savadi was lucky enough, he could be the Chief Minister. “If he is lucky, let him be Chief Minister. Why do you say no to that,” Mr Jarkiholi said as if in jest and walked away. This is different to what he said at the zilla panchayat meeting here on Monday. Mr. Jarkiholi had stressed that B.S. Yediyurappa would not only continue to be the Chief Minister till the end of this term but would also lead the party’s campaign in the next Assembly elections. Meanwhile, Athani MLA Mahesh Kumthalli, who was accompanying the Minister, also made a similar remark. “If Mr. Savadi is lucky, he might even be Chief Minister. What is wrong in that,” he said. Mr. Savadi’s followers have been circulating messages on social media that he would be the next Chief Minister. This follows his visit to Delhi to meet party leaders and Union Ministers and his visit to Governor Vajubhai Vala before leaving for Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/belagavi-bjp-leaders-statements-add-fuel-to-leadership-rumours/article32217461.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad set to build on pharma hub status||Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao on Tuesday said the post COVID-19 world will provide great opportunities for the pharma and life sciences sector in Telangana. Participating in an online session hosted by the World Economic Forum, Mr. Rao said this even while pointing out to how Hyderabad was poised to emerge as global pharma destination with the next phase of Genome Valley, Medical Devices Park and the Pharma City. The government plans to attract more investments in the pharma and life sciences sector in Telangana, he told the session on ‘Harnessing the Potential of Telangana’s Pharmaceutical Sector in the Global Health Ecosystem’. The Hyderabad pharma industry was contributing 30-40% of the country’s pharma production. Hyderabad-based company Bharat Biotech had developed the first indigenous vaccine for COVID-19 that is currently undergoing clinical trials. Major pharma companies like Novartis have made Hyderabad one of their bases, the Industries Minister said. The government will work with the industry towards utilising every opportunity to not only produce vaccines but also to explore opportunities in digital drug discovery, Mr. Rao said, a release from the Minister’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-set-to-build-on-pharma-hub-status/article32217480.ece
29 July 2020||RUDRAPUR,||Policeman stabs man’s forehead with bike key||A policeman has been accused of jabbing a key into a man’s forehead after an argument over not wearing a helmet, in Rudrapur area of Uttarakhand late on Monday evening. DG (Law and Order) Ashok Kumar said three police personnel, including an SI, had been suspended. Dipak, a resident of Rampura area, was going to a petrol pump on his motorcycle with a friend around 8 p.m. when the police stopped them at Indira Chowk for not wearing helmets. An argument broke out and one of the policemen reportedly pulled out the motorcycle key and jabbed its tapering end into Deepak’s forehead. A crowd soon gathered at the spot and began a protest. They were pacified by senior police officials and local MLA Rajkumar Thakral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policeman-stabs-mans-forehead-with-bike-key/article32217227.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Chinese firm won bid to supply meters in J&K’||The Congress on Tuesday expressed concern over a Chinese firm getting a contract to supply smart meters for power connections in Jammu and Srinagar, and claimed that the company may be able to black out these areas within minutes. Addressing a virtual press conference, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Chinese company, Dongfang, had been sub-contracted to install two lakh smart meters with radio frequency (RF) technology in the two cities despite security concerns. “BJP MP G. Kishan Reddy, now the Minister of State for Home Affairs, used to tweet about this company in 2017 against his own government,” Mr. Khera said. The Congress spokesperson alleged that the company not only had close links with the Chinese government and military but also worked in Pakistan. “If a company controls or has the RF technology of a smart meter, that company can access the data of the consumer,” Mr. Khera added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-firm-won-bid-to-supply-meters-in-jk/article32217237.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Disengagement at most spots on LAC complete’||This was the first time that the Chinese media had specifically referred to issues in the Gogra-Hot Springs and Pangong Lake areas along the LAC. Previously, they had only spoken of differences in the Galwan Valley, where a clash on June 15 that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers, marked the worst violence on the border since 1967. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin responded that “as border troops have disengaged in most localities, the situation on the ground is de-escalating and the temperature is coming down”. “Recently China and India have held frequent communication via diplomatic and military channels, with four rounds of commander-level talks and three meetings under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on China-India Border Affairs,” Mr. Wang said. “Currently the two sides are actively preparing for the fifth round of commander-level talks to resolve outstanding issues on the ground. We hope the Indian side will work towards the same goal with China, implement the two sides' consensus and jointly uphold peace and tranquillity along the border.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disengagement-at-most-spots-on-lac-complete/article32217198.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan Cabinet seeks House session on July 31||Asked about the session's agenda, the Minister said it was for the Assembly’s Business Advisory Committee to decide. “The Governor is not empowered to raise repeated queries in this manner. Yet, we are giving a reply out of respect for him as the head of our family,” Mr. Khachariawas said. While facing the crisis created by the rebellion of former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs, the Congress has alleged that Mr. Mishra was acting “under pressure” from the BJP government at the Centre. Returning the first proposal, Mr. Mishra had sought clarifications on six points. While returning the second proposal, the Governor stated in his missive that though the government's statements to the media had made it clear that it wanted to move a confidence motion, the Cabinet advice had not made any mention of this. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande, who is in Jaipur, meanwhile, launched a scathing attack on the Governor through a series of tweets, alleging that he “does not seem to be healthy” given his biased thinking. Mr. Pande said Mr. Mishra should recover from the “infection of unilateral thinking” and give his consent for convening the Assembly session. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Mandan Dilawar filed a fresh writ petition in the Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday challenging the Assembly Speaker's decision to reject his complaint over six Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs joining the Congress. The petition will come up for hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-cabinet-seeks-house-session-on-july-31/article32217199.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre unable to pay States’ GST dues: official||The GST Council was scheduled to meet in July to try and work out the formula to rework the compensation to the States. However, the meeting has not been convened so far. The opposition members meanwhile were up in arms, as the committee which was meeting for the first time since the nationwide lockdown instead of discussing the State of Indian economy, took up the topic “Financing the innovation ecosystem and India’s growth companies”. Congress MPs Manish Tewari, Ambika Soni, Gaurav Gogoi and NCP MP Praful Patel, according to sources, vociferously, demanded that the Committee discuss the current state of economy which has suffered a huge set back because of the pandemic. Mr Tewari in a letter to Chairperson, Mr Sinha, had earlier pointed out that the people will consider the Committee to be “delusional” to discuss the chosen topic in a hour of crisis. According to sources, Mr Tewari pointed out that even the Budget passed by Parliament March 23 may no longer be relevant since it was based on certain assumptions about the revenue collections. There is no clarity so far from the government on overall revenue shortfall, he pointed out. Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi said the panel must also scrutinise the efficacy of the government’s rescue package. It is learnt that Mr. Sinha said most of the questions posed by the members were political in nature and cannot be answered by Finance Ministry officials. These can only be replied to by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and can be taken up when Parliament meets during debates on the subject. To this, sources said, Mr Praful Patel said if the Standing Committee on Finance cannot discuss even the basic question of the state of economy, then it is better to disband the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-unable-to-pay-states-gst-dues-official/article32217200.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||At 2,967 tigers, India’s capacity at peak||When releasing the report, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said and other wildlife were a kind of “soft power” India had to show on the international front. “The Ministry is working on a programme in which efforts would be made to provide water and fodder to animals in the forest itself to deal with the challenge of human-animal conflict which is causing deaths of animals”. In the tiger reserves in Uttar Pradesh, there were several more tigers that depended on the source but lived outside it. In Corbett, there were 231 tigers within the reserves, but 266 were ‘utilising it.’ Kanha in Madhya Pradesh had 88 inside and 108 dependent on it. The Pench reserve in Maharashtra had 53 inside but 82 utilising them. These estimates were based on tigers photographed via camera traps . “In the tall grass Terai and Shivalik hills habitat, highest tiger densities have been achieved. In these habitats, tiger densities at carrying capacity can be between 10 to 16 tigers per 100 sq km,” the authors note. In the latest report, said Qamar Qureshi, wildlife biologist at the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun and co-author, scientists had plotted a relationship between how much prey was needed to sustain a certain population. “Many places have reached their maximum... so wildlife managers can plan based on this equation whether their reserves are nearing capacity,” he told The Hindu . A summary of the report “Tigers Co-predators and Prey” was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last July. While a detailed report was to have been readied by last December, it has only been publicly released on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-2967-tigers-indias-capacity-at-peak/article32217201.ece
29 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Manipur Cong. tables motion||Two Congress MLAs on Tuesday moved a no-confidence against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur. The 60-member Assembly is scheduled to be in session for a day on August 10. Keisham Meghachandra and Thokchom Lokeswar moved the motion on behalf of the party. “The BJP-led coalition has been treating the drug barons with kid gloves,” Mr. Meghachandra told journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-cong-tables-motion/article32217213.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM, Chennithala cross swords over consultancies||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday crossed swords over the hiring of a global consultancy to examine the socio-economic impact of the proposal to construct an airport near Sabarimala. Mr. Chennithala had said the airport project was a non-starter. The land earmarked for the scheme, Cheruvaly Estate, was locked in protracted litigation. The government had awarded a pricey contract to the consultancy for a plan that might possibly never manifest in reality. Mr. Chennithala said hiring consultancies for fantastical mega projects at tax payers’ expense was the hallmark of the government. Private consultancies have hijacked governance and supplanted government employees in charge of infrastructure projects. Mr. Vijayan said the government had contracted the consultancy via a transparent and thorough process. It had shortlisted three firms and chosen the one which scored the highest points. He said the Sabarimala airport would soon become a reality. The 2,263-acre estate belonged to the government. The State has a dispute with Harrison Malayalam Plantation and Believer's Church over ownership. The denomination claimed to have bought the property from Harrisons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-chennithala-cross-swords-over-consultancies/article32217537.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Building collapse||A building housing a hotel in Majestic area collapsed on Tuesday night. The building was located on the premises where the iconic Kapali theatre once stood. Fire department officials said the incident occurred past 9.45 p.m. No casualties were reported as occupants in nearby buildings were evacuated on Monday after the building developed cracks, said an official. In 2017, Kapali theatre in Gandhinagar made way for a mall and a multiplex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/building-collapse/article32217278.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Let govt. decide efficacy of RAT: HC||The issue of the effectiveness and accuracy of rapid antigen test (RAT) being conducted on a large scale to confirm if a person contracted COVID came up for discussion in Telangana High Court on Tuesday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B.Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of 16 PIL pleas related to COVID when a petitioner’s counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar urged the court to instruct government to step up antigen tests. But what was the accuracy and effectiveness of the test, the CJ sought to know from the lawyer. The CJ, citing media reports, said in Rajasthan, it was found that the accuracy of rapid antigen tests was not more than 40%. “It is better to leave the decision to the government which can consult the high-power committee and medical fraternity on the matter,” the CJ remarked. The bench also noted that there were conflicting and contradictory reports about the efficacy of N95 masks and different types of sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-govt-decide-efficacy-of-rat-hc/article32217479.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Can’t share CM post with regional party’||Senior BJP leader Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday appeared reaching out to estranged ally Shiv Sena, a day after party president J.P. Nadda asked party workers to endeavour to form a government in Maharashtra on its own strength. Mr. Patil also said the BJP, being a national party, can’t share the post of chief minister with any regional party, because if it does so then it will have to replicate the same formula in Bihar and Haryana. “If the BJP’s parliamentary body recommends the State unit to forge an alliance with the Shiv Sena to protect the interest of the State... I must make one point clear that even if both the parties (the BJP and the Sena) come together, we will not contest any election jointly in future,” Mr. Patil, who heads the State BJP unit, told a Marathi news channel. The BJP and its old ally Sena fell out over sharing the post of CM in Maharashtra after the 2019 Assembly elections. Mr. Patil seemed to underline compulsions of the BJP vis-a-vis sharing the post of chief minister. “We had been liberal with the Shiv Sena in the last five years. We were even ready to share more portfolios, but the BJP, being a national party, can’t share the post of CM with any regional party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-share-cm-post-with-regional-party/article32217410.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Toll crosses 2,000 in Karnataka with 102 new deaths||With 102 deaths reported on Tuesday, Karnataka’s death toll touched 2,055. The State’s overall toll first hit 100 on June 17. Subsequently, the total number of deaths touched 1,032 on July 16, and it has now doubled in 12 days to 2,055. In fact, the toll started spiking in the beginning of July. From July 1 till date, the State added 1,809 to its toll, which translates to an average of 64 deaths a day. With 957 deaths so far, Bengaluru Urban district has contributed 45% of the total number of deaths. The number of deaths has crossed 100 in Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, and Dharwad too. With a Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of 2%, Karnataka is now in fifth position in the country in terms of deaths. Meanwhile, the State recorded 5,536 new cases, the highest single-day increase so far, taking the total number of cases to 1,07,001. With 2,819 people discharged, the total number of recoveries touched 40,504. Of the 64,434 active cases, 612 are being monitored in the ICU. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,898 cases and 40 deaths on Tuesday. With a total of 48,821 and 957 deaths, Bengaluru Urban is likely to cross 50,000 cases and 1,000 deaths on Wednesday. As many as 37,720 tests, including 16,340 rapid antigen tests, were conducted in a 24-hour period. Centralised system The State government will soon set up a centralized system in place to classify asymptomatic, symptomatic, and mildly symptomatic persons, and will recommend treatment based on case severity. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said various existing mobile applications related to COVID-19 would be brought under one platform to get real-time information. “This will in turn assist in strategising allocation of hospitals/beds to the needy. Following this, patients will get all information through one phone call,” he said. Earlier during the day, the Minister a held videoconference meeting with the heads of private medical colleges to review their COVID-19 preparedness. The government has already issued guidelines to private hospitals to allocate 50% of beds for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toll-crosses-2000-as-state-reports-102-new-deaths/article32217299.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: Dharma CEO records statement||Dharma Productions CEO Apoorva Mehta was at Amboli police station in Andheri on Tuesday to record his statement in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, an official said. Rajput had worked with the production house of Karan Johar in the 2019 film Drive . Mr. Mehta, who was summoned by the police, reached the Amboli police station around noon, an official said, adding that he also carried the contract papers signed by Rajput and the production house. Mumbai Police had on Monday recorded filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt’s statementin connection with Rajput’s death. The body of the 34-year-old actor was found at his apartment in suburban Bandraon June 14. The police have so far recorded statements of 40 people, including those of Rajput’s family members, his cook, Bollywood personalities including Sanjay Leela Bhansali, film critic Rajeev Masand, actor Sanjana Sanghi, casting director Shanoo Sharma, filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, and Aditya Chopra of Yash Raj Films. The police are investigating allegations that professional rivalry were behind Rajput’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushant-case-dharma-ceo-records-statement/article32217611.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||NIA opposes Bharadwaj’s petition||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday “strongly opposed” the plea filed by trade unionist and human rights lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj in the Bombay High Court after her interim medical bail was rejected by the NIA court. Advocate Ragini Ahuja, representing Ms. Bharadwaj lodged at Byculla jail, appeared before a Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht. She said Ms. Bharadwaj was arrested on August 28, 2018, and has been in jail for almost two years on charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in the Bhima-Koregaon case. She attached the medical certificate of the 58-year-old Ms. Bharadwaj and the medical report submitted by the jail authorities to the petition. The medical report revealed that Ms. Bharadwaj was suffering from diabetes and ischemic heart disease. The NIA’s counsel, Additional Solicitor General of Maharashtra and Goa, Anil Singh, said, “The NIA strongly opposes the plea. She has been taken care in the jail and her bail has been previously rejected on merits because of her involvement in terrorist and anti-national activities.”He said, “For her ailments, she has been given the best treatment inside jail and if needed, she will be shifted to a hospital.” He added, “Social distancing has been maintained inside jail and currently, anyone can get infected with COVID-19.” The Bench directed the Central agency to file another reply to the petition and adjourned the matter to be heard on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-opposes-bharadwajs-petition/article32217224.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Submit report on Rao in 3 days, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital at Vile Parle to submit, within three days, a report on the medical status and line of treatment given to poet-activist Varavara Rao, 81, who is admitted there. The court also permitted Mr. Rao’s family members to visit him at the hospital and said this was in accordance with government norms with respect to a COVID-19 patient. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht was hearing two petitions, one against the Taloja Central jail authorities, where Mr. Rao was lodged before being shifted to the hospital. It seeks court’s directive for submission of a detailed report, along with medical papers of the treatment and course of action followed by them, after Mr. Rao’s hurried discharge from JJ Hospital on June 2. The second petition is a criminal appeal against the rejection of Mr. Rao’s interim medical bail plea by a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court. Advocate Sudeep Pasbola appearing for Mr. Rao told the court that the family is unable to get any information about his health from either the hospital or the jail. He said, “Mr. Rao is serious [seriously unwell] and when the family contacts the jail, they are told — call the hospital, and when the hospital is contacted, they are told — call the jail.” Mr. Pasbola questioned, “What is the secrecy over his health? His family is in Hyderabad, so at least a call can be arranged [for them] to talk to him at the hospital.”  ‘We have no problem’ On this, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, representing the NIA, said, “We have no problem if the family wants to talk or meet him. If the hospital permits, we have no problem. Nanavati Hospital is the best hospital and there should not be any grievance about his health or treatment.” Mr. Pasbola replied, “There cannot be any grievance because there is no information about his health.” Mr. Singh replied, “As per the Indian Council of Medical Research, secrecy has to be maintained.” The court asked if there was any problem should information be shared. To this the State’s counsel said they had no objection to sharing any information with the family members and that the hospital could be directed to submit a report. The matter has been adjourned to August 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/submit-report-on-rao-in-3-days-says-hc/article32217225.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to reconstitute Dubey panel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to reconstitute the Justice B.S. Chauhan Commission of Inquiry set up by it to look into the gunning down of eight police officers on July 2 and the subsequent encounter deaths of their alleged assailants, history-sheeter Vikas Dubey and his associates. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde was initially circumspect about certain remarks made by Commission member and former DGP K.L. Gupta in the media on the police encounters. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta read out the transcripts of what Mr. Gupta said in the media. “He is only saying that anyone found guilty will be punished. He has taken a balanced view. We cannot change the Commission. This is after all a Commission of Inquiry and not an investigation,” the CJI told advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay, the petitioner. The court dismissed the application, filed days after the court approved the Uttar Pradesh government’s choice of the Commission members — Mr. Gupta and former Allahabad High Court judge Shashikant Agrawal. In his application, Mr. Upadhyay said Mr. Gupta had “justified the police encounter” during a TV debate on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-reconstitute-dubey-panel/article32217234.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC declines relief to CBI officer Bassi||More than a year after he challenged his back-to-back transfer from New Delhi to Port Blair in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Supreme Court on Tuesday told CBI officer A.K. Bassi, who led a corruption probe against then Special Director Rakesh Asthana, that it cannot protect him, and he is free to approach an “appropriate forum” with his case. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, began the hearing by asking Mr. Bassi’s lawyers, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan and advocate Sunil Fernandes, why their client had not yet joined his posting in Port Blair. Later, the court declined Mr. Dhavan’s request for interim protection till his client moved the Central Administrative Tribunal against the transfer. “We do not see any need to give protection to you... What is it that prevented you from joining your posting? We will allow you to withdraw this petition with liberty to raise all contentions before an appropriate forum,” Justice Bobde addressed the lawyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-declines-relief-to-cbi-officer-bassi/article32217240.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Smell cards’ mooted to screen people||Anosmia, or loss of smell, is one of the symptoms that afflicts many, but not all COVID-19 patients. With this in mind, Bengaluru Mayor M. Goutham Kumar on Tuesday directed officials to look into the possibility of introducing “smell card checks” at public places, including malls, to identify asymptomatic cases. At the BBMP council meeting on Tuesday, he said since loss of smell and loss of taste are symptoms of COVID-19, a “smell card check” could be introduced at public spaces. “I have learnt from the media that such a thing is being mulled over in Delhi. Hence, the possibility of such checks can be looked into,” he said. He suggested “smell cards” with strong flavours such as citrus (lemons and oranges) can be used. If a person fails to identify the smell, he/she may not be allowed into malls or public spaces and be advised to stay at home. These smell tests can be an addition to existing precautions such as thermal checks, he said. However, experts say loss of taste and smell are just one of the many symptoms and not necessarily conditions of COVID-19. C.N. Manjunath, director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, and nodal officer for labs and testing in Karnataka’s COVID-19 task force, said checking olfactory function might not be a viable option as the symptom is found in less than 5% of COVID-19 patients. “Most of the people infected with the virus do not lose their sense of taste and smell,” he said. Mr. Manjunath also pointed out such olfactory tests could become counter- productive. “Many people can develop irritation after being made to sniff at a smell card,” he said, adding that maintaining social distancing and compulsory use of masks and sanitisers should be strictly followed and implemented. Author C.K. Meena said such tests at public places would create problems for those suffering from anosmia. “I am smell blind and if I cannot identify a smell, does that mean I will not be allowed to go to public places,” she asked, adding that it was highly unlikely that people administering the tests at checkposts would understand that she was “smell blind”. The suggestion has left civic activists bemused. “We are not aware of any such method being deployed anywhere,” said a civic activist. A member of a residents’ welfare association wanted to know if the Mayor would introduce taste tests instead. “If the Mayor wants to introduce smell cards, then why can’t he organise taste tests. Give some bite-sized idli-vada or bhajjis, before we board a bus or enter a mall,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/smell-cards-mooted-to-screen-people/article32217184.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Study: 80% data breaches due to stolen credentials||With a large number of employees working from home given the novel coronavirus pandemic, 80% of breaches are due to stolen or brute-forced credentials, a Verizon Business study on impact of COVID-19 on data breach landscape has revealed. The report, which was released on Tuesday, states that a large number of these breaches occur via web apps or the cloud. The study report points to an increase in employees working from home and maintaining external workstations for remote access and are dependent on Software as service (SaaS) platform as a possible reason for this trend. Prashant Gupta, head of Solutions, Verizon Business, said that due to the pandemic, a large number of companies were adopting SaaS solutions in a hurried manner. While these solutions and the cloud were not less secure, this adoption was done in situations of fewer personnel and revenue, which increases the risk. 474 instances The report also shows that between March 1 and June 1 this year, as many as 474 data publicly disclosed instances were added, out of which 36 were confirmed as related to COVID-19 pandemic. The report portended a rise in ramsonware, and noted that in the COVID-19 breach dataset, ransomware groups had taken copy of the data before posting it online and on a website of their choice. Of the 474 incidents, 128 were ransomware incidents and 34 were confirmed breaches. The number of breaches since last year had increased by nearly double with 3,950 confirmed breaches, as against 2,103 recorded in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/80-data-breaches-due-to-stolen-credentials-study/article32217497.ece
29 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Last Nizam’s daughter passes away||Sahebzadi Basheerunnisa Begum, the last surviving daughter of Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, passed away in the early hours of Tuesday. According to family sources, she died of natural causes at her home in Purani Haveli. Family sources said that Basheerunnisa Begum was 93 years old. She is survived by daughter Rasheedunnisa Begum. The Seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, who ruled the dominion between 1911 and 1948, had 16 daughters and 18 sons. Basheerunnisa Begum was married to Kazim Yar Jung, better known as Ali Pasha. According to family members, the NIzam’s daughter was buried near the Dargah of Hazrat Yahiya Pasha in Misrigunj in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/last-nizams-daughter-passes-away/article32217189.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Midair feed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/midair-feed/article32217207.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘COVID-19 will lead to rise in child wasting’||The global prevalence of child wasting — lower weight for height — in 2020 could rise by 14.3%, translating into an additional 6.7 million children under the age of five suffering from it as the pandemic resulted in disruption of food systems and impeded access to healthcare services, according to a new study published in The Lancet on Tuesday.  Before the pandemic, nearly 47 million children younger than five years were estimated to be affected by wasting globally. The new estimates presented in The Lancet study titled ‘Impacts of COVID-19 on childhood malnutrition and nutrition-related mortality’ bring the total figure for 2020 to 53.7 million children under five. “This would bring global wasting to levels not seen this millennium,” warns an accompanying commentary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-will-lead-to-rise-in-child-wasting/article32217212.ece
29 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Shah asked to restrict troop movement||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has been asked to restrict the movement of personnel of paramilitary forces for preventing the spread of COVID-19 infection in Mizoram. The State’s lone Lok Sabha member C. Lalrosanga wrote to Mr. Shah on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-asked-to-restrict-troop-movement/article32217409.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC rejects G.N. Saibaba’s interim medical bail plea||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday rejected the interim medical bail plea filed by the wheelchair-bound and 90% disabled Professor G.N. Saibaba, incarcerated in a cell at the Nagpur Central Jail. Saibaba had sought the suspension of his sentence and/or temporary medical bail due to COVID-19. The Bench stated that since he is kept in a separate “high security” cell, there were no grounds to release him on temporary bail due to the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-rejects-gn-saibabas-interim-medical-bail-plea/article32217222.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mayawati BJP’s ‘undeclared spokesperson’: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday termed Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati an “undeclared spokesperson of the BJP”, after the BSP issued a whip to its six Rajasthan MLAs to vote against the Ashok Gehlot government. Ms. Vadra said on Twitter that by issuing such a whip, the BSP had given a clean chit to those who “murdered” democracy and the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-bjps-undeclared-spokesperson-priyanka/article32217221.ece
29 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Pampa river sand removal nearing end||The sand removal from the river course of the Pampa in Kerala that began a month ago is nearing completion. The District Disaster Management Authority, chaired by District Collector P.B. Noohu, started clearing the sand deposit left by the deluge of August 2018 at the Pampa on the foothills of Sabarimala on June 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pampa-river-sand-removal-nearing-end/article32217190.ece
29 July 2020||Lucknow,||Dalits prevented from cremating body, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Tuesday alleged that a Dalit woman’s body was removed from the funeral pyre near Agra as the cremation ground on which the last rites were being performed belonged to the upper castes. She demanded an inquiry into the incident, and said the culprits should be given the “harshest punishment” so that such an incident is not repeated.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalits-prevented-from-cremating-body-says-mayawati/article32217205.ece
29 July 2020||PATNA,||Sushant’s father files case against actor||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father K.K. Singh has filed an FIR against actor Rhea Chakraborty, accusing her of cheating and abetting his son’s suicide. A police team from Patna has reached Mumbai to probe the case. Sushant was found hanging in his flat in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushants-father-files-case-against-actor/article32217209.ece
29 July 2020||CH ENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 inmates of district jail in Thoothukudi test positive||At least 25 remand prisoners lodged in the Perurani district jail in Thoothukudi district have tested positive for COVID-19. While those infected, mostly asymptomatic, have been shifted to a government facility, other prisoners have been quarantined in the same jail. Prison authorities have launched an intensive sanitisation drive in coordination with health officials. According to sources at the prison headquarters, two suspects arrested for harassing women and children were lodged at the Perurani district jail on July 2. A couple of weeks later, the duo was produced at the Government Hospital for potency test. During the test, they were found to be COVID-19 positive. When inmates and prison staff, who were in contact with the infected persons, were tested, seven of them, including two prisoners, were found to be positive. The Thoothukudi principal district and sessions judge visited the jail last week and ordered that COVID-19 tests be conducted on all the 59 remand prisoners and 28 prison staff, sources said.  All asymptomatic Test results on Monday evening confirmed that of the 59 inmates, 21 were positive for COVID-19. Two of the 28 prison officials also were infected. “None of them have symptoms like fever, cough or breathlessness... they are all asymptomatic. They have been shifted to the Government Hospital for treatment,” a prison official told The Hindu on Tuesday. Director-General of Police, Department of Prisons and Correctional Services, Sunil Kumar Singh said that all remand prisoners were being subjected to COVID-19 testing, in accordance with the standard operating procedure. However, they are being lodged in prisons even as their test results, that take a day or two, are awaited. As a safety measure, all new inmates were being lodged in sub-jails for at least 14 days before being brought to central prisons, Mr. Singh added. The Perurani cluster follows a COVID-19 breakout at the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai a couple of months ago. Almost all prisoners there have since recovered from the infection.  All remand prisoners are being subjected to COVID-19 testing, in accordance with the standard operating procedure Sunil Kumar Singh DGP, Department of Prisons and Correctional Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-inmates-of-district-jail-in-thoothukudi-test-positive/article32217337.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work begins to dredge Ennore creek backwaters of fly ash||The Water Resources Department has started work to dredge the backwaters of Ennore creek, earlier this month, and mitigate pollution. Layers of fly ash sediments deposited in the backwaters are being removed over the last fortnight. The department is engaged in clearing the fly ash deposits from the 2.5-km stretch between North Chennai Thermal Power Station (NCTPS) and Kamarajar port. The stretch is silted with fly ash for a depth of nearly one metre. The Ennore creek and its backwaters, the confluence point of Kosasthalaiyar river, North Buckingham canal and the sea, have been destroyed with hotwater discharge and leakage of fly ash slurry, for nearly two decades now. A pipeline from NCTPS carrying fly ash along the creek added layers of silt. The long-pending work has now been taken up with the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) depositing Rs. 28.5 crore based on a directive of National Green Tribunal, southern bench, to remove fly ash. Though the tender process was completed in March, work was delayed due to the lockdown. Officials of the WRD said nearly 4.30 lakh cubic metre of fly ash deposits was estimated to be cleared from the Ennore creek backwaters and North Buckingham canal. “We have so far removed nearly 40,000 cubic metre of fly ash and have deposited it on the banks. It is Tangedco’s responsibility to dispose of the sediments cleared as per the NGT order and we have conveyed to them about the progress. As the sludge dries, there is no threat of further pollution,” said an official. The department would take up similar work on a 2.4-km stretch of the North Buckingham canal flowing parallel to the backwaters at a cost of Rs. 66.23 lakh. “We want to clear the fly ash sediments before the onset of the Northeast monsoon in October. This will help improve tidal action in Kosasthalaiyar river and the creek and alleviate flooding. Now, the tidal flow stops near the starting point of the creek because of the heavy sediments,” the official. Besides reviving the eco-system, including the vanishing mangroves, fishermen who are dependent on the creek and Kosasthalaiyar river would have better livelihood opportunities, once the project is completed, noted the officials. Meanwhile, environmentalists and fishermen noted that the leak from the NCTPS pipeline continued to pollute the region and the Tangedco must replace the pipeline. Unless the sludge deposited on the banks is disposed of and the leak is plugged, the environmental degradation would continue, they said. V.Desinghu, executive committee member, Nettukuppam fishermen cooperative society said, “Earlier, we used to get a good catch of crabs and prawns within one km distance. Now, we go up to 6-7 km near Kattupallikuppam in Kosasthalaiyar river. Hotwater discharge from thermal power plants still continues and it affected the fish population.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-begins-to-dredge-ennore-creek-backwaters-of-fly-ash/article32217367.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 6,972 fresh cases, 88 deaths||A total of 6,972 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. The State recorded 88 deaths, including that of a five-year-old. Chennai accounted for 1,107 fresh infections, while Virudhunagar witnessed a surge in cases, adding 577 infections to its tally. The State’s overall case count rose to 2,27,688, of which 57,073 were active cases. As many as 4,707 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total figure to 1,66,956. The State’s toll increased to 3,659. Among the deceased was a five-year-old girl from Tiruchi, who was admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Chennai, with acute lymphocytic leukaemia and febrile neutropenia on July 8. She subsequently tested positive for COVID-19 and died on July 27 due to factors including pneumonia, COVID-19 infection, sepsis and shock. Some northern and southern districts continued to account for a majority of the fresh infections. At 486, Tiruvallur district continued to report a high number of cases, followed by Chengalpattu (365), Tiruvannamalai (266) and Kancheepuram (223) in the northern part of the State. In southern Tamil Nadu, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli recorded 380 and 385 cases, respectively. In Madurai, 345 persons tested positive for the infection. Theni saw 282 cases while Kanniyakumari saw 223. In the western region, Coimbatore reported 273 fresh infections, while Thanjavur in the delta region had 209 cases. Nine districts, including Ranipet, Kallakurichi, Tiruchi and Tiruvarur, recorded over 100 cases each. Sixty-four returnees tested positive across the State. Chennai accounted for 24 of the 88 deaths, taking its toll to 2,056. Eight persons died in Tiruvallur and seven in Thoothukudi. There were six deaths each in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Madurai and Virudhunagar. Among the youngest adults to have died was a 29-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on July 22. The man tested positive for COVID-19 infection on July 25 and died on Monday due to factors including gluteal abscess, renal failure, multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and septic shock. A total of 61,153 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, a total of 24,75,866 samples have been tested so far. Two more laboratories Two private laboratories — Agam Diagnostics, Madurai, and Department of Microbiology, SRM Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi — have been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, the number of approved private laboratories has exceeded the number of government testing facilities in the State. There are 58 government testing facilities and 61 private facilities in Tamil Nadu.  A total of 61,153 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, a total of 24,75,866 samples have been tested in the State so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-6972-fresh-cases-88-deaths/article32217344.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thundershowers lash several parts of city and its suburbs||A scorching day ended with thundershowers lashing several parts of the city towards the evening on Tuesday. Many parts of the city and its suburbs, including Chitlapakkam, Chembarambakkam and Kolapakkam, received a good amount of rain, accompanied by thunder and lightning. Several places, including the Selaiyur stretch of Tambaram-Velachery Main Road, and the Mogappair stretch of the Maduravoyal Bypass Road were waterlogged as rain continued for over an hour. Residents of various areas, including Kolathur, Chitlapakkam and Mogappair, said power supply was interrupted for nearly an hour following thunder and short but intense spells of rain. While the weather station at Nungambakkam recorded nearly 1 cm of rainfall, the one at Meenambakkam received about 2 cm till 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Chembarambakkam and Kelambakkam recorded 3 cm and 2 cm respectively during the same period. Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam registered day temperatures of 37.7 degree Celsius and 36 degree Celsius respectively, nearly 3 degree Celsius above the average. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said scattered thunderstorm activity would continue in south Tamil Nadu and interior parts for two more days. Rainfall may be isolated in one or two places in the northern parts of the State. An upper air cyclonic circulation over southeastern and southwestern Bay of Bengal persists. This weather system and moisture from easterlies, prevailing in the middle part of the atmosphere, triggered the thunderstorm activity, he said. On Wednesday, one or two places in districts such as the Nilgiris, Salem, Madurai, Sivagangai and Coimbatore are likely to get heavy rainfall. Chennai will receive thunderstorms in the evening hours till Thursday. The day temperature will be around 36 degree Celsius, the Meteorological Department said. Flights diverted Three flights were diverted to Bengaluru owing to the rain. Flights from Varanasi, Madurai and Hyderabad were diverted to Bengaluru as they could not land due to bad weather. They returned to the city after a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thundershowers-lash-several-parts-of-city-and-its-suburbs/article32217333.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eye injuries require attention during lockdown, say doctors||Eye hospitals in Chennai and elsewhere have been seeing fewer cases of eye injuries during the lockdown but some patients with serious injuries come late for treatment, putting their sight at risk. Among the commonest injuries is foreign body in the eye, which sticks to the cornea and can be removed only by an ophthalmologist. The foreign body could penetrate the eye and get lodged either in the lens, vitreous or the retina, requiring surgery. Mohan Rajan, medical director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, said all eye injuries should be referred to an ophthalmologist immediately. Almost 50% of the injuries occur at home and an estimated 90% of injuries are preventable, he said. Amar Agarwal, chairman, Agarwal’s Eye Hospitals, said patients did not seek treatment fearing infection. He said he had treated a youth who came with a wooden piece lodged in his eye. It needed a major surgical correction due to the delay in seeking treatment. He had also treated a woman who had been injured in her eye during a domestic quarrel. Dr. Agarwal said patients need not worry as hospitals took utmost care to prevent spread of infection. These doctors said they treated children being injured after playing with bow and arrows, possibly influenced by certain TV serials. Tertiary care hospitals like Sankara Nethralaya and Aravind Eye Hospital in the city, too, had seen a major dip in the number of patients seeking treatment. T.S. Surendran, vice-chairman of Sankara Nethralaya, said trauma cases were fewer during the four months of the lockdown. The hospital attended to regular emergencies like retinal detachment, vitreous haemorrhage and conjunctivitis. According to him, the hospital had been treating at least 10 corneal ulcers daily. Doctors at Aravind Eye Hospital said lack of transport prevented people from seeking treatment immediately. As a result, they were sometimes unable to save the eye. “We had at least two or three such cases.” These tertiary care hospitals, which also do corneal grafts regularly, are faced with a dearth of cornea as there are no guidelines for harvesting corneas from cadavers. “It is a desperate situation as we don’t have clear guidelines on whether we can harvest cornea from cadavers. Injuries causing corneal ulceration and need corneal grafts have been difficult,” said Seema Ramakrishnan, medical consultant, cornea and refractive surgery, Aravind Eye Hospital. The hospital has been treating patients with eye injuries caused due to exposure to ultraviolet rays. Dr. Seema said the injury is similar to what the ophthalmologists see in welders. New gadgets being manufactured to disinfect gadgets using ultraviolet rays are affecting the eyes of people making them, she said. “We usually see welding mechanics, who come with the injury due to looking at the flame. It is called photokeratitis. Now, we find it more in electricians and people who are making these units. They are not aware of how the UV rays can harm their eyes,” she said. A common problem among those infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus is conjunctivitis. But this condition is often treated as part of the infection and people do not come to eye hospitals, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eye-injuries-require-attention-during-lockdown-say-doctors/article32217361.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Implement OBC reservation in medical courses, says Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement 27% reservation for OBCs in admissions to medical courses under the All-India Quota as directed by the Madras High Court. In a letter addressed to Mr. Modi, he said that reservation for OBCs had been denied ever since the All-India Quota was created for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses. He recalled that party Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss had written several letters to the Union Health Minister requesting to rectify this injustice. TheMadras High Court had ruledthat there is no constitutional or legal impediment to implementing reservation to OBCs on cases filed by parties in the State, including the PMK. While reservations for other categories like SCs and STs are implemented as per the rule book and Economically Weaker Sections are provided reservation within the general category, refusing OBCs alone their due right is injustice and discrimination, the letter said. Dr. Ramadoss claimed that the ‘indifferent attitude’ of the Directorate of Health Services had resulted in 11,000 OBC students losing their right to get admitted to UG and PG medical courses under the AIQ in the last four years. He appealed to Mr. Modi to end this injustice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-obc-reservation-in-medical-courses-says-ramadoss/article32217363.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lower-level staff singled out in govt. offices||Non-adherence to and the unequal implementation of the roster system for attendance at the Secretariat and in some government offices and educational institutions have been affecting the functioning of the government machinery. It is being alleged that only ‘C’ and ‘D’ category employees are forced to report for work on all working days for offices to get to the 50% workforce capacity during the lockdown, while several senior officials are freely availing their Earned Leave and Medical Leave entitlements. With only junior assistants (JAs), office assistants (OAs) and watchmen being forced to report for work to attain 50% capacity in these offices, files await clearance as several senior officials are taking turns to come to office in accordance with the roster, while some are on leave, a section of the ‘C’ and ‘D’ category employees said. While this pattern has been observed in a few departments, Annamalai University Deputation Staff Welfare Association president R. Kumaravel alleged that deputation staff were specifically being targetted. Deputees from Annamalai University are natives of Cuddalore district and transport was a major problem, he pointed out. “Officials are not allowing Annamalai University deputation staff even to avail earned leave or medical leave, which they are entitled to. In many instances, their salaries are being withheld by senior officials without authorisation. We too should be treated equally like other government employees,” Mr. Kumaravel said.  ‘Modular work station’ In a circular on July 14, the Labour and Employment Department made it mandatory for all office assistants to report to work daily, from July 17, since a “modular work station” was being set up, a government employee said, on condition of anonymity. “How will it help if only they come to office, when others are on leave or rotation duty? Who will give us work?” asked another employee. In some instances, senior officials hush up the issue and target staff who raise it with government employees’ associations. The principal of Government Polytechnic College at Reghunathapuram, Thanjavur district, issued a memo against 10 employees on July 28 after they raised the issue with a government employees’ association. “We have submitted complaints about the incidents and we want the government to look into the issue. We want the government to take action against senior officials who refuse to grant us leave and withhold our salaries,” Mr. Kumaravel said. When contacted, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam told The Hindu : “It [the roster system] is for all levels. I will ensure that ‘C’ and ‘D’ [category employees] alone are not singled out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lower-level-staff-singled-out-in-govt-offices/article32217348.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rescued infant handed over to Social Welfare Department||A newborn, rescued from a garbage bin in Muthialpet earlier this month, was handed over to the Social Welfare Department after treatment at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar handed over the baby to Social Welfare Minister V. Saroja on Tuesday. On July 14, police personnel found the newborn abandoned in a garbage bin in Muthialpet, Broadway. The baby was rushed to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital’s newborn intensive care unit. The Health Minister said the baby weighed 1.6 kg and was treated for septic shock. He was given milk from the breast milk bank of the Government Raja Sir Ramasamy Mudaliar Lying-in Hospital since the day of admission. The baby recovered and presently weighs 2 kg. Up for adoption The Social Welfare Department gave the baby to a NGO through the District Child Protection Officer. “The Cradle Baby Scheme was launched in 1991, and we have received a total of 4,120 girls and 1,200 boys. These children were handed over to licensed adoption centres as per Centre and State rules,” Ms. Saroja said. She said if the parents of the abandoned baby were found and they were willing to take him back, he would be handed over to them. “If not, the baby will be handed over to an adoption agency as per rules,” she said. There are 36 government-run child care institutions in Tamil Nadu and 152 NGOs supported by the government, she added. Among others, Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime against Women and Children wing, District Child Protection Officer Kalaiarasi and dean of Government Stanley Medical College Hospital P. Balaji were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescued-infant-handed-over-to-social-welfare-department/article32217330.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport may see increase in flights next month||Nearly two months after the resumption of domestic operations, the airport may soon see a significant increase in the number of flights. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has written a letter to the State government, requesting an increase in the number of flights. If the proposal gets approved, there will be nearly 85 flight arrivals and 85 departures every day starting next month, sources said. Right now, the airport has only 60 flights a day with 30 arrivals and departures each. The Tamil Nadu government placed a limit of 25 arrival flights just before the nod to resume domestic flight operations was given. As a result, there were only 25-30 departure flights, and passenger traffic was very poor. “A request has been made for increasing the number of flights. Now, the idea is to operate nearly 45% of the total capacity of the airport,” a source said. Before COVID-19, the airport used to witness nearly 450-500 aircraft movements every day. Appeal to govt. The AAI has already made repeated requests to the State government to permit operation of more flights. “Earlier, we would have tourists, business travellers, students, people coming to visit places of worship and those visiting for medical reasons. Now, people are taking flights only if there is some emergency or medical reasons,” another source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-may-see-increase-in-flights-next-month/article32217373.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court reserves verdict in Patanjali’s Coronil case||The Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on an application preferred by Patanjali Ayurved to vacate an ex-parte interim injunction restraining it from using the term ‘Coronil’ for tablets marketed as immunity boosters against COVID-19. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan also extended the interim injunction until he delivers orders on the application to vacate it. The orders were passed after hearing arguments advanced by senior counsel P.R. Raman and Satish Parasaran for the contesting parties. The injunction was granted on a trademark infringement suit filed by Chennai-based Arudra Engineers Private Limited, which was reportedly using the registered trademarks Coronil-213SPL and Coronil-92B for its industrial cleaning chemicals for nearly three decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-reserves-verdict-in-patanjalis-coronil-case/article32217339.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief for tribal communities living in penury||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to inspect localities inhabited by tribal communities and provide them food as well as other basic requirements if they are suffering due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha issued the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi, represented by M.L. Ravi, seeking a cash assistance of Rs. 10,000 to all those who had lost their livelihood. Opposing the plea, State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan told the court that previous division benches of the High Court had dismissed similar PIL petitions seeking cash assistance ranging from Rs. 3,000-Rs. 5,000, to different people. He also said that ration kits, containing as much as 20 kg of rice, had been distributed to people suffering due to the lockdown. Cash assistance Mr. Narayanan further pointed out that the government had extended cash assistance to people from various walks of life. However, citing news reports, including from the The Hindu, regarding tribal communities living in penury, the judges directed the government to conduct inspection in those places through its officials and provide relief. “We read that even children are being forced to work because their schools are shut due to the lockdown,” the senior judge on the Bench said. “Inspect those places and find out if this is true. We shall call this case after three weeks. File a report on the action taken,” the judge added.  We read that even children are being forced to work because their schools are shut due to the lockdown Senior judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-for-tribal-communities-living-in-penury/article32217341.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. not likely to offer any major relaxation in lockdown restrictions||Even as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will take stock of the spread of COVID-19 and the implementation of lockdown norms with District Collectors on Wednesday, the State government does not seem to favour any major relaxation in lockdown conditions in Chennai or across the rest of the State. Indicating this, senior government officials said that status quo may be retained for some more time. It will be better to have a “step-by-step” approach than taking radical measures, they said. To a query on whether the conditions would be relaxed in Chennai in light of the reduction in the rate of rise in active cases, an official said that the situation had to be watched for the next few days. There is a suggestion that inter-district bus transport services be resumed, another official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-not-likely-to-offer-any-major-relaxation-in-lockdown-restrictions/article32217350.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Incomplete stormwater drain inundates parts of GST Road||The heavy downpour on Tuesday flooded the stretch of GST Road near Chromepet, causing severe hardship to motorists. The problem was so severe that portions of the road were submerged under more than 4 feet of rainwater, resulting in a few parked cars and two-wheelers practically floating. The GST Road being an important arterial road has hundreds of shops. However, motorists faced difficulties due to stagnating rainwater in the stretch from the Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road-GST Road flyover to Chromepet Government Hospital. Even a drizzle is enough for stretches of the road to be flooded, residents said. Pon Venugopal, who has a shop on the stretch, rued the problem of flooding during the monsoon. Adding to the flooding problem was overflowing sewage from the underground drainage network, posing a major health hazard to pedestrians and shopkeepers. V. Santhanam, a social activist in Chromepet, complaining about the regular flooding of an important National Highway in the city, said incomplete construction of stormwater drains and sheer negligence were the causes. He said the flooding of GST Road was a perennial problem and authorities of the State Highways Department had not taken any steps to rectify it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incomplete-stormwater-drain-inundates-parts-of-gst-road/article32217328.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor Shaam, 12 others booked for gambling in Chennai||After a surprise check, the police booked actor Shaam and 12 others on charges of gambling in an apartment complex in Nungambakkam on Monday. They were booked under the Gaming Act, and then let off on bail. According to the police, they received information about some persons gambling on the first floor of an apartment complex for the past several months. A team lead by Nungambakkam Assistant Commissioner Muthuvelpandi raided the flat and found actor Shaam and 12 others involved in gambling. They were all picked up and taken to the Nungambakkam police station and let off on bail. “A few other actors also frequent this apartment complex to gamble. But on Monday they were not there,” said a police source. Checks on lodges A senior police officer said that surprise checks would be conducted on lodges and hotels in the city to nab people involved in gambling. “Many hotels are now being used to quarantine COVID-19 patients. However, there have been reports that some rooms are being used for gambling. Once we get credible information, we will raid them,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-shaam-12-others-booked-for-gambling-in-chennai/article32217372.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Evaluation of Class 12 re-exams completed||Evaluation of the Class 12 re-examination answer scripts was completed across centres on Tuesday, a day after exams were held for students who missed the exam in March. While over 800 schoolchildren and private candidates had registered, only 519 candidates took the exams on Monday in chemistry, accountancy and geography. A senior official from the Directorate of Government Examinations said that the answer scripts had been evaluated. “We are working towards ensuring that the results are announced at the earliest. The results will be announced in the next few days,” he said. Results for all papers written by these candidates will be announced together. The Class 12 examination results were announced earlier this month, and students have been able to procure their provisional marksheets from their schools. Class 10 students, however, are yet to get their marksheets, with their board exams having been cancelled. “Schools have already submitted copies of students’ answer scripts and attendance records and we expect students to receive their marksheets in the first week of August,” a teacher said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evaluation-of-class-12-re-exams-completed/article32217346.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. launches mobile LED units to spread awareness on initiatives||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched a COVID-19 awareness campaign using mobile LED units in all 15 zones of the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Tuesday launched three mobile LED units as part of the campaign. The number will be increased to 15 shortly. He said the campaign had been launched to create awareness about the initiatives taken by the civic officials to help residents. The Corporation’s mobile units will screen short films and other awareness programmes on emerging issues faced by residents during the pandemic. The campaign is also expected to create awareness about the presence of fever clinics. “We have conducted 23,000 fever clinics in the city so far,” Mr. Prakash said. “We have started taking residents with breathlessness to hospitals. They will then be taken to wards designated for suspected COVID-19 cases. Death analysis has shown that some residents died because of a delay in treatment,” he said. Case mortality rate is expected to reduce by 0.2% to 0.3% by such initiatives. “The positivity rate has reduced to 9.5% from 11%. It was 37% before the total lockdown on June 19. There is stability now,” Mr. Prakash added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-launches-mobile-led-units-to-spread-awareness-on-initiatives/article32217326.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GEM hospital offers drive-in test facility for hepatitis B||On the eve of World Hepatitis Day, GEM Hospital in Perungudi began its drive-in facility on Tuesday, where people can drive their cars or two-wheelers to the hospital and undergo necessary tests and scans in just 15 minutes, without entering the hospital premises. The hospital, in a statement, said various stations had been planned along the driveway, including hepatitis B vaccination, liver scan and blood tests manned by fully equipped hospital staff. Expert opinion In order to make tests hassle-free, prior registration is necessary and people have to come at the allotted time. Further consultation with the test report will be done online by liver experts on the same day. This programme will be offered free of cost from July 28 to August 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gem-hospital-offers-drive-in-test-facility-for-hepatitis-b/article32217329.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor Karthi criticises EIA 2020 Draft||Tamil film actor Karthi Sivakumar on Tuesday criticised the Centre’s Environmental Impact Assessment 2020 Draft. He said the proposed “post-facto clearance and diluted impetus on public hearing and public consultation” are real causes for concern and urged the Central government to “consider the views of environmental experts, researches and the public’s voice.” In a statement, Mr. Karthi, founder of Uzhavan Foundation, said the proposed draft indicates that projects that hitherto required EIA clearance now have less stricter guidelines, under which they can be approved. “Setting up of heavy industries at the huge and irrecoverable cost of this ecological harmony cannot be construed as a measure of success and development,” he said. He added that the draft must be published in all languages. “While economic development should be a mainstream focus, it should not pledge as collateral the future and eco-diversity of this nation to gain economic progress,” Mr. Karthi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-karthi-criticises-eia-2020-draft/article32217331.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vandalur Zoo to celebrate International Tiger Day||The Arignar Anna Zoological Park has been conducting various educational programmes and contests to celebrate International Tiger Day on July 29. It will be organising a painting competition, called ‘Paint Your Thought’, and various quiz contests. An exclusive live webinar, in which tiger experts will share their experiences about the animals, will be broadcast live on the Arignar Anna Zoological Park YouTube channel from 3.30 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. To register for these contests, visit www.aazp.in/wtd. Registration is free and the events are open to all age groups. An e-certificate will be provided to participants.   Conservation efforts Arignar Anna Zoological Park has been a pioneer in the conservation of many animal species. The zoo currently houses 13 white tigers and 18 Bengal tigers. The zoo has also raised many tiger cubs which were orphaned in the wild or abandoned by their mothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vandalur-zoo-to-celebrate-international-tiger-day/article32217334.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The NEET factor behind HC favouring OBC reservation||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), to which there is much opposition in Tamil Nadu, surprisingly played a crucial role in the Madras High Court's ruling favouring reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the All-India Quota (AIQ) medical/dental seats in State government-run colleges. AIQ in non-central institutions was a creation of the Supreme Court through a verdict delivered by a three-judge Bench, led by Justice P.N. Bhagwati, in Dr. Pradeep Jain’s case in 1984. The decision was reiterated in Dinesh Kumar’s case in 1986, by which time Justice Bhagwati had become the Chief Justice of India. The 1984 verdict had condemned and declared as unconstitutional the wholesale reservation of medical and dental seats by some State governments on the basis of the domicile and resident status of the candidates in those States. The court had described it as an issue of great national importance affecting admissions to medical colleges. Impressing upon the need for selecting meritorious students for medical education through an all-India examination, the Supreme Court had ordered that at least 30% of the seats in State government-run medical colleges should be filled through AIQ. Later, the figure was finalised at 15% of the seats in undergraduate courses and 50% in postgraduate courses. Since then, AIQ seats in non-central institutions were being filled without any communal reservation until the Supreme Court, in 2009, ordered grant of reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Dr. Saloni Kumar had filed a case in 2015, seeking reservation for OBCs too under the quota. The plea is pending in the apex court. Now, opposing a batch of cases filed by the Government of Tamil Nadu and a host of political parties in the Madras High Court seeking reservation for OBCs in those seats, the Medical Council of India contended that neither the State government nor the Centre could provide such reservation. The Council claimed that even the High Court was not competent to order the provision of such reservation, since the quota was created by the Supreme Court purely for meritorious students. Rejecting the contention, Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wrote: “Merit has now been taken care of by NEET, and therefore, no candidate other than [one] who qualifies the examination can be granted admission, and therefore, also, the seats belong only to those who compete and qualify, proving their eligibility and merit in the examination.” As far as their competency to decide on the issue was concerned, the judges pointed out that it was the Supreme Court which had directed the present petitioners to approach the High Court for determining whether OBCs were entitled to reservation in the quota under question. After ordering the constitution of an expert committee to finalise the terms of OBC reservation from the next academic year, the High Court made it clear that any of the parties to the present litigation could approach the SC if they require any clarification. To be on guard, the DMK on Tuesday filed a caveat before the apex court.  The seats belong only to those who compete and qualify, proving their eligibility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-neet-factor-behind-hc-favouring-obc-reservation/article32217368.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ezhuva, Thiyya communities to get BC certificates in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu government has included the Thiyya community in the list of Backward Classes (BC) in the State. It has also issued orders for issuing BC community certificates to the Ezhuva community throughout the State. The two government orders, issued by the Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes & Minorities Welfare Department, followed the recommendations of the Committee constituted in this regard. Various representations were received for the issuance of BC certificates to Ezhuva and Thiyya communities. The views of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Commission were also obtained in this regard. The Ezhuva community in Kanniyakumari district and Shencottah taluk of Tirunelveli district were included in the list of BCs in 2008 but BC certificates were not being issued in other districts, and hence the representations had been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ezhuva-thiyya-communities-to-get-bc-certificates-in-tn/article32217394.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks directed to follow RBI circulars||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered that all banks should follow circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India on March 16 and 20, requiring them to devise a mechanism to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in their branches and encourage measures such as work from home as far as possible. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha also directed the State government to facilitate issuance of e-passes to bank employees stranded in other districts. The directions were issued while disposing of a writ petition filed by N. Rajagopal, general secretary of the State unit of the Bank Employees’ Federation of India. ‘Instructions issued’ The judges recorded the submission of RBI counsel Chevanan Mohan that the RBI had already issued necessary instructions to individual banks on the protocol to be followed without disrupting banking services. He also said that the situation was constantly being reviewed. Pointing out that the present case was filed in March, Mr. Mohan said that much had changed since then. “We are now in unlock 2.0 and therefore the prayers sought for by the petitioner, such as permitting bank staff to work in the nearest branches and encouraging work from home among employees have already been addressed,” Mr. Mohan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-directed-to-follow-rbi-circulars/article32217340.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Submit report on harassment of STs: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission on Tuesday called for a report from the Villupuram Collector over a media report about an “untouchability fence” erected by some landowners restricting the movement of members of a Scheduled Tribe (ST). SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss took suo motu cognisance of the media report over the incident at Tiruchitrambalam and called for a report from the Collector within four weeks. According to the report, members of a ST community were living in huts on a land, pattas for which were provided to them by the government, at Tiruchitrambalam. However, owners of neighbouring lands had put up the “untouchability fence”, restricting movement of the community members to and from their huts, the media report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-calls-for-report-on-harassment-against-sts/article32217354.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity V-C aspirants interviewed||The three-member panel appointed to select the Vice-Chancellor for the University of Madras conducted interview for the aspirants on Tuesday. Sources said 12 persons, including three women, had been shortlisted for the interview from among the 177 applicants. The Director of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and an emeritus scientist from the Centre for Scientific and Industrial Research were among the shortlisted candidates. According to those in the know of the selection process, as many as 60 candidates were chosen from among the applicants. Another shortlist of 12 candidates was prepared a week before the final interview. The shortlisted aspirants included several senior professors and some from other organisations who had either studied or worked in the University. The prestigious 163-year-old institution has been under serious financial trouble in the past 15 years, so much so, that in the last few years the university teachers’ body regularly protested against mismanagement of its finances. However, the previous V-C P. Duraisamy set the house in order by introducing certain reforms, which helped the university recover its financial stability to some extent. Several senior academicians though were not happy with the selection process as they felt it was not transparent. One of the senior academicians said the selection committee should have released academic and achievement scores so that peers could assess the capabilities of the candidates. Search panel chairman Jagadeesh Kumar participated via video conferencing from Delhi, while the other two members P. Ramasami and P. Maruthamuthu were physically present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-v-c-aspirants-interviewed/article32217357.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Producers seek State's help in reopening cinemas||Producers led by veteran filmmaker Bharathiraaja met Minister for Information and Publicity Kadambur Raju on Tuesday to urge the government to facilitate reopening of cinema theatres and permission to start shooting soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/producers-seek-states-help-in-reopening-cinemas/article32217371.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA returns to AIADMK from BJP||V.K.R. Srinivasan, former AIADMK MLA who represented Arcot during 2011-16 and joined the BJP in August 2017, returned to the ruling party on Tuesday. He rejoined the AIADMK in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani and Ranipet MLA S. Ravi, according to a release. He was not given the party ticket in the 2016 polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mla-returns-to-aiadmk-from-bjp/article32217370.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Collector tests positive for COVID-19||Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi has tested positive for COVID-19. She was admitted to the King Institute for Preventive Medicine for treatment on Tuesday. She took over from G. Prakash, the former Collector, on July 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-collector-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32217369.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal settlements of ATR remain deprived of power connection, solar lights||Residents of 17 tribal settlements located within the limits of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) are without basic lighting facility as solar-powered lights given by the State Government remain defunct for several years, forcing them to light fire outside their huts to keep wild animals away. Many of them have sleepless nights as they take turns in keeping the fire outside the huts at night. These settlements also lack power connections or common lights though some of the hydroelectric power plants are located close to them. With the movement of animals, including tiger, leopard and elephant, increased, residents have written their grievances to the Chief Minister and Coimbatore District Collector. V.S. Paramasivam, Coimbatore district president of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association, said that solar lights for huts were allotted 15 years ago and these are defunct for about five years. Though common lights, also solar-powered ones, were given to each settlement later, they are also defunct. Ganesh, a resident of Koomatti tribal settlement within the limits of Ulandi forest range of ATR, said that six common lights at the settlement were not functional. According to him, one or two lights blink hardly 30 minutes. “Of the 17 settlements, power plants are located close to Kadamparai, Sarkarpathy and Navamalai settlements. Power generated here is benefited by people in other districts but not the native dwellers,” said Mr. Paramasivam. Officials of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation said the Forest Department had shared a list of hamlets in the ATR that do not have electricity connection. Based on the list, a proposal was drafted to give power connection to nearly 550 hamlets. The Department also gave its clearance for the work. Bids were finalised and the works are expected to start soon. According to Mr. Paramasivam, residents of Sarkarpathy and Kallar kadar settlements had lost their houses in landslip and torrential rain in August last year. “They are yet to have proper huts. As they were not allotted alternative locations to build huts within the forests, they are forced to stay in sheds of landslip-prone areas,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-settlements-of-atr-remain-deprived-of-power-connection-solar-lights/article32217381.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore to have one more COVID-19 Care Centre||Coimbatore may have one more COVID-19 Care Centre, in addition to the two that are functioning at Halls D and E at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex. The already functional centres and the proposed one are for people who were COVID-19 positive but asymptomatic. The new one could be exclusively for women patients, sources said. The Coimbatore Corporation was looking at a few places on Tiruchi Road but was yet to finalise the location for the new centre. Non government and social service organisations could join hands with the Corporation in running the new centre. Civil society and a few doctors wanted to join hands with the Corporation and play an active role in combating COVID-19 in the district, making it the first such initiative worthy of emulation in other districts, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-to-have-one-more-covid-19-care-centre/article32217377.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone service shops to remain shut till August 2||Shops servicing mobile phones and selling their accessories and spares will remain shut till August 2. The decision to close the 400-plus shops that function out of the lanes branching off Cross Cut Road and 100 Feet Road in Gandhipuram was taken at a meeting the Coimbatore Corporation, Coimbatore City Police and district administration officials had with the representatives of the shop owners’ association. The move was aimed at combating the spread of COVID-19 as the lanes housing the shops saw thousands of customers and an equal number of employees criss-cross the area. It was also because the area had seen a few positive cases in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-phone-service-shops-to-remain-shut-till-august-2/article32217375.ece
29 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Protesters booked||The Kuniyamuthur police booked 16 persons who staged a protest in front of the police station on Monday in protest against the arrest of five persons for drawing Lord Muruga’s vel (spear) on the road in front of a mosque. The police said a case was registered against Amarnath Sivalingam, State committee member of VHP, and 15 others for violating the prohibitory orders issued to prevent spread of COVID-19. The arrested had drawn vel on the road to condemn a video posted on the YouTube channel ‘Karuppar Koottam’ which allegedly portrayed Lord Muruga and ‘Kandha Sashti Kavacham’ in bad light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protesters-booked/article32217396.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder||Sulur police here on Tuesday arrested two persons on charges of murdering a driver late on Monday. The police said S. Maasanam (33) from Kongalamman Kovil Street on Market Road at Sulur was beaten to death by his friend S. Sakthivel (30), a resident of Pillaiyar Kovil Street near Appanayakkanpatti. Sakthivel had borrowed Rs. 3,500 and two bottles of liquor from Maasanam two weeks ago. The delay in repayment led to a quarrel on several occasions between Maasanam and Sakthivel and his wife. According to the police, Maasanam saw Sakthivel at a fuel station on Tiruchi Road on Monday and allegedly passed lewd remarks on the latter's wife. Sakthivel and his friend R. Dakshinamoorthy (24) from Rasipalayam consumed liquor together on Monday evening and went to the house of Maasanam around 10.50 p.m. While Dhakshinamoorthy stood outside the house, Sakthivel went inside and picked up a quarrel with Maasanam. The police said that Sakthivel hit Maasanam on the head with a lock, and the latter died. Sakthivel and Dhakshinamoorthy were arrested on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder/article32217384.ece
29 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Constable reaches out to COVID-19 victim’s family||A Grade-I constable with the Coimbatore District Armed Reserve on Monday donated Rs. 1.1 lakh he collected from his colleagues to the family of a 22-year-old emergency medical technician in ‘108’ ambulance in Tiruppur district who died of COVID-19 on June 24. Constable S. Babu said that he watched a video of the youth’s cremation on a social media platform a few days after the death and decided to help his family. WhatsApp group He created a WhatsApp group named ‘ Udhavum Karangal’ (helping hands) on June 30 along with a few of his colleagues from the District Armed Reserve, requesting them to pool in contributions to help the victim’s family. The group eventually grew to over 200 members including officials from the district police and a few members of public. The members paid their contributions through Google Pay to Mr. Babu’s bank account. Upon collecting Rs. 1.1 lakh, Mr. Babu visited the youth’s residence at Vedasandur in Dindigul district on Monday with two of his colleagues and gave the cash to his parents. The family depended on the youth’s income, he added. Donates salary In April, Mr. Babu donated a month’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for the COVID-19 relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-reaches-out-to-covid-19-victims-family/article32217390.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man dies of snake bite||A 23-year-old man from Bilichi near Periyanaickenpalayam here died of snake bite in the early hours of Monday. The deceased has been identified as K. Muruganantham of Anna Nagar near Bilichi. The police said he was working in a private company at Thaneerpanthal. Muruganantham, his brother-in-law Prabhu, friends Raja, Kumar, Santhosh and Periyasamy were working and staying at the company itself from July 25. On Sunday, they went to sleep in a facility for employees at the company. Muruganantham woke up around 2 a.m. on Monday and said that he was bitten by a snake. They rushed Muruganantham to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-of-snake-bite/article32217395.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments removed||Coimbatore Corporation officials from the Central Zone on Tuesday removed encroachments on Karuppa Gounder Street and Pavizham Street. Sources said the civic body removed temporary structures and fruit crates that traders had placed on road from around 50 shops. It also ordered for parking to be alternated on either side of the road every month to ensure that the roads were motor traffic friendly. The Corporation also carried out disinfection drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-removed/article32217374.ece
29 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 relief aid for differently abled||The district administration has asked differently abled persons, who were yet to receive the COVID-19 relief assistance of Rs. 1,000, to approach the village administrative officer concerned. In a release, Collector K. Rajamani said differently abled persons who had the national identity card could furnish a copy of the card along with other document to get the financial assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-relief-aid-for-differently-abled/article32217376.ece
29 July 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Woman hacked to death||A 55-year-old woman was hacked to death at her farm in Pochmapalli on Tuesday over a land dispute. Muthuvel (28) was arrested for murdering Tulasi of Kattukollai village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-hacked-to-death/article32217379.ece
29 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works carried out in the electric lines coming under Kasipalayam sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas on July 30.  Chennimalai Road line : Gandhiji Road, Nethaji Road, Municipal Chatiram, Marapalam, Valayakarar Street, Agraharam Street, Cutchery Road, V.V.C.R. Nagar areas, Kallukadaimedu, Jeevanandam Road and Old Railway Station Road.  Thirunagar Colony line: Kamala Nagar, R.K.V. Nagar, Chinnappan Colony, Jeyagopal Street and Kavitha Theater.  Ashokapuram line: VCTV Road, Sakthi Road to CN College, Veerabhadra Street, ABT Road, Cauvery Road, Annamalai Layout, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram and Devarayan Kadu areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32217378.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Omni bus operators raring to go||Private omni bus operators of Madurai say that it has been around four months since the imposition of restriction in movement of buses but still there is no clarity on when operations would resume. Having remained without income for many months, bus owners say that they are ready to resume services with even a 50% occupancy. A. Mydeen Basha, president, Madurai Omni Bus Owners Association, said since the day the State government had announced the lockdown, buses which had travelled to different locations, have been stranded. “We initially thought that the lockdown would be there for a week,” he noted. The pandemic-induced lockdown had pushed bus owners into a financial crisis. Despite the absence of income, they have been paying part of salaries to their drivers and cleaners. A parking fee of at least Rs. 250 each day for a bus is being paid. “Though many owners have paid road tax for the first quarter of the year, it would be extremely difficult to pay the road tax for the upcoming quarters if the services do not resume,” he said. S. Selvakumar, a private omni bus operator, said that since buses have not been running for more than five months tyres and engines have to be repaired before resuming operations. With rising price of diesel, many operators would struggle to resume operations. “Despite such shortcomings, we are ready to operate buses with a 50% occupancy as it would fetch some income,” he added. Mr. Basha said most of the operators have bought thermal scanners and disinfectants. “We have trained our drivers on how to follow safety precautions during journeys,” he added. S. Sasikumar, a private bus operator, said that customer patronage might be low even if services resume. “Since most IT companies have announced work from home policy patronage for omni buses might be lower. But still we are ready to resume operations,” he added. M. Rajesh, secretary of South Tamil Nadu Association of Travel and Tourism, said since flights are operational, bus services can resume with safety precautions. “Not everyone can afford to pay an exorbitant amount to travel by flights. The government must fix a price cap on private bus charges once the services resume,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omni-bus-operators-raring-to-go/article32217640.ece
29 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 hospital treats 107 kidney patients||Ever since patients who tested positive for COVID-19 began getting treated at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) from March onwards, 107 patients with chronic kidney diseases from across south Tamil Nadu have been provided with dialysis treatment. In all, 191 dialysis sessions have been completed at the COVID-19 speciality hospital, a wing of GRH. This is apart from the 3,000 odd dialysis sessions for those who do not have COVID-19, said Dean, GRH, J. Sangumani. To date, 63 of the 107 patients have been from Madurai, he said. “A lot of others have been from other parts of south Tamil Nadu. These include a majority of patients from Sivakasi and Ramanathapuram. The rest are from Sattur, Rajapalayam, Virudhunagar, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Batlagundu, Karaikudi and Kodaikanal,” he said, adding that 19 of these patients were women. Dr. Sangumani said that various private hospitals in and around Madurai district have also referred their COVID-19 positive patients to GRH’s COVID-19 speciality hospital for their routine dialysis treatment -- they have had 57 such cases. Head, Nephrology department, GRH, R. Arul said that they currently have six dialysis machines being used at the COVID-19 speciality hospital of the GRH and a team of four medical personnel -- an assistant professor, a postgraduate doctor and two dialysis technicians -- are on shifts every week. He added that they have had as many as six patients as part of a single session of dialysis and 12 patients in a single day. Dr. Sangumani said that despite treating patients from across south Tamil Nadu, there has been no drop in the number of non-COVID-19 patients who are being treated as well. “A lot of precautions are being taken to ensure that the patients are tended to carefully. Many of the machines that were at the COVID-19 speciality ward earlier have also been shifted to the general ward for better treatment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-hospital-treats-107-kidney-patients/article32217646.ece
29 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No regular salary since April, say brassware workers||A section of workers making brassware art for Poompuhar, Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation’s handicrafts store, says that they have not received regular salary since April. A total of 14 workers petitioned Collector T.G. Vinay here on Tuesday. They have been making brass lamps, bells and gift articles for the store for years. P. Babu, who has worked for 33 years, says he, along with 13 others, was regularised in 2017. “Still, we earn on a ‘piece-rate’ basis. Before COVID-19, when we had around 26 days of work, we received between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 6,000 a month. During the lockdown, we received only Rs. 2,000 in April and Rs. 5,000 in July. There was no explanation as whether this was a salary or a stipend or aid,” he said. Despite years of working at the organisation, he is unable to understand why the State government would not support the workers. “We are craftsmen. We have no other way to earn any income,” he said. Madurai General Secretary, CITU, G. S. Amarnath, said Rs. 7,500 is hardly enough to help any of these families. “The government must pay them a stipend during the lockdown. They must receive time-scale pay,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-regular-salary-since-april-say-brassware-workers/article32217647.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks status report in farmer’s death||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to submit a status report on a petition seeking a CB-CID probe into the death of Anaikarai Muthu, a farmer from Tenkasi who allegedly died in the custody of Forest Department personnel. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the government to submit the post mortem report and the videograph of the post mortem in a sealed cover on July 29. Anaikarai Muthu’s wife Palammal, who suspected that her husband died due to the torture in the custody of officials, filed the petition. The government was questioned as to why the post mortem was held after 4 p.m. in violation of norms. State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan submitted that apprehending law and order problem the Collector had asked conduct of the post mortem. Palammal said that her husband was picked up for ‘inquiry’ on July 22 at about 11 p.m. But Forest Department personnel did not disclose reasons for picking him up. It was said Anaikarai Muthu was picked up on the charge of tapping power illegally. She said that family members left for the office where her husband had been taken for inquiry. On their way, they saw a Forest Department jeep coming in the opposite direction with Anaikarai Muthu in an unconscious state. He was immediately taken to a government hospital for treatment but was declared brought dead, she said. Alleging that her husband was tortured by the Forest Department personnel in the name of inquiry, she sought a CB-CID probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-status-report-in-farmers-death/article32217649.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||346 test positive in Madurai||A total of 346 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Tuesday. The total tally of cases is 10,392 as on date. Of the 346 cases, one was imported, according to the State Health bulletin. As many as 73 people were discharged from various treatment facilities taking the total number of discharged to 7,882. Six patients succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday taking the death toll to 222. As on date, the total number of active cases is 2,288. Virudhunagar district recorded the highest single-day spike of 577 positive cases on Tuesday. The previous one-day highest was 480 recorded on Thursday last. Besides, the district stood second in the State among all districts, next only to Chennai that has 1,107 cases. This took the total number of cases to 6,884. However, with 413 patients having got discharged (total discharge till date 4331), the number of active patients in the district was 2,484. Meanwhile, six more patients from the district died on Tuesday, among them were two patients aged 40 years and 46 years. The total number of deaths in the district has increased to 69. Theni tested 284 positive cases of COVID-19 which took the tally to 4337. The single day high had cases from Periakulam, Theni, Cumbum, Uthamapalayam and other locations. There were 213 people discharged from the hospitals and other covid care centres. Dindigul recorded 115 new cases infected with the virus which took the total number of positive cases to 2566. The district had positive cases more from Natham, Vedasandur, Palani and Dindigul City limits. There were 51 cases discharged from the hospitals. Ramanathapuram which had 38 fresh cases, had the total positive cases of COVID19 at 3132. There were 47 people discharged from the hospital. As per the containment plans, Keelakarai, parts of Paramakudi and Ramanathapuram Town were under strict surveillance. The Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that the district was witnessing a declining trend in the number of positive cases. Sivaganga tested 59 new positive cases, with which the district’s tally stood at 2182. There were 71 discharges from the hospital. The health teams said that Karaikudi, parts of Manamadurai, Tirupuvanam, Sivaganga Town and Singampunari were getting new cases. Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts jointly recorded 1,041 fresh cases even as hospitals are crowded. Thoothukudi’s tally crossed the 6,000-mark on Tuesday with the addition of 381 cases to reach 6,278 infections. The district has 2,495 active cases after 319 patients were discharged from hospitals. Having recorded 387 new COVID-19 cases, Tirunelveli’s tally rose to 4,350 and the number of active cases stood at 1,738 after 87 cases were discharged. Kanniyakumari district had 223 cases that jacked up the district’s total number of infections to 4,073 and the active cases to 2,076. Tenkasi added 50 more fresh cases that took the district’s tally to 1,844 and the number of active cases to 892 as 68 cases were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/346-test-positive-in-madurai/article32217643.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File status report on Sattankulam case: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to submit a status report, in a sealed cover, on the progress made in the probe into the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of traders P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the CBI to submit the report in two weeks. The CB-CID, which was earlier probing the case till the CBI took over, submitted its status report in a sealed cover. During the course of the hearing, Assistant Solicitor General V. Kathirvelu informed the court that seven of the eight-member CBI team probing the case had tested positive for COVID-19 and had been admitted to the Railway Hospital in Madurai. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian informed the court that the CB-CID had handed over the materials to the CBI officials when the central agency took over the investigation. Two more test positive Two more former police personnel — Muthuraja and Murugan — accused in the Sattankulamcustodial deaths caseand lodged in the Central Prison, Madurai have tested positive for COVID-19. They will be sent to the Government Rajaji Hospital, jail sources said. After another accused, former SSI, Pauldurai tested positive a few days ago, a repeat swab test was conducted on the seven accused in the case on Saturday. While the others tested negative, Muthuraja and Murugan have tested positive. Former inspector Sridhar, another accused has already been admitted to the GRH for his spinal cord problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-report-on-sattankulam-case-hc/article32217365.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench imposes cost on petitioner||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 on a petitioner who suppressed certain facts in his public interest litigation petition. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the petitioner M. Natarajan from Dindigul district to pay the amount to the Additional Registrar General for use at the court dispensary. The petitioner sought a court direction to the authorities to remove encroachments in his village, Koothattupatti. However, he had failed to disclose the fact that there was a suit already pending before the Dindigul District Munsif court pertaining to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bench-imposes-cost-on-petitioner/article32217650.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bomb hurled in Madurai||Unidentified persons hurled a bomb at the house of V.K. Gurusamy, former Corporation zonal chairperson, at Keeraithurai in the early hours of Tuesday. However, no one was injured in the incident. The police said that four persons, who came on two motorbikes, threw a kerosene-filled bottle after lighting it, at the main door of Gurusamy’s house at around 5.30 a.m. Though Gurusamy has been living outside Madurai city for the last couple of years, his wife is still staying there. The accused also broke the glass panes in the house. They also damaged two cars, two autorickshaws and a few two-wheelers parked on the street. Though the closed circuit television camera captured images of the accused, the police are yet to identify them. A gang war between Gurusamy, who belongs to the DMK, and former corporation zonal chairman, Rajapandi (AIADMK) has claimed several lives in the city in the last few years. Senior police officials inspected the scene of the crime. Keeraithurai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bomb-hurled-in-madurai/article32217633.ece
29 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||2 more accused test positive||Two more police personnel – Muthuraja and Murugan – who are accused in the Sattankulam police station custodial deaths case of trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks, and lodged in Central Prison, Madurai have tested positive for COVID-19. They will be sent to the Government Rajaji Hospital, jail sources said. After another accused, Special Sub-Inspector of Police, Pauldurai tested positive a few days ago, a repeat swab test was conducted on the seven accused in the case on Saturday. While others have tested negative, Muthuraja and Murugan have tested positive. Inspector of Police, Sridhar, another accused has already been admitted to the GRH for spinal cord problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-more-accused-test-positive/article32217631.ece
29 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fuel price hike: fishers for increase in diesel subsidy||Citing escalation in fuel prices over the last few months, fishers have urged the Central and State Governments to increase subsidy for diesel. Opposing the fuel price hike, fishers in delta region joined their counterparts elsewhere in the country to hold protests recently. Besides Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts in delta region, protests coordinated by the National Fishworkers Forum were also held in Chennai, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Karaikal, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi and Kanyakumari districts. Questioning the rationale behind the hike, the forum’s national vice-president, R.V. Kumaravelu, said the hike was akin to rubbing salt on the wound. Notwithstanding the economic impact of the lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government hiked the State VAT on diesel. It was immediately followed by a sharp hike in central excise on diesel by the Central government despite a drop in prices of crude oil globally. The hikes led to oil companies increasing their consumer prices by Rs. 5.23 per litre. Despite huge hikes at both State and Central levels, there was no change in subsidies for fishworkers, he pointed out. The incomes of fishworkers collapsed during the lockdown, and fishers were struggling to resume their professional activity for the new season. The fuel price hike also came at a time when the whole sector as well as the identity of fishworkers in India was being threatened with the National Fisheries Policy 2020, which was released without any consultation or intimation, he said. The Central and State governments earned almost Rs. 53 for every litre of diesel. At present, Tamil Nadu only subsidised the State VAT for fishers, but had not ameliorated the impact caused by the hike in central excise. Marine fisheries provided direct employment to over one crore people and over four crore were employed in allied sectors. The Central and State governments could ill-afford to ignore the demands of fishers, Mr. Kumaravelu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-fishers-for-increase-in-diesel-subsidy/article32217691.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Environmental nod not needed for Salem-Chennai road project’||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the Rs. 10,000 crore Salem-Chennai eight-lane green corridor road project was of “national importance” and did not require environmental clearance prior to land acquisition. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said “there is a separate procedure” in place for the NHAI projects. This was different from the normal acquisition process. Next hearing on Aug. 6 The court, however, decided to hear the case on August 6. Earlier, in a hearing, Mr. Mehta had compared getting environmental clearance before acquisition to “putting the cart before the horse”. The authority has moved the Supreme Court with a plea to vacate an April 8, 2019 order of the Madras High Court, which held that prior environmental clearance was mandatory for the sensitive project. ‘Protests baseless’ Mr. Mehta, for the NHAI, said the protests for environmental clearance at this point of the project was baseless as the government should be allowed to first acquire the land and then seek green clearance from the authorities concerned. Acquisition came first, followed by environmental nod, Mr. Mehta maintained in court. The High Court’s order had come on a batch of petitions filed by 35 landowners and PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss. The pleas had challenged the land acquisition proceedings. The High Court had made it clear that the grant of prior environmental clearance would undoubtedly require a thorough study of the area, and a public hearing should be conducted before that. The ambitious 277.3-km-long eight-lane greenfield project connecting Salem and Chennai under the Centre’s ‘Bharatmala Pariyojana’ scheme aims to cut travel time between the two cities by half to about two hours and 15 minutes. However, it has been facing opposition from a section of locals, including farmers, over fears of losing their land, besides environmentalists who are against felling trees for it. The project runs through reserve forest and water bodies. The High Court had wanted the project report by a consultant to be scrapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/environmental-nod-not-needed-for-salem-chennai-road-project/article32217359.ece
29 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry CM, Speaker test negative||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Speaker V. P Sivakolandhu, Ministers and legislators tested negative for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The Chief Minister, Speaker and the others took the test for novel coronavirus on Monday after an MLA and two watch and ward staff, who attended the recently-concluded Assembly session, tested positive. According to the Health Department, as many as 126 people who came in close contact with the legislator and watch and ward staff were tested on Monday. Six test positive Of the total tested, six were positive, including four staff of the Assembly Secretariat, an official of the Health Department said. The Chief Minister had tested negative twice earlier — he underwent the test following his visit to containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-cm-speaker-test-negative/article32217353.ece
29 July 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||4 COVID-19 patients die in Puducherry, toll up to 47||Four COVID-19 patients died on Tuesday to take the toll to 47 in Puducherry even as the aggregate of cases shot past the 3,000 mark. All the patients had co-morbidities, S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said. Meanwhile, 141 new cases were reported in Union Territory from testing a pool of 874 samples at a positivity rate of 16.1%. The fatality rate is 1.56%. There are 1,182 active cases, while 1,782 patients have been discharged following recovery. Of the 36,288 samples tested so far, 32,837 were found to be negative and results of remaining samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-covid-19-patients-die-in-puducherry-toll-up-to-47/article32217355.ece
29 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Corona Ovens’ donated to Puducherry hospitals||The CII’s Young Indians (Yi) unit in Puducherry teamed up with Josco Ventures to donate a ‘Corona Oven’ apiece to JIPMER and IGMCRI, the designated COVID hospitals in the city. These ovens, which are actually UV chambers which heat up to 360 degrees, facilitate rapid sterilisation and decentralised disinfection in a span of just eight minutes. The devices were handed over to hospital authorities by S. Tamil Sengolan, chair, Yi Puducherry, and Joe Abey Jynadi, executive director, Josco Ventures. According to a press note, the Corona Oven makes rapid sterilisation and decentralised disinfection possible within eight minutes in a hospital setting and just four minutes in other settings. Germicidal effects The UV chamber emits UVC light which is known to have germicidal effects. Its patented design that emits 360° UVC light around the chamber was developed by LOG9 technologies in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and is certified by ICMR empanelled institute CSIR-CSIO, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corona-ovens-donated-to-puducherry-hospitals/article32217356.ece
29 July 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rajapalayam ex-municipal chairperson dead||Former chairperson of the Rajapalayam municipality, P.S Dhanalakshmi, 52, died here in the early hours of Tuesday. Ms. Dhanalakshmi was the chairperson of the urban local body between 2011 and 2016. She had won the election on an AIADMK ticket. Her husband, Selva Subramaniya Raja, was the former district secretary of Amma Peravai. According to police sources, Ms. Dhanalakshmi was admitted to a private hospital here on Sunday evening. After she complained of breathing problems, a scan was done that showed symptoms of COVID-19. She died on Tuesday morning following a heart attack, according to health officials. The official said that the report of a swab test done on July 25 was yet to come. Her body was cremated within hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajapalayam-ex-municipal-chairperson-dead/article32217635.ece
29 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Early referral of patients to Salem GH could save lives, private hospitals told||The Health Department has advised the private hospitals in the district to ensure early referral of COVID-19 patients, if any, to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH). The government facility has a dedicated COVID-19 ward with 500 beds and treats over 200 active cases at present. Some of the patients referred recently from private hospitals had died either soon after admission or within a day. GH sources said they were ready to take care of serious cases, but early referral is crucial in saving such cases. Deputy Director of Health Services J. Nirmalson said the private hospitals were advised to refer patients at an early stage. Patients’ choice Joint Director of Health Services R. Malarvizhi Vallal said, “A virtual meeting was held with private hospitals in the presence of the District Collector. The hospitals were advised to refer cases earlier to GH. However, the treatment protocol for COVID-19 is same across all facilities. We cannot mandate patients with severe symptoms to be shifted to GH as it is also a matter of patient’s preference. Some might be visiting a particular hospital for long and they might be comfortable there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-referral-of-patients-to-salem-gh-could-save-lives-private-hospitals-told/article32217385.ece
29 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Rotary donates medical equipment||Rotary Clubs in Salem on Tuesday handed over medical and educational equipment worth Rs. 64.55 lakh to District Collector S.A.Raman. According to a release, the organisation donated medical equipment worth Rs. 47 lakh and school furniture worth Rs. 17.55 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-donates-medical-equipment/article32217386.ece
29 July 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Python rescued||Fire and Rescue Service personnel and members of the Tirupattur forest department rescued a large Indian rock python found crushing a spotted deer near Kuberankoil in Pillayarpatti near here on Tuesday. The python was seen killing the spotted deer at a cashew farm at around 2 p.m. by a local farmer, said District Forest Officer D. Rameswaran. Station Officer (Transport), Tirupattur, P. R. Periyasamy, led the operation. The snake was released in Piranmalai reserve forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/python-rescued/article32217641.ece
29 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Retail outlet opened for agro-processing cluster||Delta Foods Thanjavur (DFT), a partnership firm incorporated to create modern infrastructure with efficient supply chain management from farm gate to retail through the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY), opened a retail outlet in Thanjavur on Monday. The firm was incorporated in 2019 in Thanjavur with the objective to coordinate, cooperate and consolidate five different food processing units based on a cluster approach by roping in farmers producer organisations (FPO) for procurement of raw materials. As the objective of PMKSY was to boost the growth of food processing, help farmers realise better returns and create employment opportunities in rural pockets as well, DFT was on the process of setting up food processing and storage infrastructure facilities on a 10-acre land near Gandharvakottai on the border of Thanjavur-Pudukottai district. The project had already been approved by the Ministry of Food Processing Industries. With around 20 FPOs in delta and neighbouring districts showing interest to utilise the opportunity extended by DFT to market their produce such as paddy and other horticulture products, the firm decided to build up a brand for value-added products to be produced through rice, millets, food and vegetables, instant foods and animal feed processing units to come up at the cluster complex. Thus, a retail outlet to sell 24 variants of traditional varieties of rice, Adhanakottai cashew and pulses to sell them under the brand name ‘Delta Foods Thanjavur’ was opened here on Monday. At present, the products are being outsourced till the FPOs who entered into contract farming deliver the produce for processing and sale under the brand name of the firm, according to N. Ramachandran, Managing Partner, DFT. By entering into contract farming with DFT the FPOs need not depend on middlemen to sell their produce. Since the firm directly procured them from the farming community, the latter could enjoy more income. In addition, the FPOs would be allowed to utilise the storage facility at the cluster campus on nominal rent and sell them to the firm at a time when the produces could fetch a better price, Mr. Ramachandran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retail-outlet-opened-for-agro-processing-cluster/article32217677.ece
29 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Prayers offered||Special prayers were offered to Kal Garudan at Goddess Manjulavalli Thayar and Lord Srinivasaperumal Temple at Nachiyarkovil near Kumbakonam on Tuesday. The special prayers were offered at Kal Garudan sannadhi to invoke the blessings of periya thiruvadi to safeguard humankind from COVID-19 on Aadi Swathi , the day believed to be the birthday of periya thiruvadi , according to official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prayers-offered/article32217678.ece
29 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID grills kin of deceased youth||The CB-CID police probing the suspicious death of a youth from a village near Sattankulam interrogated relatives and friends of the deceased on Tuesday. As S. Mahendran, 28, of Srivenkateswarapuram in Peikulam near Sattankulam, who allegedly suffered grievous head injuries as the police ‘thrashed’ him in the guise of interrogation in connection with the murder of a police informer, died after being admitted to the hospital, the CB-CID is investigating the case after S. Vadivu, mother of the deceased, approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. The team, led by Investigating Officer Anil Kumar, interrogated Mrs. Vadivu, her daughter and Mahendran’s sister Santhanamari and his brother Durai a few days ago. As Mahendran’s relatives Kannan and Raja and friends Mani and Madasamy were summoned to appear before the investigators on Tuesday, the foursome came to the CB-CID office here around noon and recorded their statements till evening. On July 29, the investigators are likely to visit Pappankulam in Tirunelveli district from where the Sattankulam police had picked up Mahendran on May 23 midnight last in connection with the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-grills-kin-of-deceased-youth/article32217648.ece
29 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Hunt on for Thoothukudi man who killed wife||The police are on the lookout for a youth who allegedly strangulated his wife to death. S. Murugavalli, 24, wife of labourer Shanmugaraja, 28, of Zakhir Hussein Nagar under Thalamuthu Nagar police station limits, was found dead in her house on Tuesday. Shanmugaraj, who married her seven years ago, suspected that his wife had an extra-marital affair. Shanmugaraja allegedly strangulated her and escaped along with two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hunt-on-for-thoothukudi-man-who-killed-wife/article32217636.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Visually impaired students miss online classes||V. Sharmila, a visually impaired student of Class 11, feels left out as she is unable to attend online classes conducted by her teachers. Her father, a daily-wager in Cuddalore, cannot afford a Smartphone through which her teachers have been sending audiobooks and voice recordings to learn while at home during the COVID-19 lockdown. “She has been listening to Kalvi TV since June, but is missing out on all the subjects in school,” her father rued. Like her, some students enrolled at Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School for the Blind in Tiruchi are apprehensive of their future. “If this pandemic situation goes on till November or December, how will I write my examinations?” Ms. Sharmila asked. Ms. Sharmila’s father has requested a few of his friends and even his employer for a loan of Rs. 10,000 to purchase a smartphone. “It is very difficult to make a living during this time, but my child studies very well and I do not want to discourage her,” he said. A father of four girls, he is the sole breadwinner of the family. “Braille textbooks have also not been provided to us yet,” said B. Janaki Priya of Class 12. “If we had the books, we will at least be able to read and understand the subject matter,” she said. Her parents too are unable to afford a Smartphone. “My mother worked as a domestic help but is out of work. My father works as a night watchman. They are finding it difficult to feed us during this time, I cannot burden them with my needs,” Ms. Priya said. V. Subramanian, Headmaster, Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School for the Blind, said the school is a fully residential campus and provided a healthy learning environment for the students. Now, with COVID-19, the students are all in their respective hometowns and teachers are trying to reach out to them and teach via audio recordings. Many students have provided their neighbours’ or relatives’ numbers through which the recordings are sent. “When the neighbour returns home from work, or when they have time to spare in the evenings, the students access the audio lessons,” Mr. Subramanian said. The situation is difficult and the teachers are trying to find ways to reach all the students, he said. “We are mulling over the idea of conference voice-calls which can be done through any mobile phone. We want all our students to be able to access the classes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visually-impaired-students-miss-online-classes/article32217689.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Positive indications for robust admission in colleges||Managements of engineering colleges in the region say they feel relieved, pointing to robust admission season. After the release of the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission 2020 notification on July 16, registrations have been in the range of one lakh and there are possibilities for colleges to achieve the numbers required for sustaining affiliation for the courses, principals said. Fortunately for the affiliated colleges, the pandemic was a blessing in disguise at least in one aspect. Inspection of affiliated colleges by Anna University, which usually result in a directive for reduction in student intake, had to be put off. The university issued a communication in May stating that inspection panels would be sent to verify data provided to it by the colleges after start of academic activities. The mandate of the committees is to verify fulfilment of requirements for existing courses offered and additional courses/variation in intake opted by the college as per norms and standards, curricula, and syllabi of Anna University. The colleges, nevertheless, were ready with the data: summary sheet of faculty members working in the college duly attested by the Principal; details of library books and journals in prescribed format; and details of laboratory requirements for all the semesters for the BE/B.Tech/B.Arch/ M.E., M.Tech/M.C.A., MBA programmes as applicable to the semester concerned. According to a principal, the inspection committees suggest reduction in intake for certain programmes if they find any shortcomings in requirements. The colleges will, in turn, face a challenging situation of either closing down the programme due to non-viability or end up incurring heavy losses. Now that the institutions can proceed with admissions as per last year’s seat allocations, colleges that are in a dismal financial situation will be able to overcome survival challenges, another principal said. Survival of a handful of colleges in Tiruchi region of Anna University would have been at stake if not for postponement of the inspection. One private management has already closed one of its two colleges, sources said. According to the records of the Centre for Affiliation of Institutions, Anna University, there are 74 affiliated colleges in Region II - Tiruchi, encompassing Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Tiruvarur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positive-indications-for-robust-admission-in-colleges/article32217676.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Scepticism rife over online process||Private schools in and around the city where the students are predominantly from a higher socio-economic background are apparently banking heavily on the virtual platform for keeping pace with the portions for this academic year. But, teachers don't seem to have a definite answer to the question whether they have a sense of job satisfaction. Teachers of very many private schools who have been handling classes online for students for more than a month now are not able to say with a sense of certainty about the effectiveness of the virtual mode of teaching. There are more reasons than one. Technology compatibility of devices utilised at the teaching and learning ends is one major factor that has been glossed over by the institutions, teachers observe. For instance, the the poor receptivity with devices supported by 3G connectivity is a distracting factor, according to a teacher who says that it would be a wishful thinking to believe that the intended teaching-learning impact has been created through the virtual platform. "At the most, the online platform of teaching suits not more than 20 % of the students. Unlike in the classroom situation, there is no way to know if the students are really following the concepts," a teacher handling Physics in a private school said. The teachers say they feel frustrated, especially in the light of indications that most number of students pay lip-service to their responsibilities, and turn their devices in the mute mode. The school heads are not entirely oblivious of the state of affairs. "It is plain knowledge that there cannot be a substitute for the classroom atmosphere. But, there is no alternative. We need to go by the adage that 'something is better than nothing'. We simply cannot afford to be idle. We have been asking parents to prevail upon their wards not to shirk their learning responsibilities," a school head said. Some of the schools say they find a via-media approach workable. For instance, the method of uploading downloadable video lessons in the school website is working well for some schools in Karaikal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scepticism-rife-over-online-process/article32217690.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 arrested, sandalwood logs seized||A Forest Department team has arrested three persons in connection with illegal cutting of a sandalwood tree near Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam. The offence came to light based on information to District Forest Officer D. Sujatha. Forest Department sources said the tree was cut a few days ago by Senthil Kumar, 40, of Srirangam and Chinnaraja, 31, of Melur. The sandalwood logs were thereafter illegally procured by Venkatesh Babu of Srirangam, who runs a sandalwood mill here. The sources said based on information, the Forest Department team arrested the three men on Monday and booked a case against them. Fine amount of Rs. 1.5 lakh was realised from them. About 10 kg of sandalwood logs were seized by the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-arrested-sandalwood-logs-seized/article32217693.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Ostracised farmer murdered near Ambasamudram||A farmer, who was allegedly ostracised in his village, was murdered near Ambasamudram on Monday night. The police said V. Mathiazhagan, 51, of Gowthamapuri under Ambasamudram Police Station limits was removed from the ‘village head’ post by the residents and a new ‘village head’ was elected. Owing to the enmity that ensued, Mathiazhagan was reportedly ostracised by others but no formal police complaint was lodged by him since both the sides belonged to the same caste. Against this backdrop, a group of 10 armed persons, all allegedly supporters of the present ‘village head’, hacked Mathiyazhagan on Monday night during which he sustained grievous cut injuries. After being admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, he succumbed to his injuries. A hunt is on to nab the assailants. Relatives of the victim alleged that Mathiazhagan was ostracised by others after his daughter fell in love with a youth from the same area and married him. When a fine was slapped on him by the village committee for allowing his daughter to marry the boy, Mathiazhagan refused to pay the fine that led to the ostracising of his family, they claimed. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ostracised-farmer-murdered-near-ambasamudram/article32217637.ece
29 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose Sillahalla hydroelectric project||The Sillahalla Valley Farmers’ Association has called upon the government to stall all proceedings to approve the construction of the proposed Sillahalla Pumped Hydroelectric Storage Project (PHESP). The farmers want the project stopped on grounds that it will affect more than 2,000 acres of cultivable land.  Appeal In an appeal to the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests, the association stated that the proposed dam will lead to the submergence of more than 2,000 acres of agricultural land and would render thousands of farmers landless. Infectious diseases “The main source of water for rivulet EluHalla, across which the proposed dam site is situated, is sewage from Ooty municipality and areas such as Lovedale, Muthorai palada and waste water from carrot washing machines around Muthorai Palada area. The Sillahalla Hydro power project aims for storing water amid many villages such as Kanneri, Manthanai, Sri Ram Nagar, Thangadu, Oranalli, Manihatty, Meekeri, Balacola, Mudhugula, Bembatty, Thulithalai, Appukodu, Puthugatti, Kallakorai, Palada, Muthorai, Palada Hosatty, Mel Appukodu and Nunthala,” they said. The farmers worry that keeping water stagnant in the reservoirs could lead to spread of infectious diseases among the villagers. “Sewage should be let out freely at least 30 km so that it will be purified before reaching Pilloor Dam for irrigation and drinking water purposes. Sophisticated underground generation machines can be installed in all existing dams in and around Kundha river so that electricity generation can be around 5000 MWs without taking up new dam project,” the association said. Forest cover They also feared that the construction of the dam could destroy forest cover and lead to more floods and landslips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-sillahalla-hydroelectric-project/article32217387.ece
29 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife takes over parks, gardens in the Nilgiris||The closure of the Nilgiris to tourists during the pandemic has presented wildlife with opportunities to move into new habitats, particularly parks run by the Horticulture Department. Over the last few months, wildlife photographers and residents have reported a noticeable increase in the number and variety of wildlife visiting the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam and Sims Park in Coonoor. They record some of the highest tourist footfalls in the district, and along with the Government Rose Garden and Kattery Park, have remained shut to tourists since March 17. M. Murali, a wildlife photographer who has been photographing birds visiting the Government Botanical Garden since the ban on tourists was announced, said more than 60 species could be seen in the garden. “Of these, 30 species, including the black-and-orange flycatcher and different kinds of woodpeckers, are rarer to spot. Sunbirds are seen frequently throughout the day as opposed to just the mornings prior to the ban on tourists,” said Mr. Murali. “Earlier, birdwatching in the garden was limited to early mornings before the arrival of tourists. Now, birds are here throughout the day,” he added. Officials from the Horticulture Department said Indian gaurs, too, were frequently seen in the garden, while a sloth bear was spotted a couple of weeks ago. “Very shy bird species, which usually avoid Sims Park due to the tourists, can now be seen more easily,” said Titus John, a recreational wildlife photographer and a resident of Coonoor. “Recently, I managed to click a picture of a brown fish owl, which had perched itself in Sims Park to possibly hunt fish from the pond,” he said, adding that owls were usually very shy and flew away at the first sight of humans. Horticulture Department officials said they planned to document the different birds visiting parks and gardens till tourists resumed their visits. They said they hoped that such an initiative would help in designing future strategies to educate and inform tourists of the rich biodiversity of the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wildlife-takes-over-parks-gardens-in-the-nilgiris/article32217352.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive cases cross 4,000 mark in Coimbatore dt.||With 273 new cases on Tuesday, Coimbatore district crossed the 4,000 mark in terms of total number of COVID-19 positive cases. The trajectory of cases in the district showed that the numbers went up at a doubling rate of nine to 10 days as projected by the Health Department. The district had 2,043 cases as of July 19 and the tally doubled in just nine days and stood at 4,052 on Tuesday. As per projections on Tuesday, the district may continue to have new cases at a doubling rate of 10 days, said an official. Of the 4,052 cases reported so far, 2,427 persons recovered from the disease, and 1,581 are under treatment. As many as 296 persons were discharged on Tuesday. The 273 new cases reported on Tuesday included those from Pollachi (17), Pondanur (13), Kuniyamuthur (10), Saravanampatti (9), Selvapuram (7), Ramanathapuram (5), Kamaraj Road at Karamadai (4) and Seeranaikanpalayam (4). 124 in Salem Of the 124 cases reported in Salem, 114 are indigenous. Four persons had travelled to Chennai, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Chengalpattu and six persons had returned from Kerala, Karnataka, Hyderabad, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. Namakkal reported 23 cases. While five patients had travelled to Salem, Tiruppur and Coimbatore, 18 were contacts of previous cases. 76 in Krishnagiri Seventy-six persons tested positive in Krishnagiri, increasing the tally so far to 871. In the meantime, localised lockdowns are being declared by the town panchayats, wherever COVID-19 cases are being reported. Over the weekend, Udhanapalli declared a three-day lockdown. Eight persons tested positive in Dharmapuri district on Tuesday, the lowest single day tally over a week.  18 in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported 18 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 757 cases. Four conservancy workers from Palladam Municipality tested positive. Swab samples of nearly 25 employees at the Palladam Municipality office were lifted on Monday. Erode district reported 11 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 656. While nine cases were reported in the Corporation limits, one case was reported each at Anakalpalayam in 46 Pudur Panchayat and at Britto Colony in Sathyamangalam. Three persons were discharged on Tuesday. Two people tested positive in the Nilgiris on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positive-cases-cross-4000-mark-in-coimbatore-dt/article32217393.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Now, scan your fingerprint to draw rations||The Food and Civil Supplies Department has launched biometric authenticated public distribution system (PDS) as a pilot project in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Under the system, fingerprint scanners are used to read and verify thumb impressions of family cardholders at fair price shops when they draw commodities eligible to them. Any family member above 18 years age and listed in smart cards linked to Aadhaar can draw the rations after biometric authentication on a device kept at ration shops. In Tiruchi district, installation of biometric devices have been completed in Tiruchi West, Tiruchi East and Mannachanallur taluks. The system of distributing rations after verification of the thumb impression of cardholders has begun in Mannachanallur taluk. The biometric reader enabled PDS system has been launched in Mannachanallur taluk initially, Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu . The idea is to ensure hassle-free supply of ration items to all eligible cardholders. It will ensure transparency in PDS and prevent smuggling. Further, unauthorised persons cannot use the ration cards of others and it will largely reduce fake entries. Officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department and the Department of Cooperatives have been asked to monitor the functioning of the system. The new system will be extended to Tiruchi (West) and Tiruchi (East) taluks soon and to other taluks gradually, Mr. Sivarasu said. There are 1,224 fair price shops in Tiruchi district. Installation of biometric devices and synchronisation are on in other taluks and the work will be completed within two weeks. The pilot project will take complete shape within the second week of August, a senior official of the Department of Cooperatives said. “There may be glitches in the system initially and they will be sorted out. Steps are being taken to ensure internet connectivity in all fair price shops,” he said. The new system has also been launched in a few taluks in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-scan-your-fingerprint-to-draw-rations/article32217680.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven deaths, 692 new cases in central region||The central districts witnessed yet another spike in number of COVID-19 cases with 692 persons testing positive on Tuesday. Seven deaths from the region were also recorded in the State Health Department bulletin. Four out of eight districts in central region recorded more than 100 positive cases. Thanjavur district topped the list with 209 cases followed by Tiruchi with 149. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts recorded 132 and 128. Perambalur district had 25 new cases, Ariyalur and Karur 17 cases each and Nagapattinam 15. Out of the seven deaths, Tiruvarur accounted for four. There were two deaths in Thanjavur and one in Tiruchi district. The victim in Tiruchi, who belonged to Thennur, was admitted to K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi on July 23. The 84-year-old man was under treatment for diabetes mellitus, hypertension and other ailments. A 34-year-old woman was among four patients who died in Tiruvarur. She was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital with complaints of fever and breathing difficulty a few days ago. The second victim (77), who died due to respiratory failure, had heart disease and systemic hypertension. The third patient (50), who died of cardio pulmonary arrest, was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur on July 14. He had a history of heart issues and systemic hypertension. The fourth patient was a 64-year-old male. He had head injuries when he was admitted to hospital a few days ago. A 49-year-old victim of Thanjavur had type-2 diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension and kidney disease. Out of 149 fresh cases in Tiruchi district, quite a few cases were reported in Lalgudi. At least 12 patients were reported to be employees in Lalgudi taluk office. Two to three cases were reported in Thennur, Subramaniapuram, Woraiyur, Thiruvanaikovil, Bheemanagar, Musiri, Palakkarai and Kottapalayam. With the declaration of 209 cases in Thanjavur district on Tuesday, the total number of affected persons in the district went up to 2,366. A total of 171 patients were discharged from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. A total of 82,368 persons had been subjected to swab tests so far in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-deaths-692-new-cases-in-central-region/article32217682.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Area under pulses expected to go up in Tiruchi district||The area under cultivation of pulses in Tiruchi district is expected to go up this year thanks to the push given under the National Food Security Mission (NFSM). The normal area of the crop in the district was 10,260 hectares (ha). Last year, it increased by 261 ha when compared over coverage of 10,452 ha in 2018. With the Agriculture Department promoting cultivation of pulses with subsidy schemes under NFSM, the area of coverage is expected to touch 12,500 ha this year, department officials said. Blackgram is the main pulses crop raised in the district and is expected to cover 8,000 ha followed by redgram on 2,000 ha, greengram on 500 ha, horsegram on 1,000 ha, cowpea on 800 ha and other pulses on about 200 ha. Under NFSM, high-yielding variety seeds are distributed to farmers with 50% subsidy. According to Joint Director of Agriculture (in-charge) S.Shanthi, high-yielding variety blackgram seeds such as VBN-10,VBN-8,VBN-6 are resistant to yellow mosaic virus. Farmers can achieve good yield by adopting technologies, including foliar spray of DAP, use of sprinklers and rain guns and treatment of seeds with pseudomonas and biofertilizers, recommended by the department. B. Vasantha, Assistant Director of Agriculture (in-charge), Vaiyampatti, says seed farms are also being set up under the scheme. Farmers raising seed farms are provided seed production subsidy of almost Rs. 25 a kg. Bio-fertilizer and bio-pesticides such as pseudomonas are also distributed under 50% subsidy. R. Santhanakrishnan, consultant, NFSM, explains that the VBN10 variety, is a new variety and has 60 pods per plant and an average six grains per pod which boosts yield. “The variety is also free from yellow mosaic virus and farmers can raise the variety in both delta and non-delta areas,” he says. Farmers can get a yield of 500 kg to 600 kg an acre and return of up to Rs. 37,500, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/area-under-pulses-expected-to-go-up-in-tiruchi-district/article32217686.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Villagers hold protest against inordinate delay in rejuvenation of lakes||A section of villagers in Aachampatti and surrounding hamlets in Budalur block staged a demonstration on the bunds of Aachan lake at Aachampatti on Tuesday condemning the inordinate delay and improper execution of rejuvenation of Aachan and other lakes in this region. The demonstrators, led by P. Maniarasan, president, Tamil Desiya Periyakkam, raised slogans condemning the Public Works Department for the imprudent execution of the rejuvenation of Aachan lake by the contractor which resulted in the lake not able to retain water that flows into it as one of the regulator had been demolished and not reconstructed for the past two years. ‘Package tender’ Further, the contractor who had been entrusted with the works of rejuvenating six other water bodies in Sengipatti, Aachampatti and Balaiahpatti in this region under ‘package tender’ three years ago, had not completed the works, except the one in Sengipatti, as per the schedule leaving the ayacuts depending on these seven lakes for irrigation in lurch. Demanding initiation of legal action against the contractor for delaying the execution of works, the demonstrators also condemned the Public Works Department for not initiating proper action to get the rejuvenation works done even after three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-hold-protest-against-inordinate-delay-in-rejuvenation-of-lakes/article32217692.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Six deaths in region||Three districts in western region reported six COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported three COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday. According to a tweet by District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, the deceased were a 52-year-old man from Kumaran Nagar, a 65-year-old man from Golden Nagar (both in Tiruppur Corporation limits) and a 47-year-old woman from Anupparpalayam. The Health Department in Coimbatore notified two deaths -- a man and a woman (both aged 62) -- taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths in Coimbatore district to 44. Salem district reported the death of a 70-year-old man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-deaths-in-region/article32217383.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco engineer dies in Tiruchi||A Superintending Engineer of TANGEDCO in Perambalur district, who tested positive, died on Monday. Karuppaiah, 58, died within a few hours of admission to a private hospital in Tiruchi. After being treated at a few hospitals here for cold and fever over the last week, he returned home two days ago. He tested positive and his condition became critical on Monday. He was unable to to breathe properly and was brought to hospital and admitted in ICU. He died on Monday night. Karuppaiah was to have retired from service on May 31 last. His service was extended after the State government increased the retirement age to 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-engineer-dies-in-tiruchi/article32217674.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SP issues memo to police personnel||Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan has issued memos to officers of different police stations seeking explanation as to why they have not curbed illicit distillation, sale of lottery tickets and illegal sand mining. He has constituted two special teams and directed them to prevent illegal activities. Sources say raids have been conducted over the past week at various locations and over 50 cases booked. The SP has issued memos to 35 Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors seeking explanation within a time-limit as to why they have failed to curb illegal acts in their jurisdiction. The special teams are continuing the raids across the district that comprises seven sub divisions of Pudukottai, Alangudi, Aranthangi, Kottaipattinam, Keeranur, Ponnamaravathi and Illupur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-issues-memo-to-police-personnel/article32217683.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grocers to restrict working hours from today||Grocery stores, both wholesale and retail, situated in and around Gandhi Market in Tiruchi have volunteered to restrict their business hours in view of the rise in number of positive cases in the city. The Tiruchi Maligai, Mandi, Oil, Vellam and Sakkarai Vyaparigal Sangam has announced that its members will operate only between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. from Wednesday. “We have about 130 members in our association and all members have agreed to close by 2 p.m. until further notice,” said association secretary S. Sellan. The shops are located mostly around Vellamandi, Thanjavur Road, Big Bazaar Street, Nelpettai and Palakkarai Main Road, he said. The decision has been taken in the interest of the public, association members and employees. “We have communicated our decision in writing to the Collector. The decision will be in force until further notice,” Mr. Sellan told The Hindu . Member shopkeepers are also ensuring personal distancing, hand hygiene and use of face masks by employees and customers. Posters have also been put up in front of shops to raise awareness, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocers-to-restrict-working-hours-from-today/article32217687.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 28   No. of cases on Tuesday: 273 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 4,052 Indigenous cases: 4,014 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,581 Persons recovered: 2,427 Deaths: 44    House quarantined: 2,912 Domestic cases: 749 (18 new cases on Tuesday) Imported cases: 8 Discharged: 443 Active cases: 306 Deaths: 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32217382.ece
29 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘No political motive behind Delhi visit’||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi sought to downplay his visit to Delhi and denied any “political motive” behind it. His visit to Delhi, after meeting Governor Vajubhai Vala, had led to speculation that BJP was planning leadership change in Karnataka. “I came here to meet Ministers about work related to my ministry and the State government. I’m not to be blamed if some see it as a political visit,” he said, speaking to The Hindu . The work, he said, includes relaxation of guideline from Delhi for introduction of electric buses and quick sanctioning of projects and release of funds. “It is just a coincidence that I was in Delhi when the State government was celebrating its first anniversary.” He said that he had met Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Sadananda Gowda, and Pralhad Joshi. He said he would stay for a few days and meet Nitin Gadkari and some other Ministers. “All the meetings were pre-arranged,” he said. He added that he was not juts a Minister and that he had held important party positions like the campaign in charge of some Maharashtra districts. “In this connection, I routinely meet party leaders like B.L. Santosh. It was another such situation,” he said. About his visit to the Governor before going to Delhi, Mr. Savadi said it was a “courtesy call.” “I’m not the person who decides issues like leadership or Cabinet expansion. The party high command and the Chief Minister will take decisions about such things,” he said. However, the Minister meeting senior party functionaries and Ministers led to rumours in Belagavi that the BJP was planning a change of leadership in Karnataka. Some of his fans from Athani began posting messages such as “Laxman Sahukar would be the next Chief Minister”. Mr Savadi said he had no knowledge of that.  I’m not the person who decides issues like leadership or Cabinet expansion. The party high command and the Chief Minister will take decisions about such things Laxman Savadi Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-political-motive-behind-delhi-visit/article32217303.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges get lenient with cut-offs and entrance tests||At the best of times, college admission season can be a stressful period. This year, students are finding it all the more difficult on account of COVID-19. With this in mind, many degree colleges in Bengaluru have eased their admission process by reducing cut-offs and simplifying entrance tests. Some of the top colleges, for instance, have decided not to publish cut-off lists this year, and are instead conducting admissions based on a ‘first come, first served basis’. Among them is National College, Basavanagudi. “For the 2020-21 academic year, we have decided not to publish any merit list. Preference will be given to students who have studied in our pre-university college,” said C.B. Annapurnamma, principal, National College. Kiran Jeevan, Public Relations Officer of St. Joseph’s College, said that they decided not to conduct an entrance test for some of the courses that have a lot of demand. “Every year, we conduct entrance tests, but realised that this year, it would be difficult to hold them. We have admitted students based on the marks scored in the board examinations,” he said. Students had to attend an online interview and upload their documents on a portal. College managements explained that they had taken this decision as not only were students facing “testing times”, but also because they were finding it difficult to normalise scores between applicants who appeared for the second year pre-university examination and the Central boards. “Students of Central boards did not appear for several examinations, which were cancelled due to the pandemic. On the other hand, students in pre-university classes appeared for all the papers. So, we decided that publishing stringent cut-off lists may not work this year,” said the principal of a degree college in Bengaluru. Some managements simplified the process as they wanted to complete admissions and collect the fees fearing uncertainty in demand. Many have already commenced online classes so that students and their parents are forced to pay the fees. Those who do not pay the fees do not have access to these online classes. Some students have welcomed the easing of rules while others are worried that deserving students may be denied a seat because of the ‘first come, first served’ method. “The COVID-19 pandemic began in March. We had studied all through the 2019-20 academic year. We want colleges to admit students strictly on the basis of our board examination results,” said Suraksha R.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-get-lenient-with-cut-offs-and-entrance-tests/article32217287.ece
29 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa safe at least till Dec.||Contrary to speculation that Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi’s visit to Delhi is an indication of efforts to replace Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Bharatiya Janata Party high command is reportedly in “no mood to look at such political issues” in Karnataka till December. “Right now, our focus is to contain COVID-19. We cannot focus our attention on such political issues till December, when some kind of a relief is expected in the form of vaccine,” sources in the party central leadership said. This would mean that Mr. Yediyurappa is safe at least till December. It is not a secret that some of the senior party leaders have been waiting in the wings, hoping that they may be considered for the top post if the 77-year-old Chief Minister is replaced. This backdrop, coupled with Mr. Savadi’s Delhi visit and the sudden decision by the Chief Minister to appoint 20 MLAs as chairpersons of boards and corporations, had triggered speculation that one more round of political tussle had begun in the BJP State unit. This had coincided with the first anniversary of the Yediyurappa government. Sources in Delhi said that it also does not mean that Mr. Yediyurappa will be asked to step down soon after December. “It only means that the central leadership would be in a position to look at all the political issues after COVID-19 subsides,” sources said. They also made it clear that leadership change is “a big and complex issue” that cannot be decided abruptly. The party high command is said to be closely watching the State’s handling of COVID-19. “The situation appears to have exposed chinks in the armour of the State government,” sources in the BJP central leadership observed. Ministerial expansion Meanwhile sources close to Mr. Yediyurappa said the Chief Minister’s camp was keen to take up ministerial expansion exercise sometime in August to fill up the six vacant berths. In fact, the Monday’s appointments to boards and corporations were aimed at preparing the ground for ministerial expansion by placating those who are unlikely to get berths. “The Chief Minister is willing to take up expansion exercise before August 15 if things go well and the high command gives its nod,” a leader close to the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-safe-at-least-till-dec/article32217307.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice to State on plea questioning seat reservation in NLSIU||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a petition filed by a 17-year-old student questioning constitutional validity of the recent law that reserves 25% of seats in National Law School of India University (NLSIU) for students of Karnataka. The National Law School of India (Amendment) Act, 2020, states that 25% of the total seats in NLSIU will be reserved horizontally for students who have studied in any one of the recognised institutions in Karnataka for a period not less than 10 years preceding to the qualifying exam. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order on a petition filed by Balachandar Krishnan, an aspirant to a seat in NLSIU through Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). Further hearing has been adjourned till August 13 as CLAT is scheduled to be held on August 22. The petitioner contended that the government lacks legislative competence to provide horizontal reservation, either institutional or residence based, in unaided educational institutions. The legislature has the power only to provide vertical reservations as per the constitutional scheme. Pointing out that NLSIU does not receive any aid from the State government, it was contended in the petition that the State government cannot interfere in admissions to unaided institutions as per the judgments of the apex court. The reservation based on institutional preference is permitted only for PG courses to enable undergraduate students to pursue PG courses in the same university. The petition also claimed that change in selection process would impact NLSIU as well as students from across India, who have applied for CLAT-2020, the process of filling application for which had commenced on January 1, 2020, much before the amended Act came into force on April 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-state-on-plea-questioning-seat-reservation-in-nlsiu/article32217284.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to create 50,000 jobs in biotech||The city will have a dedicated infrastructure facility to promote the growth of life sciences, innovation and research activities. A nine-million-sqft Bengaluru Life Sciences Park will come up on 52.27 acres at a cost of Rs. 5,000 crore. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for this project at Electronics City on Wednesday. Deputy CM C.N. Ashwathnarayan said the project is being set up under a public-private partnership of the government of Karnataka with Labzone Corp. The first phase will be completed by December 2022. Mr. Ashwathnarayan, who is also the minister for IT/BT & Science and Technology, said, “Setting up of the Bengaluru Life Sciences Park was envisioned 20 years ago when the Karnataka Vision Group on Biotechnology was set up. The efforts put in by the Vision Group has finally borne fruit.” With 380 companies and 200 start-ups, the Deputy Chief Minister said that Karnataka, and particularly Bengaluru, is home to around 60% of all major biotechnology firms in the country. Karnataka has 9% market share in Asia’s biotechnology space while India has a total of around 35%. The Deputy Chief Minister said the Life Sciences Park is expected to house over 150 companies and is expected to generate around 50,000 jobs. It will have a dedicated incubation space with shared instrumentation lab facilities and customisable fully-fitted lab and office suites. “Today, we are very advanced in precision medicine and treatment, live organisms-based treatment, and real-time RT-PCR tests, which have been possible due to R&D in biotechnology. The agriculture sector will witness a major leap with the help of biotechnology,” he added. “The biotechnology sector has played a major role in not only economic development but in the overall development of various sectors, such as pharma, diagnostics and agriculture,” he added. The 52-acre industrial cluster will form the third component of the Biohelix Park, aimed at strengthening the biotechnology ecosystem in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-create-50000-jobs-in-biotech/article32217280.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government criticised for ‘selective’ trimming of lessons||Teachers, principals, school managements as well as opposition leaders have criticised the government’s decision to omit lessons on Haider Ali, Tipu Sultan as well as Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed in an attempt to reduce the syllabus. D. Shashi Kumar, general Secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. said it was not “acceptable”. “Removing Tipu from the lessons is not fair. They have tried to remove lessons that have attracted controversy in recent times,” he said. Academic calendar With the COVID-19 pandemic disrupting the academic calendar, the Department of Public Instruction had cut the syllabus by 30% for the 2020-21 academic year. Some of the lessons that have been truncated or cut include those related to Tipu Sultan and Haider Ali, the Constitution of India, and teachings of Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed. In the past, when a controversy had erupted on the inclusion of Tipu Sultan in the curriculum, a government-appointed committee said that it should be retained. According to stakeholders, the department has only reduced content “cosmetically” and has not done this in a scientific manner that will benefit a child’s learning. Many said there was a need for more thought to be put into the effort. Congress to set up panel The Congress on Tuesday opposed the removal of lessons that dealt with the Mysuru rulers. “This cannot be accepted. Whether they accept Tipu Sultan or Haider Ali or the Constitution, there is history, which cannot be changed,” said KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. He said Congress will set up a committee on this issue. “Whether we celebrate Tipu Jayanti or not is a different issue. But history is history,” he said. When the Congress was in power, the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had introduced Tipu Jayanti celebrations in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-criticised-for-selective-trimming-of-lessons/article32217289.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor claims niece was denied treatment by hospital||Kannada actor Sudharani has alleged that her 32-year-old niece was denied treatment and was made to wait at the gate of a private hospital in Seshadripuram for more than an hour on Monday night. The charge, however, has been denied by the hospital. The actor said her brother’s daughter, who has a history of kidney stones, suddenly developed excruciating pain on Monday night. “She was rushed to Apollo Hospitals at Seshadripuram. But to our shock, she was denied entry and was made to wait at the gate for an hour,” she told presspersons. “Are they not supposed to at least give basic first aid and stabilise the patients who come to the Emergency?” she asked. She said her niece was taken in only after she spoke to Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao and he intervened. However, the hospital’s medical superintendent N. Umesh shot down the suggestion that the patient was denied entry. “She was brought at 12.19 a.m. and after the regular screening at the entrance, she was taken in at 12.28 a.m. and administered IV fluids. As she also displayed COVID-19 symptoms and the hospital did not have an ICU with ventilator bed, we informed the family to look for an ICU bed at another hospital. The patient was in the triage area for four hours and was shifted by the family to another hospital after they got a bed,” he said. “They told us it was kidney stone pain. But she also had fever, shortness of breath, and her oxygen saturation was 80%. If we do not have an ICU bed with ventilator, how can we accommodate the patient?” he asked, adding that the hospital’s CCTV footage would disprove the actor’s allegations. After news of this incident broke, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar took to Twitter to warn the private hospital. He tweeted, “I saw the reports about the delay in the treatment of actress Sudharani’s niece when she was taken to Apollo Hospitals ar Seshadripuram due to some health issues. Not just her, but any common man should not face this kind of a situation. Disciplinary action will be taken against that private hospital.” Health Minister B. Sriramulu also warned the hospital of action. “The State government has been repeatedly warning private hospitals of action if any patient is denied treatment.”  The government has been repeatedly warning private hospitals of action if any patient is denied treatment B. Sriramulu, Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-claims-niece-was-denied-treatment-by-hospital/article32217296.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress too guilty of horse-trading: HDK||Slamming his erstwhile alliance-partner Congress, which has launched a nation-wide “Save Democracy” campaign against BJP’s alleged moves to lure legislators resulting in fall of democratically-elected governments, former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday questioned Congress’s moral ground in criticising the saffron party. He said that Congress is as guilty of dividing legislators of like-minded parties and indulging in horse-trading. “Hasn’t Congress lured BSP MLAs to form government in Rajasthan? Is that not buyout?” the former Chief Minister asked in a statement released to the media. Accusing Congress of being “an expert in dividing political parties and purchasing MLAs” he said: “In fact, the term ‘horse-trading’ in politics came to be used because of Congress.” Mr. Kumaraswamy said: “Hasn’t Congress, which is making big noise about purchase of MLAs, divided JD(S) in the past? Is it not a fact that for the sake of one Rajya Sabha seat, the Congress government in Karnataka purchased eight JD(S) MLAs at one time? When S.M. Krishna was the Chief Minister, didn’t Congress buy our MLAs? Didn’t the Congress conspire to form a government after the 2018 Assembly polls by buying our MLAs? Does Congress have the moral courage to answer these questions?” He further said that in 2004, the Congress tried to divide the JD(S), and claimed that to avoid the party being “hijacked” by the Congress, he had to end the Congress-JD (S) coalition.   Mr. Kumaraswamy’s statement comes just a month after Congress supported his father and JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda in Rajya Sabha elections in which JD(S) did not have the required numbers to win independently. The former Chief Minister has been very critical of Congress in the recent weeks.  The term horse-trading in politics came to be used because of Congress. Hasn’t Congress, which is making big noise about purchase of MLAs, divided JD(S) in the past?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-too-guilty-of-horse-trading-hdk/article32217305.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress campaign||To expose the “failures” of the State BJP government, the Congress has decided to hold “Speak up Karnataka” campaign across the State. Under the programme, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has asked senior leaders to hold press conferences in all districts. Mr. Shivakumar will speak in Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi, while former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will speak in Mandya and Shivamogga. Former Minister Mallikarjun Kharge will hold a press conference in Mysuru, while former Minister M. Veerappa Moily will speak in Tumakuru, said a press release issued by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-campaign/article32217308.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gowda criticises ‘anti-farmer, anti-labour’ Ordinances||Expressing dismay at important laws related to farmers and labourers being amended through Ordinance in Karnataka, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda on Tuesday urged the State government to withdraw these Ordinances that are “anti-farmer and anti-labour”, and threatened to launch an agitation if the government did not withdraw them. “The removal of important provisions of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, to enable purchase of land by non-farmers, and amendment brought to the APMC Act will affect the farming community,” Mr. Gowda told presspersons here on Tuesday. He said that the changes to land reforms Act has been brought without providing information about the effects of such changes, and that these changes will help the land mafia in rural and urban pockets. He also criticised the government for amending the Factories Act, Industrial Disputes Act and Contract Labour (Abolition and Regulation) Act. “I have already written to the Chief Minister thrice and despite this the Ordinances have been promulgated. The government should not bring such changes because it has majority,” he said.  The removal of important provisions of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, to enable purchase of land by non-farmers, and amendment to the APMC Act will affect the farming community.H.D. Deve GowdaJanata Dal (Secular) president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gowda-criticises-anti-farmer-anti-labour-ordinances/article32217301.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1,677.3 cr. approved for Kalasa-Banduri project||The Karnataka government on Tuesday gave in-principle administrative approval for Rs. 1,677.3 crore towards the Kalasa-Banduri project in the Mahadayi river basin. It approved Rs. 885.8 crore for the Kalasa Nala project and Rs. 791.5 crore for the Banduri Nala project. Both projects will be implemented in Khanapura taluk of Belagavi district. Tenders would be called only after obtaining permission from the Finance Department, said a Government Order. The projects aim at bringing water to the drought-prone regions of Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Gadag districts by diverting water from the Mahadayi river to the Malaprabha river in Karnataka. The Kalasa Nala dam would come near Kankumbi village for lifting 1.72 tmcft water for drinking requirements of the district. The Banduri Nala dam would be constructed at Nerse village in the district for lifting 2.18 tmcft of water for drinking purpose. Both projects have been stuck for nearly two decades due to a row over sharing of Mahadayi waters between Karnataka and Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-16773-cr-approved-for-kalasa-banduri-project/article32217311.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Row over ambulances||JD(S) MLC Ramesh Gowda and Kacharakanahalli councillor Padmanabha Reddy almost came to blows during a discussion on ambulances provided to the different wards and zones at the BBMP council meeting. Mr. Reddy objected to Mr. Gowda’s claim that not all wards had ambulances. Following an argument, the JD(S) MLC staged a dharna in the well of the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-ambulances/article32217285.ece
29 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Labour Secy. changed again||The post of Labour Secretary has become a musical chair of sorts, with the government on Tuesday transferring M. Maheshwar Rao yet again to bring Rajkumar Khatri in his place. Mr. Rao had been transferred out earlier also from the post of Labour Secretary, only to be brought back subsequently. Mr. Rao also holding the post of MSME Secretary attracted much criticism as an example of “conflict of interest” in light of several labour laws being changed in favour of the industry. This was one of the several changes in bureaucracy announced on Tuesday. N. Nagambika Devi was transferred with immediate effect and posted until further orders as Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Social Welfare Department, in the upgraded post. Ms. Devi has also been placed with the concurrent charge of Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Department of Women and Child Development and Empowerment of Differently-abled and Senior Citizens, Bengaluru, until further orders. The new postings of other IAS officers are: Manoj Jain, Special Commissioner (Planning), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bengaluru; Rajendra Cholan P., Special Commissioner (Finance and IT), BBMP; R. Vinoth Priya, Director, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Commerce and Industries Department, Bengaluru; B.R. Mamatha, Additional Mission Director, Sakala Mission, Bengaluru; Sindhu B. Rupesh, Director, Electronic Delivery of Citizen Services (EDCS), DP and AR (E-Governance), Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-secy-changed-again/article32217295.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Son is not soft on BJP: HDD||While former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has been very critical of Congress in recent weeks, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda insisted that his son did not have a soft corner towards BJP. “Everybody knows who was responsible for formation of this [B.S. Yediyurappa-led] government. I am not going to talk about it now and there is no point in harping on the same issue,” Mr. Gowda said. He further asked about the BJP’s attempts at toppling governments: “Who removed the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh? Who is trying to remove Rajasthan government? These people have nothing else but desire to grab power.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/son-is-not-soft-on-bjp-hdd/article32217309.ece
29 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.9 crore car seized||The High Grounds traffic police on Monday seized a Porsche 911 GT3 worth Rs. 2.9 crore. They arrested the driver for speeding and rash driving. The driver, Hari Bin Devaraju, was going from BDA bridge on T. Chowdaiah Road towards High Grounds junction around 7.20 p.m. on Saturday. The police tracked down the car and its driver on Monday.    There will be power supply disruption on July 30 between 10.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. at Ramesh Reddy Layout, Krishna Layout, Chowdeshwari Temple Layout, Srinivas Reddy Layout, Devarachikanahalli, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-29-crore-car-seized/article32217279.ece
29 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||6,000 beds for COVID-19 patients||Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that the district administration has now made provision for 6,000 beds for treating patients in the wake of a surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Speaking after the inauguration of a 50-bed private COVID-19 hospital and an 800-bed COVID Care Centre set up at Deshpande Foundation’s Skill Development Centre in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that it was a good initiative taken by private hospitals in the fight against the pandemic. The Minister said that after a meeting with managements of private hospitals in the district, several hospitals had come forward to provide treatment to COVID-19 patients. “[Dr.] Ashok Bangarshettar of Ashoka Hospital has handed over the entire hospital to the district administration for the purpose. Now, through an arrangement with Balaji Hospital, the necessary health staff and doctors have been deployed in the hospital. It has been declared as a dedicated private COVID-19 hospital,” he said. He said that with the help of the Deshpande Foundation, the 800-bed facility at Deshpande Skill Development Centre had been converted into a COVID Care Centre for asymptomatic patients. The Minister said that it had become a difficult task for the district administration to set up COVID Care Centres at small facilities and now, with the new centre, it would be easy to treat a large number of patients in one place. Mr. Shettar said that beds, pillows and bedsheets were being provided by the district administration. At the COVID Care Centres, soap, oil, brush and other essential items were being provided to patients. This apart, provision had been made for recreation and the Deshpande Foundation would also be providing various online skill development training, he said. Isolation coaches The Minister said that all steps had been taken to provide treatment to patients of the pandemic and steps would be taken to make use of the railway isolation coaches, if required. MLA Arvind Bellad, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Assistant Commissioner Mohammed Zuber, Tahsildars Shashidhar Madyal and Prakash Nashi, Hubballi IMA president [Dr.] Kranti Kiran, Dr. Ashok Bangarshettar, Chief Executive Officer of Deshpande Foundation Vivek Pawar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6000-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article32217467.ece
29 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Govt. to buy six lakh saris to help weavers in distress||To help weavers who are in distress, the State government has decided to procure six lakh saris and distribute them among Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and nurses, Minister for Handlooms and Textiles and Minority Welfare S.B. Patil has said. Addressing presspersons after chairing a progress review meeting at the Deputy Commissioner’s office premises in Dharwad on Tuesday, Mr. Patil said that the move was aimed at mitigating the suffering of weavers in distress, and also honouring COVID-19 warriors. Mr. Patil said that because of the lockdown, weavers were unable to sell weaved products and the fear of the pandemic too had affected their business. Hi-tech showrooms The Minister said that the State government had taken a decision to open five hi-tech showrooms on the lines of Priyadarshini showrooms to help weavers sell their products directly. He said that the initiative would help in doing away with middlemen and bring producers and buyers on the same platform. Elaborating on the other steps aimed at helping weavers, he said that those weavers who had repaid their loan amount, would get Rs. 1 lakh in their bank accounts. And, along with it, handloom and powerloom weavers would get Rs. 2,000 each, he said. Polytechnics On minority welfare, he said that efforts were on to set up one polytechnic in each one of the four revenue divisions in the State and start job-oriented courses for youths from minority communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-buy-six-lakh-saris-to-help-weavers-in-distress/article32217468.ece
29 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Woman stages protest outside SP’s office||A 29-year-old resident of Mandeval village in Jewargi taluk of Kalaburagi district staged a protest outside the office of the Superintendent of Police on Tuesday, demanding that an accused in what she said a rape case be arrested. Addressing presspersons, the woman, who staged the protest for several hours, said that Bheemu Kannalli of Mandeval village raped her and demanded that he be arrested immediately. Meanwhile, the police told the woman that the accused will be taken into custody soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-stages-protest-outside-sps-office/article32217465.ece
29 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||University celebrates 10th anniversary||The 10th anniversary celebrations began at the Vijayanagar Sri Krishnadevaraya University, Ballari, on Monday. Addressing a gathering from an online platform from Mysuru, chief guest R. Balasubramaniam, founder president of Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement, Mysuru, called upon educational institutions to encourage the learning community to use digital technologies to face future challenges. A new emblem was released on the occasion. Registrars B.K. Tulasimala (Administration) and K. Ramesh (Evaluation) and Finance Officer K.C. Prashanth participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-celebrates-10th-anniversary/article32217463.ece
29 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police secure man after life threat to officer||The Moodbidri Police on Tuesday registered a suo motu case in connection with an alleged life threat issued on social media to outgoing Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada Sindhu B. Rupesh. The police have also secured a resident of a village near Bajpe, Ranjith, in this connection, a senior official in the Mangaluru Police Commissionerate said. Ms. Rupesh, who is under orders of transfer, has not filed any complaint. The accused had is said to have issued the life threat after the Deputy Commissioner stated that action will be taken against those taking the law into their own hands when they confronted those illegally transporting or are involved in slaughtering cattle in violation of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-secure-man-after-life-threat-to-officer/article32217470.ece
29 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada gets new DC||The government on Tuesday posted Rajendra K.V., CEO of Belagavi Zilla Panchayat, as Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada. The government transferred incumbent Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh as Director, Electronic Delivery of Citizen Services, Department of Personnel and Administrative Services (E-Governance), Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dakshina-kannada-gets-new-dc/article32217471.ece
29 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger headcount in Karnataka highest in Bandipur, Nagarahole||Bandipur and Nagarahole lead in tiger numbers in the State followed by BRT Tiger Sanctuary, Bhadra and Kali tiger reserves, as per the ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators, and Prey in India’ released on Tuesday. In terms of density, Nagarahole has 11.82 tigers per 100 sq.km, while Bandipur has 7.7 tigers per 100 sq.km. BRT has 4.96 tigers per 100 sq.km and Bhadra has a relatively low tiger density pegged at 2.86 in the same area. Other forests and sanctuaries where tiger presence has been found in significant numbers include M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, Madikeri Wildlife Division, Madikeri Territorial Division, Virajpet Territorial Division, Koppa Wildlife Division, and Haliyal Forest Division which is part of Joida taluk of Uttara Karnataka district, among others. Based on the camera trap images, 127 individual tigers were identified in Nagarahole followed by 126 tigers in Bandipur, 52 in BRT, 30 in Bhadra, and four in Kali (Anshi-Dandeli) tiger reserve. Officials in the Forest Department, however, said these refer to the minimum numbers only as a sizeable number of tigers from the adjoining habitats utilise the reserve too. Based on the 2018 tiger enumeration exercise, the summary of which was released last year, the new report released by Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi ahead of the International Tiger Day to be observed on Wednesday, also evaluates vulnerable areas that require conservation attention. While the summary of the Status of Tigers in India-2018 released last July pegged the number of tigers in Karnataka at 524 (with a minimum of 474 and maximum of 573), the new report analyses the status of habitat corridors connecting major tiger populations apart from providing information about the prey base and their density. The density of prey animals including chital, sambar gaur, wild boar, and barking deer were also analysed and were found to be high enough to sustain the predator population in good numbers. The chital density was pegged at 51 per sq.km in Bandipur where 36 other species of ungulates, carnivores, omnivores, and even domestic animals were photo captured. Pangolin was the rarest species photo captured, followed by leopard cat, as per the report. Giridhar Kulkarni, wildlife activist, said the increase in tiger numbers both within and outside the reserves augurs well for conservation. But such habitats and corridors are under serious threat due to linear projects like railways, highways, transmission lines etc. and called for notifying potential wildlife habitats as sanctuaries or national parks in Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, and other districts.  A case in point is the analysis pertaining to the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, where the report airs apprehension of the proposed Mekedatu dam and calls for critical re-examination as the project threatens to inundate a sizeable portion of the sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-headcount-in-karnataka-highest-in-bandipur-nagarahole/article32217313.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Not expecting recovery in tourism sector until vaccine is in place’||A peak summer season gone bust, a lockdown, and then an unlocking period that failed to take off; the tourism industry is terming this year as its worse in recent memory, and one that could be do or die for many. Despite being given the go ahead to welcome tourists after restrictions were lifted, many big tourism destinations had to shut their doors again following a spike in cases. The travel sentiment, too, took a back seat with the number of COVID-19 cases quickly spiralling out of control within a month. This has left the sector, which includes hospitality, tour operators, transport, restaurants, guides and other related jobs, gasping for air. The sector is now estimating that the scenario is unlikely to change much until a vaccine is found, which may not be until next year. The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH), which represents several tourism, travel and hospitality bodies, recently revised the sector’s economic value at risk to Rs. 15 lakh crore from the Rs. 5 lakh crore estimated in March. “Given the way the virus spread is progressing, tourism supply chains have broken down in India across all its key inbound, domestic and outbound markets. They are not expected to recover for the next five months, taking the total impact to a minimum of nine months starting from March this year,” said a FAITH spokesperson. This, FAITH says, is evident across all segments of tourism — in shut down or vacant hotels and restaurants, empty or locked down convention or wedding halls, tourist transport lying locked in parking lots, and staff who have either been laid off or are on leave without pay. M. Ravi, joint secretary of the Karnataka Tourism Society, and vice-president, Karnataka Tourism Forum, said the Chief Minister gave his nod for the tourism sector to resume operations, but locals and local leaders in popular tourist destinations objected, especially following reports of crowding in some places and disregard for COVID-19 norms. “For the past four months, everything is closed. They know this is a virus that is not going to go away soon. Destinations are closed. But niche hospitality establishments, such as resorts, are familiar with the SOPs. Why were so many people allowed in Mullayanagiri hill in the first place? The idea is to regulate, not shut down tourism,” he said. Enquiries and business were received when tourism was open for barely two weeks, he said, but with the opposition and sudden closures, there was hardly a recovery period. “The impact is massive. Many travel agents have wound up and have started selling vegetables, or got into other small businesses. Employees have been laid off,” he added. Tourist transport drivers have seen their business crumble overnight. “Tourism is not given preference in our country and is considered a luxury. Though we are contributing 10% of the GDP, a complete chain of tourism related jobs – such as shopkeepers near monuments and drivers – are now without work,” Mr. Ravi said. What’s needed For now, FAITH has demanded, among other things, an immediate full-year waiver of all Central and State statutory liabilities, such as income tax, GST, fixed power and utilities bills and inter-State tourist transportation taxes and license fees, and a tourism fund to help businesses take care of employees. But a section of the industry is hoping that business will pick up by Deepavali. “Sure, it will take a long time to revive. But once it does, we expect a boom in domestic tourism,” said a tour operator. The challenge lies in staying afloat till then.  Tourism is not given preference in our country and is considered a luxury. Though we are contributing 10% of the GDP, a complete chain of tourism related jobs – such as shopkeepers near monuments and drivers – are now without work M. Ravi, vice-president, Karnataka Tourism Forum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-expecting-recovery-in-tourism-sector-until-vaccine-is-in-place/article32217282.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Booth-level panels to monitor cases||The BBMP firmed up its plans to empower booth-level committees to monitor COVID-19 cases, with the onus on councillors to ensure that the system works effectively. Data segregated at the ward level will be used by the committees to contact citizens who have tested positive, trace primary and secondary contacts, identify senior citizens, and keep track of their health on a regular basis. At the BBMP council meeting on Tuesday, civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad urged councillors to rope in volunteers from their wards to constitute these booth-level committees. “There are around 40 booths per ward. Each booth-level committee may have 10 members,” he said. Committee members will be required to contact COVID-19 patients directly, ascertain if they can be isolated at home for quarantine or sent to the nearest COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC), or require medical attention. “Anyone who cannot be under home isolation may directly come to COVID-19 Care Centres,” he added. The BBMP is testing around 13,000 people every day. “We will increase testing. With more tests, more positive cases will be reported. However, 90% of cases are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms,” he said. Conceding that the civic body had not prioritised on improving its health infrastructure, he said 379 ambulances, 244 Tempo Travellers and 53 hearses have been given to the eight zones. With regard to untraceable cases, the Commissioner said the number was not as high as reported in the media. At the time of testing, several people had not provided the complete address while others had even given wrong contact numbers. “There are 1,800 cases where contacts could not be traced. We have handed over the details to the police,” said Mr. Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/booth-level-panels-to-monitor-cases/article32217291.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Reconsider decision to hold CET, HC tells govt.||The Bench pointed out that Bengaluru city alone has more than 5,000 containment zones and the standard operating procedure (SOP) dealing with the containment zones prevents persons residing in such zones from coming out. The Bench orally observed that CET is not like holding SSLC exam, where a second opportunity has been provided for those who could not attend it, as the entrance test is held only once and many students may miss the it owing the present situation. Meanwhile, after meeting with officials of different departments, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said preparedness for the CET was assessed. “He said they would present this before the High Court on Wednesday and seek “instructions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reconsider-decision-to-hold-cet-hc-tells-govt/article32217310.ece
29 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Church nod to cremate COVID victims||The Alleppey diocese of the Catholic Church (Latin rite) has decided to cremate bodies of COVID-19 victims. Funeral guidelines issued by Bishop James Anaparambil, following a meeting attended by diocese consultors, forane vicars, among others, on Tuesday noted that burial in church cemeteries under the diocese as per COVID-19 protocol was difficult. The bishop said the diocese had decided to cremate COVID-19 victims and inter the ash in the respective church cemetery. According to Church authorities, the burial as per the COVID-19 protocol is not possible in most parts of Alappuzha due to waterlogging and high water table. Guidelines issued by the bishop said COVID-19 deaths should be informed to the curia and local church authorities should seek the help of diocese central team members to cremate the body. Further, the church vicar and volunteers should arrange facilities to cremate the body in the cemetery. Mobile cremation units can be utilised for the purpose. Bodies can also be cremated in public crematoriums, but the ash should be brought to the cemetery. The ash should not be kept in the house or immersed in rivers, the letter said. District Collector A. Alexander appreciated the diocese for taking the decision. Meanwhile, the first cremation of a church member who died due to COVID-19 was held at the cemetery of St. Augustine's Church, Mararikulam, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-nod-to-cremate-covid-victims/article32217572.ece
29 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha’s caseload up by 84||After a short period of relative calm, COVID-19 cases jumped in the district with 84 people testing positive on Tuesday. Local transmission cases formed the majority of the new cases with 62 contracting the disease through contact. Rest of the cases include 12 people who came from abroad, eight from other States, and another two cases without any known source of infection. The district also reported its fifth COVID-19 death. The deceased was identified as a 70-year-old man. Not on list yet Although a 62-year-old woman from Mararikulam South tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 posthumously on Tuesday, the fatality is yet to be included on the list of COVID-19 deaths in the State. Of the contact cases, five from Kayamkulam were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients associated with the Kayamkulam market. Two persons from Chandiroor and one from Pattanakkad were on the contact list of patients with links to Chellanam harbour. Rest were reported from Alappuzha, Vallikunnam, Punnapra, Arthunkal, Chettikkad, Chandiroor, Cherthala and Pathirappally. Sources of infection of a 75-year-old woman native of Nooranad and a 28-year-old woman from Panavally are untraceable. 80 cured Meanwhile, 80 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases in the district stands at 691. All wards in Mararikulam South grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.  All wards in Mararikulam South grama panchayat have been declared as containment zones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzhas-caseload-up-by-84/article32217665.ece
29 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Lack of lab in Idukki a concern||The absence of lab facilities to screen samples for SARS-CoV-2 in the district has hindered efforts to check COVID-19 with no test results coming from the lab at Thalappady in Kottayam on Tuesday. This is said to be the third such instance in the past one month. A health official said the lab at Thalappady conveyed a message not to send swab samples as it would have to be disinfected on Monday. However, it released results of the tests for Kottayam district for Tuesday. Sources said there was a delay in announcing results of the tests for Idukki district. This was attributed to the increase in number of samples following intensive testing in the two districts. P.L. Nizamuddin, a social activist at Cheruthoni, said accurate and timely data were a prerequisite for taking action against the disease when a spike in cases, especially through local transmission, in some areas was a cause for concern. “When data are delayed for two or three days, valuable time is lost in taking counter measures. By the time information is received, virus might have spread through local transmission. It is suspected that in Vannappuram, Rajakkad, and Vazhathoppe grama panchayats, local transmission increased to an alarming level due to the delayed data on positive cases there,” he said. Though a COVID lab was inaugurated at the Idukki Medical College Hospital on July 14, it is not yet functional. Dean Kuriakose, MP, said approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research would be received if the State government took up the issue with the Centre. A health official said at present only antigen test was being conducted in emergency cases to diagnose COVID-19. “Now an average of 600 to 700 samples are being sent for tests at the Thalappady lab daily,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-lab-in-idukki-a-concern/article32217667.ece
29 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Seven in Idukki||Seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. The patients are from Rajakkad, Mullarikudi, Rajakumari, Karimban Vazhathoppe, Chakkupallom, Maniyarankudy, Udumbanchola, Elappara and Karimban. A Thodupuzha resident who came from Oman also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-in-idukki/article32217666.ece
29 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Micro Finance Corporation on the anvil’||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said that the department is planning to set up a Micro Finance Corporation to promote micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs ) in the State. Speaking after inaugurating the coffee processing plant of the Brahmagiri Development Society, a farmer-initiative in the district, at Kaniyampetta on Tuesday through video-conferencing, Mr. Jayarajan said that the NABARD was extending a financial assistance of Rs. 225 crore to the MSMEs through the Kerala Bank. “The government is also implementing a security package as a part of promoting small scale industries,” the Minister said. “There is a huge opportunity for micro enterprises that make value added products from agriculture crops,” Mr. Jayarajan said, adding that the crisis thrown up by COVID-19 could be overcome through progress in the agriculture and industrial sectors of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/micro-finance-corporation-on-the-anvil/article32217549.ece
29 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Greens demand closure of illegal quarries||As several illegal stone quarries continue to operate in the district, the demand to close them down has gained strength. Environmentalists and those affected by the operation of quarries have stepped up the protest in the wake of an order from the National Green Tribunal earlier this month directing the State governments to permit stone quarrying only if it is 200 metres from houses and public buildings in case blasting is involved, and 100 metres in case blasting is not involved. The tribunal observed that the Kerala government’s decision to permit quarries at a distance of 50 metres from habitations, particularly when blasts were involved, was improper and could have a deleterious effect on the environment and public health. It directed the Central Pollution Control Board to examine and lay down more stringent conditions and stipulate longer distance and convey the same to the State boards. The Malabar Environment Committee, demanding closure of 190 quarries operating in the district, submitted a petition to District Collector T.V. Subhash. It demanded the closure of 70 granite quarries and 120 laterite quarries which were operating in the district in violation of the NGT orders. Committee chairman Bhaskaran Vellore said the Kerala government had reduced the permissible distance to 50 metres to help the quarry mafia. The district administration did not consider the complaints lodged by many households which had suffered due to such quarrying operations. The committee welcomed the NGT’s order as the same ruling applied to the amendment brought to the Kerala Minor Minerals Convention Act dated June 12 that allowed the removal of 20,000 sqm of ordinary mineral without any permission, Mr. Bhaskaran said. Vinod Payyada, member, District Environmental Committee, said that there were several illegal quarries operating in the district and other parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-demand-closure-of-illegal-quarries/article32217550.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Curfew to be imposed in Fort Kochi-Thoppumpady areas||The district recorded 70 COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, of which 64 persons acquired the disease through local transmission and six persons arrived from outside the State. Seven cases were reported from Fort Kochi and Palluruthy areas. A curfew, like the one in the Aluva cluster, would be imposed in the Fort Kochi area, Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar told the media here. About 56 positive cases had been reported from Fort Kochi, Mattancherry and Thoppumpady areas, he said. The region, comprising about 20 divisions of the corporation, is a major area of concern considering the density of the population and the living conditions. Since residents of the area live in close proximity, primary contacts of the patients are likely to be shifted to a quarantine centre and the Kochi Corporation has been directed to set up adequate facilities. The maximum number of cases were reported from divisions two, three and 20 of the corporation, he said. Mobile units will be deployed to intensify testing. A 66-year-old and 87-year-old have tested positive at a convent in Koonammavu, while a 63-year-old has tested positive at a convent in Choornikkara. A convent in Kottuvally, where three nuns had tested positive, would be converted into a first-line treatment centre, the Minister said. According to Kunnathunad panchayat officials, a 74-year-old from Pallikkara who died late on Sunday, tested positive for the disease on Monday. He was admitted to a private hospital after showing symptoms earlier. Two of his family members had tested positive and were receiving treatment, they said. A 40-year-old motor vehicle inspector who is a resident of Thammanam, and his 37-year-old wife, a pharmacist, have tested positive. Residents of a house that the inspector had visited for vehicle-document related matters, had been asked to go into quarantine, corporation officials said. Two health workers have tested positive – a 53-year-old sanitation worker at the District Hospital in Aluva and a 31-year-old staff member from Alappuzha working at a private hospital. One person from Chellanam has tested positive. Four persons from Sreemoolanagaram have also been infected besides five persons from Kavalangad. The source of infection of four patients remains unknown – a patient each from Elamkunnapuzha, Vazhakulam, Kochi and Fort Kochi. With about 50 positive cases being reported from Kalamassery, Edappally and Cheranalloor in the past few days, strict regulations would be enforced in the area, the Minister said. As many as 83 persons recovered from the disease and 799 patients are being treated. A total of 588 samples were sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curfew-to-be-imposed-in-fort-kochi-thoppumpady-areas/article32217555.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Taluk hospitals not part of battle||Taluk hospitals in the district appear to have been kept out of the COVID-19 battle, while the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery continues to bear the brunt of the COVID patient load. N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer, said that the taluk hospitals were consciously kept out of COVID care to avoid, as far as possible, contact between COVID and non-COVID patients. COVID-19 patients are admitted only to first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) or the MCH, while the taluk hospitals deal with other patients. But with the situation being dynamic and anticipating that the COVID patient load could rise, a change in this policy might be considered, he said. “Most taluk hospitals have been equipped with swab collection and isolation facilities, besides antigen test kits,” said a doctor at the Karuvelipady taluk hospital. An isolation ward with ten beds was set aside at the hospital, but it currently lies vacant, she said. With defunct wiring, the ICU was barely functioning and required fixing, she said. “The District Hospital at Aluva also collects swab samples and has a triage facility, but currently does not have anybody with symptoms isolated there,” a doctor at the hospital said. “Some of these other government hospitals were used as isolation facilities for symptomatic people under quarantine who were waiting for test results. If positive, they are sent to an FLTC or the MCH,” said a doctor at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital, where 13 beds have been set aside in an isolation ward. In the event of a surge in the number of COVID patients requiring hospital facilities, the Muvattupuzha hospital could cater to patients with mild symptoms, but in the absence of an ICU, the hospital might not be able to attend to the critically ill, she said. “The number of patients in the general outpatient departments has reduced drastically in the past few months, since only emergency cases are being handled. Only the obstetrics and gynaecology departments are handling a large number of patients now. Staff can be spared for duty in an isolation ward since the patient load is much lower in other departments compared to pre-pandemic times,” she said. But in some hospitals like the District Hospital at Aluva, the shortage of staff, particularly specialists, could come in the way of running a full-fledged isolation ward with COVID-positive or symptomatic people, said Dr. Cyril G. Cherian, district secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association, who was a doctor at the hospital and is on the COVID surveillance team. A clear separation between COVID and non-COVID treatment centres was necessary to prevent the healthcare system from collapsing, he said. At the MCH, Kalamassery, all categories of patients were being treated, but asymptomatic people were mostly shifted to FLTCs, said Dr. Ganesh Mohan, Resident Medical Officer. “There is only a fine line between category B and C patients and patients in category B could progress to the critical stage at any point,” he said. Category A patients are asymptomatic, while category B and C are differentiated on the basis of severity of symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taluk-hospitals-not-part-of-battle/article32217557.ece
29 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Consultant for metro stretch appointed||The KMRL has appointed RV Associates as the project management consultant for the Pettah-Thripunithura metro corridor to supervise the work and ensure its quality. Apart from quality control, the firm has been mandated with ensuring safety at work sites and contract management for the 2.5-km stretch. It would also have to bring about activity-based execution of works, thereby ensuring that project milestones for the viaduct and three stations were adhered to, metro sources said. All the project management works were executed by DMRC for the Aluva-Pettah metro corridor since the agency was tasked with the entire project, including consultancy, inviting tenders and project management works, the cost of which was included in the project estimate. It also had a full-fledged safety team which followed a centralised safety protocol. The KMRL, for whom the Pettah-Thripunithura corridor is the first full-fledged work, is yet to constitute a team for project management, supervision and safety. All the other responsibilities, including inviting and finalising tenders is done by KMRL. The KMRL decided to appoint a project management consultant to prevent hiring of additional manpower, the sources said. A key element in the stretch is a two-lane bridge that would be built parallel to the existing one at Pettah. Tender in final stage In the meantime, the first girder on the Pettah-SN Junction stretch was launched recently. As for extending the metro beyond SN Junction, up to the land identified near the Thripunithura Railway Station, the processing of the financial bid to build the viaduct and station is in the final stage, it is learnt. The State government had given permission for the extension which is aimed at extending the metro to the temple town, where the metro station would be a stone’s throw away from the adjacent railway station and the bus stand that has been proposed nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consultant-for-metro-stretch-appointed/article32217559.ece
29 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna’s remand extended||The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court (Economic Offences), Kochi, has extended the remand of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, two accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, for five more days. The application for extension was moved by the Customs in the court on Tuesday. The court noted that the statements of some high-profile persons were being recorded by the Customs and the National Investigation Agency (NIA). It accepted the contentions of the Special Public Prosecutor in the case that it was essential to cross-check the statements of the accused and to test its credibility to unravel the truth. A woman officer not below the rank of superintendent shall keep a surveillance on Swapna while in custody. The accused should be given an opportunity to interact with her children through electronic means, the court directed. Trial in NIA court Meanwhile, the NIA stated in a trial court that it was conducting the investigation to “unearth the larger conspiracy in the case” and to track the gold and money trail. The agency submitted these aspects before the NIA Special Court, Kochi, while seeking the custody of K.T. Ramees, another accused in the case. The custodial interrogation of the accused was required to unearth the truth in the case and for further collection of evidences. Sandeep had earlier given a statement that Ramees had insisted that gold shall be smuggled in large quantities and in maximum numbers during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swapnas-remand-extended/article32217591.ece
29 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||When WFH turns a tough code to crack||No coding assignment has ever challenged Nisha, a young techie in Kochi, the way balancing household affairs and taking care of her six-year-old twins amid working from home has, during the past few months. Previously, when she had to put in additional hours beyond the office routine of 9.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m., there was the comfort of being able to go home at the end of it. “Fixed office hours of the past have gone for good with work calls coming in as late as 11 p.m. Amidst this, I also have to help with my twins’ online education,” said Ms. Nisha, who has since developed posture-related health issues on account of not having proper office infrastructure at home. In addition to the surging internet charges, she will now have to bear the cost of an office chair to correct her posture. Realising the increasing stress levels brought about by the new work-from-home (WFH) culture, Progressive Techies (PT), a combine of IT employees, recently organised an online counselling session for techies. “We are now planning to organise more such sessions frequently, considering the work pressure and the general sense of job uncertainty in the sector,” said Aneesh Panthalani, State president of PT. Shreyas, another techie, said the separation between personal and work lives was gone, leaving many on the verge of depression. The general pace of work has slowed down as doubts cannot not be immediately clarified with managers who had to be reached over phone. “This effectively means the vanishing of the much anticipated weekends as they are used to meet deadlines,” said Mr. Shreyas. While Abhishek Jacob is happy with the flexible work hours from home, he is concerned about its impact on social life. “For many techies, colleagues formed part of their social circles and the present arrangement has deprived them of that,” he said. To fill that vacuum, PT has organised a slew of activities to engage them. The latest is the mask challenge where participants have to post selfies wearing masks as part of encouraging their use. “We are in the process of mobilising funds for the Care for Kerala campaign for the first-line treatment centres at the request of the collector,” Mr. Panthalani added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-wfh-turns-a-tough-code-to-crack/article32217552.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Corporation cites ‘wilful default’ by meat shop owner||After a row between Kochi Corporation health officials and the owner of a meat shop near Thykoodam over the civic body’s decision to close the shop, corporation Secretary R. Rahul has written to the General Manager of the District Industries Centre to say that the enterprise had defaulted and cannot be allowed to function. Mayor Soumini Jain, Mr. Rahul and local corporation councillors had inspected the shop premises on Monday. The owner of the shop had obtained an acknowledgement certificate last month, valid for three years, based on an undertaking that it was a service for minced meat. However, the shop was engaging in slaughtering, which required a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Pollution Control Board (PCB), thereby breaching the undertaking on the basis of which the certification was obtained, the secretary’s letter notes. The enterprise will remain closed for ‘wilful default’, till necessary steps are taken by the enterprise for ‘abatement of nuisance’, the letter says. Based on an order issued by the corporation’s additional secretary after complaints from residents in the neighbourhood, corporation health officials had visited the premises last week to shut it down. The owner of the shop had produced a self-certification obtained online under the Kerala Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises Facilitation Act 2019 which allows for automatic approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-cites-wilful-default-by-meat-shop-owner/article32217553.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Tigers make a steady stride in State forests||The forests of Kerala, it seems, are providing the right environment for tigers as the population of the big cat is increasing steadily there. The latest tiger figures, released on Tuesday, put the population at 190. Four years ago, when the estimation was last carried out, the population was estimated to be 136 individuals. The tiger population for the Western Ghats landscape in 2018 was estimated to be 981 tigers with Karnataka supporting the maximum tigers, 524 big cats, followed by Tamil Nadu, (264) and Kerala. Zooming down closely on the striped animals, the latest report noted that 26 tigers each were found within the Parambikulam and Periyar Tiger Reserves during 2018-19. Besides the two tiger reserves and Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, details of tiger population in the Silent Valley National Park and Ranni and Malayattoor Wildlife Divisions were available during the latest estimation. In Parambikulam, 254 camera traps that were deployed yielded “468 tiger detections (including 10 images of cubs) from which 27 individual tigers were identified.” The density of tigers in the reserve was estimated to be 1.95 per 100 square km. Parambikulam scenario The tiger density in the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve has declined. Last time, the density was estimated to be 2.33. However, images of young tigers coming from the reserve were an encouraging sign, the report noted. In Periyar, 390 camera traps succeeded in identifying 498 tiger detections, from which 26 individual tigers were identified. The density of tigers in the reserve was estimated to be 1.38 per 100 sq km. “Tiger density remains low in the Periyar Tiger Reserve and is probably a function of low prey density in these forests. Improvement in the protection regime through the implementation of foot patrolling should help control poaching,” the report suggested. While seven individual tigers each were identified in the Malayattoor wildlife division and Silent Valley National Park, it was three in Ranni. Tiger experts could identify 120 individual tigers from 1,380 tiger detections carried out in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. Here, the density of tigers was estimated to be 9.33 per 100 sq km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tigers-make-a-steady-stride-in-state-forests/article32217581.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MACTA seeks help from Centre||Malayalam Cine Technicians Association (MACTA) has launched an initiative, as part of its ‘Help Indian Cinema’ campaign, to collect video clippings on various aspects of the cinema industry hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. A communication from the association said that around 3,000 such video clippings had been received from the Malayalam film industry. The videos were being edited to be sent to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/macta-seeks-help-from-centre/article32217560.ece
29 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||FACT begins coastal shipping of fertilisers||The Cochin Port Trust and Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) flagged off the first containerised consignment of fertilisers via coastal shipping from Kochi to Haldia in West Bengal on Tuesday. The public sector fertiliser producer has been planning to look beyond the south of India and to enter the eastern markets as part of its plans to build a pan-India presence, according to a communication here. The company has been planning to market ammonium sulphate in West Bengal and looking for a viable mode of transport. It was at this point that the Cochin Port stepped in and offered a solution by way of coastal shipping which has advantages like avoidance of multiple handling and elimination of any contamination and pilferage. The first 20 TEUs, 560 tonnes of the cargo, are being shipped using MV SSL Visakhapatnam operated by Shreyas Shipping and Logistics. The containers were jointly flagged off by M. Beena, chairperson, Cochin Port, and Kishor Rungta, CMD, FACT. The port trust chairperson thanked FACT for agreeing to undertake a modal shift of their cargo bound for West Bengal market. She said that a small step taken today would result in bigger coastal shipments in the coming days, which was in line with the vision for higher utilisation of waterways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fact-begins-coastal-shipping-of-fertilisers/article32217561.ece
29 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC notice to State on plea against use of annealed glass||The Kerala High Court has issued notice to the State government on a writ petition seeking a directive to remove annealed glasses from all public and private buildings and ban its use by amending the building rules. The petition was filed by Siddique Babu of Kochi. He sought the plea against the backdrop of an accident in which a 46-year-old woman bled to death on June 15 after she ran into a glass door of a bank branch at Perumabvoor and impaling herself on glass shards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-notice-to-state-on-plea-against-use-of-annealed-glass/article32217574.ece
29 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Spike in cases in Kollam||After a brief respite, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 95 on Tuesday. Among those who tested positive are 78 contact cases, including a health worker from Karavalur, five people from abroad and 12 from Tamil Nadu. On the bright side, the recovery rate in Kollam continues to go up with 70 patients testing negative on Tuesday. While a total of 191 contracted the infection in the past three days, the number of recoveries stands higher at 197. The district currently has 8,615 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 26,748. While 749 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 5,969 primary and 1,723 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The department has directed the persons who have given their swabs for testing to go in home quarantine. ‘Remain in quarantine’ “Primary contacts and those with symptoms should go in quarantine till they get the results. Those who visit hospitals should maintain physical distancing norms and seek immediate medical aid if they feel any physical discomfort,” said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha.  The Health Department has intensified preventive measures in the eastern parts of the district where several fresh cases have been reported. The Punalur municipality and other LSGs will open new COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) by July 30. KG Convention Centre at Kuthirachira and Symphony Auditorium, both with 200 beds each, will be the FLTCs in Punlaur municipality and the district administration will deploy 16 staff, including doctors and nurses, at the centres. Anchal, Ayalamon, and Yeroor village panchayts will also open treatment centres while Kottarakara taluk will have its fifth centre operational by Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-cases-in-kollam/article32217668.ece
29 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fishers worried over inclusion of Kollam Parappu in shipping route||Stephen, a 60-year-old fisher and crew member of Yeshuvinte Danam, has been making regular trips to Kollam Parappu (Quilon bank), one of the richest fishing grounds in the southwest coast, for over four decades. But in compliance with the new routeing system announced by the Ministry of Shipping, the area will be technically off-limits to him from August 1 as the new shipping corridor claims a good portion of it. The decision was taken to introduce a safer marine traffic system. But it also denies a huge fleet of fishing boats access to the most productive strip off the Kerala coast. “A large number of boats from Kerala and Tamil Nadu operate in this part. Kollam has the maximum number of boats in both traditional and mechanised sector since it offers a good and steady catch. We have been opposing the shipping corridor from day one,” he says. Off the Kollam coast where the continental shelf is wider than other parts of the State, Quilon bank also sees considerable number of merchant vessels. “Accidents happen in several parts but it is no reason to take away an important fishing hub for the passage of ships. Ideally the State should push the corridor beyond fishing grounds known as banks. Trade unions and other stakeholders will take up the matter with Fisheries Minister J. Mercykuttty Amma on July 30,” says Kollam district Matsya Thozhilali Union president H. Basil Lal. At present trawlers, gill net boats, deep sea boats with long lines and fishers who use hook and line are operating in Quilon bank. Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association says declaring it a shipping corridor is an attempt to help the corporate shipping sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-worried-over-inclusion-of-kollam-parappu-in-shipping-route/article32217618.ece
29 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Flawed works upset locals||Kollam Corporation’s unscientific beautification plans have turned out to be a nightmare for the residents of Akshaya Nagar in Kadappakada. Laying of interlock tiles that blocks the drainage has aggravated the flooding in the area and the residents allege that the authorities have been deliberately ignoring the proper procedure. “Even after the mildest showers, water gets collected on the road and we have to wade through it. It has been causing great inconvenience to motorists and pedestrians alike. Without addressing the issue, the authorities are now trying to worsen the situation,” said a resident. Paving the road without ensuring the water flow has also resulted in rainwater flowing into the compound of many houses in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flawed-works-upset-locals/article32217661.ece
29 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s tally crosses the 100 mark||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the district crossed the 100 mark on Tuesday with 118 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. All but two of these persons contracted the viral infection through local transmission. Two persons had returned from other States. Three health workers are among those who contracted the disease through contact. With this, the number of active cases in the district rose to 557. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared Ettumanur as a COVID-19 cluster and decided to implement cluster containment strategy in the municipality and four adjoining grama panchayats — Manjoor, Athirampuzha, Kanakkary and Ayarkkunnam. An urgent meeting convened by Minister for Civil Supplies P. Thilothaman here on Tuesday decided to conduct extensive testing here with the cooperation of local bodies. Lockdown likely With a majority of COVID-19 patients in the new cluster remaining asymptomatic, the authorities consider the situation extremely alarming and a region-wise lockdown is likely to be in the locality. During the meeting, the Minister directed District Collector M. Anjana to decide on imposing a regional or district- level lockdown after reviewing the spread of the virus. Taking a serious note of the situation, the district administration has intensified the regulations in Ettumanur. Only public distribution shops and shops selling essential items are allowed to open in the area between 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Restaurants can offer parcel services between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. The Collector also directed incident commander, police, and authorities of the Health and Local Self-Governance Departments to intensify monitoring in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayams-tally-crosses-the-100-mark/article32217671.ece
29 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Row continues over cremation issue||The row over the cremation of a COVID-19 victim at the municipal crematorium here is gradually snowballing into a larger political controversy with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) here accusing each other of using the issue to gain political mileage. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, LDF leaders said while the protests against the cremation was instigated by local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor T.N. Harikumar, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, MLA, of the Congress colluded with the BJP to mislead the people. They also demanded an apology from the Kottayam MLA for attempting to sabotage the COVID-19 defence programme of the State government.  The UDF, in its response, said the LDF was attempting to divert attention from the failure of the government in controlling the pandemic. The CPI(M) was using the district administration as a tool in its attempt to give a political colour to the issue, said Joshy Philip, president, District Congress Committee. The BJP has launched a social media campaign on the issue. ‘Not a CSI member’ Meanwhile, CSI Madhya Kerala Bishop Thomas K. Oommen expressed disapproval over the attempts to connect the Church with the cremation row at Muttambalam. “The deceased man was not a member of the CSI Church and hence the Church does not have any connection with the incident. However, some vested interests tried to draw the CSI Church into it and this cannot be taken for granted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-continues-over-cremation-issue/article32217669.ece
29 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Steps to ease burden on health system||COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) may have to admit people with less severe symptoms too in the future. There is also a plan to have programme management and support units in districts to coordinate the admission of patients in hospitals and use of ventilators and intensive care units (ICU) there to avoid overburdening the health system. The FLTCs are right now attending to only asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms, who are called Category ‘A’ patients. These people are being shifted to COVID hospitals only if their condition worsens. Category ‘B’ patients are those with less severe symptoms, and those in Category ‘C’ need urgent medical attention including ICU support. According to the latest guidelines issued by the Health Department, this may have to be changed according to the emerging situation in the State. “If the epidemic progresses, at a later stage we may need to manage Category ‘B’ patients too at the FLTCs. The change in the FLTC as a treatment centre shall be informed at an appropriate time after studying the epidemic and the situation in the district,” say the guidelines. Upgraded facilities The district authorities will have to identify a few FLTCs that could be upgraded to a higher clinical-grade level and ready at least 1,000 beds there. They should be close to COVID hospitals and have modern medicine teams and logistics. The plan to have programme management and support units is expected to help admit patients in need of urgent medical attention to hospitals and streamline the referral system between health-care institutions in public and private sectors. Real-time info Real-time information on the status of beds, ventilators and ICUs in each institution will be made available. The government believes that this will avert panic, prevent delay in admission of patients and ensure proper care to avoid deaths owing to COVID-19 or non-COVID illnesses. The support unit in districts would be led by respective District Collectors. There will be a 24x7 helpline number and a call centre to coordinate the work of these units. At the State level, the unit will be led by Rathan Kelkar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-ease-burden-on-health-system/article32217564.ece
29 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||43 of 67 new cases in Kozhikode through local transmission||Forty-three of the 67 COVID-19 cases newly reported in Kozhikode district on Tuesday are through local transmission of the infection. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, the source of infection of seven others is not known. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district is 688 now. There are 11 cases of local transmission within the Kozhikode Corporation, including a health worker at the Government Medical College Hospital. The other such patients are from Chathamangalam, Olavanna, Chekkiad, Chorod, Edachery, Koyilandy, Kunnummal, Onchiyam, Thooneri, Vadakara, Ramanattuaka, and Perumanna. Cases with unknown source of infection were reported from Chorod, Kayakkodi, Koduvally, Mukkom, Nadapuram, Cheruvannur, and Meppayyur. Thirteen persons have recovered from the infection. Meanwhile, the Health Department has said that Thooneri had emerged as the largest cluster in the district, where 74 COVID-19 cases have been reported so far. A majority of them have been cured now. There are a total of 11 clusters in the district and the other ones are Vadakara, Nadapuram, Eramala, Olavanna, Villiappilly, Puthuppady, Chekkiad, and Vanimel, along with Kallayi and Meenchanda in Kozhikode Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/43-of-67-new-cases-in-kozhikode-through-local-transmission/article32217541.ece
29 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Court stays show-cause notice issued to professor||The Kerala High Court has stayed a show-cause notice issued to Moly Kuruvilla, professor at the Department of Women’s Studies, Calicut University, by the university authorities after she reportedly objected to the alleged grant of internal marks to a former Students’ Federation of India (SFI) leader years after she completed her course. According to sources in the office of George Poonthottam, who appeared for her in the court, Justice C.S. Dias also stayed “all the action pursuant to the order” of the university on the issue. Ms. Kuruvilla alleged that an inquiry was held against her recently and the authorities “proceeded with actions behind her back”. It was followed by a show-cause notice issued by the Syndicate, she claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-stays-show-cause-notice-issued-to-professor/article32217539.ece
29 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Care centres for elderly, infirm||The Kozhikode district administration plans to open “Karuthal” care centres in every local body for the care of the elderly and people with chronic ailments. The decision came after it came to light that those who had died of COVID-19 in the district belonged to this vulnerable category. According to the authorities, the care centres will be monitored by the District Collector, Deputy Collectors and the District Medical Officer. Separate medical teams and palliative care volunteers will be deployed at each centre. The elderly or chronic patients will be shifted to the centre if any one in their houses tests positive for COVID-19. However, those with enough facilities may continue staying at home, provided others ensure their safety from COVID-19. A mobile medical unit will be made available for them if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-centres-for-elderly-infirm/article32217548.ece
29 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Positive cases in Malappuram and Thrissur cross the 100-mark||Local transmission continues to be a concern in Malappuram and Thrissur, where 112 and 109 cases of COVID-19 respectively were reported on Tuesday. Of the 112 cases in Malappuram, 92 persons were found to have contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection could not be identified in 42 cases, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. While 17 new patients had come from abroad, three had come from other States. Thirty-four infected people recovered from the disease on Tuesday. As many as 589 people are currently under treatment. In Thrissur With 109 more cases on Tuesday, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district so far rose to 1,283. Seventy-nine of the new patients were infected through local contact. As many as 45 recovered from the disease on Tuesday. While 14 persons were infected from the Kunnamkulam cluster, 13 were infected from the Kerala Solvent Extractions cluster and 9 each from the KLF Industries cluster and Pattambi cluster. Five persons were infected from the Irinjalakuda town cluster and four from the Chalakudy cluster. One person was infected from the Border Security Force cluster. The source of infection is not known in the case of 23 persons. While 17 patients arrived from abroad, 13 reached from other states. As many as 450 people are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. The District Collector declared six more wards and divisions as containment zones in Thrissur. The new containment zones are Division 21 of Kunnamkulam municipality, Wards 16, 18 and 20 of Kaipamangalam grama panchayat, Ward 10 of Erumappetty panchayat and Ward 3 of Chazhur panchayat. Sakthan market The police and the Health Department closed the Sakthan Thampuran vegetable market in Thrissur on Tuesday after two headload workers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Traders and other headload workers in the market have been asked to go into quarantine. The wife of one headload worker has also tested positive. In Palakkad Eighty-six people tested positive in Palakkad district on Tuesday. Twenty cases were reported from Pattambi and neighbouring regions. Among the 86 cases, 34 patients had come from abroad and 16 from other States. The others got the disease through local transmission. As many as 40 infected people recovered on Tuesday. There are 442 persons currently under treatment in the district. In Wayanad The district witnessed the highest ever single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 53 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. District Medical Officer R. Renuka said that 49 patients contracted the disease through local contacts. Of the 49 persons, 42 were from Valad area under the Thavinhal grama panchayat and seven were from Beenachi, Chethalayam and Ambalavayal areas, she added. Three cases were returnees from other States, while one had returned from Saudi Arabia. As many as 184 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district, while eight others have been admitted to hospitals outside Wayanad. District Collector Adeela Abdulla has declared all wards of Thondarnadu and Edavaka grama panchayats and all divisions of Mananthavadi municipality in the district as containment zones, taking into account their proximity to Thavinhal grama panchayat. In Kannur In Kannur, 43 more people tested positive on Tuesday. Of them, 20 were infected through contact, two came from abroad and 16 from other States. Four new patients are health workers, while one is a DSC official. Fifteen people who were under COVID-19 treatment in the district have been discharged. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 38 people tested positive for Sars-COV-2 on Tuesday. While the Health Department could not trace the source of infection in seven cases, 31 are primary contacts of COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, 36 people undergoing treatment in various hospitals were tested negative on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Palakkad, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/positive-cases-in-malappuram-and-thrissur-cross-the-100-mark/article32217546.ece
29 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Stricter measures in Malappuram: Collector||The district administration will impose tighter measures in COVID-19 affected areas in the district after monitoring the situation in the next few days. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said here on Tuesday that more restrictions would be needed if the virus spread continued to increase. He said that the district had geared up to face potential floods too by arranging camps that can house 8,000 people. ‘No community spread’ However, he said there were no signs of a community spread in the district. Apart from Ponnani, Kondotty and Nilambur municipalities, five wards each in Peruvallur and Mampad grama panchayats, and nine wards in Pallikkal grama panchayat were declared containment zones. Over 500 antigen tests were carried out in Kondotty and 800 in Nilambur. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that 248 First Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) with 6,480 beds had been set up in the district. Shops would be allowed to function until 8 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday in view of Id-ul-Azha, which falls on Friday. However, in containment zones, shops selling essential goods can work till 5 p.m. The Collector said that only five persons would be allowed to attend the animal slaughter on Id-ul-Azha. However, no slaughter would be allowed in containment zones. But the flesh of animals slaughtered outside containment zones could be distributed in containment zone as per the COVID-19 protocol.  District has geared up to face potential floods too by arranging camps that can house 8,000 people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stricter-measures-in-malappuram-collector/article32217547.ece
29 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram boy becomes Milma’s ambassador||A little boy from a Malappuram village has become the unofficial ambassador of several government and non-government agencies, including Milma. Keralites around the world celebrated the innocence of Mohammed Fayis, whose two-minute video on making a paper flower has become a topic of discussion on the social media. Borrowing the words of Fayis, Milma has made a catchphrase of its latest advertisement: “Chelolthu sheriyavum, chelolthu sheriyavula. Pakshenkil, chaaya ellarthum sheriyavum, paal Milma anengil (some may be right, some may be wrong. But tea will be fine for all if the milk is Milma).” Milma’s gift Milma on Tuesday gifted Fayis Rs. 10,000, a smart TV, and a kit of its complete products. “Fayis’s words have been the finest example of self-confidence at a time when the world is reeling under COVID-19. We find them quite motivating. So we borrowed them,” said Milma officials. Fayis’s family said they would use the reward amount for charity. A portion of it will be given to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. The Health Department too has used Fayis’s lines for its latest COVID-19 Jagratha warning: “Chelolkku ndavaum, chelolku ndavoola. Ngakku ndavan sammaikaruthu (Some may get it, some may not get it. But you should never get it.).” A fourth standard student of Izzathul Islam Higher Secondary Schoo, Kuzhimanna, Fayis has become a social media hero with a selfie video shot on his mother Maimoona’s phone. The video shows Fayis describing how to make a flower with a sheet of paper, a pair of scissors and a pencil. In his inimitable Eranadan Mapila slang, Fayis describes his flower-making craft and goes on to admit his failure without any qualms. “Chelolthu readyiavum; chelolthu readyavula. Intethu readyayilya. Intethu vere modela vannathu… anganeyayalu nammakku oru koypam ilya (some flowers may be right, and some may not be right. My flower became a different model. But I have no worries),” Fayis said ingenuously. His sisters sent the video to his father Muneer Saqafi, who works in Jeddah. He shared it in a family WhatsApp group, and the social media was quick to grab and celebrate Fayi’s unpretentious naivety. On Tuesday, Fayis shared a video showing the gifts and trophies he got from different people. “I am so happy I got so much ice-cream, cakes and sweets,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-boy-becomes-milmas-ambassador/article32217578.ece
29 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Explosives seized from Malappuram quarry||The police seized explosive materials from a granite quarry at Melmuri, near here, on Tuesday. The quarry was found to have been functioning illegally. The police said they seized 605 gelatin sticks and more than 350 detonators during a raid conducted on the basis of a tip-off. Sub Inspector Sangeet Punathil led the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/explosives-seized-from-malappuram-quarry/article32217576.ece
29 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Biodiversity heritage site status for Thudiyurulippara||The Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) attached to the Pramadom grama panchayat has formally announced the ecologically sensitive Thudiyurulippara hill in the panchayat as a biodiversity heritage site on the recommendations of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB). Panchayat president Robin Peter says the local body’s announcement comes on the occasion of World Nature Conservation Day on July 28. KSBB district coordinator Mathew Thomas told The Hindu that the district-level technical support group of the board had carried out a series of site inspections and extensive studies at Thudiyurulippara before submitting its report and recommending it heritage site status, says Mr. Thomas. Villagers, under the aegis of the Grama Raksha Samiti (GRS), have been agitating against granite quarrying and demanding effective measures to conserve the biodiversity there. Blatant violation of mining rules and the Kerala Land Utilisation Act by quarry operators has already done considerable damage to the ecology and environment there, says R. Jyotish, GRS leader. The Survey Department had identified wanton encroachment of government land and indiscriminate rock quarrying at Thudiyurulippara a few years ago. The survey was carried out on the basis of a GRS memorandum to the District Collector. And now, being given the biodiversity heritage site status to Thudiyurulippara by the KSSB, the villagers are a bit relieved, says Mr. Jyotish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biodiversity-heritage-site-status-for-thudiyurulippara/article32217663.ece
29 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||63 test positive||With 63 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 369 on Tuesday. Also, 42 were cured of the disease. As many as 36 persons among the 63 new COVID-19 patients got the infection through contact while 27 came from other States and abroad. A total of 358 persons have been admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district while 11 others have been admitted to hospitals outside the district. Meanwhile, 388 quarantined persons, comprising patients and those having symptoms of the viral infection, have been placed under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals. 5,964 in quarantine A total of 5,964 persons have been quarantined in the district. This included 1,575 people who came from various other States, 1,128 from abroad and 3,261 are contacts of the infected persons. Meanwhile, the District Disaster Management Authority has declared ward 11 of Vechoochira grama panchayat and ward 13 of Ezhamkulam grama panchayat as containment zone for seven days from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/63-test-positive/article32217672.ece
29 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A graphic testament of hope for the nature||In yet another green initiative, the Department of Ecological Concerns of the Church of South India (CSI) is set to bring out a book, Green God of the Bible , explaining the ecological perspectives of biblical stories in graphic format. The book, authored by Mathew Koshy Punnackadu, director of the Department of Ecological Concerns, is a testament of hope that makes readers understand the Bible from an ecological perspective, says Bishop Dharmaraj Rasalam, CSI Moderator. In his book, Dr. Punnackadu argues that God’s concerns for creation must be understood in the context of the immediate challenges facing the ecology. Most of the Churches are reluctant to look into the scriptures or interpret the Bible as a response to the present-day ecological issues. “However, many resilient Churches have started responding to the global ecological challenges through green discipleship, eco auditing, etc.” Integral He says ecological activities form an integral part of the pastoral ministry of the Church and it has to draft eco mission priorities for the next 10 years. The Church cannot keep mum towards deforestation, global warming, pollution, natural resource depletion, species extinction, and habitat destruction. “We created an unchristian philosophy that the more we consume and live in luxury, the more satisfied we will be in life, conveniently forgetting the fact that higher consumption had led to global warming and climate change, thereby endangering earth,” says Dr. Punnackadu. He says ‘green clergy’ and ‘green teachers’ are on the way as the CSI is set to train the next generation to live in a holistic way without endangering nature. Tharian Koshy, a human resource trainer based in Bengaluru, who has to his credit two graphic novels based on Vaikom Mohammed Basheer’s works, and C.G. Anilkumar, an artist from Chengannur, have done editing and layout of the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-graphic-testament-of-hope-for-the-nature/article32217617.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cases in district growing with day’s count at 222||COVID-19 cases showed a spurt in the district after a lull of two days as 222 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The increase in daily count comes after the district witnessed 175 and 161 cases in the last two days respectively. The district’s 12th COVID-19 death was also officially recorded after a 65-year-old woman succumbed to the disease. As many as 199 people contracted the infection through contact transmission. Nineteen health workers are among those who have been infected, and 88 employees of various firms in the KINFRA International Apparel Park at Menamkulam have been diagnosed with the disease. They were among 298 people who were subjected to rapid antigen detection tests on Tuesday after a worker tested positive a day ago. The infected people include head load workers of the godowns of Kerala Medical Services Corporation and the Food Corporation of India. Two police officers have been diagnosed with the disease. A Neyyattinkara native, who was deputed for guard duty at the Secretariat, and a Parassala-native civil police officer, attached to the Police Training College, are those infected. A Circle Inspector and a Sub-inspector attached to the Kilimanoor police station are among 13 people who have been quarantined, a day after an accused in a chain-snatching case tested positive. Nine personnel of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services including six in the Chengalchoola fire station and three in the Poovar fire station also contracted the infection. Health workers One more doctor in Chest Diseases Hospital at Pulayanarkotta tested positive. A patient was also diagnosed with the disease. The number of infected health workers in the Government Fort Taluk Hospital went up to six after a nurse was diagnosed with COVID-19. The hospital is one of the two institutions treating COVID-19-infected pregnant patients. While a nurse who shared a room with the infected nurse in a hostel at Perunthanni was sent to an institutional quarantine centre, six others including the nursing superintendent have gone into home quarantine. A section of the staff had earlier alleged that the employees, who figured in the primary contact list of infected workers, were made to work without undergoing quarantine. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran went into self-quarantine after a worker in his official house tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-in-district-growing-with-days-count-at-222/article32217623.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police to fine protocol violators||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the police would slap fines on people who do not wear masks or adhere to physical distancing rules. The COVID-19 pandemic was not vanishing any time soon. Total shutdowns would further cripple the economy and push it off the brink into the abyss of depression. Hence, the public has to learn to live with the outbreak, he said. Mr. Vijayan said sticking to the pandemic prevention protocol has to become second nature to citizens. Walling of epidemic hotspots from other localities would replace State-wide lockdowns for now. Disease prevention has to march in lockstep with life and economic rejuvenation. People have to get back to their jobs. Academic life, business, production, retail trade and hotel industry required to be revived. The police via on the spot fines would seek to inculcate best practices among the public, he said. Non-compliance with containment zone regulations, curfew, mask-wearing and physical distancing rules would entail a fine of Rs. 200. Spitting in public places would invite a fine of Rs. 200. Offices, schools, shops, supermarkets and other establishments which allow people to crowd would attract a fine of Rs. 500. Persons who jump quarantine, people who organise political and social events that involve mass participation in violation of the COVID-19 prevention protocol would earn a fine of Rs. 1,000. The police would slap a fine of Rs. 2,000 on private and public vehicles which operate in violation of government regulations. Vehicles which violate the ban on inter-State travel would invite a fine of Rs. 5,000.  The government has allowed devotees to assemble for prayers on Bakrid day. It has allowed mosques to accommodate a maximum of 100 persons depending on the space required for physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-fine-protocol-violators/article32217568.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One allotment schedule published||The State government has published the allotment schedule under the single-window system for admission to Plus One higher secondary course for the academic year. Trial allotment will be held on August 18, and first main allotment will be held on August 24. The trial allotment will be done before the first allotment is published. This is to allow applicants to make last-minute checks and corrections. The list will be published on the website. Candidates could correct any mistakes in the information furnished in the application within specified dates using their candidate log-in. Changes in schools or subject combinations should be made at this stage. Main allotment The main allotment will be done in two phases. If vacant seats remain, supplementary allotment will be done to fill them. Once the main allotment process is completed, students who have taken temporary admission should make it permanent. Details of vacant seats will be published on the website before applications for supplementary allotment are invited. Students who fail to get seats in the main allotment despite having submitted applications forms will have to renew them for supplementary allotment. Options too will have to be revised on the basis of vacancies then. School/subject combinations published for supplementary allotment alone can be chosen as options. Once the first allotment list is published, those who have received allotment could take admission within the time period specified. Else, the allotment will get cancelled and will not be considered later. Those who want to maintain higher options need only take temporary admission. They can also cancel/select higher options. If students who have taken temporary admission get higher options in the next allotment, they have to shift to the new allotment. Online registration for sports quota admission main phase will begin on August 5. In the community quota category, rank list will be published on September 7. For management/unaided management quota admission, admission will begin on September 7. Applications could be submitted till August 14 onwww.hscap.kerala.gov.inon the link ‘Apply Online-SWS’ by the candidates. The government has also approved the prospectus for the single-window system for admission.  Trial allotment will be held on August 18||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-allotment-schedule-published/article32217585.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Monsoon may get vigorous in August||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has asked district administrations to be on their guard given the likelihood of the southwest (SW) monsoon flexing its muscles in August. The KSDMA alerted the District Collectors on Monday after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated that a low pressure area could be taking shape in the Bay of Bengal. At present, an upper air cyclonic circulation persists over the bay. The IMD has indicated that a low pressure area could develop and intensify over the westcentral and adjoining northwest parts of the bay by August 7. It is still early to say how the scenario would develop. If the weather formation intensifies into a depression and pushes towards the coasts of Andhra Pradesh or Odisha, the situation will be favourable for increased rainfall over Kerala and Karnataka. Orange alerts Meanwhile, the IMD has issued orange alerts for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall for several districts for Wednesday and Thursday. Orange alerts, requiring the district administrations to be prepared for monsoon-related emergencies, have been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki for Wednesday. Orange alerts have been issued for Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad for Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monsoon-may-get-vigorous-in-august/article32217588.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Work on retaining wall on beach to begin soon||Reconstruction of the damaged road running parallel to Shanghumughom beach and leading to the airport’s domestic terminal will be taken up after the works of the retaining wall along the beach, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran has said. The Minister, accompanied by V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, and Mayor K. Sreekumar, who visited the beach and the road engulfed by the sea, on Tuesday said the stage was set for the commencement of phase of the works to cost Rs. 4.29 crore. The reconstructed retaining wall would run eight metres down the road level and would get an outer wrapping of granite stones as per the design submitted by the Central Road Research Institute that looked into the damage to the road following the sea erosion in 2018. The funds had been made available from the CMDRF and there were no takers when the work was tendered, he said. A sum of Rs. 1.10 crore had been made available from the Rebuild Kerala Initiative for reconstruction of the main road corridor leading to the domestic terminal and the Valiyathura side. Administrative sanction had been issued for restoring the road and it would be taken after Phase I works, he said. Vizhinjam port The Minister said it should be looked into whether the upcoming deepwater seaport at Vizhinjam was leading to changes in the pattern of waves. The construction of seawall and gyrones to check the onslaught of the waves would be looked into. To the request of Mr. Sivakumar to seek the services of the Military Engineering Services to provide protection of the houses and buildings dotting the shore and to provide connectivity to the airport, the Minister said it would be looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-retaining-wall-on-beach-to-begin-soon/article32217619.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One person positive in every 18 tested: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the COVID-19 situation in the capital district remains critical with even areas that have been largely unaffected on the verge of becoming clusters. Briefing media persons, Mr Vijayan said the test positivity rate in Thiruvananthauram was far higher than the State average. One in every 18 people who were subjected to tests was diagnosed with the infection, while the corresponding ratio in the State was 1:36 and the national average was 1:12, he said. Elaborating on the containment efforts that were undertaken in the district, the Chief Minister said surveillance measures were intensified soon after the first COVID-19 cluster was confirmed to have developed at Poonthura on July 5. Subsequently, clusters were formed in Beemapally and Pulluvila by July 15. More clusters soon came up in the coastal areas of Valiyathura, Anjuthengu, Chirayinkeezhu, Kulathoor in Neyyattinkara, Panavoor, Kadakkavoor, Perumathura and Puthukurichy. Besides, other places including Parassala, Kunnathukal, Pattom, Perunkadavila, Balaramapuram and Kattakada were also showing an increased prevalence of the disease. Surveillance, testing and sensitisation had been intensified in these areas, Mr. Vijayan said. According to him, 39,809 routine RT-PCR tests and 6,983 pooled sentinel tests were undertaken in the district. Since the first test in July 4, the district had witnessed 24,823 rapid antigen tests being undertaken. Mr. Vijayan added that 35 teams were currently deployed to the clusters. Each team was being equipped with 50 antigen kits on a daily basis. Squads conducting sentinel surveillance were also provided 300 antigen kits each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-person-positive-in-every-18-tested-cm/article32217624.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Phase 5 of repatriation flights from Saturday||Flights under the Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate stranded Non-Resident Indians have been extended till August 31 and the Air India group will operate 252 repatriation flights and Air India Express (AIE) 191 flights in Phase V. The flights will be from cities in the United States, Canada, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Kaula Lumpur, United Kingdom, Frankfurt, Paris, New Zealand, and the Philippines. While the flights of the Air India group will be from August 1 to 31, those of Air India Express will be for 15 days from August 1. Flight details Air India Express will operate flights from West Asia and South-East Asian countries to 16 airports in the country. Of the 191 flights, 68 flights are to Kerala with 22 to Kochi, 20 to Kozhikode, 14 to Thiruvananthapuram, and 12 to Kannur. Airline sources said Air India Express had been permitted to fly passengers from India only to Singapore and Kaula Lumpur in this phase. Hundreds of Non-Resident Indians would be hit by the decision of the Civil Aviation Ministry not to allow people in flights to the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Doha, and Muscat. In the July 12 to 26 period, those having valid United Arab Emirate’s Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship (ICA) entry permit and resident visa were allowed to fly back to the UAE in the 98 Air India Express repatriation flights operated from nine airports in the country. “Talks are on with the UAE and Indian authorities to allow travel from the Indian airports to the UAE in Phase V,” airline sources said. In the fourth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, 1,197 flights, which included 945 international flights and 252 feeder flights, were operated by the Air India group, comprising IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir, to 34 airports. More than 8,14,000 stranded Indians have returned to the country under the mission since May 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-5-of-repatriation-flights-from-saturday/article32217567.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No change in SAY exams||The government has issued an order sanctioning the conduct of Plus Two higher secondary improvement/SAY examinations as in the previous years. Earlier, the government had allowed Plus Two students who had qualified for higher education this year to appear for the improvement examinations in three subjects, and for those appearing for the SAY examinations to appear in three subjects besides the one which they did not clear. However, against the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, it was felt this could result in a huge increase in the number of candidates and affect the examination process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-change-in-say-exams/article32217587.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NSQF to be implemented in more VHSE schools||The government has issued orders for implementing the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) in 857 batches in 288 Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) schools in the State. There are 389 vocational higher secondary schools in the State. Of them, 261 are government and 128 aided. The NSQF had been implemented in 66 government VHSE schools in the 2018-19 academic year and in 35 in the 2019-20 academic year. In a meeting that Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath had with aided VHSE school managers in December last year, it was decided to implement the NSQF in all VHSE schools, including aided ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nsqf-to-be-implemented-in-more-vhse-schools/article32217586.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. funding scheme for MSMEs, start-ups||The government has accorded sanction for a new scheme named Chief Minister's Entrepreneurship Development Programme aimed at promoting entrepreneurial ventures in the State and helping start-ups tide over the pandemic-induced crisis. The scheme to be implemented through the Kerala Financial Corporation seeks to provide financial assistance for 1,000 units annually and 5,000 units over the next five years. It envisages a maximum loan amount of Rs. 50 lakh on liberal terms and conditions at attractive interest rates. It also provides training and hand holding for entrepreneurs. At his media briefing after the COVID-19 review meeting here on Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced that three new schemes to help ailing start-up companies get back on their feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-funding-scheme-for-msmes-start-ups/article32217589.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU Senate cancels 23 degree certificates||The Senate of the University of Kerala, which met on Tuesday, formally decided to cancel 23 degree certificates of students whose marks were modified without authorisation. A probe undertaken by the varsity attributed the incident late last year to technical flaws in the tabulation software, while maintaining that the marks were not moderated illegally. The Senate decided to forward its decision to the Governor for approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-senate-cancels-23-degree-certificates/article32217620.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One, VHSE results today||The Plus One higher secondary and Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) examinations results will be published at 11 a.m. on Wednesday. The results will be available onkeralaresults.nic.in, a statement here said. More than 4.31 lakh students appeared for the examination. They included53,048 in the open school category. As many as 1,207 appeared in the technical school category, and there were 76 art higher secondary students too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-vhse-results-today/article32217583.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown in capital extended||The district administration has extended the ongoing lockdown in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limit until further orders. There are, however, a number of relaxations to the existing restrictions. In one of the major relaxations, hotels and restaurants have been allowed to function for parcel services from take-away counters. No in-house dining is permitted. Home delivery is permitted in non-containment zone. All shops could remain open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., adhering to COVID-19 protocols. All shops have to keep a time slot from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. dedicated only to senior citizens. Public transport including taxis and autorickshaws have been allowed with 50% carriage capacity in non-containment zones. Transportation inside, outside and through Corporation is permitted in non-containment wards. However, only transit will be allowed through containment wards. All agricultural, farming and construction activities are permitted in non-containment wards of the Corporation. All congested market places will be allowed to function with strict entry-exit protocols. All Central and State government offices are permitted to be opened with maximum one third of the staff. All essential offices including government press will be functional. All offices of the private enterprises could be opened but with maximum presence of 25% of the staff. All other staff will have to continue to work from home only. The public exams in all educational institutions within the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation stands suspended. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, auditoriums, bars, assembly halls and similar places shall remain closed until further orders. The existing Critical Containment Zone in Coastal areas will continue to be under complete lockdown until August 6. The new relaxations will not be applicable in these wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-in-capital-extended/article32217625.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State now has a Heat Action Plan||Green roofs, light-coloured roads, and incentives for environment-friendly building materials are among the strategies suggested in the Heat Action Plan, a first-of its-kind document for the State prepared by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) for tackling rising temperature levels. Featuring guidelines for government agencies and the public, the action plan requires government departments to begin summer-related arrangements in January and submit action-taken reports to the Disaster Management Department by February 28 every year. The guidelines aside, the 124-page document suggests a host of short- and long-term strategies including eco-friendly construction methods, afforestation, green or ‘living’ roofs and light-coloured roads — white-topped roads for instance, as black surfaces contribute to urban heat island effects. Colour of roads “It should be studied whether changing the colour of roads would be practical and helpful in Kerala. If so, it may be implemented,” says the action plan. For reducing heat stress, the document underlines the need to discourage huge concrete buildings, asbestos roofing, and the fad of paving front yards with tiles. The government could also consider tax cuts for encouraging eco-friendly building materials, it adds. A prominent feature of the action plan is that it lists specific guidelines for government departments/agencies, District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA), and the public. Soaring summer-time temperatures in recent years, a consequent increase in heat-related health issues, and the overarching themes of climate change and global warming led to the creation of the action plan. Health issues According to the KSDMA, 1,671 heat-related health issues were reported in the State between February 25, 2019 and June 1, 2019 alone. The list included 764 cases of heat rash, 875 sunburn cases, and 32 sunstroke cases. The plan has been in the works for some time now. Orders had been issued on March 9, 2019 declaring heatwave, sunburn and sunstroke as State-specific disasters. Moreover, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had directed all State Disaster Management Authorities to prepare heat action plans in October 2019. The KSDMA published the first draft in January, 2020. After consultations with government departments, a revised draft was uploaded on the KSDMA website for seeking public opinion. The State Executive Committee of the KSDMA approved the Heat Action Plan for the State on July 7. The document will be updated every year, KSDMA member secretary Sekhar L. Kuriakose says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-now-has-a-heat-action-plan/article32217582.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC: revaluation results published||The results of revaluation and scrutiny of answer scripts for the SSLC/ THSLC/ SSLC (Hearing Impaired), THSLC (HI), and AHSLC examinations held in March have been published. The results are available on the Pareeksha Bhavan website keralapareekshabhavan.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-revaluation-results-published/article32217569.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Khadi rebate||The Kerala Khadi Gramavyavasaya Board has announced 10% rebate on Khadi clothes beyond the existing 20% from July 28 to August 30 in connection with Bakrid and Onam. Government, quasi-government, and bank employees will be eligible for a credit of Rs. 1 lakh, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khadi-rebate/article32217570.ece
29 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kadakampally goes in self-quarantine||Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran went into self quarantine on Tuesday. The Minister announced the decision after one of the staff members of his official residence tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Mr.Surendran has also asked other staff members to go in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kadakampally-goes-in-self-quarantine/article32217573.ece
29 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Health varsity wants its fresh graduates to join COVID duty||The Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) has requested its fresh graduates to extend support to the government in its fight against the pandemic by joining COVID duty. KUHS Vice Chancellor Dr. Mohanan Kunnummal said on Tuesday that the State government had requested the support of the graduates in fighting the pandemic. “You are graduating at a very critical time in the history of mankind when the COVID-19 pandemic is threatening the very existence of the human race. This serious health challenge has to be confronted at the grassroots level and you are the most competent people to do so. We all decided to become health professionals with a commitment to help our fellow citizens. This is the time to demonstrate our commitment to our brothers and sisters,” the VC said in his note to the graduates. “On the request of the government, we have forwarded your names and professional details to the Chief Minister. You will be appointed shortly with a reasonable salary and all facilities will be provided for your safe stay. The safety of your families will also be given due consideration. Please join the efforts of the government and society at large. Let us fight this pandemic together,” the note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-varsity-wants-its-fresh-graduates-to-join-covid-duty/article32217566.ece
29 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID does not spread from dead body: DMO||District Medical Officer K.J. Reena has stressed that COVID-19 will not spread from dead bodies that have been cremated or buried in compliance with all protocols. “SARS-CoV-2 spreads through small droplets from the mouth or nose when an infected person sneezes or coughs. The body fluid of the dead person does not come into contact with people. Even the relatives are allowed to view the body from a distance. After that, the body is cremated or buried according to religious practices,” said the DMO. However, many people forget the need for physical distancing when they attend funeral functions. It is such functions that are leading to the spread of the disease. “Keep away from the disease. But do not dishonour the body,” she said. There have been a couple of incidents in which local people raised objections to the burying of bodies of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-does-not-spread-from-dead-body-dmo/article32217542.ece
29 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID prevention cell at KUHS||Against the backdrop of the spurt in the COVID-19 cases, a COVID prevention cell has been formed at the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS). On the request of the Chief Minister, a list of 3,200 fresh medical graduates, 5,100 nurses, 2,000 pharmacists, and 400 tab technicians has been handed over to the Health Ministry. A list of specialist doctors from the private medical colleges under the KUHS who are willing to go on COVID duty will also be sent to the Ministry soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-prevention-cell-at-kuhs/article32217579.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Entrepreneurship during COVID||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrepreneurship-during-covid/article32217630.ece
29 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on COVID Care Centre nearing completion||Work on the conversion of the A.P. State Warehouse Corporation’s shed into a 1,500-bed COVID Care Centre is progressing at a fast pace at Raminepalli, about 14 km from the Government General Hospital here. Road and Buildings Executive Engineer L. Mahalingappa, who is supervising the work, told The Hindu that the entire work might take another 10 days for completion and the facility would be handed over to the district administration by the second week of August. Four new sheds constructed for warehouse purpose, were divided into three compartments each and would house 125 COVID-19 patients once completed. Washbasins were provided on the verandah with temporary water and sewage pipelines being laid. “There is a risk of virus spreading through used water, hence a soaking pit has been constructed along with septic tanks for 200 washrooms being constructed. This will be according to the standard norm of one toilet for every eight persons,” Mr. Mahalingappa said. While civil works, fittings and construction of ramps, staircase, and others have been given on contract for Rs. 5.4 crore, electrical fittings, wirings, and generator would cost another Rs. 1.85 crore. The Rs. 9-crore temporary project would have 12 rooms for doctors, nurses and serving staff. Food court A food court is also planned and a massive kitchen room is being constructed for making food arrangements for patients. This location in Rapthadu Assembly constituency being closer to Dharmavaram, Puttaparthi, and Penukonda, the administration believes having separate centres in those locations might not be required, according to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-covid-care-centre-in-anantapur-nearing-completion/article32217257.ece
29 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalava nails YSRCP claim on COVID facility||The Telugu Desam Party has alleged that the ruling YSR Congress Party is giving wrong information even during this time of COVID-19 pandemic and advised them to cross check the status of the proposed 1,500-bed temporary hospital at Raminepalli in the district. Former Minister and TDP leader Kalava Srinivasulu has shared a screenshot of the YSRCP Member of Parliament V. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s July 21 tweet which read: “the 1500-bed hospital is ready and Yellow Brothers go and have a look at it by googling the location. Did anywhere, anyone construct a temporary hospital so fast? It is the luck of State to have such a CM, who instills confidence among people even during this pandemic.” “The conversion of the warehouse into a hospital had just started when the YSRCP MP tweeted and let the party leaders stop spreading lies and tell facts to the people,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. On every aspect of administration in the State, the YSRCP had been harping just on publicity, he opined. Building colours He also took objection to using the YSR Congress Party colours on the warehouse and temporary hospital despite being told by the courts not to use those colours in the case of public buildings like village and ward secretariats. Questions delay The former Minister also questioned the delay in completion of the super speciality hospital near JNTU, which could have been utilised during thepandemic. The ruling party and district officials must take more interest in completing that project as it has oxygen-supporting beds and ventilators in ICU, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalava-nails-ysrcp-claim-on-covid-care-centre/article32217258.ece
29 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties demand better care for patients||The Left parties organised a demonstration in front of the main gate of the Government General Hospital here on Tuesday demanding immediate improvement in the conditions in the COVID Care Centres and better care in COVID Hospitals with proper oxygen and ventilator support. Communist Party of India district deputy secretary Jaffer, Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary V. Rambhupal and CPIML (New Democracy) district secretary Indla Prabhakar Reddy said it was unfortunate that the State government was not taking proper care of COVID patients by shifting them to a proper facility immediately, which was resulting in the death of many. They also expressed concern over the lack of proper oxygen support for many beds in the GGH here. “People are afraid to go to the COVID Care Centres as the amenities were below standard and they are worried that the poor sanitation conditions there will cause additional problems to them,” Mr. Rambhupal said. On the other hand, the normal medical care in rural and semi-urban areas was totally affected and none of the private hospitals was functioning properly. The government should also extend help in conduct of the last rites of COVID patients, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-demand-better-care-for-patients/article32217259.ece
29 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 personnel donate blood for plasma||Seventeen police personnel, who have recovered from COVID-19, donated blood on Tuesday at the RDT Bathalapalli Hospital to help those battling the disease, as part of the Plasma Therapy. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu termed their gesture as an inspiration for many others while felicitating them at the District Police Headquarters. . None of those who donated blood today needs to worry about their anti-bodies count, the SP said adding that while they help others with the antibodies, enough would be produced in their blood to keep them safe. Four patients had been successfully treated at Kurnool GGH recently with Plasma Therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-lauds-recovered-personnel-gesture/article32217695.ece
29 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No shortage of beds, says Collector||While allaying the concerns over shortage of beds for COVID-19 infected persons, District Collector and Incident Commander I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said there is no shortage of beds in the district. “Of the 3,690 beds available in 40 COVID-19 designated hospitals, we still have 1,828 beds which have not been filled. Hence, there is no shortage of beds in the district. We have also drawn up plans to augment the bed strength to 5,000 to meet the needs,” said the Collector. No. of cases Guntur district recorded 12,547 cases, out of which 4,365 cases are active. There are 1,862 persons who are being treated in various hospitals, and 859 are in COVID Care Centres. There are 1,714 persons in home isolation, according to the Collector. Stating that the recovery rate was heartening, the Collector said that just 164 persons were now dependent on oxygen which is 1.30% of the total infected persons. “We may be witnessing a surge in cases, but it should be noted that most of the persons are recovering by following simple precautions. “We will continue to urge people to maintain social distance, avoid crowded places, use masks and sanitise their hands frequently,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-shortage-of-beds-says-collector/article32217260.ece
29 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioner of SEB to head Financial Transactions||The State government has issued orders placing the Commissioner, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), as Head of Department of Financial Transactions. The GO was issued by DGP Gautam Sawang, who is also the ex-officio Principal Secretary of Home Department. Earlier, the government had created a special department of SEB to enforce and check illicit distillation, bottling and curb smuggling of alcohol and to control illegal mining of sand. The government later placed the SEB as a wing under the General Administration Department and later issued orders to let SEB function under a Commissioner. Now, the Commissioner, SEB, will be the Head of Department for the purpose of Financial Transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commissioner-of-seb-to-head-financial-transactions/article32217716.ece
29 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers protest burial of bodies in their vicinity||Villagers of Putlampalli staged a demonstration in front of the Kadapa Collectorate here on Tuesday, resenting the attempt by the revenue authorities to bury COVID-19-affected bodies in their vicinity. According to information, six bodies of persons infected with virus were brought from Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to be buried near the water body in Putlampalli. However, on coming to know of this, the villagers raised an objection, arguing that such an act would infect the tank. They recalled that the tank was being used for agricultural purposes. Though the bodies were taken away and buried elsewhere, the villagers staged a demonstration. Kadapa Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said that it was a normal practice in the region to bury the dead abutting water bodies. “However, as the villagers insisted it was not a burial ground, the COVID-infected bodies were buried elsewhere. They relented after I spoke with them,” he clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villagers-protest-burial-of-bodies-in-their-vicinity/article32217262.ece
29 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP all set to play a bigger role in State, says Somu||Newly-appointed State BJP president Somu Veerraju on Tuesday said his main agenda will be strengthening the party at all levels to ensure it emerges as an alternative. Speaking to newsmen in Rajamahendravaram, Mr. Veerraju said he would take the support of all party men in this endeavour. “I will ensure that they play a remarkable role in strengthening the party by adopting the existing functioning system,” he said. “In the eyes of the BJP, the YSR Congress party and the TDP and YSRCP are equal. We will keenly observe the functioning of the YSRCP. At the same time, we will also study the impact of the decisions taken by the previous TDP government. Top priority will be accorded to strengthening the BJP-Jana Sena Party alliance, ” the BJP leader said. “Of the total voters in the State, at least 20 % are neutral and we want to win their confidence,” he said. “I have a long association with the party and would like to take it to greater heights with the support of all senior leaders, including former State president Kanna Lakshminarayana,” Mr. Veerraju said. At Katheru, his native village in East Godavari district, the locals celebrated his appointment. Right choice: Pawan Hailing the appointment of Mr. Veeraju, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan said that the former has tremendous political experience and an inclination to serve people, and expressed hope the BJP would emerge as a strong force under his leadership. Mr. Veerraju has thorough knowledge of the issues faced by the poor and other sections of society, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said, adding that his party work would closely with the BJP in its future endeavours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-all-set-to-play-a-bigger-role-in-state-says-somu/article32217702.ece
29 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||North Andhra mourns loss of theatre stalwart||Several literary figures of North Andhra on Tuesday recollected the contributions of Raavi Kondala Rao (February 1932 to July 2020) to the field of theatre. Hailing from Srikakulam district, Mr. Rao rose to become a prolific playwright, theatre artiste, journalist, actor and director. “Raavi Kondala Rao’s family lived at Panduranga Street in Srikakulam town. He studied at the municipal high school. He was a member of the Nataraja Kala Samithi of Srikakulam. His demise is a great loss to the theatre art that flourished in Srikakulam district,” said Ponnala Narasimha Rao, president of the Srikakulam Rangasthala Kalakarula Samakhya. Mr. Narasimha Rao recalled Mr. Kondal Rao’s visit to the town last year to attend a cultural programme. Renowned balladeer Vangapandu Prasada Rao said his death left a big void in the field of theatre. “Raavi is the voice of the North Andhra dialect which he had promoted his entire life, both on- and off-screen. It is a great loss for the Srikakulam-Vizianagaram dialect of Telugu,” Mr. Prasada Rao told The Hindu . “Raavi belongs to the tribe of ‘theatre art’ of North Andhra. I am always fond of his humorous interactions in Srikakulam dialect. He was an exemplary drama artiste, journalist and a music critic,” said P. Bobby Vardhan, professor of journalism and mass communication at Andhra University. In the late 1940s, Mr. Rao was sent to Rajamahendravaram prison for a period of three months for taking part in a protest following a ban on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/north-andhra-mourns-loss-of-theatre-stalwart/article32217717.ece
29 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals overwhelmed with patients in Prakasam||The cases and death toll continued to rise in South Coastal Andhra region as four more patients succumbed to the pandemic and a total of 472 persons tested positive in Nellore district in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll rose to 32 while the count went up to 5,488 in the district, a bulletin issued by the State government said on Tuesday evening. 26 very active clusters In Prakasam district, the number of confirmed cases rose to 4,078 in even as the COVID-19 hospitals overflowed with patients. Four new containment clusters were created in Prakasam district with 26 very active and 165 active ones. Over 2,900 primary and secondary contacts of the newly-infected persons were identified and isolated. While 984 patients were treated in hospitals, 261 were admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres. There are eight COVID hospitals in the district, four government and four private. As many as 269 patients were yet to be admitted, a report compiled by the Prakasam district administration said. As many as 52 patients were put in intensive care units as their condition turned critical. The number of active cases stood at 1,822 after 238 patients-- 185 from hospitals and 53 from COVID Care Centres--were discharged on recovery. As many as 308 persons were asked to observe home quarantine. 45 new cases in Ongole Ongole continued to reel under the impact of coronavirus as 45 more tested positive during the period taking the confirmed cases to 829. Kanigiri and Chirala towns recorded 35 cases each followed by Kandukur and Podili with 29 each. Breakdown of cases The new cases came also from Giddalur(14), Peddaraveedu(6), Markapur(6), Lingasamudram(6), Addanki(5), Singarayakonda(5), Chinnaganjam(4), Pedda Dornala(4)Gudlur(4), Ballikurava(3), Cumbum(3), Maddipadu(3), Yerragondapalem (3), Parchur(3), Yaddanapudi(3), J.Pangalur(3), Tangutur(2), Thallur(2) and Ulavapadu(2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitals-overwhelmed-with-patients-in-prakasam/article32217697.ece
29 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI suspended for dereliction of duty||Chirala II Town sub-inspector K. Vijay Kumar was placed under suspension on Tuesday for “sheer negligence and gross dereliction of duty”, resulting in the alleged custodial death of Dalit youth Y. Kiran Kumar, who was picked up for not wearing mask in a COVID-19 hotspot of Chirala. Issuing the suspension order, South Coastal Zone Inspector-General of Police J. Prabhakar Rao said it was found that the SI had not taken proper care while transporting the arrested youth to the police station on July 18, following which he reportedly “sustained fatal head injury while allegedly attempting to escape from police custody.” “It is unbecoming of the government employee who had violated Rule 3 of the APCS(Conduct) Rules, 1964,” said the IG, who visited Ongole on Monday to take stock of the investigation into the case. Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal had entrusted the case to Darsi Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Prakasa Rao for an impartial probe. The SP warned the personnel of stern action for negligence in duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/article32217699.ece
29 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activists demand probe into atrocities against Dalits||Activists of the Kula Vivaksha Porata Sangam(KVPS) and Dappu Artistes Association staged a demonstration in front of the statue of Dalit icon Dr. B.R.Ambedkar at Thuravagunta in protest against increasing atrocities against Dalits in the State. Leading the protest along with Dappu Artistes Association district secretary E.Madhu Babu, KVPS district secretary B.Raghuram said instances like the alleged custodial death of a Dalit youth in Chirala, tonsuring of a Dalit in Seethanagaram and the gangrape of a girl near Madhurapudi showed that there was no respite for Dalits from atrocities even after a change in government. Wearing black dresses as a mark of protest, they raised slogans pressing for a judicial probe into a series of atrocities against Dalits. They also demanded filling up of all vacancies in the SC/ST Commission and the Vigilance and Monitoring Committee at the district level, effective implementation of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act and stern action against guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-stage-protest-demanding-probe-into-atrocities-against-dalits/article32217696.ece
29 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD does its bit in COVID fight||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has been doing a commendable service in the fight against COVID-19 in the Rayalseema region. The pandemic has not only unveiled the social facet of the religious institution but also earned it the name of saviour given the way it rushed to the aid of those affected by the dreaded virus. The TTD parted with the premises of Sri Padmavati Medical College for Women under the university campus of Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) which later on went to be designated as the first COVID-19 State hospital in the region that began an exclusive outpatient service for people with symptoms of the virus in the first week of March, with a chamber to obtain throat and nasopharyngeal swabs besides setting up an exclusive ICU for the patients. The Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at SVIMS, equipped with a team of microbiologists and Ph.D. scholars, became the first designated facility in the State which was also later designated as a quality control check laboratory for tests done across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Thousands of patients from all the four districts of Rayalseema as well as Nellore have so far availed themselves of treatment at SVIMS Super Speciality Hospital, which has been working 24X7 since March. The TTD has also offered Srinivasam Complex, Padmavati Nilayam, Vishnu Nivasam and Madhavam rest houses that have around 1,322 suites, in addition to more than half a dozen huge dormitories with a capacity to house around 3,000 patients, to the district administration for quarantining positive patients. The organisation also distributed about 50,000 food packets every day to the poor and stranded people during the initial days of the nation wide lockdown announced on March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-does-its-bit-in-covid-fight/article32217715.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clarity eludes revision of land market value||With just three days to go before the revised market value of land is to be implemented, on August 1, there is no clarity on the quantum of hike planned, nor is there any feeler whether there will be hike at all. Hit by the pandemic As the real estate sector is grappling with the COVID-19 situation, with a more than 50% fall in registration income reflecting the slack market conditions, the Department of Stamps and Registration is learnt to be undecided on going ahead. The market value committee headed by the Joint Collector and comprising the Zilla Parishat CEO, the respective municipal commissioners and Urban Development Authority vice-chairman and the sub-registrar normally meets two months before the actual date and decides the quantum of hike with reference to certain base points. Parameters The revision is decided based on parameters like dry/wet land, proximity to highway, presence of industries, institutions and tourist importance. The process should have normally been completed by mid-July and the proposals uploaded on the department’s website for public consumption. After taking note of the objections, if any, the final rates will have to be implemented from August 1. Process started In Chittoor district, the registration department has collected land details from the tahsildars concerned, list of landholdings converted from agriculture to non-agriculture from the RDOs and the final approval list from TUDA. However, nothing is in public domain yet. While Tamil Nadu is offering stamp duty exemption on apartments to encourage buyers, Telangana is still implementing the price revised last in 2013. No respite for buyers Andhra Pradesh, which has upwardly revised land rates continuously from 2015 to 2019, is unlikely to offer any respite, in spite of the COVID condition taking a toll on registrations. “The government neither offers solace, nor is transparent on the hike,” a realtor V. Shanmugam told The Hindu . Officials are learnt to have set the process in motion by June 1, but are yet to make their proposals public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clarity-eludes-revision-of-land-market-value/article32217261.ece
29 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Russians stranded in Tirupati finally get help||Two Russian women who were stuck in Tirupati since the beginning of the lockdown and had run out of money to go back to their home country, finally found reason for cheer after a social activist came to their help. Esther and her mother Olivia had come to Tirupati on a pilgrimage, and were stuck in the city after a nationwide lockdown was clamped in March. Their money soon ran out, forcing Olivia to travel to Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh to seek financial help from fellow Russians staying there. However, with no word from her mother, Esther (32) was in despair. Meanwhile, Deepa Venkat, social activist and daughter of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu met the woman, who was staying at a hotel here on Tuesday, and offered her all help to reach her home country. Tirupati legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and BJP State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy also called on the woman and assured to get her mother Olivia to Tirupati, from where the duo will travel back to Russia soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/russians-stranded-in-tirupati-finally-get-help/article32217718.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan: provide hospital beds to patients within 30 minutes||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed the officials to ensure allotment of a bed to a COVID-19 positive patient within 30 minutes of his/her arrival in a hospital. Reviewing COVID-19 pandemic in the State with Collectors, Joint Collectors and officials of police and other allied departments as part of the Spandana programme, Mr. Jagan wanted efficient management of the available beds in COVID hospitals. ‘Share info with people’ He said that the details of the availability of beds should be made known to the public and a toll-free number 1902 should be introduced to enable patients report to the authorities concerned if they had complaints about the treatment or facilities in the hospital. He wanted speedy action on the issues that were brought to the fore through this complaint cell. The Chief Minister made it clear that the authorities should not hesitate about the expenditure incurred on imparting good treatment and extending good services to the patients. One need not panic due to the spurt in the positive cases as “we can efficiently handle them.”  Aid for last rites The Chief Minister called “inhuman” the act of abandoning the bodies of the COVID victims, and announced a financial aid of Rs. 15,000 for performing the last rites for such victims. He said if none would come forward to own up a body, the State would take up the responsibility and give the person dignity in death. Admitting that the sudden spurt in the cases had triggered a fear in people’s minds, Mr. Jagan said the government had been on its toes ever since the virus broke out. Without leaving any scope for laxity, it had acted swiftly to establish labs and had been conducting over 50,000 tests in a day. Though the State had registered over 1 lakh positive cases, more than half of them had recovered and were sent home. The Chief Minister said that even in the absence of modern corporate hospitals like other States, the death rate, at 1.06 %, was under control in Andhra Pradesh, adding people would have to learn to live with the virus till a vaccine is developed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-provide-hospital-beds-to-patients-within-30-minutes/article32217192.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Girisam,’ the lesser known facet of Raavi Kondala Rao||An era in the cine industry and the field of theatre ended with the passing away of Raavi Kondala Rao in Hyderabad on Tuesday. Cine goers knew that he was a theatre artiste but were not aware that he used to play the role of Girisam in Kanyasulkam of Gurajada Appa Rao. On the 150th birth anniversary of Gurajada in 2012, the government of combined Andhra Pradesh had announced that Gurajada memorial auditoriums would be set up in Vizianagaram and Hyderabad, but it did not materialise. Speaking to The Hindu in 2015, Raavi Kondala Rao recalled his experiences as a theatre artiste and the influence of Kanyasulkam on him. He played the Girisam role for 43 years and the association dates back to1953. He organised a group of classmates to perform. In those days, women characters used to be played by men. “I selected five of my classmates for five roles. In a jocular way, we used to refer to them as pancha wiggiyam (five wigs),” he said. A make-up artist prepared five wigs for him after staying put for one and a half months at his house. The veteran artiste also penned a play in which all the characters talk and fight with Gurajada. Raavi Kondala Rao was in the city in 2012 to receive the Inturi Memorial Award at a programme jointly organised by the Rotary Club of Vijayawada, Rotary Club of Vijayawada Central, Abhiruchi Saahiti Samskruthika Samstha and theDr. Inturi Venkateswara Rao Kalamandir Trust. Career in journalism The veteran actor had recalled that he started his career in journalism when he was studying Fourth Form in 1947. Morals, values and language in dailies were fast declining. Gone were the days when people used to learn language through newspapers. “Now, I am 80, and still continue to write for dailies and weeklies, and will continue to do in future also,” he had said. The actor was apparently not happy with the developments in the cine industry. “I cannot adjust in the cinema industry any more, but my endeavours and movement for the theatre would continue,” the veteran artiste had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girisam-the-lesser-known-facet-of-raavi-kondala-rao/article32217722.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic likely to hit Maoist Martyrs’ Week||The Martyrs’ Week celebrations of the banned CPI (Maoists), which began on Tuesday, appears to remain a low-key affair this time as the tribal pockets in the State, the major hotbeds of the left wing extremism, have been reeling under the fear of COVID-19 pandemic. With hundreds of positive cases being reported in the Agency areas, curbs have been imposed on the public movement and the officials have put up barricades in many hamlets which have been declared them as containment zones. Public movement curbed During the Martyr’s Week, the Maoist leaders usually meet the tribal residents and organise meeting in villages. They also organise many events to pay tributes to the slain Maoist leaders. Many tribal hamlets have also declared voluntary lockdown. The restrictions imposed in the wake of pandemic appear to play spoilsport in Martyrs’ Week this year. “About 48 residents have been tested positive for coronavirus at Velerupadu mandals, followed by 38 in Buttaigudem, 20 in Polavaram and 14 in Jeelugumilli mandals in West Godavari district. All the containment zones are being sanitized and public movement have been restricted to check the spread of the disease,” an official said. Combing intensified Furthermore, Greyhounds and anti-naxal squads have been deployed in the Agency areas and combing have been intensified in the areas sharing inter-State borders with Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Odisha in view of the Martyrs’ Week, which will continue till August 3. “Additional forces have been deployed in West Godavari, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. Joint combing operations have been undertaken with our counterparts in the neighbouring States. A strict vigil is being maintained on the movements of RMPs, doctors as Maoists are expected to visit clinics amid the sharp spike in COVID-19 cases,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-likely-to-hit-maoist-martyrs-week/article32217714.ece
29 July 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State pins hopes on GST compensation||Faced with the impact of COVID on Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections, the State government has pinned its hopes on the GST compensation from the Centre which comes to Rs. 4,445 crore. According to information, the GST Council has not taken any decision so far on the matter. At a recent meeting, one of the ideas that was discussed was to raise loans against future GST cess accruals in order to recompense States. It was expected that a decision would be taken at a special meeting in July, but it did not materialise. As there is a dip in GST collections, the Central government has to take loans to pay compensation to the States. Unless the special meeting was convened, a clear picture would not emerge, says a senior official at the Commercial Taxes (CT) Department, who did not want to be quoted. Projected revenue The total projected revenue from 2017-18 July 2017 to March 2018) to June 2020 is Rs. 64,185 crore. The revenue realised, however, was Rs. 56,755 crore, a shortfall of Rs. 7,825 crore. The Central government has released only Rs. 3,410 crore so far, the official says. The GST compensation (for revenue shortfalls in the first five years of GST) due to States for December 2019 to February 2020 was only released on June 4. Of the total dues, the Centre released Rs. 229 crore. As per the GST law, the Centre compensates States to ensure that their revenue is protected at the level of 14% over the base year tax collection in 2015-16. Which means that if the revenue was less than 14% of the base year, the State would be entitled to receive the GST compensation. The Centre would shoulder the losses due to a fall in the protected revenue. Andhra Pradesh received a revenue loss compensation to the tune of Rs. 280 crore during the first year of rolling out of the GST, but it did not seek any GST compensation during the financial year 2018-19 and created a record in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-pins-hopes-on-gst-compensation/article32217720.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu blames YSRCP leaders for rapid spread of virus||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that the ruling YSRCP leaders “washed their hands of” the COVID-19 issue after the pandemic turned unmanageable in the State. Mr. Naidu, in a statement on Tuesday, attributed the rapid rise in the COVID-19 cases in the State to the “non-serious and irresponsible statements” of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, his Cabinet colleagues and the ruling party MLAs from the beginning of the outbreak of the virus. The TDP chief expressed serious concern over piling up of bodies of the COVID victims at the Government General Hospital in Guntur. “The government has to check for how many hours the virus would stay on bodies. After the bodies become virus-free, the last rites should be performed with due respect. In these troublesome times, the people should take personal responsibility and observe self-restraint,” he said. Appeal to people “The general public should show a spirit of courage and confidence to fight the invisible enemy. At the same time, they should remain cautious and alert. Everybody should have awareness about home quarantine, telemedicine, and such practices that would keep people safe,” Mr. Naidu said. Stating that the whole world was shaken by the pandemic, Mr. Naidu said even the U.S. and European countries were not able to handle the virus effectively in the absence of a tested vaccine or a cure. The entire world was in a deep financial crisis. High alertness was required till a vaccine was developed and made available, he said. The TDP chief appealed to the people to focus on health and follow all the steps necessary to boost their immunity. Habits such as drinking alcohol should be given up considering their ill effects on health. Only those persons who have strong health and immunity would be able to fight the virus, added Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-blames-ysrcp-leaders-for-rapid-spread-of-virus/article32217706.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Distribution of house site pattas on Aug. 15’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said 30 lakh poor families in the State would be given house site pattas and the project would cost the government Rs. 22,355 crore. Addressing a review meeting as part of the Spandana programme, Mr. Jagan said an extent of 66,842 acres of land had been earmarked for the purpose. Referring to the case in the Supreme Court, he said he was confident about a favourable verdict. “God always helps for a good deed,” he said, exuding confidence that the government would realise its dream on August 15 by distributing house site pattas to 20 % families in the State. He said of the total 66,842 acres, 25,462 acres worth Rs. 7,700 crore was government land, 23,262 acres worth Rs. 9,200 crore was private land, 4,457 acres worth Rs. 1350 crore was acquired through land pooling and 1,074 acres valued at Rs. 325 crore was CRDA lands.  ‘Women will be owners’ Similarly, 2,686 acres of land worth Rs. 810 crore belonged to the AP Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APTIDCO) and 9,900 acres worth Rs. 2,970 crore was acquired through possession certificates. The Chief Minister further said that officials should gear up for the distribution process slated for August 15. The house pattas would be registered in the names of the women of the house, he added. The lists of the beneficiaries should be displayed at the offices of Village/Ward Secretariats and if there was a case of anybody left out, the officials should accept the application, scrutinise it and include the name based on eligibility norms. Sand supply The Chief Minister reminded the officials of the 72-hour time frame for supply of sand to those who place the order for it. Pointing to backlogs, especially in East and West Godavari districts besides Guntur district, he wanted the officials to implement special drives to clear the backlogs. The employment guarantee scheme, Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu, issues in the agriculture sector such as e-cropping, agriculture advisory committees and loans to tenant farmers also came up for discussion at the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/distribution-of-house-site-pattas-on-aug-15/article32217711.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC MD discusses the way forward with officials||The COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown thereafter have wreaked havoc on the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), which was already reeling under a serious financial crisis. At a review meeting attended by the executive directors, heads of departments and regional managers on the performance of the Corporation in 2019-2020 and the current fiscal year, the Principal Secretary, Transport Department, and Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Corporation M.T. Krishna Babu pointed to the fact that buses could not be operated till May 20 on account of COVID. Only 30 % of the buses were being operated from May 21 and due to fear among the public and the existing travel restrictions in some of the virus-affected districts, the corporation had been earning a revenue of only Rs. 20 per km, a meagre amount that is sufficient only to meet the expenditure incurred on purchase of diesel. Mr. Krishna Babu said the corporation would continue to operate a few buses to cater to the minimum travel needs of the public. Crew safety He instructed the officials to ensure full protection to the bus crew, and said those affected by the pandemic should be given adequate medical treatment. He said the bus crew must use face masks, wash their hands with sanitisers as often as possible and maintain social distancing. Mr. Krishna Babu said based on public need, the number of buses would be reduced or increased and said the officials should think of other avenues of revenue such as the cargo sector. He stressed the need to focus on sanitisation of buses, hygienic conditions in the bus station and good facilities for passengers. ED (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao, ED (Engineering) P. Krishna Mohan, and ED (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy were present .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-md-discusses-the-way-forward-with-officials/article32217707.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP seeks Bharat Ratna for PV||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to pass a resolution in the next Cabinet meeting proposing to the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Tuesday, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju said. “A polyglot, scholar, author and an art lover, Narasimha Rao is the architect of economic reforms in India. He was the fourth Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh. Entire south India, particularly the Telugu States, had a strong connection with him, said Mr. Ramakrishna Raju. The MP said that after the demise of Narasimha Rao in 2004, then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had set up the ‘PV Ghat’ on Necklace Road in Hyderabad. Like Telangana, A.P. should also celebrate the birth centenary of Narasimha Rao, Mr. Mr. Raju suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narasapuram-mp-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-pv/article32217193.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 quintals of PDS rice seized, two arrested||The Special Branch (SB) police in association with the Kanchikacherla police intercepted a lorry transporting 200 quintals of rice meant for Public Distribution System (PDS) illegally and seized the vehicle along with the stocks on Tuesday. They arrested two persons in this connection. Headed for Yanam The rice bags were being smuggled from Bobbellapadu village in Chandarlapadu mandal to Yanam in Puducherry, said Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. “On a tip-off, the police team led by Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) G.V. Ramana Murthy and CI Satish and SB SI Murali Krishna intercepted the rice-laden lorry at Gandepalli and took two persons into custody,” the SP said. The Kanchikacherla police registered a case under Section 420 IPC and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-quintals-of-pds-rice-seized-two-arrested/article32217254.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. trying to weaken Dalit youth’s death case: Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Tuesday accused the State government of trying to weaken the case relating to the death of Chirala-based Dalit youth. Demanding an impartial probe into the alleged killing of Y. Kiran Kumar, who was reportedly beaten up for not wearing a face mask, Mr. Lokesh said the guilty should be punished so as to prevent such incidents in future. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Lokesh asked the government to desist from its plans to cover up its failures. He urged the government to ensure a fair investigation to bring out the truth in the Dalit man’s death case. The family members of Kiran Kumar have demanded the arrest of the police personnel for the alleged attack, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-trying-to-weaken-dalit-youths-death-case-lokesh/article32217703.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AEE post: provisional list on website||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has placed on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of candidates provisionally admitted for verification of original certificates for the post of assistant executive engineers in various engineering services (general recruitment). In a statement on Tuesday, the Commission Secretary said verification of original certificates would be held on August 5 at 10 a.m. in the office of APPSC, opposite Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium on MG Road, Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aee-post-provisional-list-on-website/article32217723.ece
29 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Review meet on investment, industries today||The government is planning to announce industrial policy shortly and a clarity would emerge after a review meeting on investments and infrastructural facilities to be chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy slated on Wednesday. The meeting would deliberate on Economic Development Board (EDB) and investment opportunities, said Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. The Minister asked the officials to enlist all industries, insisting that separate reports be prepared on the workers with references to districts and sectors. He asked the district administrations and Industries Department to work with coordination. The officials were also instructed to submit ground level feedback on the financial assistance being extended by the government to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/review-meet-on-investment-industries-today/article32217704.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus check: administration to adopt decentralised approach||With the rapid increase in the COVID-19 cases, the district administration is gearing up to control the spread of the virus. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that decentralised approach is being worked out to deal with the pandemic. Special Officers have been appointed for every Assembly constituency apart from every COVID-19 care centre and hospital treating patients for smooth running and monitoring of the activities. According to Mr. Vinay Chand, the spike in cases is a matter of grave concern and requires a comprehensive, decentralised approach. For this purpose, it was deemed necessary to appoint a senior officer at the Assembly constituency- level for coordinating all the activities related to COVID-19 management. He said that separate orders have been issued for the urban and rural areas. “The Constituency Special Officers (CSO) shall visit the constituency headquarters every day and monitor the activities without fail and without any deviation,” he ordered. Additional Commissioner -II, GVMC A.V. Ramani has been appointed as the CSO for Visakhapatnam (East) constitency. Project Director, UCD, GVMC, Y. Srinivasa Rao has been appointed as CSO for Visakhapatnam (West) and DCR, GVMC, Phaniram, has been appointed as CSO for Visakhapatnam (South). Similarly, SE (Projects) S. Vinay Kumar, was appointed as CSO for Visakhapatnam (North), the Collector said. Care centres Mr. Vinay Chand said that there are eight COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) in the district with a bed capacity of 5,330. In-charge officers have been appointed to all these centres for their smooth running, he said. Mr. Vinay Chand also said that there are 26 district COVID-19 hospitals and a nodal officer is appointed for each of them. The officer has been entrusted to monitor and supervise all the activities in the hospitals. “Admissions need to be done in a hassle-free manner without making patients wait outside the hospital. The availability of the beds in the hospital needs to be updated in the designated website/portal in a real time manner for every six hours,” he instructed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-check-administration-to-adopt-decentralised-approach/article32217738.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||282 new infection cases take district tally to 8,130||As many as 282 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 8,130, as per the COVID-19 bulletin released by the district administration, here on Tuesday. Four more persons succumbed to the coronavirus taking the death toll to 75. Meanwhile, 131 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 5,250 and the number of persons discharged is 2,805. New clusters According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, with the new cases, Durga Colony (Chodavaram), Anandapuram, LV Palem (K Kotapadu), Gollaveedhi, Kapuluppada, Yathakummaripalem (Bheemili) and NGOs’ Colony have been announced as new clusters. With the new cases, the total number of clusters in the district are 674. Among them, very active clusters are 112. The number of active and dormant clusters is 240 and 322 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/282-new-infection-cases-take-district-tally-to-8130/article32217744.ece
29 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag techie develops ‘indigenous’ file-sharing app||A city student has developed a file-sharing app which he claims will offer an alternative to the popular SHAREit app that was among several Chinese apps banned by the Central Government. B.S.S. Madhav, a student of GITAM Deemed to be University, with the help of three friends, has developed the app which he has christened ‘IndiaShare’. “The idea of developing the app struck me during the lockdown and I contacted three of my school friends – Prashant Sengar and Ritesh Singh (IIIT, Una, Himachal Pradesh) and Preet Singh (NIET, Noida) — and they readily agreed,” Mr. Madhav, a fourth year ECE student, told The Hindu . “We launched the app on Google Play Store on June 25. For mobile-to-mobile transfer of files, both mobiles should have the app. For transfer of files from mobile to laptop, the laptop needs to have Google Chrome,” he said. “Like other apps, we too seek permission from the user, and on obtaining the same from the client, a unique ID is created for seamless connectivity between the client and receiver. We do not sell the personal information of our clients to third parties, unlike some app providers,” Mr. Madhav said. “Apart from sharing of files, we recently added entertainment and news sections apart from content that is useful for students. News will be filtered to prevent the spread of fake information. At present, the app is available in Telugu, Hindi and English, but in the future, we plan to add more languages,” he said. “The app needs to be regularly updated to add new features and equip readers with the latest updates. We have roped in Akanksha Tiwari, a student of IIIT, Himachal Pradesh, to assist our team. The app can be downloaded for free. We are looking for sponsors to meet the maintenance costs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-techie-develops-indigenous-file-sharing-app/article32217725.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA suggests total lockdown for 15 days||Indian Medical Association (IMA) in a letter to the District Collector has suggested total lockdown for 15 days in the district, to break the chain of spread of COVID -19. The outbreak has already reached the community spread phase and the rate of spread has been alarming, as in the last one week alone over 5,000 positive cases were recorded. “Keeping this in mind, we have written to the District Collector, suggesting a 15-day lockdown period,” said P.A. Ramani, president IMA – Visakhapatnam. The IMA has also suggested converting the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) from State COVID Hospital to the district COVID Hospital. “We feel that the load of cases from the district is rising fast and heavy and at this juncture additional load from other districts may burden the district’s capacity, as the dedicated district COVID hospitals such as GIMSR, Gayatri and NRI teaching hospitals are bursting at their seams,” she said. IMA has also suggested converting the ESI hospital and Rani Chandramani Devi (RCD) Government Hospital to full-fledged COVID hospitals and allow all COVID hospitals to have their own RT PCR testing centres, to bring down the load at the testing centres in the ENT and the Chest hospitals. Right now only a couple of private laboratories have been notified to conduct tests, a few more may also be roped in, said Dr. Ramani.  Home isolation Keeping the spike in cases, the IMA is of the opinion that home isolation may be alternate solution to handle the situation. As long as a patient can be allotted a room with separate or attached toilet, home isolation for mild cases can be allowed officially, including in apartment complexes, said the president of IMA – Vizag chapter. Home isolation with proper monitoring and medication through telemedicine facility, has proven to be a good alternative solution, as this will bring down the load on COVID hospitals and genuine patients with severity can get admission and be treated, which is the need of the hour, she said. Medical experts from the IMA are of the opinion that people need not panic and rush to testing centres, as just by staying at home and maintaining basic protocol such as wearing mask, sanitising hands using soap water or alcohol-based sanitiser and observing minimum social distancing of three-feet, one can stay healthy, keep others safe and keep the virus at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-suggests-total-lockdown-for-15-days/article32217747.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Impose lockdown for 10 days in Vizag, says BJP leader||Former MLA of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) P. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that in the wake of rapid increase in cases, there should be at least 10-day strict lockdown in Visakhapatnam district to control the spread of the virus. He said that Collector should discuss with the officials concerned and take a decision soon, else the district may face problems. He also sought the government to recruit nursing staff and improve facilities at the COVID-19 care centres and hospitals. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said as per estimates by some doctors, the district could likely to witness nearly 50,000 cases in the coming one month. He said that the State government should focus on recruiting more nursing staff and doctors, as COVID-19 spike is anticipated. He also said that people are facing problems due to delay in releasing results of COVID-19 tests. The government should conduct an all-party meet, so that the Opposition parties can bring the issues being faced by the public before the officials, he said. He also slammed the government for still running and extending the timings at the wine shops where social distancing is going for a toss. Party MLC P.V.N. Madhav alleged that the government was negligent over the COVID-19 situation. He said that the government should increase Truenat testing labs in the district. He alleged that 108 and 104 ambulances are not arriving on time. The BJP leaders congratulated Mr. Somu Veerraju who was appointed as the party State president. They hoped that the party would be further strengthened under his leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/impose-lockdown-for-10-days-in-vizag-says-bjp-leader/article32217741.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest dept. to host webinar today||On the occasion of International Tiger Day, the Forest Department is hosting an online webinar on ‘Tiger Conservation’ on July 29, from 3.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. The webinar is being hosted on the website of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), Vishakhapatnam and will be livestreamed on the YouTube. In a release on Tuesday, Curator of IGZP Nandani Salaria said that registration for the webinar can be done on vizagzoo.com. She said that many esteemed dignitaries will be sharing their views on the occasion. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, N Prateep Kumar will open the session followed by Director, Wildlife Institute of India, Dhananjai Mohan. Tiger conservation Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), Rahul Pandey and Deputy Inspector General, National tiger Conservation Authority, New Delhi, Surendra Mehra, will share their views and the work being done in the field of tiger conservation in the State and the nation. Other dignitaries, include environmental activist, founder, Sanctuary Nature Foundation, Bittu Sahgal, bollywood actress Dia Mirza, who is also an UNEP goodwill ambassador, will talk about why to conserve the tigers. Actor and chairperson, Blue Cross of Hyderabad, Amala Akkineni, will also be sharing a message on tiger conservation, she said. Quiz The IGZP is conducting online quiz competition and art competition theme ‘Tiger conservation in their natural habitat’ for people of all ages. For details about the quiz, interested can check official website of IGZP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-dept-to-host-webinar-today/article32217739.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wakf Board issues notice to local burial grounds||Taking cognisance of a complaint filed by Vizag Muslim Advocates that the management of local Muslim burial grounds or ‘kabaristan’ were not allowing the decent burial of Muslim persons who had died due to COVID-19, the AP State Wakf Board on Tuesday has issued a notice to all Muslim burial grounds to allow the burial without causing any hindrance or denying them a decent burial as per the tradition. The Vizag Muslim Advocates led by SKA Hussain had filed a complaint with documentary proof that about five Muslim persons, including a youth, was denied a decent burial at any of the Kabaristans in the city and finally, the family members had to take the bodies to a cremation ground at Chavulamadum and cremate them. “This had shaken the family members, as they were denied a decent burial. Article 21 in our Constitution guarantees a decent burial for all as per their respective religious tradition,” said Mr. Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wakf-board-issues-notice-to-local-burial-grounds/article32217745.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APEPDCL staff undergo screening tests||Screening tests for COVID-19 were organised for the officers and employees of the Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) by the discom with the help of the authorities of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) at the corporate office here. The tests were conducted under the guidance of Director (Operations) of APEPDCL B. Ramesh Prasad, on Monday and Tuesday. Chairman and Managing Director of EPDCL Nagalakshmi Selvarajan said that samples were collected from employees of all wings with the help of expert medical staff. She said that masks and sanitisers were already distributed to the employees and spraying of disinfectant around the office premises was already done to check the spread of the virus. She complimented the GVMC authorities for taking the initiative to conduct the tests for the EPDCL staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apepdcl-staff-undergo-screening-tests/article32217728.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another milestone for Diesel Loco Shed||Diesel Loco Shed (DLS), Visakhapatnam, has achieved another milestone by starting the maintenance of Electric Locos, in addition to its large fleet of 307 diesel locos. In the first phase, Railway Board has allotted for maintenance of 20 Electric Locomotives at DLS, Visakhapatnam, from Electric Loco Shed, Visakhapatnam. DLS, Visakhapatnam, is known for its innovations and supportive role to other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-milestone-for-diesel-loco-shed/article32217726.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vignan student secures Google’s WTM scholarship||A student of Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology (Autonomous), Kolli Sudheepa has secured Google Asia Pacific Women Tech Maker (WTM) Scholarship. Students from around 48 countries in Asia applied for the WTM scholarship and it was finalised based on a sequence of coding tests, academic background and leadership skills. Under this WTM scholarship, she will be awarded $1,000, Google special kit and opportunity to visit other countries to participate in various activities. As many as 39 students were short-listed from India and Sudeepa is only student from the State, officials from Vignan informed in a note on Tuesday. Chairman of Vignan Group Lavu Rathaiah appreciated the girl for rare achievement and announced Rs. 1,00,000 cash prize. She participated in many coding events earlier and won prizes. Institute has recognised her merit even earlier and offered merit scholarship of 50% of tuition fee for the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vignan-student-secures-googles-wtm-scholarship/article32217731.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-tech surveillance in Visakha Agency||The Maiost Martyrs’ Week began on a sober note in Visakha Agency on Tuesday. Even as no untoward incident was reported on the first day, security forces are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the week passes of peacefully in the agency, where the left wing extremists have presence. Combing has been intensified along the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region and high-tech drones have been deployed for surveillance. “Security has been strengthened at all vital installations and all vehicles are being checked,” said Visakhapatnam Rural Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. The reported presence of Maoist leaders such as Akkiraju Haragopal alias RK, Chalapathi, Aruna, Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, in AOB region, has made the week more significant. Martyrs’ Week is observed by the Maoists in remembrance of the lock-up death of Charu Majumdar on July 28, 1972, in West Bengal. He is considered to be the founder of Maoist movement in India. AOB tense In the last few days, the AOB region has been tense with two exchanges of fire between the security forces and Maoists. In the EoF near Kilamkota in Pedabayalu mandal, a Maoist leader is said to have been injured and in the second near Digijanaba in Chintapalli mandal on July 25, Maoist Pangi Daya was killed. The police are not ruling out the presence of senior Maoist leaders during the exchanges of fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-tech-surveillance-in-visakha-agency/article32217712.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 nurses recruited||The second counselling for the post of temporary COVID-19 was conducted on Tuesday. In all, 30 staff nurses were recruited at the King George Hospital (KGH) here. The recruitment was done by KGH Superintendent and Andhra Medical College Principal as per the guidelines of the District Selection Committee. All the candidates were asked to report for duties from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-nurses-recruited/article32217735.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashok Kumar takes charge as KGH deputy superintendent||P. Ashok Kumar, Professor and Head of the Department of Orthopaedics, has been designated as deputy superintendent of KGH in place of Dr. V. Dharma Rao, former Professor and Head of the Department of Orthopaedics and Deputy Superintendent, KGH, who was transferred to Government General Hospital, Srikakulam, according to G. Arujna, Superintendent, KGH. Dr. Ashok Kumar joined as PHC Medical Officer in 1994 in Srikakulam district and later joined as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics in 1996 at KGH, Visakhapatnam. In 2008, he was promoted as Associate Professor at RIMS, Srikakulam, and later in 2015 promoted as Professor and 2019 as Head of the Department of Orthopaedics. K. Indira Devi, Deputy Superintendent and Professor of General Medicine, M. Vijay Sankar, ARMO, Ch. Sadhana, ARMO, H.R. K. Dora, ARMO and P. Bindu Madhavi, ARMO, congratulated Dr. Ashok Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ashok-kumar-takes-charge-as-kgh-deputy-superintendent/article32217734.ece
29 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL launches mobile health care unit||RINL-Vizag Steel launched a mobile health care unit for periodic health check-ups as part of its CSR initiative, here on Tuesday. Director (Personnel), RINL, K.C. Das, flagged off the mobile health care van. He said that the objective of the project is to reach out to those who are unable to access the existing healthcare system due to lack of mobility, old, or any other reason and bring healthcare service to their doorsteps. This project is implemented through the Helpage India at a cost of Rs. 24.14 Lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-launches-mobile-health-care-unit/article32217742.ece
29 July 2020||VISSANNAPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor seized||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials, in association with the Vissannapet police, seized 1,800 liquor bottles at the border check-post on Tuesday. The team, led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal, intercepted a car coming from Telangana State and seized the non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) at Vemireddypalli village, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. The police arrested two persons and booked cases against them, the SP said. In a separate raid, Vijayawada SEB ASP M. Sathi Babu seized 672 liquor bottles at Ibrahimpatnam and arrested two persons on Tuesday. They seized two motorbikes used for smuggling the NDLP, said Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. SEB CI Haneesh, SIs G. Srinivas, Guru Prakash, Subramanyam and others participated in the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-seized/article32217265.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enduring bonds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enduring-bonds/article32217267.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Playing with life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/playing-with-life/article32217733.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test of endurance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-of-endurance/article32217750.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||In a story titled ‘Conservationists elated as tiger count is up’ published in this newspaper, it was inadvertently mentioned that the tiger population in India stood at 2,226. According to an updated report on Tiger Survey from 2018, the actual number of tigers in the country is 2,367.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction/article32217698.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sada Rao new Dy. Director of I and PR Dept.||Kongaleti Sada Rao has been promoted as the Deputy Director of the Information and Public Relations Department on Tuesday. I&PR Commissioner T. Vijaya Kumar Reddy has issued orders to this effect. Mr. Sada Rao has been working as an Assistant Director at the State Information Centre. He is now attached to the office of the I&PR Department’s Commissioner. However, Mr. Sada Rao will continue in his previous posting as in-charge, until a replacement is made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sada-rao-new-dy-director-of-i-and-pr-dept/article32217700.ece
29 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||brf||Collector M.V. Reddy on Monday slapped a fine of Rs. 25,000 on the management of a hotel at Palvancha town for allegedly failing to comply with the stipulated COVID-19 safety rules. The Collector made a surprise inspection of the hotel on Monday evening. He reviewed implementation of preventive measures to check the spread of coronavirus in the industrial hub of Palvancha with the officials concerned earlier in the day. He asked the authorities to strictly enforce the face mask rule to effectively rein in the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32217519.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After public outcry, govt. issues HC-compliant COVID bulletin||After weeks of public demand for more transparency of COVID-19 statistics, the Health department on Tuesday released a media bulletin containing significant details such as bed availability in private hospitals, list of containment zones, as well as age and gender-wise break-up of positive cases. The total number of COVID cases in the State touched 57,142 as 1,610 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. A total of 15,839 samples had been tested on Monday. Results of 809 samples are awaited. Till Friday (July 24), the media bulletin was issued daily between 8 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. On Saturday, however, there was none. For the next two days, it was released before 12 p.m.. Unusually, the bulletin was issued as early as 7.13 a.m on Tuesday, containing details long-demanded by citizens. The new 1,610 cases include 531 from GHMC, 172 from Rangareddy, 152 from Warangal Urban and 113 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Of the total 57,142 cases recorded since March, 13,753 are active while 42,909 have recovered and 480 have died. Around 8,479 persons diagnosed with COVID are in home or institutional isolation. Cases recorded in the past seven days district-wise was also mentioned. While cases are gradually decreasing in GHMC, it is on the upswing in Warangal Urban and in Sangareddy. New format The bulletin issued on Tuesday morning was titled ‘Media Bulletin High Court Format as of 27.07.2020 dated 28.07.2020’. For the past few days, bed availability for COVID patients in government hospital is being mentioned. As per Tuesday bulletin, availability of beds in 55 private hospitals were categorised as regular beds (660), oxygen beds (466) and ICU beds (339). The list of containment zones in GHMC, and other districts was provided too. In case of GHMC, there are 92 containment zones, mentioned according to circles and localities in six GHMC zones. There are 31 containment zones in Charminar, 14 in Khairatabad , 23 in Secunderabad, 10 in Serlingampally, nine in Kukatpally, and five in L.B. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-public-outcry-govt-issues-hc-compliant-covid-bulletin/article32217485.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt., PJTSAU tie up with ISB to market ‘Telangana Sona’ rice||The Agriculture Department and Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) have joined hands with the Indian School of Business (ISB) to work out strategies for branding and marketing of ‘Telangana Sona’ superfine variety rice that has the lowest glycemic index among all known varieties. Telangana Sona (RNR 15048) is a new paddy variety developed by PJTSAU with special characteristics such as fine grain, high yielding quality and blast resistance. The paddy variety is advantageous for farmers as it grows in a relatively shorter period — 125 days against the average of 150 days — and is suitable for cultivation in both Vaanakalam (kharif) and Yasangi (rabi) crop seasons. According to secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, the paddy variety produces short slender grains, has less broken rice percentage, good head rice recovery and high yield potential, making it a premier variety for farmers to grow. From the perspective of millers, Telangana Sona leads to less broken grain (wastage) after milling and makes it a better product to use. To a rice consumer, Telangana Sona has the lowest glycemic index among all known varieties of paddy in the State, making it ideal for rice eating diabetics. Further, in comparison to other popular varieties of paddy, the composition of protein, carbohydrates, energy, niacin (vitamin B3) is also higher in Telangana Sona. This makes Telangana Sona a healthy alternative to other varieties of rice in the market, Mr. Janardhan Reddy explained. Professor Madhu Viswanathan of ISB said that Telangana Sona is a disrupter in the rice market with a potential to make every consumer’s diet healthier and more nutritious. Telangana Sona provides customers the opportunity to make a small change that would help their health. ISB will work with the Telangana government to create a marketing and branding strategy for Telangana Sona to drive awareness among consumers about the benefits of using it, he stated. Expressing happiness over the partnership, Vice-Chancellor of PJTSAU V. Praveen Rao said that Telangana Sona is a blessing for producers (farmers), millers, traders and consumers, and particularly for health conscious rice lovers. It is a climate smart variety that could save 2 to 4 tmc ft of water besides saving Rs. 20 crore on pesticide use for rice blast attack for every one lakh acres of cultivation compared to longer duration varieties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-pjtsau-tie-up-with-isb-to-market-telangana-sona-rice/article32217506.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Form a model to improve towns’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao on Tuesday asked the officials of Urban Local Bodies to prepare a development model with focus on improving basic amenities to people. Holding a review meeting on the ULBs in erstwhile Adilabad district here, along with Minister for Endowments and Law A. Indrakaran Reddy, he said the basic idea behind the decentralisation of administration by carving out new districts, municipal bodies, mandals and gram pachayats was to provide good governance. Several new ULBs were formed in the State for faster and better development of towns. Mr. Rama Rao asked the officials of the ULBs in erstwhile Adilabad district to focus on improvement of roads, drinking water supply and sanitation for a better quality of life. He told the officials to discharge all the duties as provided for in the new Municipal Act. Asking them to take up plantation in towns on a large scale, Mr. Rama Rao said at least 10% of the green budget shoul be spent on development of park (lung spaces). Every municipal body should have veg and non-veg integrated model markets, graveyards, sports facilities, animal welfare centres and monitor disposal of biological and biomedical waste, construction/demolition wastage. Further, the Minister instructed the officials to ensure regular supply of shoes, uniforms and masks to the sanitation staff, pay wages to them in time and construct public toilets in the ratio of one per every thousand population and 50% of the them must of she toilets. Government Whip Balka Suman, MP Venkatesh Netha, legislators Jogu Ramanna, Koneru Konappa, N. Diwakar Rao, Durgam Chinnaiah, Ch. Vithal Reddy, A. Rekha Shyam Naik, Principal Secretary (MA&UD) Aravind Kumar, Director of MA&UD Satyanarayana, District Collectors Musharaf Ali Farooqi, Sikta Patnaik, Bharathi Holikere and Sandeep Kumar Jha, and municipal chairpersons and commissioners attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/form-a-model-to-improve-towns/article32217494.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Secretariat razing to wipe out heritage symbols’||Working president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has got the Secretariat complex, which had a historical and heritage building (G-Block) and places of worship, demolished to wipe out some symbols of Telangana heritage, culture and tradition. In a statement issued on Tuesday, he pointed out how Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had been trying to portray himself as the only one in the movement to achieve Statehood to Telangana and dwarfing the role of all others, including the some 1,500 martyrs who sacrificed themselves in the two phases of the movement. Besides, he had also successfully forced all sections that played a key role in the Statehood movement and whistleblowers into oblivion. Reiterating the doubts raised by several retired Archaeological Department officials and senior journalists, along with him, about the hidden treasure in the underground vaults (chambers) beneath the heritage block. He mentioned that several reports of Archaeology Department and NMDC stated that there were tunnels with openings in the surrounding areas — Home Science College, Vidyaranya School and Mint Compound and leading to the G-Block in Secretariat — and the underground vaults were used by the Nizams to hide valuable wealth there to save it from the British. ‘Clear doubts’ The Congress leader said it was the responsibility of the State government clear all such doubts in the people’s minds. He also criticised the way the authorities had taken the media to cover demolition details. He alleged that the media was not allowed beyond 100 meters from the main gate and the demolished places of worship were far away from the point till where they were allowed. He sought to know whether the State government would also take up demolition large number of other historical structures in the City, including in the Cantonment Area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secretariat-razing-to-wipe-out-heritage-symbols/article32217508.ece
29 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fighting virus, social boycott||Stigma, ostracism, innuendo and ill-treatment are just a few of the societal hurdles that COVID-19 patients are facing in Hyderabad. As the Telangana government has chosen home-quarantine as a preferred option for discharging hundreds of patients, there are thousands of COVID-positive persons scattered throughout the city. “As good citizens, we disclosed the COVID status [to our resident welfare association] when one person in our family tested positive. We had to face nasty WhatsApp messages. We were barred from taking our dog out. Even the delivery personnel were stopped for a while,” says R. Natasha who lives in an apartment block in Begumpet. “Our gate was bolted from outside in the night after the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation staff sanitised the surroundings of our home. The neighbourhood grocery store refused to deliver milk, although he leaves the packets outside the gate,” says another resident in Radhakrishna Nagar in the southern part of Hyderabad. Even the domestic staff of a well-known politician who tested positive had to face ostracism as the neighbourhood shops barred them from coming into the Nallakunta area. Horror stories like these have become the norm as resident welfare associations and neighbourhoods are shutting out and shunning COVID-19 positive persons and their families. While the Telangana State’s medical bulletin presents a rosy picture of a disease that is plateauing, data from Aarogya Setu app shows a different picture. In Nalanda Nagar, the number of COVID-positive persons in 500-metre radius is 23, in 1 km radius 94, in 2 km radius 189, 5 km radius 689 and in 10 km radius 3,760. And 2 km from that location in Hyderguda, the numbers change to 500 metres 38 cases, 1 km 98 cases, 2 km 227 patients, 5 km 793 cases and 10 km 3,507 cases. The data about patients and where they stay has been kept a secret by the GHMC as homes of COVID-19 persons are being declared as containment zones. The result is inconvenience at every level, including access to bottled drinking water, vegetables, milk and other daily needs. Earlier, when the State followed a containment zone policy, a nodal officer was appointed for each containment zone and officials from all other utilities as well as ASHA workers were involved. Every aspect, from milk supply to electricity, was taken care of. But with this tweak in the policy of containment zones, patients and their families are being left to the mercy of RWAs and neighbourhoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fighting-virus-social-boycott/article32217482.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||26-year-old woman murdered||A 26-year-old woman was found murdered in Pahadishareef, police said on Tuesday. According to the police, the victim was identified as Varalakshmi. She was married to Nagaraju, a cab driver, two years ago. The couple’s relationship was said to have been strained. On Tuesday morning, police said, Varalakshmi’s neighbours knocked on the door of her house to speak to her. When they did not get a response, they called her mother Padma, a resident of Jalpally. After Padma reached there, she too tried to get her to open the door, but there was no response. Then the door was broken open and Varalakshmi was found in a pool of blood. Police said there were injuries on her neck. The victim’s husband was absconding and teams were formed to nab him. A case was booked and investigation was launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/26-year-old-woman-murdered/article32217492.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ban untrusted vendors, says US Consul-General||US Consul-General Joel Reifman on Tuesday suggested that like the United Kingdom, India should adopt regulations not to allow Chinese vendors in 5G networks and assured the country of US support. Describing Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE as ‘untrusted vendors’, the Consul-General commended India’s steps to secure telecommunications infrastructure from these Chinese companies, and recalled the UK’s recent policy which would enable a reversal of permitting Huawei in 5G networks, and replacing its equipment by 2027. He said that the Trump administration was giving secure 5G network top priority. “We applaud this decision and recommend that India consider adopting similar laws and regulations. As a key ally, the United States will support your government in eliminating the national security risk of untrusted vendors in your critical infrastructure system.” Counsul-General Reifman reiterated the cooperation between the USA’s Department of Homeland Security and India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology which facilitated the computer emergency teams that helped build India’s capacity to confront digital financial fraud. Governments of both countries were convening a bilateral Cyber Dialogue in September to identify new ways to secure digital infrastructure. “This collaboration can be critical to defending against malicious actors such as those in Russia, which seek to hack companies working on vaccine research and development. Those in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, who continue to target our foreign financial sectors in their efforts to steal funds, and those in the People’s Republic of China, who seek to steal our intellectual property and trade secrets,” he said. The Consul-General said that Telangana had set an example for the entire country in the domain of cyber security. “The State was one of the first to adopt a cyber security policy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ban-untrusted-vendors-says-us-consul-general/article32217499.ece
29 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Steps for mega dairy catch pace||The State government has intensified measures for setting up of the proposed mega dairy with an estimated Rs. 250 crore. The veterinary wing of the Animal Husbandry department has kept aside a 32.2 acre land at Mamidipalli abutting Raviryal village of Maheshwaram mandal in the neighbouring Rangareddy district, for this. The land belonging to Mamidipalli large scale sheep breeding farm would be given on lease basis to Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (TSDDCFL). The lease would be for 99 years, with an annual lease amount of Rs. 30,000 an acre with an increase of 5% every year. The lease will come into effect from the day of signing of the MoU between TSDDCFL and the director of Animal Husbandry. Strict conditions had been imposed in leasing out the land. The lessee should not give any portion or full land under sublease. The land should be utilised only for the said purpose, setting up the mega dairy aimed at further boosting the prospects of TSDDCFL. The unit should be set up within the period specified in the MoU and the government said that the lease would be subject to cancellation in the event of any violation of terms set out in leasing the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-for-mega-dairy-catch-pace/article32217511.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ten tigers captured on camera||Considerable difference in estimated tiger numbers and the actual sightings/camera trap images marks the final results of the Tiger Census report for the Telangana State, for the year 2018. The pan-India Tiger Census final report was released on Tuesday by the Union Minister for Environment and Forests (MoEF) Prakash Javadekar at Delhi. In Telangana, the actual number of unique tigers were only 10, as analysed from the images captured on camera traps. Seven of them were from Amrabad Tiger Reserve and one each from Kawal Tiger Reserve, Chennur Reserve Forest and Kagaz Nagar Reserve Forest. The report, however, noted that there were no resident tigers in the Kawal Tiger Reserve, indicating that the one tiger counted was transient. However, the estimated mean number of the striped big cats for Telangana State, as summarised by the report, was 26, which is a total 16 tigers over and above the captured ones. The mean was calculated with an error margin between 23-30 tigers. Officials from the Forest department have clarified that the camera trap images were the minimum number of tigers from the State, while the estimates are based on the analysis of indirect evidence which includes scats, pug marks, scratches on tree bark, and the tigers’ killings. Corresponding difference between estimated number and the camera captures for the Nagarjuna Sagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve was relatively low. While the mean estimated number was 48 with an error margin between 40 and 56, the actual number of unique tigers arrived at through the camera trap image analysis was 38. Imran Siddique from the Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society (HyTiCoS) contested the authenticity of the tiger census report and criticised it as faulty and inaccurate. “The prey numbers are also not reported which makes the report incomplete,” he said, claiming that the number of tigers was much higher than estimated, and the prey base too was not bad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ten-tigers-captured-on-camera/article32217527.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Private hospitals lying about beds?||There have been several complaints of private hospitals claiming shortage of beds to turn away COVID-19 patients, but the statistics provided by the Telangana Health department tell a different story. As per the media bulletin issued by the department on early Tuesday morning, there were 339 ICU beds and 466 oxygen beds available at 55 private hospitals. In the media bulletin, number of beds for COVID patients in government and private hospitals were listed under three categories — regular beds, oxygen beds and ICU beds. In government hospitals, there were a total of 8,446 beds. Of them, 2,242 were occupied and 6,204 were vacant. In case of 55 private hospitals, of the 811 ICU beds, only 339 were vacant, while 466 out of 1,676 oxygen beds were available. Officials on July 14 said that a dashboard which displays live status of bed space will be made available. However, it was not made available, forcing people to approach multiple hospitals. Meanwhile, insurance agents alleged that a few hospitals have been turning away COVID patients upon knowing that they have insurance policies. A few COVID-affected families said that they were asked to pay cash in advance to get admitted. The hospitals managements asked them to claim reimbursement from insurance companies later, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-hospitals-lying-about-beds/article32217487.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-negative, but quarantined||If you thought standing in the serpentine queues to get tested for COVID-19 at government-mandated centres for free was the most exhausting part, you may be mistaken. For some, it is just the beginning of the agony like Swamy Goud recently realised. No information A resident of Abids, Mr. Goud, along with a friend, trooped into the King Koti Hospital earlier this month for testing after developing coronavirus kind of symptoms. They were given slips, medicines and advised to come the following day for testing and after standing in the queue from 6 a.m., the duo could give their samples at about 12.45 p.m. After four days, his friend got an SMS stating the sample was ‘negative’ and when Mr. Goud called ‘104’ to seek solace, the call centre representative took down details and promised to get back. “But irrespective of the reports, I was advised to take care of myself. I have been in home quarantine and could overcome all symptoms in the next few days with no information forthcoming. On Monday, when I went to the hospital for the reports and was told that if I did not get any message from the hospital, it means the report is negative,” he says. When he asked the doctor concerned why he did not get any message, he was asked take up the matter with the lab. “It was then that I realised that only one person has been engaged to deal with a large number of people coming for testing. It was taking a lot of time to take down details of each and every person when some details can go missing as it happened in my case,” explained Mr. Goud. He tweeted to the Health Minister and the medical and health officials concerned about the mismanagement in government testing centres but claimed to have received no response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-negative-but-quarantined/article32217490.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman ‘slits’ son’s wrist, ends life||A woman allegedly killed her three-year-old son and later jumped to her death from the terrace of a three-storey building, L B Nagar police said on Tuesday. According to the police, the victims are Mamatha (26) and Reyansh (3). Mamatha was a homemaker and was married to her paternal aunt’s son Gullam Shankaraiah in 2012. Police said that Reyansh had eyesight problems and that his parents were getting him treated at a private hospital, and had spent a considerable amount for treatment. Reyansh’s mental growth was slow, it was said. This had worried Mamatha a lot, it was learnt. On Monday night, Shankaraiah, who runs a battery inverter shop, closed his shop around 10 pm, and went to his house. Upon finding the door closed from the outside, he unbolted it and found Reyansh lying on a cot in a pool of blood. His right wrist had been slit. He then tried to find Mamatha but was unable to. Then, he rushed Reyansh to a private hospital, and told Vikas Goud, who was a worker at his shop, to find his wife. “Mamatha jumped from the overhead water tank of the building and died on the spot. Reyansh was bleeding from his wrist, which was slit. We have booked a case and are investigating,” L B Nagar inspector V Ashok Reddy said. While the incident took place on Monday, a complaint was filed a day later by Mamatha’s father Mallaiah.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000 or 66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-slits-sons-wrist-ends-life/article32217501.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||150 days into pandemic, anxiety at all-time high||It has been 150 days since the coronavirus entered Telangana and turned our lives upside down. For Health department officials, healthcare professionals and frontline workers, it has been 150 days of disturbed sleep, restlessness and busy work schedules with zero holidays. A rough glance at their phone shows more missed calls than the calls they answered, thanks to crazy duty hours. “Our phones were never so busy. Sometimes, we have to race against time to attend some important calls. In a day, we receive more than 250-300 calls,” an official from the Health department said. Besides senior officials in the department along with Health minister Eatala Rajender who head regular meetings, staff working at the ground level too have been no less busy. The relentless work to contain and manage COVID-19 started from March 2 when the first positive case was detected in the State. Hundreds of employees in the Health department have contracted the virus and a few of them have died. District Medical and Health Officers said their work starts from 6.30 a.m. and stretches late in to the night. Some have lost weight in the past five months. “The challenge for women doing COVID duty is more as we have to cook too,” said Rangareddy DMHO K. Swarajya Lakshmi. “Earlier, Sundays and public holidays meant family time. Now, it seems like a distant dream. I can’t sleep before 2.30 a.m. and wake up by 7 a.m. latest. It will take time to correct this disturbed sleep pattern,” said another official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/150-days-into-pandemic-anxiety-at-all-time-high/article32217488.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tributes to Jaipal Reddy||Rich tributes were paid to former Parliamentarian S. Jaipal on his first death anniversary on Tuesday. Leaders cutting across party lines visited Jaipal Reddy’s memorial on Necklace Road and paid floral tributes. Legislative Council Chairman G. Sukender Reddy said Jaipal Reddy had served people in different capacities and was known for his honesty in politics and public life. He also recollected the role played by Jaipal Reddy in the Statehood movement even while he was holding the Cabinet post in the Centre. Mr. Sukender Reddy visited the memorial along with his family members. Family members of Jaipal Reddy including his wife, sons and daughter also paid floral tributes by visiting the memorial. Several associates and others from different walks of life also paid tributes. Among others, Congress leaders A. Revanth Reddy, Mallu Ravi, Gudur Narayana Reddy, and BJP leader Vivek Venkataswamy paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tributes-to-jaipal-reddy/article32217510.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. offer to property tax defaulters||Offering incentive upon one time payment of property tax arrears, the government has issued orders announcing waiver of 90% accumulated interest on property tax arrears, provided the tax payer clears the principal amount till 2019-20 with 10% interest at one go. The offer, valid only for non-government properties, in all urban local bodies, including GHMC, will begin on Aug. 1 and conclude on Sept. 15. At the end of 2019-20, there was accumulation of property tax arrears to the tune of Rs. 1,478 crore for GHMC alone, of which Rs. 1,018 crore was the interest amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-offer-to-property-tax-defaulters/article32217496.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman killed in road accident||A senior clerk working with the Railways, who was riding a two-wheeler pillion, was knocked down by a lorry on Tuesday and succumbed to the injuries in Bollarum. According to the police, the victim, who was identified as B Mahalaxmi, was travelling with a colleague to Edupayala in Medak district when the lorry hit them from behind. The woman was thrown off the vehicles and fell to the right side of the vehicle after which the lorry crushed her to death. Police booked a case and said investigation was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-killed-in-road-accident/article32217502.ece
29 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Biotech doyen B.S. Bajaj passes away||Eminent Hyderabad-based biotechnologist B.S. Bajaj, passed away on Tuesday. He was 93. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao mourned the demise of Bajaj. He recalled the services rendered by Bajaj as Founder-Secretary General of Federation of Asian Biotech Associations (FABA) and how he worked tirelessly to make Genome Valley and Bio-Asia, a reality. MCRHRD institute director general B.P. Acharya said Dr. Bajaj ensured industry-academia interface and helped formulate the first Biotech policy of the State. CCMB former director D. Balasubramaniam said he was a guiding force for many scientists, technologists, drug and vaccine manufacturers, and the government officials. “Bajaj helped in organising the yearly event BioAsia from 2004. He helped establish contacts with 50 such similar minded groups across East, Central and West Asia under the umbrella organisation, FABA, and active help from the State government and industry groups,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/biotech-doyen-bs-bajaj-passes-away/article32217521.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cantonment roads open from today||Roads in Cantonment areas will be open from Wednesday at 6 a.m. as the cooperation of Civilians and Military officials in temporary closure of roads from July 18 to 28 has paid off and resulted in containing the exponential surge of COVID-positive cases in the Cantonment and its surrounding areas. However, roads will be closed for anti-COVID measures to include sanitisation of premises between 5.30 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. with no restriction on movement of ambulance or emergency medical cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cantonment-roads-open-from-today/article32217522.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank unions plea to FM||Reduced business hours, a roster of alternate day working for staff and only one branch in a cluster operating on any given day are safeguards an umbrella body of bank employees and officers unions wants bank managements to implement in the face of a raging COVID-19. On Tuesday, Telangana State Unit convenor of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) R.Sriram submitted a representation to Finance Minister Harish Rao underscoring the significance of these measures. Following the increased footfalls in all banks and some customers not following precautions, bankers figure in high-risk category, Mr.Sriram said and urged the Minister to issue necessary directions to the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-unions-plea-to-fm/article32217523.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Naturopathy is best for sustainable, healthy society’||Natural medicine is the only way forward for sustainable health, said Gunna Rajender Reddy, chairman of Gandhi Global Family and Gandhi Gyan Pratishthan, Telangana and AP. It is the right time we turned back to nature for right solutions to create a healthy and happy society. He said Mahatma Gandhi was a staunch nature lover and devoted much of his life to practise and advocate naturopathy. Vinobhanagar Development Society in Ibrahimpatnam in association with Siddhartha Yoga Vidyalaya, Gandhi Global Family and Gandhi Gnan Pratistan organized Nature Cure Awareness programme and laid the foundation for ‘Prakruthi Ashram’ at Gopal Ghoshala campus at Ibrahimpatnam, Rangareddy district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/naturopathy-is-best-for-sustainable-healthy-society/article32217489.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PM should not attend ‘bhoomi puja’ of Ram temple: Asad||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not attend the ‘bhoomi puja’ of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, in an official capacity, scheduled for August 5. Mr. Owaisi was speaking to reporters and reiterated his stand, as mentioned to another media house, that if the Prime Minister wished to do so, he should do so in an ‘individual capacity’. He took to Twitter and said that the PM attending the bhoomi puja in an official capacity is a violation of his Constitutional oath. He also said that secularism is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pm-should-not-attend-bhoomi-puja-of-ram-temple-asad/article32217520.ece
29 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Online public meeting on coronavirus on Aug. 1||In a renewed focus on digital platforms to highlight people’s issues in these times of coronavirus pandemic, the CPI (M) district committee will hold an online public meeting to discuss the ripple effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its catastrophic impact on the livelihoods of lakhs of people. The party district committee has drawn up an ambitious plan to make optimum use of the digital platforms to reach out to the party functionaries and channelise their cohesive strength to highlight the issues plaguing toiling masses, including farmers, labourers and daily wage earners, hit hard by the crisis. The social media wing of the party’s district unit has embraced a more active role in bringing to the fore the woes of people worst affected by the coronavirus crisis. In line with its online initiatives, the district unit of the party has decided to hold an online public meeting on the theme “Corona Kashtalu — Prabhutva Vaikari” (Corona Woes – Attitude of the Government) at 6 p.m. on August 1. CPI (M) State secretary and former Khammam MP Tammineni Veerabhadram and a host of other senior party leaders will address the online public meeting. “The virtual public meeting will discuss threadbare the ordeals of people hit hard by the pandemic and the inept response of the State and Central governments to mitigate their sufferings so far,” said CPI (M) district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao. The travails of the crisis hit farmers, farm labourers, displaced workers of small and medium enterprises and granite factories, the workers of hotels, cinema theatres, and other daily wage earners, among other distressed people will be discussed in the online public meeting, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-public-meeting-on-coronavirus-on-aug-1/article32217515.ece
29 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Efforts for safe storage of mid-day meal rice||Amid the continued uncertainty over the prospects of reopening of schools due to the persistent threat from coronavirus, School Education authorities have initiated urgent measures to ensure proper maintenance of rice earlier stocked in various State-run schools for mid-day meal programme at the fag end of the last academic year. The coronavirus induced lockdown has brought the mid-day meal (MDM) programme to a sudden halt in March this year. This has led to a precarious situation depriving a little over 89,000 students of as many as 1,294 government and aided schools in the district of the free lunch facility, albeit temporarily. The prevailing uncertainty has triggered demands from various students’ unions for implementation of alternative measures to ensure home delivery of mid-day meal in adherence to the safety precautions till the reopening of schools. In the meantime, the authorities have turned focus on proper maintenance of the huge quantity of raw rice that was stocked in several State-run schools prior to the lockdown in March. The staff members concerned have been issued instructions to take appropriate natural pest control measures like keeping neem leaves at the storage points and keep the rice stocks safe from insect attacks. PDS use? Sources said that the State government is mulling handing over the rice stocked in schools to the Civil Supplies Department for immediate use under the public distribution system and then arrange the same quantity for the mid-day meal programme as and when the schools are reopened in the new academic year 2020-2021. When contacted, District Educational Officer (DEO) Madanmohan told The Hindu that adequate precautionary measures have been taken so far to keep rice stocks in all schools in better condition and free of all kinds of insect attacks. The data of exact quantity of rice of the mid-day meal programme presently available in the State-run schools in the entire district is being compiled to send a detailed report to the Civil Supplies Department in a few days, the DEO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/efforts-for-safe-storage-of-mid-day-meal-rice/article32217517.ece
29 July 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector K. Dharma Reddy directed officials to ensure that there were no problems at containment zones in the district. He reviewed the arrangements at containment zones here on Tuesday and inquired about the prevailing conditions at PHCs of Kowdipally, Reddypally, Shankarampet - A, Toopran, Shivampet, Medak (Urban), D Dharmaram, Chegunta, Alladurg and Yeldurthi. District Medical and Health Officer Dr. B Venkateswara Rao, District Hospital Superintendent Dr. P Chandrasekhar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32217513.ece
29 July 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Brf||A private company at MG Road, Sri Rama Union chit fund, was fined Rs. 3,000 for littering. Municipal Commissioner P. Ramanjula Reddy said it was found that the company dumped its daily waste on the road, while the practice was to follow the three-bin rule. Domestic or commercial set-ups should segregate waste as wet, dry and harmful, and hand over to municipal workers every day. Violators will attract a fine of Rs. 500 to Rs. 5,000, besides action as per appropriate laws, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32217503.ece
29 July 2020||V. GeetanathHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railways expects huge dent in passenger earnings this year||Indian Railways is expecting a huge dent in passenger revenues, almost to an extent of up to Rs. 35,000 crore (from estimated Rs. 50,000 crore), due to COVID-19 induced reduced passenger trains services across the country. However, it is expecting to realise a significant portion of this amount by pulling in more freight with improved speeds and mobility. Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav informed a webinar on freight operations on Tuesday that the 230-odd passenger trains are running to just 75% capacity and hence, there is little expectation of any great change soon considering the current pandemic scenario. “We are constantly assessing the situation. We have made use of this period to improve our freight services ensuring dedicated short and long haul trains move in double the normal speeds and on prescribed time-tables. Our newly launched business development offices in each division has roped in newer clients,” he explained. Freight loading at 3.13 million tonnes, higher than last year in last three months with 1,039 trains loaded with foodgrain, fertilizer, steel, cement, iron ore and coal, is an encouraging sign. Lockdown period was used to repair or improve about 200 railway works which helped speed up freight trains from average of 23 kmph to 45 kmph. Reduced number of passenger trains too provided more leeway to run these trains and efforts are on to reduce the logistics costs during loading and unloading. About 1,271 goods sheds have been identified across the country where internal roads will be decked up and ‘airport’ kind of lighting will be provided so that the freight operations can be done round the clock. Forty-one new private freight terminals will be added to the existing 67, said Mr. Yadav. Online booking of parcel space, dedicated parcel terminals, separation of parcel space from passenger platforms, collaborating with Department of Posts for end-to-end logistics solutions, started as pilot basis in Mumbai and other places, will be extended across the country. Soon the Railways will come up with a time-tabled freight trains operations manual and this will be separate from the passenger trains time-table to be run on separate corridors post-COVID-19 too, he affirmed. Dedicated corridors Mr. Yadav also asserted that private players will also be invited for freight operations once the dedicated freight corridors become operational between Delhi-Mumbai, Delhi-Kolkata to begin with. “A total of 10,000 km modern freight corridor will become operational between Dec. 2021 - March 2022 where trains can travel at 100 kmph with double-decker containers. With increased capacity there will be space for private freight operations though as of now Railways is the sole agency. We will hold talks with interested parties soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railways-expects-huge-dent-in-passenger-earnings-this-year/article32217525.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC unhappy as DU, Centre fail to spell out exam preparedness||The High Court on Tuesday expressed displeasure at the Delhi University and the Centre for failing to come up with the number of visually impaired students, who have made a request for scribes to enable their participation in the final year undergraduate open book examinations (OBE). A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad sought to know the status of the Common Service Exam (CSE) centres, the arrangement made for scribes at the CSE Centres for students in the Persons with Disabilities (PWD) category and their overall preparedness for smoothly conducting the online examinations. DU has engaged the CSC academy under the aegis of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to facilitate the students with either limited or no network and hardware facility to appear for the OBE without payment of fee. The students from across the country, who wish to avail the CSC’s infrastructure, have to locate the nearest CSC through their site. The court noted that DU had not submitted any affidavit regarding its preparedness, despite a clear direction on the last hearing.  “It is also imperative for this court to know as to whether visually impaired students, who have asked for scribes, will get an opportunity to interact with the scribes assigned to them at least two days before the examinations in terms of the guidelines issued by the university,” the court said. The Bench said it would also like to be informed that out of 2,75,000 students, who have submitted applications to participate in the online OBE, how many have opted for a CSE centre for downloading the question paper and uploading the answer sheets. “Out of those students who have sought the facility of a CSE centre, how many students are situated at remote places and whether the CSE centres at the said locations are fully equipped,” the court asked. Details sought It said the affidavit filed by DU on the next date of hearing on July 30 must also furnish the details of the number of students who have participated in the mock test, number of students who were unable to upload their answer sheets within the prescribed time and the number of complaints received from students regarding technical glitches during the mock test. The court also asked for details of the PWD category students with a sub-category of visually impaired students who had applied for participating in the online OBE and those who had participated in the mock test. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for some of the students, stated that several of the PWD category students are residing at remote places where no CSE centres are available. Mr. Sibal said the presence of the CSE Academy is considered necessary, for the court to understand as to how many CSE centres across India are situated in metropolitan cities and how many are situated in remote areas so that accessibility is not an issue for any of the students, irrespective of their place of stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-unhappy-as-du-centre-fail-to-spell-out-exam-preparedness/article32217417.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||SDMC professional tax evokes mixed reactions among public||Proposals for the imposition of a “professional tax” by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) evoked mixed reactions among people working at private offices in the civic body’s jurisdiction. The SDMC on Monday approved proposals for tax on salaried individuals at workplaces under its jurisdiction and on self-employed professionals. Questions logic Manreet Kaur, who works at an education consultancy here questioned the logic of the move. “What are we paying our income taxes for then,” she asked. She raised concerns about whether the funds would be utilised properly, arguing that picking up of garbage and other civic services were regularly delayed. There’s clearly an issue of coordination between the different levels of government if funds were not being evenly distributed, Ms. Kaur said. Others, such as Chandana K. who also works at a private firm in South Delhi, said that the amount for was not very high and she wouldn’t mind paying it. The civic body has proposed three tax slabs for salaried individuals starting from Rs. 50,000. Those earning less than that will not be required to pay any amount. Those earning between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 75,000 would be required to pay Rs. 1,200 a year, those earning between Rs. 75,000 and Rs. 1 lakh would have to pay Rs. 1,800. The proposal for a professional tax has been put forth by the municipal corporations on multiple occasions, having been recommended in the Delhi Finance Commissions. However, it has been approved by the SDMC for the first time. While most were unaware of the tax, Shalini Mehra who works at social consultancy here, said that it seemed like an unnecessary burden on people, especially amid the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-professional-tax-evokes-mixed-reactions-among-public/article32217422.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Cannot decide what a university should teach’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rejected a petition seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi University to introduce classical dances as a subject in undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the varsity. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said it cannot issue any such direction as it cannot tell a university which courses it should teach. Exhaust remedy “We cannot decide what course should be run by the university. Who will draft the syallabus,” the Bench remarked as it asked the petitioner Ananya Bhattacharya to first exhaust all the remedy available to her, such as making a representation to the government and the varsity before coming to the court. “Is there any other university available in the country where they are offering BA in dance. If, yes, then go there. You [Ms. Bhattacharya] want everything in Delhi,” the High Court said. Ms. Bhattacharya, in her plea, has claimed that many students who have majored in classical dances in schools are being denied access to undergraduate and postgraduate course in classical dances by DU. She claimed that Delhi University, however, have undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the students who majored in vocal and instrumental music in school. Integral part This, Ms. Bhattacharya, said was “ignoring the fact that dance is an integral, inseparable, and essential part of music at par with vocal and instrumental music”. “Geetam [vocal music], Vadyam [instrumental music], evam Nrityam [dance] Trayam Sangeet Muchyate” is the cardinal nature of music, she said. “Delhi University by separating the inseparable has caused wholly avoidable grave and serious discrimination and prejudice to the cause of the students of classical dances,” the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cannot-decide-what-a-university-should-teach/article32217418.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Online push hampering JNU’s education system’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association on Tuesday said that the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the University Grant Commission were showing complete disregard for the academic and health interests of students by pushing for online education. “The entire concentration has been put on examinations and the loss of teaching-learning, that has happened, has neither been acknowledged nor have the questions related to its restoration in the context of the continuing threat of the pandemic been addressed,” the JNUTA said. The association said Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar has made it clear that he sees online education as the future and alleged that he has been pushing for online systems substituting the regular processes, but without providing any infrastructure support to the students scattered across the country. The teachers, further, alleged that there were several irregularities being carried out in the matter of appointment of faculty in JNU and said that it was disappointed that the MHRD was acting like a mute spectator despite being aware of these.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/online-push-hampering-jnus-education-system/article32217421.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon preparedness to decide PWD report card||The annual report card of Public Works Department (PWD) officials this year will rely heavily on how effectively they address waterlogging complaints under their jurisdiction during monsoon, said government sources. All executive engineers of the PWD have been directed to maintain a log book related to the resolution of waterlogging complaints, along with the image or video-based proof of their redressal, based on which entries will be made in their respective Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR), said government sources. A decision to this effect was issued following a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev in regard to the PWD’s monsoon preparedness on July 20, the sources added. “In addition to coordinating with multiple agencies on the ground in regard to waterlogging complaints, the engineers have been directed to ensure the effective redressal of such complaints and non-performance will lead to the fixing of responsibility for them and contractual liabilities for private agencies engaged by the PWD,” said an official. “The supervising officials have been directed to maintain a proper log of identified points of stagnant water collection, steps taken for the redressal of such issues, the time taken to rectify the problem and the proof in the form of pictures or videos. These logs will be forwarded to the higher officers,” the official also said. According to the official, both good and bad measures taken by PWD officials in regard to waterlogging complaints will be part of their annual performance report, and it will be elevated to the department’s principal secretary. The PWD has jurisdiction over the largest length of drainage in the city at 2,064.08 km. This translates into a total of 1,037 drains under the jurisdiction of the PWD divided in separate zones of which the highest number, 466, fall under the North Zone followed by 314 under the East Zone and 257 under the South Zone. “Both, the appreciation of good work as well as lapses will be recorded in the APARs; responsibility will be fixed against the officials in either case. The objective is to ensure the most efficient redressal of waterlogging complaints,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/monsoon-preparedness-to-decide-pwd-report-card/article32217423.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||On day 2 of mock test, students face issues again||Delhi University students complained about technical glitches during the mock test on the second day of the open book exam again on Tuesday. Similar complaints were received on the first day as well. Kamarjeet Kaur, a final year student said that while uploading her answer sheets, she faced issues for up to 40 minutes, after which she was only able to upload one sheet, while the rest could not be uploaded due to an error. Khusboo, a journalism student, took to the social media highlighting that though exams were scheduled for Tuesday, when she logged in to the portal there was no question paper. Garima Guilia, a SOL student said that initially the system was showing error when she tried to upload the PDFs of the answer sheet. Later she wasn’t able to upload any answers. Others reported errors while logging in like asking to log in multiple times and getting errors highlighting internal server issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/on-day-2-of-mock-test-students-face-issues-again/article32217428.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Two loot DU staffer’s house at gunpoint||Two unidentified men barged into the house of Delhi University employee and looted cash and gold jewellery from their house in Dayalpur, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on July 26. The men threatened the staffer and his mother with pistols. Fearing for their life, they handed over cash and jewellery worth lakhs kept in their house. In one of the CCTV footage, the assailants could be seen wearing masks and waiting outside the street near the house before committing the crime. The police said that the involvement of more than two men is being probed. A case has been registered at Dayalpur police station and an investigation is under way to identify the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-loot-du-staffers-house-at-gunpoint/article32217424.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘A ploy to save Tahir Hussain’||The BJP on Tuesday accused the AAP government of rejecting the police’s panel of lawyers to represent it in cases related to the Delhi riots as part of a ploy to “save” its suspended councillor Tahir Hussain. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Delhi government had proved it can “go to any extent” to save Mr. Hussain, and its legislators and party cadres “accused in the riots”. “It is clear that the Delhi government knows the reality of the riots and is trying its best to save its councillor. The AAP government was aware of a big conspiracy as it was the one that gave its leaders a free hand to burn Delhi,” Mr. Gupta alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-ploy-to-save-tahir-hussain/article32217425.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Students protest arrest of Hany Babu||All India Students’ Association (ASIA) hit out against the arrest of Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case on Tuesday. Terming it a “witch hunt on pro-democracy activists”, the group said that fabricated charges had been used by investigating agencies against Mr. Babu. “The arrest proves the Centre wants to silence and harass pro-democracy forces,” the group said, while calling for protests against the move. “The BJP government is leaving no stone unturned in this lockdown to curb democracy,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-protest-arrest-of-hany-babu/article32217426.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Court imposes penalty on petitioner for challenging freebie policies||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday imposed a penalty of Rs. 25,000 on a man for challenging the Delhi government’s decision to grant electricity and water subsidies, saying it was ‘absolutely and purely’ a policy decision over which court will not interfere. An HC Bench said concessions were being given by the govt. as per its policy decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-imposes-penalty-on-petitioner-for-challenging-freebie-policies/article32217419.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Heavy rain likely today||Moderate to heavy rain has been forecast for the Capital on Wednesday and is likely to bring down temperature.The Meteorological Department said rain is likely to occur towards late evening or night and issued an impact-based forecast. “Disruption of traffic flow due to major roads being flooded or closed; waterlogging in low-lying areas, streets and roads; and disruption to municipal services (water, electricity, etc.) is expected,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/heavy-rain-likely-today/article32217427.ece
29 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Punjab misusing UAPA’||The Opposition parties in Punjab have accused the Congress government of misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. While Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal demanded the State government not to register cases against Sikh youth under the UAPA for minor offences, Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said its leaders would soon meet Governor V.P. Singh Badnore on the issue. “It is clear that the State police is misusing UAPA, which needs to be stopped immediately,” said Mr. Badal. AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said if the police, under the guise of ensuring law and order, would continue harassing the people, it would be a violation of human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-misusing-uapa/article32217453.ece
29 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Invoke NSA in abduction, murder case, says Yogi||U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked officials to consider evoking the National Security Act against a person who allegedly murdered his friend and made a ransom call for Rs. 20 lakh to his family in Kanpur Dehat. The body of the victim, Brijesh Kumar, an employee of a weighbridge company, was recovered from a well in the Devrahat area 12 days after he went missing, said the police. On July 17, Kumar’s family had lodged a complaint with the Bhognipur police when he did not return home from work on July 16. They also received a ransom call for Rs. 20 lakh. Kanpur Dehat SP Anurag Vats said the accused, Subodh Sachan, a truck driver and a ‘friend’ of the victim, had been arrested. Sachan first lured Kumar to meet him on July 16 night and in a car, offered him a soft drink laced with sleeping pills, following which Kumar lost consciousness, said the SP. Sachan then used a rope to kill Kumar and drove the car to Devrahat where he dumped the body in a well, Mr. Vats said. A few hours later, Sachan made a ransom call to Kumar’s family, he allegedly confessed to the police. Amid allegations that the police had made lapses in the case, and parallels being drawn with the Kanpur lab technician kidnap and murder case, Mr. Vats clarified that Kumar had been murdered a few hours prior to the ransom call. Mr. Vats said Sachan had a debt of Rs. 4-Rs. 5 lakh for the two trucks he had purchased. Mr. Adityanath also asked officials to fix accountability in the case. He announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/invoke-nsa-in-abduction-murder-case-says-yogi/article32217456.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Convince Centre to be party in SC on Maratha quota: Chavan to BJP||Maharashtra’s Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan, who also heads the Cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, on Tuesday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis for misleading people over the Maratha quota issue and asked him to convince the Centre to be a party in the ongoing case in the Supreme Court, supporting the reservation. “The Maharashtra government had issued a directive on May 4, in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, to stop recruitment in all departments, except public health and medical education. We informed the apex court about it on Monday. But the BJP misled the people by claiming that the State government stopped recruitment from Maratha community,” Mr. Chavan said at a press conference. Mr. Chavan said the Central government should become a party as the outcome of this case will impact the quota sanctioned by it for the economically weaker section. “The Maharashtra Assembly passed the Maratha quota Bill unanimously. It was nothing about party politics. Why can’t the State BJP leaders convince the Centre to be a party in the SC case?” he asked. Mr. Fadnavis had on Monday said that he was surprised at the State government’s submission before the top court. To this, Mr. Chavan said, “Either some people do not understand the issue or they are deliberately misleading people.” Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, submitted before the Supreme Court that as per a State government’s resolution (GR) on May 4, except for departments of public health and medical education and research, all the other departments should not undertake any fresh recruitment process. Mr. Chavan said the government’s submission before the top court on Monday was a reference to the GR issued on May 4. “It is a clear indication that Mr. Fadnavis is misleading people over the issue.” The minister further said Mr. Fadnavis also claimed that it was painful for him to know that the State would put recruitments on hold till the decision (of the top court) was out. “He must have forgotten that he made a similar assurance before the Bombay High Court in December 2018. I am keen to find out whether it pained Mr. Fadnavis to make such a submission before the court or not.” The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, was enacted to grant reservation to people of the Maratha community in Maharashtra in jobs and admissions to educational institutions. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June last year, said that 16% reservation was not justifiable and the quota should not exceed 12% in employment and 13% in admissions. The SC is hearing a batch of petitions challenging the High Court order and the Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/convince-centre-to-be-party-in-sc-on-maratha-quota-chavan-to-bjp/article32217450.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Need time to find out if Teltumbde was tested’||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday sought time to find out if Prof. Anand Teltumbde, lodged at Taloja Central Jail after being arrested in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case, has been tested for COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices R. D. Dhanuka and V. G. Bisht was hearing two petitions filed by Vernon Gonsalves, 61, and Mr. Teltumbde, 68, urging the court to conduct a swab test on them too as they were in close proximity with Varavara Rao inside Taloja jail. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, appearing for the duo, informed the court that Mr. Gonsalves was taking care of Mr. Rao inside the hospital jail. Mr. Rao tested positive for COVID-19 on July 16. He also said that Mr. Gonsalves’s wife is not permitted to talk to him. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare said a swab test was conducted on Mr. Gonsalves and he has tested negative. Mr. Thakare said he needed some time to take instructions on whether a test has been conducted on Mr. Teltumbde. The court adjourned the matter to July 31 and directed the jail authorities to permit Mr. Gonsalves to talk to his wife. Mr. Gonsalves is a writer and a columnist and suffers from hypertension, high blood pressure and bleeding piles. Mr. Teltumbde is a professor and was the Managing Director and CEO of Petronet India Limited. He suffers from chronic bronchitis asthma, chronic cervical spondylitis, supraspinatus tendinosis and postrtomegaly. The plea points out that they are both senior citizens, have underlying health ailments, and are vulnerable to contracting the virus. They ought to be shifted to a hospital and immediately tested for COVID-19 and kept in isolation, the plea submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/need-time-to-find-out-if-teltumbde-was-tested/article32217447.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Can’t share CM post with any regional party: Patil||Senior BJP leader Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday appeared reaching out to estranged ally Shiv Sena, a day after the party president J. P. Nadda asked party workers to endeavour to form a government in Maharashtra on its own strength. Mr. Patil also said the BJP, being a national party, can’t share the post of chief minister with any regional party, because if it does so then it will have to replicate the same formula in Bihar and Haryana. “If the BJP’s parliamentary body recommends the State unit to forge an alliance with the Shiv Sena to protect the interest of the State...I must make one point clear that even if both the parties (the BJP and the Sena) come together, we will not contest any election jointly in future,” Mr. Patil, who heads the State BJP unit, told a Marathi news channel. The BJP and its old ally Sena fell out over sharing the post of chief minister in Maharashtra after the 2019 Assembly elections. Mr. Patil seemed to underline compulsions of the BJP vis-a-vis sharing the post of chief minister. “We had been liberal with the Shiv Sena in the last five years of our tenure. We were even ready to share more portfolios after the 2019 Assembly polls, but the BJP, being a national party, can’t share the post of CM with any regional party. If we do so, we will have to replicate the same formula in Bihar, Haryana and other States,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cant-share-cm-post-with-any-regional-party-patil/article32217612.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Monsoon session of State legislature from Sept. 7||The monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature will begin on September 7 and not August 3 as scheduled earlier. The decision was taken in the business advisory committee meeting on Tuesday, in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in the State. “The monsoon session of the State legislature will now be held from September 7. It was to start on August 3. The decision to hold it from September 7 was taken due to the novel coronavirus outbreak,” an official said.The session was originally scheduled from June 22.According to sources, the treasury benches had proposed to call for the session without calling all MLAs, but only from Mumbai and surrounding areas. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the move would have been unconstitutional. “Therefore, we decided to postpone the session till September 7,” he said.The Budget session of the legislature in March was curtailed from the scheduled four weeks to three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/monsoon-session-of-state-legislature-from-sept-7/article32217613.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||Mahesh Raut moves HC for COVID-19 test||The youngest accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, Mahesh Raut, 33, moved the Bombay High Court on Tuesday seeking that he be tested for COVID-19 as he has all the symptoms. Mr. Raut was arrested on June 6, 2018 and is lodged at Taloja Central jail. The petition filed by advocate Vijay Hiremath says, “He is suffering from high fever and diarrhoea, and has been in touch with fellow prison inmates who have tested COVID-19 positive. His immune system is already compromised as he has been suffering from ulcerative colitis and been under treatment for this even prior to his arrest.” Mr. Hiremath told a Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht that Mr. Raut came in close contact with Varavara Rao, also arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, who is lodged in Taloja jail and has tested positive. He said his client has asked the jail authorities and the medical officers for a COVID-19 test but they have repeatedly refused to do so. Mr. Raut was selected for the prestigious Prime Minister Rural Development fellowship programme in 2013 and was allocated to work with the District Collector, Gadchiroli, Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mahesh-raut-moves-hc-for-covid-19-test/article32217446.ece
29 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Ex-BARC engineer cheated of Rs. 5.54 lakh by online fraudster||A retired mechanical engineer from Bhabha Atomic Research Centre has allegedly lost Rs. 5.54 lakh on the day he installed Paytm app. According to the police, Lakshman Rao (63), a resident of Taloja Phase I, had started purchasing goods online due to the lockdown and to make payments, he downloaded the app on July 21. But despite several attempts, he could not deposit Rs. 500 in the wallet. After some time, he received a call wherein the caller introduced himself as an employee from the Paytm call centre. When Mr. Rao told him his issue, the caller said he was unable to solve it and a senior officer from Paytm would call him soon. Later, a person named R.K. Sharma, who claimed to be a senior officer from Paytm, called him and on the pretext of resolving the issue, took the debit card details of Mr. Rao. Mr. Rao then realised that in three different transactions, Rs. 2.46 lakh was transferred to an account belonging to one Aadharshila. Mr. Rao dialled Mr. Sharma and complained about the money being debited, but Mr. Sharma said there was some technical error and asked Mr. Rao about his phone. When Mr. Rao said he used an i-phone, Mr. Sharma enquired if he had an android phone. Since he had one, Mr. Sharma asked Mr. Rao to install the SBI’s netbanking app on the phone. Then Mr. Sharma told Mr. Rao that he was sending a message on his i-phone and that message should be forwarded to his android phone, which he did. But when the message was forwarded, Rs. 3.85 lakh in three different transactions got transferred from his account. Mr. Rao then approached the police and a case was registered. “We have found that the accused had called from Gurgaon and we are investigating. On the pretext of helping him operate Paytm, the conman made the complainant give away his banking details,” senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan from Taloja police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ex-barc-engineer-cheated-of-rs-554-lakh-by-online-fraudster/article32217448.ece
29 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Darekar meets rape victim’s family at Roha||A day after the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl from Roha in Raigad district came to light, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council, Praveen Darekar, met the victim’s family at their house. “I would not blame the guardian minister or the MP of this area for the incident. But such incidents have been on the rise and the reason is the ineffectiveness of the political administration when it comes to executing law and order. There is no fear of law, and hence this happened,” Mr. Darekar said. He claimed that if the government cared, at least some one from the ministry should have issued a statement on the incident. Speaking about the regulations the government has framed to celebrate Bakri Eid and Vinayak Chaturthi, he said the government should not differentiate between festivals celebrated by Muslims and Hindus.    On Sunday evening, the 14-year-old girl from Tambadi village in Roha, who was on her way to pick her grandfather from Tamhanshet village on her scooter, was stopped by a 22-year-old man for a lift. He then allegedly raped and killed her. The accused was arrested on Monday morning and produced in court on Tuesday, which sent him to police custody till August 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/darekar-meets-rape-victims-family-at-roha/article32217451.ece
29 July 2020||Srinagar,||Cannot settle for less than restoration of J&K’s special status, says NC leader||Voices within the National Conference (NC) have come out to oppose any move by the party to settle for the restoration of statehood as its main demand. “The NC’s priority should be to restore the special status of J&K, which has been the principle stand of the party. After August 5 last year, the NC should not think and settle on anything less than that,” senior NC leader and influential Shia cleric Agha Syed Ruhullah told The Hindu . Mr. Ruhullah said he had resigned as NC spokesman. “I have sent across my resignation from the post of chief spokesperson of the party,” he said. These remarks assumed significance after party vice-president Omar Abdullah, in a write up, hinted at contesting the elections once statehood was restored from the current Union Territory status. “I would not say the party has settled for restoration of statehood. I am waiting for the working committee to meet and make a decision on it,” Mr. Ruhullah said.  Gupkar Declaration He asked the NC to call for the meeting of the signatories of the Gupkar Declaration, a joint statement issued by the NC, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference and the J&K Peoples Movement on August 4 last year “to fight for rights and special status of J&K together”. The BJP has described Mr. Omar’s remarks as “his acceptance of the abrogation of Article 370”.  We thank Farooq: BJP “Dr. Farooq Abdullah [NC president) has also accepted it and we thank him for this. Let the militancy be wiped out first and the situation is brought under control, statehood to J&K will be restored,” BJP’s general secretary Ashok Koul told reporters on Monday. Commenting on the BJP’s statement, Mr. Ruhullah said, “The celebration of the BJP should serve as a reminder for what our party should espouse.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cannot-settle-for-less-than-restoration-of-jks-special-status-says-nc-leader/article32217454.ece
29 July 2020||Srinagar,||On its foundation day, PDP calls August 5 ‘black day’||With its president Mehbooba Mufti behind bars, the Peoples Democratic Party on Tuesday observed the 21st foundation day of the party, wherein the leaders described August 5 as “a black day”. “August 5 marks a black day in the constitutional history of J&K, when the solemn commitments made by the Parliament and the Constitution were annulled for a majoritarian goal of bulldozing the country into one saffron colour. We reiterate to fight for the restoration of honour and dignity of people of J&K,” a joint statement of the PDP leaders said. Remembering the party founder Mufti Muhammad Sayeed on the occasion, the PDP leaders said the idea to float the party was to bring J&K out of the morass of uncertainty, violence and lawlessness. “Our founding principle is that Kashmir, a bone of contention between India and Pakistan, should be converted into a bridge of understanding,” the statement said. “J&K is at the cusp of making a choice that determines the future and safety of our future generations. All stakeholders need to rise to the occasion and in unison demand the rightful, rather than being boxed in small time demands and short gains. History may not be kind if we fail to rise to the occasion,” they added. The PDP called for “the time-honoured mechanism of dialogue and engagement with all the stakeholders”. “Enforcing the peace of a graveyard and calling it normalcy is an illusion,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/on-its-foundation-day-pdp-calls-august-5-black-day/article32217455.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Pool drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pool-drive/article32217615.ece
29 July 2020||Brussels,||EU to restrict exports to Hong Kong||The European Union will restrict exports to Hong Kong of equipment that could be used for surveillance and repression after Beijing imposed a controversial new security law, diplomatic sources said on Tuesday. The bloc has expressed deep concerned over the new law, which critics say will severely curb Hong Kong’s longstanding autonomy and relative freedom. But the EU has struggled to agree a united response to China, with member states deeply divided over whether to stand up to Beijing — a hugely important trading partner — or to try to cooperate with it. France and Germany proposed the restriction on so-called “dual use” technology at a meeting of Foreign Ministers earlier this month and it will be formally signed off on Tuesday. Support for HK residents Along with the export restriction, the EU will also bring in measures to support the population of the former British colony by making it easier for them to travel to Europe through the granting of visas, scholarships and academic exchanges, diplomats said. After presenting the plan, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said that, with the new security law in place, “It makes sense to treat Hong Kong no differently from mainland China” when it comes to the export of equipment that can be used for repression. Beijing insists the security law is needed to restore stability in the financial hub after prolonged political unrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-to-restrict-exports-to-hong-kong/article32217172.ece
29 July 2020||Geneva,||No indication virus is seasonal: WHO||The spread of the novel coronavirus does not appear to be impacted by seasonality, the World Health Organization said Tuesday, warning against false beliefs that summer is safer. “Season does not seem to be affecting the transmission of this virus,” WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris told reporters in a virtual briefing. She pointed out that some of the hardest-hit countries are currently in the midst of different season. While it is summer in the U.S., which with nearly 1,48,000 deaths and close to 4.3 million cases is the hardest-hit country, the second most affected country Brazil, which counts more than 87,000 deaths, is in winter. And yet, she said, there “seems to be this fixed idea about this virus being seasonal”, and that COVID-19 will come in waves. ‘Flu lens’ This is because people are mistakenly viewing the pandemic through “a flu lens, because that is the way the flu behaves.” “What we all need to get our heads around is this is a new virus... and even though it is a respiratory virus and even though respiratory viruses in the past did tend to do these different seasonal waves, this one is behaving differently,” Ms. Harris said. Instead of expecting the virus to behave like other viruses that are more familiar, she said people should look at what is actually known about how to stop transmission of COVID-19. What works, she said, is physical distancing, hand washing, wearing a mask where appropriate, always covering up sneezes and coughs, staying home when experiencing symptoms, the isolation of cases and quarantining of contacts. “But at the moment, we aren't doing that, because people seem to have it fixed in their heads that there is this seasonal thing and there seems to... be this persistent belief that summer is not a problem,” Ms. Harris said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-indication-virus-is-seasonal-who/article32217177.ece
29 July 2020||Beijing,||China halts HK extradition pacts with Canada, Australia and U.K.||China announced the suspension on Tuesday of Hong Kong’s extradition treaties with Canada, Australia and Britain in a tit-for-tat move following similar decisions by those countries over a controversial new security law. Western nations have angered Beijing over their responses to the law imposed on Hong Kong which they see as an erosion of the civil liberties and human rights the city has enjoyed since its handover from Britain in 1997. Canada, Britain and Australia are part of the “Five Eyes” intelligence alliance. The other members are New Zealand, which suspended its extradition treaty with Hong Kong earlier on Tuesday, and the United States, which has signalled it is preparing to do the same. China has accused the countries of interfering in its internal affairs and defended the security law as crucial to restore order in Hong Kong following a wave of pro-democracy protests marred by violence. “The wrong action of Canada, Australia and the U.K. in politicising judicial cooperation with Hong Kong has seriously hurt the basis of judicial cooperation,” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin at a regular press briefing. “China has decided to suspend extradition treaties between Hong Kong and Canada, Australia and U.K., as well as criminal justice cooperation agreements.” Mr. Wang accused the countries of having used the national security law as “an excuse to unilaterally announce the suspension of extradition treaties” with Hong Kong. Britain suspended its extradition treaty last week, following moves by Australia and Canada, saying the security law had “significantly changed key assumptions”, including a provision to try certain cases in mainland China. London and Canberra have also angered Beijing by offering pathways to citizenship or residency to Hong Kong citizens looking to leave because of the new law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-halts-hk-extradition-pacts-with-canada-australia-and-uk/article32217171.ece
29 July 2020||TEHRAN,||Iran blasts replica of aircraft carrier amid tensions with U.S.||Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard fired a missile from a helicopter targeting a replica aircraft carrier in the strategic Strait of Hormuz, state television reported on Tuesday, an exercise aimed at “threatening” the U.S. amid tensions between Tehran and Washington. The drill, in a waterway through which 20% of all traded oil passes, underlines the lingering threat of military conflict between Iran and the U.S. after last summer saw a series of incidents targeting oil tankers in the region. In January, a U.S. drone strike killed a top Iranian general in Baghdad and Tehran responded by firing ballistic missiles targeting American forces in Iraq. Iranian commandos fast-roped down from a helicopter onto the replica in the footage aired on Tuesday from the exercise called “Great Prophet 14.” Iranian troops also fired anti-aircraft batteries at a drone target in the exercise from a location that state television described as being near the port city of Bandar Abbas. Troops also fired missiles from trucks on land and fast boats at sea. The Guard will use “long-range ballistic missiles with the ability to hit far-reaching aggressor floating targets” during the drill, said Abbas Nilforoushan, the Guard’s deputy commander for operations, according to Guard website sepahnews.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-blasts-replica-of-aircraft-carrier-amid-tensions-with-us/article32217174.ece
29 July 2020||WASHINGTON,||A-G Barr condemns rioting at House hearing||U.S. Attorney General William Barr faces tough questioning on Tuesday by the House Judiciary Committee, whose members believe he abused his power to bolster President Donald Trump's allies and silence his political enemies. The Committee’s Chairman Jerrold Nadler opened the hearing by telling Mr. Barr: “Your tenure is marked by a persistent war against the departments professional core in an apparent effort to secure favors for the President.” The hearing comes as the Justice Department faces criticism for its role in sending federal officers to forcibly disperse protesters in Portland, Oregon, and Washington, D.C. Mr. Barr defended the use of federal law enforcement to quell the protests in Portland, where some protesters threw objects at the federal courthouse. “What unfolds nightly around the courthouse cannot reasonably be called a protest; it is, by any objective measure, an assault on the Government of the U.S.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-g-barr-condemns-rioting-at-house-hearing/article32217169.ece
29 July 2020||Brussels,||Bomb hurled at Belgian Parliament||A man tried to throw a petrol bomb at the Belgian Parliament in what he said was a protest against handling of the COVID-19 crisis. The suspect said that “the reason for his act was that the political world badly handled the crisis”. “No terrorist motive has been alleged,” prosecutors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bomb-hurled-at-belgian-parliament/article32217178.ece
29 July 2020||Washington,||Washington, July 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Twitter said on Tuesday it had withdrawn a video retweeted by President Donald Trump, in which doctors allegedly made false claims that masks and lockdowns were not required to halt the disease. Earlier, Facebook removed the video, which was watched by 14 million people.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-july-28-2020-afp/article32217179.ece
29 July 2020||Beirut,||Beirut, July 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Lebanon's Prime Minister Hassan Diab condemned on Tuesday a “dangerous military escalation” by Israel after a security incident at the border led the Jewish state to fire artillery across the frontier. “Israel has once again violated Lebanon's sovereignty... in a dangerous military escalation,” Mr. Diab said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beirut-july-28-2020-afp/article32217176.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Adopting a public systems approach to COVID-19||The progress of COVID-19 in India varies across States. The virus is now spreading more rapidly in southern India including States which had earlier received worldwide attention for ‘flattening the curve’. The surge in Kerala has not yet led to an appreciable increase in the mortality rate though. At the other end of the spectrum, Maharashtra and Delhi have slowed the rate of growth of cases but have registered higher mortality rates than most States. Gujarat is no longer the national epicentre but has registered the highest mortality rate of all. Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat are among the wealthiest regions of the country. It would seem from this that for a society, wealth is not necessarily health, leading us to surmise that the relation between them is mediated by something else, possibly the availability of public goods. Characteristics and provision A public good has the characteristic that it is accessible to all. Clean and sanitised public spaces, made possible by deploying a society’s public health infrastructure, are a perfect example of a public good. The isolation and quarantining of infected persons implemented by a public agency would be another. In both these cases, members of a society benefit from the existence of a public good, which secures their health without having to pay for it, at least not directly. However, this characteristic has implications for public-goods provision. The feature that it does not exclude makes it unlikely that the private sector, motivated as it is by profit, will supply the necessary health infrastructure in sufficient quantity and at prices affordable to all. So, public goods would have to be publicly provided. Two States of India where the existence of a relatively better public health infrastructure has diluted the impact of COVID-19 are Goa and Kerala. Goa has one of the lowest mortality rates in the country outside northeast India. Kerala has recorded a slightly higher death rate but also had faced greater challenges early on with travellers returning from the hotspots of the world, namely Wuhan (China), Italy and the United Arab Emirates. Subsequently, the trickling in of emigrants turned into a rush. The number of cases rose in the State but, as said, the death rate did not rise significantly. It may be mentioned that the public health infrastructure is to be understood as comprising hospitals and medical personnel. In a crisis, the role of the latter is perhaps more important. And, ‘personnel’ are more than just doctors. It includes nurses, health assistants, laboratory technicians and sanitation workers. Infrastructure and outcome Health outcomes are the result of an interaction of forces ranging from the level of expertise of health personnel to the civic sense of a population. The latter is manifested mainly in the willingness of the public to cooperate with the drive against the disease by using masks and adopting social distancing in public. However, we have reason to believe that the existence of a well-functioning public health infrastructure is central. This can be seen from its distribution across various States. As the measure of infection is directly related to the extent of testing, it is safer to rely on the mortality rate as the indicator of resistance to COVID-19. Now, outside the northeast, where many States have remained relatively unscathed, Maharashtra and Gujarat have recorded among the highest mortality rates and Goa and Kerala among the lowest. As of June 25, Ministry of Health data show Maharashtra and Gujarat with mortality rates that are six and eight times, respectively,that of Kerala’s. We can see a relationship between basic indicators of the level of public health infrastructure and mortality in these two sets of States. Take the per person availability of allopathic doctors, hospitals and beds in the public sector. In each of these categories, Maharashtra and Gujarat do much worse than Goa and Kerala. Goa does better than Kerala on all indicators other than hospitals per person, registering a lower mortality rate. Even though much more research is needed to establish the role of the public health infrastructure, the observed association between it and a population’s resilience in the face of COVID-19 is striking. It is important to understand that there is nothing inevitable about the sparseness of the public health infrastructure in Maharashtra and Gujarat. It is just that they chose to devote a far lower share of their national income to public health, despite their higher aggregate and per capita incomes compared to some other States. So, States of India harbouring greater wealth than most have registered a higher mortality rate from COVID-19 even as some with far less have succeeded in containing them. In a way, the former face challenges that the latter mostly do not — mainly crowded urban spaces where social distancing is not possible. However, it is likely that their weaker public health infrastructure left them less resilient to the epidemic, resulting in higher mortality. Clearly wealth is not always health; when an epidemic strikes public capital in the form of a strong health infrastructure is. Poor utilisation We would however be advised to go beyond a focus on physical assets, such as hospitals and ventilators alone if we are to understand what determines a society’s resilience to an epidemic. It has long been recognised that ‘how you use it’ may matter more than ‘how much you have’ when it comes to any asset, particularly public capital. We may have only of late started worrying about our public health infrastructure but we have for long been aware that much of India’s publicly created infrastructure is poorly utilised. In particular the vast sums spent on irrigation have not resulted in a commensurate expansion of the area irrigated, at least in a truly functional sense. That this is a valid concern is evident when we note that Goa spends no greater a share of its domestic product on health than Gujarat does but turns in a much lower mortality rate. It suggests that the same amount of government expenditure can go much further with better stewardship. A public systems approach is needed to first understand and then to address situations such the one we are now facing as the epidemic swirls about us. It takes into account both the physical resources available in the public domain and the practices adopted in governing their use. Every day we are reminded of the lapses in these practices. And death is not the only impact of COVID-19. There is also the distress it unleashes upon the living and the trauma that results from it. We read of bodies left beside patients in a prominent public hospital in Mumbai, of a man trying to revive his mother by himself in an isolation ward of a government hospital in Agra, of a woman giving birth in an autorickshaw as she was refused admission to several hospitals, including a government one, in Bengaluru (out of the unverified fear that she may be a spreader of COVID-19), and of a stalling crematorium at Delhi’s Nigambodh Ghat. Not all of this necessarily reflects the niggardliness of the public health infrastructure in the richest parts of the country. It is also a case of a lack of accountability in the public health sector. Right now, India’s public health infrastructure and its responsiveness should be the principal concern of the government. Adopting a public systems approach to the problem is the key. Pulapre Balakrishnan is professor of Ashoka University, Sonipat. With inputs from Sreenath Namboodhiry, academic associate of IIM Kozhikode||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/adopting-a-public-systems-approach-to-covid-19/article32217156.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||RIC, a triangle that is still important||Last month, on June 23, a few eyebrows were raised when India decided to attend a (virtual) meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Russia, India and China (RIC). Amid the tensions on the Line of Actual Control, the dominant calls were for a more decisive westward shift in India’s foreign policy. A RIC meeting seemed incongruous in this setting. The leaders’ statements at the meeting reflected their divergent preoccupations. The Chinese Minister did not see the irony in his call for opposing bullying practices, rejecting power politics and supporting the rule of law in international relations. Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov criticised unilateral coercive measures to settle scores with geopolitical rivals and topple regimes. India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar pointedly emphasised that for a durable world order, major powers should respect international law and recognise the legitimate interest of partners. The initial years When the RIC dialogue commenced in the early 2000s, the three countries were positioning themselves for a transition from a unipolar to a multipolar world order. It was not an anti-U.S. construct; all three countries considered their relationship with the United States an essential prop to their global ambitions. The RIC shared some non-West (as distinct from anti-West) perspectives on the global order, such as an emphasis on sovereignty and territorial integrity, impatience with homilies on social policies and opposition to regime change from abroad. Their support for democratisation of the global economic and financial architecture moved to the agenda of BRIC (with the addition of Brazil). The initial years of the RIC dialogue coincided with an upswing in India’s relations with Russia and China. The advent of President Vladimir Putin reinforced the political, defence and energy pillars of the India-Russia strategic partnership. With China, the 2003 decision to bring a political approach to the boundary dispute and to develop other cooperation, encouraged a multi-sectoral surge in relations. An agreement in 2005, identifying political parameters applicable in an eventual border settlement, implicitly recognised India’s interests in Arunachal Pradesh. Subtext to India-U.S. ties Simultaneously, India’s relations with the U.S. surged, encompassing trade and investment, a landmark civil nuclear deal and a burgeoning defence relationship that met India’s objective of diversifying military acquisitions away from a near-total dependence on Russia. There was a strategic sub-text: as China was rapidly emerging as a challenger to its global pre-eminence, the U.S. saw value in partnering with a democratic India in Asia. Former U.S. Secretary of State and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice writes about this in her memoirs. Transformations in the external environment impacted on these political equations. Among other irritants, China went back on the 2005 agreement, launched the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, worked to undermine India’s influence in its neighbourhood and expanded its military and economic presence in the Indian Ocean. The texture of the relationship with Russia also changed, as India-U.S. collaboration widened — in defence and the Indo-Pacific. As U.S.-Russia relations imploded in 2014 (after the annexation/accession of Crimea), Russia’s pushback against the U.S. included cultivating the Taliban in Afghanistan and enlisting Pakistan’s support for it. The western campaign to isolate Russia drove it into a much closer embrace of China — particularly in defence cooperation — than their history of strategic rivalry should have permitted. Thus, the RIC claim of overlapping or similar approaches to key international issues, sounds hollow today. Links in the grouping Having noted this, the Russia-India-China engagement still has significance. India is in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), which is driven by Russia and China and includes four Central Asian countries. Central Asia is strategically located, bordering our turbulent neighbourhood. A sliver of land separates Tajikistan from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Pakistan’s membership of SCO and the potential admission of Iran and Afghanistan (as member states)  heighten the significance of the SCO for India. Growing Chinese influence is testing the informal Russia-China understanding that Russia handles the politico-security issues in the region and China extends economic support. It is important for India to shape the Russia-China dynamics in this region, to the extent possible. The Central Asian countries have signalled they would welcome such a dilution of the Russia-China duopoly. The ongoing India-Iran-Russia project for a sea/road/rail link from western India through Iran to Afghanistan and Central Asia, is an important initiative for achieving an effective Indian presence in Central Asia, alongside Russia and China. The bilateral arms of the India-Russia-China triangle will also remain important. The defence and energy pillars of India’s partnership with Russia remain strong. Access to Russia’s abundant natural resources can enhance our materials security — the importance of which has been highlighted by COVID-19. With China too, while the recent developments should accelerate our efforts to bridge the bilateral asymmetries, disengagement is not an option. We have to work bilaterally and multilaterally on a range of issues, even while firmly protecting our interests on the border, in technology and the economy. The Indo-Pacific issue The elephant in the RIC room is the Indo-Pacific. For India, it is a geographic space of economic and security importance, in which a cooperative order should prevent the dominance of any external power. China sees our Indo-Pacific initiatives as part of a U.S.-led policy of containing China. Russia’s Foreign Ministry sees the Indo-Pacific as an American ploy to draw India and Japan into a military alliance against China and Russia. India’s focus on economic links with the Russian Far East and activation of a Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridor may help persuade Russia that its interests in the Pacific are compatible with our interest in diluting Chinese dominance in the Indo-Pacific; this also accords with President Putin’s concept of a Greater Eurasia. Autonomy of action The current India-China stand-off has intensified calls for India to fast-track partnership with the U.S. This is an unexceptionable objective, but is not a silver bullet. National security cannot be fully outsourced. India’s quest for autonomy of action is based on its geographical realities, historical legacies and global ambitions — not a residual Cold War mindset. As noted, RIC dynamics are sensitive to the configuration of the U.S.-Russia-China triangle. This configuration changed in 2008 (the global economic crisis) and again in 2014 (Crimea’s accession to Russia). COVID-19 could trigger another change, which could be modulated by the outcome of the U.S. Presidential elections. The nature and impact of this change is, for now, an unknown unknown. P.S. Raghavan, a former diplomat, is Chairman of the National Security Advisory Board. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ric-a-triangle-that-is-still-important/article32217158.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Meeting China’s intransigence with air power||Why would a nation heading towards world power status gamble men, money and reputation for a few square kilometres of inhospitable terrain? Surely, it would have envisioned, and planned, for an end state and a definition of what would constitute victory for it — especially when the world is grappling with a pandemic and any strong-arm tactics would be frowned upon by all. For a few square kilometres only? No. As a popular dialogue of a Hindi film goes, “ Picture abhi baaki hai (the film isn’t over)”. India’s ambitions Professor Lawrence Freedman wrote in Strategy: A History that over the years, “strategy became a commodity, a distinctive product concerning a complex situation.” The situation is indeed not simple on the India-China frontier, and if the Chinese strategists had read the yearly reports of India’s Ministry of Defence (MoD), they would have realised that China is not the only country whose world view is expanding; India’s is too. The MoD’s 2002-03 annual report defined India’s area of strategic interest as being “…from the Persian Gulf in the west to the Straits of Malacca in the east and from the Central Asian Republics in the north to near the equator in the south...” This expanded over the years. The 2012-13 version said, “India’s size and strategic location... links its security environment with the extended neighbourhood particularly with neighbouring countries and the regions of West, Central Asia, South East Asia, East Asia and the Indian Ocean.” The 2018-19 version mentions that India has deepened its relations with a host of countries in almost all continents, and those in the Indian Ocean and Indo-Pacific region. It mentions Pakistan as a country of concern while for China the assessment is, “Relations with China moved towards greater stability in the overall context of Closer Development Partnership”. While Beijing misread New Delhi’s ambitions, India’s security planners too stumbled in their assessment of an expansive China, as seen in the logjam on our northern frontier. As politicians prepare the public in India for a protracted face-off, the serious border flare-up is on the back-burner in the media and public consciousness. However, the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force (IAF) are preparing for the long haul. What could be China’s game plan and what does India’s air power get to the table to oppose it? It’s certainly much more than the soon-to-arrive Rafale. Influence of air power The world has acknowledged that China has arrived on the world stage economically, as also politically by using its economic heft. There is only one aspect left to seal its credentials as a world power: military prowess. Despite the propaganda blitz of its armament industry, there is still the belief that China’s equipment is suspect, its military inexperienced, and the Chinese soldier a poor fighter. So, while Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and Y-Junction have their place in the tactical scheme of things, the bigger picture could be that China is building up to a ‘Gulf War++’ media spectacular to show that it has arrived as a military power not to be trifled with. To ascribe its belligerence to being spooked by India’s border infrastructure build-up or as a counter to the dilution of Article 370 is being impractical as Beijing is not naïve to believe that these can be reversed. And as it procrastinates vis-à-vis the agreed de-escalation protocols, one is reminded of a similar withdrawal at Galwan in July 1962, only for a full-scale assault to happen later in October that year. While India is stocking up for the winter for the additional troops who have been sent in, it is a fact that the post-November period is bad from the connectivity angle for the Army. On the other hand, for the Chinese, this is not the case due to their developed road infrastructure. Our guard needs to stay up, led by Indian air power which would be the counter to any attempted ‘Gulf War++’. Airpower has a ‘virtual’ nature. Unlike Army formations whose ground positions can be marked on a map, its influence exists in multiple rings representing strike ranges, which encompass a considerable portion of the area of action. In any present-day war, dominance in air is a pre-requisite; the trick is in applying it in the strategic environment during the pre-shooting phase and tactically when the balloon goes up. What endears it to the government is its ability to give the politician the power to implement his ideas, at a place far removed in space and without serious constraint of time, through the deterrence that air power exudes. It is costly, but it is a price that the nation must be willing to pay to avoid the last-minute scramble for emergency purchases that we see during every emergency. Politicians need to be reminded of what a French General, Le Compte de Guibert, said in the 18th Century: “To declaim against war... is to beat the air with vain sounds, for ambitious rulers will certainly not be restrained by such means. But what may result... is to extinguish little by little the military spirit... and some day to deliver up one’s own nation, softened and disarmed or... badly armed... to the yoke of warlike nations which may be less civilised but which have more judgment and prudence.” Does this apply to the neglect of successive governments towards equipping our armed forces such that the arrival of the Rafale is giving it the halo of a saviour? Three options Sections of the media are going overboard, as if the Rafale would be a panacea to the intransigence of the Chinese. Far from it, since there will be a time period required for its integration with other weapon systems that constitute a war-fighting package. That said, it is also true that the IAF would fast-track it as it sports capabilities that India’s adversaries would have to use extra diligence to counter. The forward posture adopted by the IAF (even sans Rafale), which does not necessarily mean forward deployment, is key to India’s capability to bargain at the diplomatic table. We have three options: First, prevent war, if possible. This may require give and take and will entail political costs. We have ourselves to blame for having reduced our deterrence quotient and having failed to discern the adversary’s intentions in time — intelligence failure, in plainspeak. Second, if pushed to the wall, fight hard to deny them their notion of victory for which they have gambled so much; rest assured, we will prevail. And last, if war is averted, use the time to build capability for it’s no longer a choice between guns and butter if we want to avoid these regular faits accomplis. The world, especially the neighbourhood, is watching how the elephant responds to the dragon in the coming months. Postscript. Next time, to honour mutual protocols of not using weapons, the Chinese will not field nail-studded batons and baseball bats. Indian troops may be met with ‘non-lethal’ weapons like tasers, laser dazzlers and ultra-sonic guns. One hopes India’s planners are thinking ahead to avoid surprises and equipping our warriors suitably. Manmohan Bahadur, a retired Air Vice Marshal, is Additional Director General, Centre for Air Power Studies. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/meeting-chinas-intransigence-with-air-power/article32217165.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The South Asian migrant crisis||In early July, the Kerala High Court issued notice to the Central and State governments on a petition seeking to set up a mechanism to assist NRIs who had lost their jobs abroad and had returned to India, to seek due compensation. The petition exposes the precarious conditions of migrant workers in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. Employers, particularly construction companies, have used the crisis as an opportunity to retrench masses of migrant labourers without paying them wages or allowances. Living in misery The South Asia-Gulf migration corridor is among the largest in the world. South Asians account for nearly 15 million in the Gulf. The South Asian labour force forms the backbone of the Gulf economies, but has had to go knocking on doors for food and other basic necessities. The pandemic, the shutdown of companies, the tightening of borders, and the exploitative nature of the Kafala sponsorship system have all aggravated the miseries of South Asian migrant workers. They have no safety net, social security protection, welfare mechanisms, or labour rights. The events are reminiscent of the plight of migrant labourers who had been evacuated during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, as we found during our field research in Kuwait a while ago. In the initial days of the lockdown, the Kerala government was requested to send regular medicines for lifestyle diseases. Since medicines are expensive in the GCC countries, migrants often procure them from India. However, the suspension of flights caused an acute shortage of medicines, and exposed the frail medical insurance system in the GCC for these workers. Now, thousands have returned home empty-handed from the host countries. Indians constitute the largest segment of the South Asian workforce. Gulf migration is predominantly a male-driven phenomenon. A majority of the migrants are single men living in congested labour camps. They share rooms and toilets, to save earnings to send back home. The COVID-19 spike in these labour camps has mainly been due to overcrowded and unsanitary living conditions. However, as the COVID-19 crisis and response unfolded in the Gulf countries, the most neglected segment turned out to be the migrant women domestic workers, whose untold miseries have increased in the present volatile situation. The Indian missions, with their inadequate administrative personnel, could not adequately cater to the needs of the migrants. The situation forced the Indian government to repatriate the NRIs through the Vande Bharat Mission. The Indian government has repatriated over 7.88 lakh NRIs from various destinations. Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, etc. have also been repatriating their citizens. Rehabilitate, reintegrate, and resettle The countries of origin are now faced with the challenge of rehabilitating, reintegrating, and resettling these migrant workers. To facilitate this, the Indian government has announced ‘SWADES’ for skill mapping of citizens returning from abroad, but implementation seems uncertain. Kerala, the largest beneficiary of international migration, has announced ‘Dream Kerala’ to utilise the multifaceted resources of the migrants. Bangladesh has announced a special package for the resettlement of return migrants which includes money on arrival, money to launch self-employment projects, and compensation for the families of those who died abroad from COVID-19. The Overseas Employment Corporation in Pakistan has come out with special programmes to upgrade the skills of returnees. Meanwhile, in the GCC countries, the movement for nationalisation of labour and the anti-migrant sentiment have peaked. Countries like Oman and Saudi Arabia have provided subsidies to private companies to prevent native lay-offs. However, the nationalisation process is not going to be smooth given the stigma attached to certain jobs and the influence of ‘royal sheikh culture’. Paradoxically, countries that are sending migrant workers abroad are caught between the promotion of migration, on the one hand, and the protection of migrant rights in increasingly hostile countries receiving migrants, on the other. The need of the hour is a comprehensive migration management system for countries that send workers as well as those that receive them. No South Asian country except Sri Lanka has an adequate migration policy. The pandemic has given us an opportunity to voice the rights of South Asian migrants and to bring the South Asia-Gulf migration corridor within the ambit of SAARC, the ILO, and UN conventions. S. Irudaya Rajan is Professor at the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram, and Ginu Zacharia Oommen is a Member of the Kerala Public Service Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-south-asian-migrant-crisis/article32217162.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Protecting artists and the arts||The sheer diversity and excellence of fine arts, performance arts and crafts in India is mind-boggling. But on paper the creative economy does not exist. There are neither authoritative definitions nor data on the size or shape of it. Social and economic policies are made without regard to their impact on the creative economy and those who depend on it. A recent report, ‘Taking the Temperature’, by the British Council in association with FICCI and Art X, spoke of how the pandemic and its aftermath have impacted the creative economy. As per the report, MSMEs, which have taken a beating due to the lockdown, make up 88% of the creative sector. Of these businesses, 32% are facing a loss of roughly 50% of their annual income in the first quarter. Fifty-three per cent of the events and entertainment management sector saw 90% of their events cancelled, and 61% of organisations established between four and 10 years ago have stopped functioning. This is a sector that struggles for the most part even in the best of times. State support for arts and culture is abysmal. The scale at which the average cultural organisation is forced to operate due to infrastructural shortcomings makes it nearly impossible to ensure profit margins. Support from the private sector is unreliable and insufficient — further compromised by rigid CSR rules that make it difficult to justify donations in this area. This has stifled experimentation and innovation in the arts as well as preservation of heritage. Furthermore, the report only presents part of the picture. A large section of artists and artisans are part of the informal economy. Some of them depend on agriculture to supplement their income for part of the year. With rural wages already very low, they are fighting for mere survival. A list of recommendations FICCI has sent a list of recommendations to the Ministry of Culture that can go a long way in mitigating the damage. Amongst them are releasing grants that are pending since 2017, despite being approved; diverting the budgets already allocated for state-sponsored cultural festivals to help artists in need; ensuring health coverage to artists under Ayushman Bharat or the Central Government Health Scheme; moratoriums on GST payments; and investing in digital infrastructure that can help artists take their work online. These are achievable targets, yet the Central government and most State governments have been unresponsive. That said, often artists fail to receive whatever little is allotted to them. In 2015, as part of voluntary work I do with folk musicians, I travelled with a group of Kalbelia performers to the Collectorate in Jaisalmer. They were seeking certificates that allow them to access meagre welfare benefits. In a Kafkaesque turn they were told that they could not be given the certificate until they prove they really are Kalbelias. We returned the next day with wind instruments and snakes to put up a performance — their musical heritage being the only proof of their identity. The officials did not relent. “How do we know they are not Nath Jogis? They also have snakes but they are OBCs, not STs,” I was told. I wondered then: What prevents these people from moving to the city to look for a better source of sustenance? However, as the pandemic has underlined, cities might not be the promised land for most migrant workers. In these circumstances, there is a real opportunity to create a cultural economy that helps millions of performers move away from agriculture and sustain themselves without having to migrate for temporary jobs. This is but one of the innumerable ways in which nurturing the creative arts can help strengthen India’s economy. It can also simultaneously bolster our soft power. But beyond utilitarian goals lies a far more fundamental need. The very comprehension and articulation of our collective identities, aspirations, tragedies, bliss, and potential depends on the survival of the arts. If we lose our artists, a million temples and trillions worth of economic growth will fail to make us whole again. Pragya Tiwari is a freelance journalist and editor of the Indian Policy Collective and Indian History Collective||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/protecting-artists-and-the-arts/article32217166.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Digging deeper||Four months into FY2020-21, the Centre has finally managed to pay States the compensation due to them for the previous year under the GST regime. This may come as a breather for States seeking to finance efforts to ramp up public health-care capacity and contain COVID-19’s detrimental effects on vulnerable sections. The last instalment of Rs. 13,806 crore for March 2020 was paid out recently, taking the total payments for the year to Rs. 1,65,302 crore. To refresh, States were guaranteed compensation from the Centre for the first five years of the new indirect tax regime introduced in July 2017, for the revenues they lost after the shift from the earlier system where States had the power to levy some indirect taxes on economic activity. This compensation assumed a 14% annual growth rate in a State’s revenue, with 2015-16 as the base year, and was to be paid out from a compensation cess levied on top of the specified GST rate on luxury and sin goods. With growth down over the previous fiscal year even before the pandemic waylaid the economy, the assumptions of the not-too-distant past are beginning to hurt. Compensation cess under GST last year was almost Rs. 70,000 crore less than the payments due to States. This gap is likely to enlarge further this year with expected economic contraction denting GST collections as well. Compensation cess inflows could shrink even more with people curbing discretionary spending on luxury goods in order to conserve capital or stay afloat in the pandemic-hit economy. A little over half of the shortfall in last year’s cess kitty has been plugged by tapping cess balances from the first two years of GST implementation. The rest has been conjured up from the Consolidated Fund of India by debiting Integrated GST (IGST) funds that were lying with the Centre. IGST is levied on inter-State supply of goods and services and some of this levy collected in 2017-18 — the first year of GST when systems were still a tad ad-hoc — had not yet been allocated to States. Having thus drawn on these unintended contingent reserves, paying compensation to States this year is going to be even more daunting for the Centre. At the last GST Council meeting in June, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the Council would convene again in July just to discuss the possible alternatives to deal with this particular conundrum. The chief solution officials have been fleshing out is for the Centre to raise special loans against future GST cess accruals in order to help meet its compensation promise to States. There is no sign of that meeting being scheduled yet. That the pandemic’s economic havoc has thrown up multiple challenges for North Block mandarins is understandable. But with a third of the fiscal year almost over, it would help the Centre and the States to battle the virus more effectively if they had more certainty and clarity on the cash at their disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/digging-deeper/article32217152.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The cost of haste||So far-reaching are the effects of COVID-19 that it has harried drug regulatory authorities, usually the most risk-averse within the bureaucracy. ‘Do no harm’ is the driving principle of drug regulation and this is reflected in the thicket of documents and permissions that stand before the average novel drug or vaccine, for a chance at making it to the market. However, SARS-CoV-2, while mostly non-lethal, kills across demography and age-groups to confound sophisticated care systems. This has sent a signal to drug companies, biomedical firms and governments to scramble for anything with even the slightest chance of success. It is in this context that regulators, used to long timelines of testing new vaccines or drugs, are now under pressure to facilitate a solution rather than stick to weighing and dwelling on evidence of efficacy and safety. India’s drug regulatory authority as well as the Department of Biotechnology, which also funds vaccine development and drug research, now collaborate on fast-tracking. For instance, if an Indian company has partnered with a foreign one in developing a vaccine, then any trials already conducted by the foreign unit would be considered in allowing Indian companies to avoid repeating them in India. For drugs, those that have been proven to be safe for treating one disease may skip a fresh, large human trial, or a phase-3 trial. Potential vaccines too are now allowed to combine stages of trials — normally, regulators must approve results of each stage — to permit those testing the drug to move to the next stage. The rush to compress timelines, in itself, is no guarantee that a workable vaccine or reliable drug will emerge any faster. Drugs and vaccine-development have historically been expensive because immunology is a complex, eternal struggle with disease, and with high failures. There have been instances when disease mortality is so high that not offering even a half-baked drug or a vaccine would be unethical. That is a call regulators have to constantly take. But not all emergencies are the same. There is now a situation, as in the case of itolizumab, a psoriasis drug repurposed for COVID-19, where the drug regulator has approved it for emergency use but the COVID-19 task force has expressed its reservations. Such dissonance among experts is unacceptable especially when they all have access to the same evidence. There is a tendency to view COVID-19 vaccine development or a new drug as a ‘race’ in which only the first vaccine to be out matters. Historically, vaccines, even those targeting the same disease, only get better over time. Will COVID-19 continuously linger as an endemic disease or will it mutate into oblivion? If it is the former, scientists can continue to work on better drugs or improved vaccines. Haste does not aid science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cost-of-haste/article32217151.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The rich sands of Sahara||The people of Morocco have given their overwhelming approval to the Constitution drawn up by King Hassan. Though it signifies a return to a democratic form of government the king will continue to be the real fountain of power as he has been since he succeeded his father, King Mohammed whose prestige with his people had been high because he had spearheaded the nationalist movement against the French. By recognising Mauretania, the king has improved his relations with a neighbour against whom he had been making enormous territorial claims. The two Governments have now exchanged ambassadors. A similar Moroccan claim to the Tindouf iron mines in Algeria has also been given up in an agreement which, however, envisages a partnership of the two countries in exploiting these valuable deposits and exporting them through the Moroccan port of Agadir. King Hassan, President Boumedienne of Algeria and President Ould Daddah of Mauretania are planning a joint strategy against Spain which refuses to quit Spanish Sahara and the enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla in Morocco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-rich-sands-of-sahara/article32217159.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rural lending reviving, agri gives hope’||There are early signs of a V-shaped recovery in the economy in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, driven mostly by agriculture and rural lending, as well as positive trends in FMCG, pharma and even construction, says the Confederation of Indian Industries. However, the uncertainty of mini lockdowns and unnecessarily wide containment zones continue to affect business operations, the industry group said on Tuesday.  “In order to nurture the nascent signs of recovery, it is important to mitigate the uncertainties that are currently prevailing regarding restrictions. Corporates are unable to plan beyond a horizon of a few weeks, affecting all operations,” said CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee. Given that it was not possible to predict the course of the pandemic, he recommended a dashboard approach, where the progression of infections would trigger predictable responses in a way that would reduce uncertainty and boost consumer and industry confidence. ‘Allow business to go on’ Containment zones need to be limited to micro areas to ensure that supply chains function seamlessly; and business activities must be allowed to function by removing the uncertainty associated with imposing mini lockdowns, he added.  These policy measures were needed to build on the encouraging signs showing improvement in the economy this month, in comparison to the multi-year lows seen in April, said CII. List of positives Its dashboard of positive indicators include GST collections, railway freight traffic, petrol consumption, peak power demand and electronic toll collections, as well as expectations of a bumper harvest in the wake of a normal monsoon. Terming the agriculture sector a “beacon of hope”, CII noted that rural lending by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) is at about 80% of the usual levels. Stressed sectors include aviation, hotels and commercial vehicles, which show no signs of recovery yet. However, the information technology and health sectors are likely to hold steady even if they do not show much growth.  An increase in people eating at home and a greater demand for sanitation and hygiene products is likely to drive 15-20% growth in the FMCG sector. With most construction sites resuming operations, CII is predicting a bounceback in the sector which employs the largest number of people outside farming.  The representative body added that commercial real estate is holding up on lease renewals, though new leases are not being signed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rural-lending-reviving-agri-gives-hope/article32217143.ece
29 July 2020||Chennai,||Young adults, add-on policies drive growth for Star Health||Star Health and Allied Insurance Co. Ltd. has seen growth in premium collection — driven by young adults and customers signing up for add-ons to their health insurance policies. Speaking to The Hindu , Anand Roy, managing director, Star Health said, “We are seeing an surge in demand for health insurance amid the pandemic.” “While the health insurance sector as a whole has grown 8% in April-May-June 2020 from a year earlier, Star Health has seen a 34% jump to Rs. 1,600 crore worth of premium in the period,” he said. Millennials signing up Citing the medical challenges that individuals face given the spread of COVID-19, he said, “People in the 25-40 age group, primarily millennials, who have typically not taken health insurance seriously so far, are signing up. Most of the higher growth is coming from young folks. Premiums from the younger age group have grown 40-50%.” “New health premium growth for Star Health for the quarter ended June 2020 was 29% compared with (–16%) in the immediately previous quarter, which was largely due to the lockdown in March 2020,” he said. On the growth in add-on policies, he said, “We are also seeing a massive jump in add-ons or what we call top-up plans – 100% increase in premium from add-ons in April-May-June over last year. Most are existing customers who opt for add-ons when they feel their existing cover is not adequate.” Premiums for Star’s health insurance offerings to senior citizens have kept pace with earlier trends. “We see no significant jump for senior citizen policies driven by the pandemic. We are seeing 15-20% growth month-on-month and that is steady state.” He added, “There is a [sense of] false protection that many corporate employees feel – their company plans cover them so they have no individual plans; in the unfortunate event of job loss, they and the entire family are left without cover.” Asked if the rampant salary cuts and job losses across sectors are resulting in a default in renewals, he said, “We haven’t seen those yet. We are aware this may be true after the pandemic is over. That may be a challenge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/young-adults-add-on-policies-drive-growth-for-star-health/article32217131.ece
29 July 2020||MUMBAI,||UltraTech Q1 net falls 38% as topline dips on lockdown woes||UltraTech Cement reported a 38% decline in first quarter consolidated net profit to Rs. 797 crore from a year earlier. Consolidated net sales also fell 33% to Rs. 7,563 crore, the company said in a filing with stock exchanges. The company said it had emerged ‘stronger and well prepared’ in the wake of the ongoing COVID19 pandemic. “UltraTech has managed the crisis with a sharp focus on operational efficiencies. In the available 68 operating days during this quarter, the company kept a tight control on costs and cash flow, and achieved an effective capacity utilisation of 60% across its network of 54 plants around the country,” it said. It said that a general disruption due to the lockdown did impact business performance, but that ‘some encouraging trends’ were seen during the latter part of May, 2020, driven largely by better than expected pick-up in cement consumption in the rural markets. The company said the ‘overheads control programme’ initiated by the management cut fixed costs by 21% year-on-year. “Prudent working capital management and control on cash flows are reflected in a reduction of net debt by Rs. 2,209 crore during Q1 of FY21.” The company said its capital and financial resources remained ‘entirely protected and its liquidity position was adequately covered’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ultratech-q1-net-falls-38-as-topline-dips-on-lockdown-woes/article32217139.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Telco sector yet to emerge from the woods’||The government must look at rationalising levies on the telecom sector and close long-standing legal disputes that are a big drag on the performance of operators, in order to ensure industry viability with 3+1 player structure, Bharti Airtel Chairman Sunil Mittal has said. In his message to shareholders in the company’s latest annual report Mr. Mittal said while it was clear that the “worst may be behind for India’s telecom industry”, it was yet to emerge from the woods. “India still has some of the lowest data tariffs globally and the industry is barely able to cover the cost of capital. It requires much more support to repair the deep damage to its finances and make it viable for telecom operators to invest in future technologies,” he said in the report. Exhorting the government to “look into the urgent needs of operators”, Mr. Mittal said that although the recent tariff increase had provided some cushion, the sector was still way below the levels to make the industry viable. Mr. Mittal said that the world was in the midst of an “unprecedented crisis” in form of the COVID-19 pandemic that has caused disruption for economies, businesses and way of life, and noted that the road to recovery was likely to be a long one. During the lockdown, Airtel’s network engineers and field staff worked tirelessly on the ground to ensure that networks run seamlessly, Mittal said adding that “Airtel stepped up the game when it mattered the most” right from building digital channels for customer services to rolling our innovative peer-to-peer mobile recharges. ‘5G trials’ Meanwhile, Bharti Airtel said it is in “continuous pursuit” to upgrade existing 4G base stations with 5G capabilities to be future ready, and is “conceptualising 5G trials” in association with OEMs and application developers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telco-sector-yet-to-emerge-from-the-woods/article32217147.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Yes Bank Q1 net falls 60%, asset quality drops||Yes Bank on Tuesday reported a 60% fall in its standalone net profit to Rs. 45.44 crore for the first quarter ended June 30. The private sector lender had posted a net profit of Rs. 113.76 crore a year earlier. Total standalone income for the quarter fell 32.8% to Rs. 6,106.74 crore, from Rs. 9,088.80 crore in the same period of 2019-20, Yes Bank said in a regulatory filing. Lower NII Interest income declined to Rs. 5,486.08 crore compared with Rs. 7,816.14 crore. The bank’s provisions for bad loans and contingencies for the quarter fell to Rs. 1,086.61 crore from Rs. 1,784.11 crore. On a consolidated basis, the bank’s net profit in June quarter fell to Rs. 34.05 crore from Rs. 95.56 crore. Income also declined to Rs. 6,122.62 crore from Rs. 9,105.79 crore. There was substantial deterioration in the bank’s asset quality as the gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 17.3% of gross advances as on June 30, 2020, from 5.01% a year ago. It was 16.8% at the end of March this year. Net NPAs stood at 4.96%, higher than the 2.9% from a year ago. The Yes Bank stock dropped 3.25% to Rs. 11.90 apiece on the BSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-q1-net-falls-60-asset-quality-drops/article32217137.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. notifies 100% FDI in Air India for NRIs||In a move that is likely to have an impact on the sale of the national carrier, the government has notified amendments to Foreign Exchange Management rules and allowed NRIs 100% foreign direct investment (FDI) in Air India. The gazette notification follows a Cabinet nod for the same in March this year. The amendment removes the exception which permitted Overseas Citizens of India 100% FDI in air transport, but not Air India. This category of citizens has been replaced with NRIs, now allowed to commit 100% FDI in air transport, including Air India, through automatic route. “Foreign investments in m/s Air India Limited, including that of foreign airlines shall not exceed 49% either directly or indirectly except in case of those NRIs, who are Indian nationals, where foreign investments is permitted up to 100% under automatic route,” according to the notification on the third amendment to FEMA (non-debt instruments) Rules, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-notifies-100-fdi-in-air-india-for-nris/article32217141.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||ITC acquires Sunrise Foods for Rs. 2,150 crore||Diversified business entity ITC Ltd. on Monday announced the acquisition of spices manufacturer Sunrise Foods Private Ltd. (SFPL) in an all-cash deal valued at Rs. 2,150 crore. According to the company, it acquired shares of Sunrise Foods at an “upfront consideration of Rs. 2,150 crore on a cash-free, debt-free basis“. “In addition, the sellers are entitled to contingent consideration of an amount not exceeding Rs. 150 crore, which is payable upon Sunrise achieving mutually agreed operational and financial milestones, over a period of two years,” ITC said in a regulatory filing. Sunrise Foods Private Limited is a Kolkata-based family-owned company engaged primarily in the business of spices, and this acquisition would help ITC augment its portfolio in the segment where it is present with its brand Aashirvaad. “The company has acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Sunrise on July 27, 2020,” ITC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/itc-acquires-sunrise-foods-for-rs-2150-crore/article32217145.ece
29 July 2020||MUMBAI,||IDBI Bank turns into profit in Q1||IDBI Bank Ltd. on Tuesday reported its first quarter net profit of Rs. 144 crore as against net loss of Rs. 3,801 crore in the same period last year. Total income for the period ended June 30, 2020 declined to Rs. 5,901 crore as compared with Rs. 5,924 crore in the same period last year. Interest income earned was Rs. 4,897 crore as compared to Rs. 5,091 crore in the same period last year. During the quarter, the bank made further COVID-19 related provisions of Rs. 189 crore (cumulative provision of Rs. 436 crore). The provision coverage ratio is 94.71%, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/idbi-bank-turns-into-profit-in-q1/article32217132.ece
29 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Thierry Bolloré is new CEO of JLR||Thierry Bolloré, former CEO of Groupe Renault, has been appointed as CEO of Jaguar Land Rover, effective September 10 2020. The announcement was made by N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover plc. “I am delighted to welcome Thierry to Jaguar Land Rover. An established global business leader with a proven track record of implementing complex transformations, Thierry will bring a wealth of experience to one of the most revered positions in the industry,” Mr. Chandrasekaran said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/thierry-bollor-is-new-ceo-of-jlr/article32217136.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Commerce Min not accepting MEIS applications from exporters||The Commerce Ministry has blocked the online system for exporters to apply for availing tax incentives under MEIS scheme from July 23 as the Department of Revenue (DoR) decided to limit the benefits under the scheme to Rs. 9,000 crore for April-December 2020. As per the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, the DoR, in May, had conveyed it may not be feasible to exceed MEIS allocation beyond Rs. 9,000 crore for FY21. A review of MEIS was also suggested to ensure the benefit outgo remained within Rs. 9,000 crore.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/commerce-min-not-accepting-meis-applications-from-exporters/article32217144.ece
29 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||England takes the series||Stuart Broad grabbed his 500th Test wicket to set England on its way to a resounding 269-run win over West Indies in the third and final Test at Old Trafford on Tuesday. Broad joined an elite club, finishing with match figures of 10 for 67, as the West Indies was bowled out for 129 in 37.1 overs. England regained the Wisden Trophy after bouncing back to win the three Test series 2-1. West Indies was always up against it after being set an improbable 399 to win and losing the first two wickets of its second innings to Broad on Sunday. Monday’s play was washed out but Broad did not take long to continue his heroics on Tuesday as he trapped Kraigg Brathwaite leg before for his milestone wicket. “It was very special to have got (500 wickets) and even more so to help win a Test that helps to win the series for us,” Broad said. Coincidence Brathwaite was also the 500th test victim of James Anderson at Lord’s three years ago, serving up a unique double for England’s most successful bowling duo. “What a stat that is,” exclaimed Broad. “The stars had to be aligned for that to have happened.” Anderson opened the bowling with Broad on Tuesday but it was Chris Woakes who did the most damage, finishing with figures of five for 50. He had Shai Hope caught for 31 by Broad after a wild swing and Shamarh Brooks followed soon after. After Roston Chase was run out and captain Jason Holder was trapped leg-before by Woakes for 12, any suggestion of a resolute stand looked over. Broad wraps it up After Woakes’ next two victims — Shane Dowrich and Rahkeem Cornwall — were also caught shuffling across the crease, man-of-the-match Broad fittingly secured victory as Jermaine Blackwood was caught behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-takes-the-series/article32217272.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Ben Stokes and the tricky question for analysts||Ben Stokes sprinting to long-off to field a ball off his own bowling in the second Test was an exhibition of the ‘cricketness’ of the sport. It didn’t make any difference to the score (the batsmen ran four), there was enough time left for England to win, and Stokes himself was the most tired man on the field after making 254 runs and en route to bowling 28 overs in all. Action that doesn’t lead anywhere is an essential part of sport. A Messi dribbling past a couple of players, a Federer returning a shot he wasn’t expected to get to — blink and you miss it. There is no footnote on the scorecard to mark it, no way of telling if that one act of exuberance led to something more tangible. In Stokes’s case, Jermaine Blackwood was caught behind three balls later. No connection, but then again… “Fielding that makes no difference to the score” is one of the metrics analysts use in their attempt to conquer the final frontier in a sport of statistics. Earlier, followers of the game ascribed a figure to the worth of a fielder: “He saves 30 runs every Test,” they said, basing the figure on nothing more than intuition and kindness. Now data diviners use more sophisticated methods to arrive at their figures. Every action is judged by the result — was a run saved, did it cost a run or was it neither? It also works on dropped catches: who was the batsman, what was the impact of the missed catch? It is not a perfect system, but then nothing is, neither batting nor bowling averages that fail to take context into consideration. And if you do take context into consideration, then you let subjectivity in through the back door. “Fielding averages” might soon be a part of a player’s record, but the road is bumpy yet. Great strides Of the three main skills involved in the game, fielding is the one that has made the greatest strides in recent years. It happened following the arrival of one-day internationals in the early 1970s, and progressed rapidly with T20. The individual fielder may or may not be in the same class as a Colin Bland or a Jonty Rhodes, but teams as a whole have raised their performance. Fielding is the only branch of the game in which if one tries hard enough, one can be sure of success. Ranji wrote that in 1897, and that continues to be true today. Not so long ago, a captain would hide a poor fielder at mid-on, or, sometimes as India did, at slip. Such a player was too valuable as either batsman or bowler to be rejected on poor fielding skills alone. The great Eknath Solkar made two tours towards the end of his career on the strength of his fielding alone. In the seventies, India were not above a spot of gamesmanship, bringing in 12th man Solkar as slow movers like Parthasarathy Sharma ‘pulled a muscle’ or had a diplomatic stomach upset. In 27 Tests, Solkar picked up 53 catches some of which were not classified as such till he got his hands around them. Funny game Cricket is a funny game, an individual competition within a team sport; batsman versus bowler is at the heart of it. Here’s Mike Brearley on playing Erapalli Prasanna: “He and I would engage in a kind of eye-play. His look would say, ‘OK, you played that one all right, but where will the next one land?’ And mine would reply, ‘Yes, you fooled me a little, but notice I adjusted well enough.’” He could have been speaking of any batsman playing any bowler. Fielders, on the other hand, play the supporting role. The goals are collective rather than individual. A Stokes running down to the boundary to field off his own bowling is sending at least a couple of messages to his teammates. The obvious one is: I will compete with every fibre of my body. The more subtle one is: If you want to be a great fielder, you must enjoy it as much as I do. Sheer enjoyment This last — the sheer enjoyment of it — is a lesson from all great fielders. Colin Bland, perhaps the greatest cover-point of all, would suddenly, in the words of Wisden , produce an explosive pick-up, followed by a bullet throw. “People would think something was happening and it would wake them up, including the fielders,” he said. Great fielders are great entertainers. On a tour of England, Bland gave an exhibition during a rain break. Picking up balls on the run, he hit the stumps 12 times out of 15. “They spoiled me by giving me three stumps to aim at,” he said. “I always practise with just one.” Do we judge a fielder by his limitations or by his ability to overcome them? That’s another tough one for the analysts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ben-stokes-and-the-tricky-question-for-analysts/article32217270.ece
29 July 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL 2020: Governing Council to finalise essentials next week||The governing council of the Indian Premier League (IPL) will meet via a conference call on Sunday to finalise the schedule and other essential details of the tournament’s deferred 13th edition, set to start in the United Arab Emirates on September 19. IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed to The Hindu that the meeting has been convened on Sunday. While he didn’t elaborate on the agenda, it is learnt that the governing council is primarily set to finalise the fixtures and the standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure bio-secure bubbles for all participants. According to an insider, the IPL authorities in consultation with event partner International Management Group have identified hotels for each of the teams. With the need to plan for about 40 individuals per team, the authorities are considering keeping the teams away from each other in order to follow and monitor distancing protocols. It is highly unlikely that partners and family members of cricketers and support staff will be allowed to stay in the same hotel as the team. Dialogue with franchises Multiple franchise executives confirmed that apart from “the duration and the venue”, the franchises are yet to hear anything officially from the IPL/ BCCI. However, they said that an informal dialogue has been initiated by both parties. A franchise official said most teams have asked the authorities for a dedicated individual to deal with the operational aspects involved in the maintenance of a bio-secure environment. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has given the formal go-ahead for the relocation of the event. The clearance from the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs is still awaited. A BCCI official was confident, however, that the nod will be received “well in time for Sunday’s meeting”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-gc-meeting-on-aug-2/article32217271.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand blows hot and cold||A day after stopping Boris Gelfand 2.5-0.5 for his first win in the chess24 Legends of Chess, Viswanathan Anand crashed to a 22-move loss with white pieces to Ding Liren in the first game of the eighth round on Tuesday. In a battle involving two players out of the reckoning for a place in the semifinals, Anand faltered early with a knight-retreat and soon found his castled-king on the queenside come under fierce attack. Anand saw no way of saving the position and resigned inside 25 minutes of game-time. In the most-watched game of the day, leader Magnus Carlsen let second-placed Ian Nepomniachtchi off the hook after gaining a firm grip with black pieces. The Russian defended brilliantly from a seemingly lost position to save the game. On Monday, Anand won the first two games against Gelfand and drew the third to complete a comprehensive win. After pulling off the first game after some initial struggle, Anand controlled the second better to double the lead. In the third game, Anand did not press too hard for a win. He simplified the position by going for a series of exchanges and easily got the draw needed to close out the contest.  The results: Eighth round: Game One: Viswanathan Anand lost to Ding Liren (Chn); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor); Vladimir Kramnik (Rus) lost to Peter Svidler (Rus); Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr); Peter Leko (Hun) drew with Boris Gelfand (Isr).   Seventh round: Anand bt Gelfand 2.5-0.5; Carlsen bt Svidler 2.5-1.5; Nepomniachtchi bt Leko 3-2; Ivanchuk bt Kramnik 3-1; Giri bt Liren 2.5-0.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-blows-hot-and-cold/article32217268.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sania wants Olympic medal in her showcase||Six-time Grand Slam winner, Sania Mirza, believes that the postponement of the originally scheduled 2020 Olympics has given another chance to realise her dream of a medal in the Games in what would be her fourth appearance next year. The 33-year-old, during Airbnb’s online interactive session ‘Staying Healthy with Sania Mirza’ on Tuesday, said losing the mixed doubles match before going into the medal round in 2016 Rio Olympics was the most heartbreaking experience of her life and that she never thought she would get another opportunity. “Definitely, one-and-a-half years is pretty long before the next Olympics, especially in an athlete’s career. Lot of careers can be destroyed too. But, I do feel it gives me an opportunity to win the one medal which I haven’t so far,” Sania said. “Yes, I will be 34 next year, but honestly I am hopeful of giving another try,” she said with a big smile. Sania rated her win in the Hobart WTA final in Australia in January this year, after a two-year maternity break, higher than any other big victories of her career. “That win surprised many, including myself. It was a real struggle to be there again in a competitive circuit,” she said. Juggling roles “I had to do a lot of juggling of roles — being a mother, wife, daughter, tennis player. I had to overcome physical adversity and also stay mentally focused. Honestly, I never went into any sort of depression,” she said. On dealing with failure, the former World No. 1 in women’s doubles said sport has taught this, which no school will teach in the world. “You should always believe that there will be another day which can be yours. As in sport where you always have the next match, in life too, there is always the other side after a failure,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-wants-olympic-medal-in-her-showcase/article32217474.ece
29 July 2020||CHENNAI,||HUTN keen to host National hockey event||Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu (HUTN) has shown interest in conducting the National men’s hockey event for institutional units here next year. As the host, Tamil Nadu Police will be the lone participant from the State. “We will see the situation here and take a call in a month or two,” Sekar J. Manoharan, president of HUTN, told The Hindu here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hutn-keen-to-host-national-hockey-event/article32217316.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Divij and Vijay Sundar triumph in Surrey||Vijay Sundar Prashanth and Divij Sharan combined well to win the doubles title at the LTA British Tour tennis tournament in Surrey. The Indian pair, which had finished fifth in another tournament when tennis resumed after lockdown, asserted itself as the top seed, with a comfortable win in the final. “It is always nice to win a title. It is obviously not the same level as the ATP tournaments,” said Divij. “I enjoyed playing with Vijay, whom I have known for the last 20 years, from our under-14 days. Interestingly, we switched sides this time and he played the deuce court,” said Divij. Quite happy to be playing matches in Britain, as he drives from Manchester and Vijay drives from London, Divij said that there was still no clarity about the US Open in New York. “There is still some uncertainty with regard to the US swing. They need to take a final call by the end of the month. It will be a close one for me to make the cut for the US Open as it is a smaller draw,” said Divij. If he is unable to play the US events for whatever reason, Divij said he would plan to play the Challengers in Europe in August.  The results: Final: Vijay Sundar Prashanth & Divij Sharan bt Ryan Peniston & David Stevenson 4-2, 4-1.   Semifinals: bt Finn Murgett & James Story 3-4(6), 4-1, [10-5]; Quarterfinals: bt Michael Shaw & Barnaby Smith 4-1, 1-4, [10-7].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-and-vijay-sundar-triumph-in-surrey/article32217399.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||SFI mulls training camp outside India||The Swimming Federation of India (SFI) on Tuesday said it will look to organise a training camp for its Olympic hopefuls outside the country if pools are not permitted to reopen in the third phase of relaxations to end the COVID-19 lockdown. The third phase of ‘Unlock’ starts on August 3 and SFI secretary-general Monal Chokshi said that the federation is hopeful of getting permission to restart training at least for those six swimmers, who have achieved the ‘B’ qualification mark for next year’s Tokyo Olympics. “There is some move to give a bit of relaxation for the Olympic hopeful swimmers (in the next phase of unlock guidelines). They are looking at it,” Chokshi said. “If they don’t relax it in this round then we are also looking at the possibility of training outside India. Dubai is one option as it has opened up,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sfi-mulls-training-camp-outside-india/article32217653.ece
29 July 2020||KOCHI,||Olympics qualification doors to open on Sept. 1 for marathon and race walk||The Tokyo Olympics qualification system for marathon and race walk events will reopen on September 1, three months ahead of the planned start, owing to concerns over the lack of qualifying opportunities available before the qualification period ends on May 31. However the original suspension period (April 6 to Nov. 30, 2020), which was introduced due to the competition and training disruption caused by the global pandemic, remains in place for all other track and field events, World Athletics announced on Tuesday. Road athletes will be able to register Olympic entry standards from Sept. 1 to Nov. 30, but only in pre-identified, advertised and authorised races being staged on World Athletics certified courses, with strict in-competition drug testing during these events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-qualification-doors-to-open-on-sept-1-for-marathon-and-race-walk/article32217528.ece
29 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sanuth gets grade C contract by Oman||Former Kerala Ranji Trophy player M.E. Sanuth has been given a grade C annual contract by the Oman Cricket Association. Sanuth was working and playing for Assarain, a distribution company, for the last three years. But he lost his job as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the Oman economy hard. The OCA’s offer came at the right time for Sanuth who was chosen as the best batsman for the 2019-20 season. Sanuth, who had represented Oman in three one-day internationals and in one T20 match, also won the best bowler award for the 2017-18 season. Last season Sanuth scored 433 runs from nine matches including two centuries in the Oman Premier League. “The Covid-19 pandemic hit the economy hard and I was rendered jobless. “I was thinking of returning to India when OCA offered me a six-month contract initially. They were gracious enough to extend it for another six months. “The contract is equal to the annual salary which I was drawing with Assarain. Now I can concentrate on my cricket without any worries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanuth-gets-grade-c-contract-by-oman/article32217529.ece
29 July 2020||Chennai,||ISA to reopen on Aug. 3||After the State Government came out with its guidelines and Standard Operating Procedure, Tamil Nadu Squash Rackets Association said it will reopen its facility at the Indian Squash Academy (Nehru Park) on August 3 for its elite players. “We are planning to kick-off from Monday, and in the process of finalising minor details. We are not rushing,” said Cyrus Poncha, secretary of Squash Rackets Federation of India to The Hindu on Tuesday. Poncha said he will meet India’s top squash player Joshna Chinappa on Wednesday to discuss a few things. “We will ensure that we don’t have a crowd. We have eight courts and it is an advantage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isa-to-reopen-on-aug-3/article32217320.ece
29 July 2020||Mumbai,||The Disciple to compete for the Golden Lion||Chaitanya Tamhane’s sophomore Marathi feature film, The Disciple, will compete for the prestigious Golden Lion at the 77th Venice International Film Festival, where the work will also have its world premiere. In 2014, Mr. Tamhane’s directorial debut, Court , had premiered at the 71st Venice International Film Festival and won the Best Film in the Horizons category. “I want to thank the Venice film festival for showing this faith in my work again after Court . This is an important milestone for not just for us but also for the Indian independent cinema movement,” said Mr. Tamhane. The last Indian film to compete in the main competition was Mira Nair’s Monsoon Wedding , which won the Golden Lion in 2001. Ivan Ayr’s Milestone will be the only Indian film to premiere at Venice’s Horizontal section this year. Ayr’s debut film, Soni , had premiered at Venice in 2018. The Venice event, the first major film festival set to to take place offline since the start of the pandemic, will be held from September 2 to 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/the-disciple-to-compete-for-the-golden-lion/article32217315.ece
29 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Mata Chintpurni temple to deliver ‘prasad’ at home||With temples closed amid the COVID-19 restrictions, the Mata Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh’s Una has started home delivery of ‘prasad’ through online request. A day after the facility — “Online Prasad Chhinmastika Bhog” — was launched by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, around 420 orders have been received. “The ‘Prasad’ is available in three categories — Rs. 201, Rs. 601 and Rs. 1,101. The contents in all are same but the quantity will differ,” temple officer Abhishek Bhasker told The Hindu on Tuesday. “We have started the process of packaging in boxes to ensure “that sanctity remains intact”. The Chief Minister, launching the facility through video conference, said people would now be able to get online “darshan and prasad”. With this, Himachal Pradesh is among the few States that delivers ‘prasad’ like the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine and the Baba Kashi Vishwanath temple, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/mata-chintpurni-temple-to-deliver-prasad-at-home/article32217398.ece
29 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hakim discharged, thanks all||Olympian S.S. Hakim won the battle against COVID-19 and got discharged here on Tuesday. Respiratory problems The 81-year-old footballer of yesteryears got admitted 15 days ago following respiratory problems. “I am just leaving for home now. Thank God and all the well-wishers who prayed for my recovery,” the 1960 Olympian told The Hindu . “The doctors advised me to be extremely careful for the next few days and completely avoid going out. “I thank the para-medical personnel at the makeshift facility in the hotel for their wonderful service,” Hakim said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/hakim-discharged-thanks-all/article32217472.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Attachment and suffering||Dhritarashtra is an example of how attachment can lead us to disaster, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Dhritarashtra and Pandu were brothers, and the children of both were entitled to rule the kingdom. But Duryodhana wanted to deny this right to the Pandavas. And Dhritarashtra, although he knew what Duryodhana was doing was wrong, did not protest. Dhritarashtra was the king, and he could easily have overruled Duryodhana’s decisions. But affection blinded him to dharma. When the Pandavas sought at least five villages for them to live in, and Duryodhana refused even this, war was certain. Dhritarashtra knew that if war broke out, the Kauravas would suffer heavy losses. A good king would have kept the welfare of his subjects in mind. But Dhritarashtra was so fond of Duryodhana, that he did not want to go against his son’s wishes. He sent Sanjaya to the Pandavas with the following message: “Your uncle — Dhritarashtra — wants you to know that he cares about your welfare. He wants war to be avoided.” That Dhritarashtra was most unreasonable is seen from his very words. He wanted no suffering for his sons. At the same time, he did not want to do the right thing, namely, heeding to the request of the Pandavas. But he spoke sweet words to the Pandavas. Vyasa shows us that pleasing words often hide wicked intentions. Sanjaya delivered Dhritarashtra’s message to the Pandavas. Dhritarashtra asked him if his mission had been successful. Sanjaya said that Yudhishthira had all the qualities needed in a king, and if he were to be king, then the people would be happy and prosperous. He warned Dhritarashtra that he would certainly not win against the Pandavas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/attachment-and-suffering/article32217223.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 14:20 IST,||Sudoku - July 29, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-29-2020/article32219725.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||More power to soil||Ramlal, Bharat Kumar and Raju Kumar have been farming in Goyla Dairy, an outer suburb of New Delhi, for several decades. And until June 2018, the condition of these three men was like that of most small-scale farmers in this urbanised village. Their produce — cauliflower, brinjal, okra, tomato, spinach, fenugreek, and gourds — was not getting a good price in the market. Worse, as farmers who do not own the land they till, they were not eligible for the subsidies and relief schemes announced by the Government. Despite it being the source of income for over 80% of India’s rural population, and contributing 16% to 18% of the Gross Domestic Product, the country’s agrarian economy is plagued by high initial investment and low crop yield, compounded further by inadequate irrigation resources. But since June 2018, Project Aahar, run by 18 students from Netaji Subhash University of Technology (NSUT) in Dwarka has been trying to help 14 small-scale farmers in Goyla Dairy and East Delhi Yamuna-Khadar regions by focussing their attention on sustainable and soil-less agriculture. The project is part of the social entrepreneurship programme for students under the aegis of the global non-profit Enactus. A viable alternative The ‘hero’ in this story is a nutrient-rich growing medium called CVP. Featuring coco-peat (coconut pith fibre) combined with vermiculite (a hydrous phyllosilicate mineral which expands when heated), and perlite (an amorphous volcanic glass that has a relatively high water content), CVP has emerged as an alternative to conventional farming soil. “We realised that the main problem faced by farmers is the lack of a productive crop cycle. Irrigation, fertilisers, and pesticides cost a lot, but the crop quality remains poor. So we started promoting the use of CVP on soil (at a ratio of 3:1), because it needs only one-twentieth the amount of water compared to conventional soil, and is resistant to pest attacks. There was an increase of 1 to 1.5 times in the yield after farmers started using CVP,” says Ritvik Nagpal, director of Project Aahar and a second year student of Computer Engineering at the NSUT. The initial stage of the CVP trials are paid for by the project’s student team. They source dried coco-peat in five kilogram bricks (approximately Rs. 120 per piece) from a local farming supplies store, and rehydrate it before preparing the growing medium. “When moistened, the volume of coco-peat expands five-fold. So actually we are paying Rs. 120 for 25 kilograms of coco-peat, which makes it cost-effective,” says Sarthak Gupta, a second-year Instrumentation and Control Engineering student of NSUT, who is also associated with Project Aahar. Farmer Bharat Kumar, who grows 10 vegetables through the year, says CVP has worked wonders on his yield. “For a single ‘kyaari’ (a plot of arable land), I was harvesting 40 kilograms of methi (fenugreek) in the old method of farming. Now I am getting 55 to 60 kilograms from the same plot,” says the 29-year-old. Reusing the waste generated by agriculture has become key to reducing pollution and finding eco-friendly alternatives to traditional farming, says R Selvakumar, the scientist from Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Delhi, who has been guiding Project Aahar’s students. “As recently as 25 years ago, as in most of southern India, coir pith used to be discarded on the roadside at my hometown Singampunari in Sivaganga district. But it has since been repurposed as an agricultural innovation,” he says. However, the CVP-based module of growing is best done in a protected environment, says Selvakumar. “Our farmers cannot afford to give up conventional farming completely; it’s best to have a combination of technologies to balance the growth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/more-power-to-soil/article32217594.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Made by the mindful||This April, post-rock band As We Keep Searching released its album Sleep . According to the musicians, based in Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Pune, this ambient album was aimed at soothing, at aiding the creation of a mental safe space for anyone who listens. They must have achieved it, because the personal responses they received over the next few months have pushed them — and other artistes who think like them — to do even more for mental health. The result: For Your Mind, a campaign spearheaded by AWKS with contributions from 20 musicians and visual artists across India, to raise funds for NGOs working in the mental health space. These are all well-known names with strong followings of their own, from Mumbai-based indie artistes like Raghav Meattle and Maalavika Manoj to Bengaluru-based digital artist Vibhav Singh. As AWKS frontman Uddipan Sarmah explains, “We wanted to take a practical step, rather than just social media posts. The catalogue features EPs, art, merchandise and products by various artists that you can buy, and all proceeds go to four NGOs.” The organisations are The Minds Foundation in Nazmabad, Live Love Laugh Foundation in Mumbai, Manas Foundation in Delhi, and Anjali in Kolkata. What convinced the band to take concrete steps in this direction was the flood of personal messages they received from their listeners, similar to what Bengaluru-based folk fusion band Swarathma got for their lockdown release ‘Mushkil Mein Jeena’. Says Swarathma bassist Jishnu, “These responses make us realise that music is helping fans articulate about mental awareness, in a way that helps them reach a medical conclusion.” Swarathma has a number of singles to that end, which is probably why they are donating high-quality audios of these tracks along with a note about what went into their making. This four-track playlist, called the #ForYourMind compilation, features the numbers ‘Mushkil mein jeena’, ‘Manwa’, ‘Rishto ke raaste’ and ‘Kaash’. Dimapur-based pop rock band is giving its popular track ‘Fallout’. Maalavika Manoj aka Mali, is offering merchandise. “Like tote bags that I made for one of my songs last year. My bags are Rs. 200 each. Everything in the catalogue ranges from a couple of hundred rupees to a little over Rs. 1,000. What is important here is not just the money, but where it is going, and what we, as artistes, are willing to give up for the cause.” A point worth noting, since merchandise often contributes to a bulk of the income for an independent artiste. New Delhi singer-songwriter Hanita Bhambhri has offered up a pack of six artwork postcards, while artists Vibhav Singh, Anusha Tendolkar and Sachin Bhatt have put up for sale prints of their surreal art in different sizes. Singer-songwriter Raghav Meattle is offering an online workshop on Social Media For Artists. Another interesting contribution — also by Swarathma — is a virtual and a print copy of their graphic storybook created in collaboration with Ghost Animation Collective. Titled Raah e Fakira after one of their songs, it features short tales told in the graphic novel format, that go hand-in-hand with specific Swarathma songs. At the end of the day, says Uddipan, there is only so much artistes can do. “Though we are very concerned about mental health, we are not doctors. So we thought it would be better to provide monetary support to those actually working on the ground.”  The catalogue with details about contributing artists is available on Aswekeepsearching.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/made-by-the-mindful/article32217597.ece
29 July 2020||July 29 2020 00:00 IST,||What is this magic?||In one of the most heartwarming scenes of the series, the school of Hogwarts gathers around the fallen Headmaster to bring to life the words he lived by: “Happiness can be found, even in the darkest of times, if only one remembers to turn on the light.” As solemn violins mourn Dumbledore’s death, each person on screen raises their lit wands — a sea of lights against the Dark Mark in the sky. It is at once a song of tragedy and resilience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-is-this-magic/article32217602.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. to retest all suspect COVID-19 cases using RT-PCR||As many as 1,056 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,32,275, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 28 more deaths were reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,881. Of the total cases, 1,17,507 people have recovered and there are 10,887 active cases. Reacting to the High Court’s recent observation that Delhi was conducting more rapid antigen tests than RT-PCR tests, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said they are retesting suspected cases. “If a patient goes to a hospital, then there are two ways we can test them. Either we can do an RT-PCR test and wait 1-2 days for the results or we can conduct a rapid antigen testing. If someone tests negative in the rapid test but is symptomatic, then the patient will be tested again using RT-PCR,” Mr. Jain told reporters on Tuesday. Of the total 18,544 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 73.8% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown low positivity compared to RT-PCR tests. The Delhi government has been testing around 5,000- 6,000 people daily using RT-PCR, even though the city has a capacity to carry out 10,000 such tests per day.  There are now 715 containment zones in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-to-retest-all-suspect-covid-19-cases-using-rt-pcr/article32217439.ece
29 July 2020||Patna,||Sushant’s father files FIR against Rhea Chakraborty||Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father K.K. Singh has filed an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna. A four-member police team from Patna has reached Mumbai to investigate the case. “Yes, an FIR has been lodged in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case at Rajiv Nagar police station on Saturday by his father under various sections… a team of Patna police has gone to Mumbai for further investigation,” Sanjay Singh, Inspector General of Police, Patna Central zone, told media persons. The case had been lodged against Rhea Chakraborty and others on July 25 by K.K. Singh, father of Sushant Singh Rajput, who lives in Patna’s Rajiv Nagar area. Mr. Singh is said to have registered the case on the advice of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections of 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating & dishonestly inducing delivery of property). Ms. Chakraborty had earlier shared a post on social media requesting Home Minister Amit Shah to initiate a CBI investigation in the case. Along with her statement, several other people associated with Bollywood too were summoned by the Mumbai police to record their statement. Recently, several leaders from Bihar, including Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan, had spoken to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding a CBI probe in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushants-father-files-fir-against-rhea-chakraborty/article32217411.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active cases dipped by half in July: data||Despite lifting of the lockdown, Delhi has been able to reduce its active cases by half since the beginning of this month, as per Delhi government data. The city has also seen reduced positivity rate, bed occupancy and deaths. Official records show that positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for the virus) has decreased from 11% in the beginning of July to 6% on July 26. From the first week of July, active cases in Delhi have reduced by half to 11,904. The Capital’s recovery rate is currently 87.95%, compared to the national rate of 63.92%. Deaths due to COVID-19 have also seen a dip. Weekly deaths had begun increasing in mid-May resulting in a high of 515 casualties between June 8 and 14. But the first week of July saw over 300 deaths, which declined to 199 till the week ending July 26. The death rate has reduced from 3.08% to 2.93% this month. As per the statistics, while testing remains high in the city, there has been a consistent dip in testing figures from early July till the end of last week. As many as 1,45,088 tests were conducted between June 29 and July 5, followed by 1,46,340 over the next week. Between July 12 and 19, however, 1,38,315 tests were conducted; 1,27,788 were conducted between July 20 and 26. Bed occupancy has dipped from 5,356 at the beginning of July to 2,800 till July 26 — 82% of COVID-19 beds in Delhi are vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-cases-dipped-by-half-in-july-data/article32217437.ece
29 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||6% seroprevalence in Haryana districts bordering Delhi||The sero surveillance survey in the three most affected districts of the Haryana bordering Delhi — Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat — over the last two months has revealed that around 6% of those tested have developed ImmunoglobuinG (IgG) antibodies. The health officials, however, sounded a note of caution saying the sample size was too small to draw any inference. As per Gurugram health department, as many as 361 IgG antibodies test have randomly been conducted on 18 most vulnerable categories identified by the Indian Council of Medical Research. But only 25 people tested positive. Besides, 92 more IgG antibodies tests were conducted on the confirmed positive and negative cases. The survey was conducted on June 23 and 25 and July 7, 8 and 14 in Gurugram. The sero-survey helps to understand the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection, including asymptomatic individuals. The survey was conducted among the high-risk and vulnerable population to know who has been infected in the past and now recovered. Low infection rate Chief Medical Officer, Gurugram, Virender Yadav told The Hindu that the sample size was too small to “comment”, but the test was conducted on the vulnerable categories — drivers, vendors, government employees, police personnel and health workers — and the infection rate was low. He said the district aimed to conduct at least 400 tests in August. In Sonepat, 15 people tested positive out of the total 194 who took random tests. However, 37 tested positive among 83 confirmed positive cases. Also, seven tested positive for the test conducted on 73 confirmed negative cases. Commenting on the efficacy of the test, a Faridabad-based doctor said that results for the test had success rate of around 50-60%. Positivity rate Faridabad Chief Medical Officer Randeep Poonia said the district had also a positivity rate of 6-8% for the IgG antibodies test. He said the positivity rate was even less for the less vulnerable sections. Around 200-odd IgG antibodies tests have been conducted in Faridabad. “We plan to increase test rate in the coming days. We have identified colonies with high and low infection rates and will conduct tests in both areas,” said Mr. Poonia. Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Rajeev Arora, in a presentation in Chandigarh on Tuesday, disclosed that the recovery rate in Haryana had improved from 44.78% in June to 77.46% in July, which is higher than the national recovery rate of 63.53%. The number of tests conducted both under rapid antigen test as well as RT-PCR had doubled while the tests per million population had reached a figure of 21,157. The positivity rate in the State had gone down to 5.7%. Sero epidemiological survey was also being conducted and would be strengthened further, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/6-seroprevalence-in-haryana-districts-bordering-delhi/article32217432.ece
29 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder, Sukhbir urge Centre to take up gurdwara issue with Pak.||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday condemned the attempts reportedly being made to convert Gurdwara Sri Shahidi Asthan in Pakistan’s Lahore city into a mosque. Captain Amarinder and Mr. Badal demanded that the Central government immediately take up the matter with the Pakistan government. The Chief Minister tweeted, “Strongly condemn attempts being made to convert holy Gurdwara Sri Shahidi Asthan in Lahore, site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singh Ji, into mosque. Urge @DrSJaishankar to convey Punjab’s concerns in strongest terms to Pakistan to safeguard all Sikh places of reverence.” Urging the Union External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to take up the issue with the Pakistan government to ensure the character of the holy shrine was not changed in any manner, Mr. Badal said reports emanating from Pakistan indicated that constant efforts were being made to convert the 18th century shrine into a mosque. Terming such efforts as reprehensible, Mr. Badal said a clear assurance should be taken from the Pakistan government that such acts would not be allowed, besides stressing upon the need to take strict action against the perpetrators who want to change the character of the gurdwara situated in Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore. The SAD president also requested Mr. Jaishankar to take up at the highest level the issue of safety of all Sikh and Hindu religious shrines in Pakistan. “The Pakistan government should also ensure that Sikhs and Hindus do not face any impediments in observing the tenets of their faith,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-sukhbir-urge-centre-to-take-up-gurdwara-issue-with-pak/article32217414.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Terror alert issued in Delhi ahead of I-Day||Ahead of the Independence Day and commencement of Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya, central intelligence agencies on Tuesday have issued terror alert in the Capital. A senior police officer confirmed that a meeting was recently held with district DCPs, instructing them to intensify patrolling and random checking at busy places. As per the threat note accessed by The Hindu , it is mentioned that an attack would be carried out by LeT or JeM terrorists trained in Afghanistan, who would infiltrate to India in batches of 3-5 cadres. It is assessed that the attack would consider marking the anniversary of abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 or during Independence Day celebration on August 15. Terrorist attack on the occasion of commencement of construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya on August 5 cannot be ruled out either. High alert “Security has been beefed up at religious and public places and for VVIPs. Intelligence unit and Special Cell of Delhi Police have been ordered to be on high alert and activate their informers,” said the officer. The officer said that policemen, including the Paramilitary forces, will be deployed around the Red Fort to foil any terror attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/terror-alert-issued-in-capital-ahead-of-i-day/article32217441.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vagabond held for raping woman near Red Fort||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly raped in a park behind Red Fort by a man — who also kidnapped her daughter, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said the accused, Rehan, was arrested on Monday. He is a vagabond, an alcoholic and a drug, the officer added. The victim’s daughter, who was found in Kotwali on Saturday, has been handed over to the woman. An officer said the victim from West Bengal, had come to Delhi a few years ago in search of work and had been living on the footpath — close to the park where the incident took place. “On the night of July 24, a PCR call was received that a woman was found in a semi-conscious state and half-clothed in a park behind the Red Fort. The police reached the spot and immediately took her to a hospital,” the officer said. The woman told police that the man raped her in the park and when she resisted, he hit her with a stone lying nearby and then forced himself on her. The woman also alleged that the man kidnapped her 2-year-old daughter. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 363 (punishment for kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code. The condition of the woman is stable, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vagabond-held-for-raping-woman-near-red-fort/article32217443.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policeman found dead||A Delhi Police official ended his life using his service pistol on Tuesday morning. No note has been found, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said the deceased from Alwar was posted in Saket police station. The incident happened in Lado Sarai area at 10.30 a.m. He was upset over his elder brother’s illness. An officer said the official had returned from his hometown three-four days ago. The family has been informed and inquest proceedings have been initiated. Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policeman-found-dead/article32217444.ece
29 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19 infections on the rise in Odisha jails||Despite efforts being made to avoid physical contacts between the prisoners and their relatives, the number of COVID-19 cases in Odisha jails has been rising for the past few weeks. As many as 95 undertrial prisoners in eight jails across the State have so far tested positive. Similarly, 17 prison staff members have been found to be infected with the virus. The biggest number of inmates infected, 54, is from the Berhampur jail. Kodala jail in Ganjam district has 12 UTPs injected with the virus. Ten inmates have contracted the disease in Choudwar Circle Jail. Puri and Rourkela jails have seven and five inmates respectively. Other jails in Jajpur, Banapur and Udaigiri have also reported infections. According to the sources, UTPs were being sent forwarded to the jails by the police without waiting for test results to come. By the time, they are in jail, they are already positive. A top official said jails cannot refuse court’s order for custody whether positive or otherwise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-infections-on-the-rise-in-odisha-jails/article32217412.ece
29 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Baghjan blowout: panel faults OIL on safety||A committee formed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has faulted Oil India Limited (OIL) for “mismatch between planning and execution”, leading to eastern Assam’s Baghjan well blowout that caused “extensive damage” to public and private resources. The eight-member panel headed by retired Gauhati High Court Judge Brojendra Prasad Katakey was formed on June 24, less than a month after OIL’s Well No. 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district had a blowout. A team of experts, including six foreign disaster control specialists, is yet to cap the well that has been ablaze since June 9. The 89-page preliminary report submitted to the NGT’s Principal Bench in New Delhi on July 24 said the panel looked into several aspects such as the cause of the gas leak, the extent of damage caused to human life, wildlife and the environment besides rehabilitation, preventive and remedial measures. ‘Unanimous view’ The panel was of the “unanimous view” that the Baghjan-5 blowout and subsequent explosion “has led to extensive damage to both the publicly-owned resources”, including the Maguri-Motapung wetland and Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. “Additionally, it has caused irreparable physical harm and damage to privately-owned property of the survivors in the affected villages,” it said, suggesting adequate compensation for the affected people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/baghjan-blowout-panel-faults-oil-on-safety/article32217415.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Plea against police fines for flouting COVID norms||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to respond to a plea challenging a provision, which empowers police officers of Sub-Inspector rank or above to impose fines on anyone violating COVID-19 regulations. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave the direction on plea by an advocate, who contended that imposing of a fine amounts to handing down a punishment which can only be awarded by a judge, not a police officer. The court, however, declined to pass any interim orders for staying operation of the regulation. Advocate Dhananjay Singh Sehrawat, appearing for petitioner Sonia Rana, sought quashing of the provision in the regulations. Under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Management of COVID-19) Regulations of 2020, an authorised person is empowered to impose a fine of Rs. 500 for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-against-police-fines-for-flouting-covid-norms/article32217429.ece
29 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Need separate probe into Delhi riots’||Prominent Delhiites from all walks of life have written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demanding an independent probe, under a retired Judge of suitable stature, into the communal violence that broke out in the city in February. The signatories to the letter said that “one-sided and politically motivated reports” of the Delhi police regarding the riots are in “sharp contrast” to the report and recommendations of the Delhi Minority Commission. “Activists who were part of the anti-CAA movement are being linked to the communal violence. This is all based on the false chronology of events being manufactured by the Delhi police at the behest of their political masters,” the letter read. They said that an independent probe would instil confidence among citizens and ensure punishment for guilty and justice for victims. The letter stated that the Delhi police functions under the Home Ministry and there was “conflict of interest between getting to the truth and defending the leaders of the Centre”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/need-separate-probe-into-delhi-riots/article32217435.ece
29 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Four phones recovered from inmates||Four mobile phones were recovered from the inmates at Bhondsi jail here on over the weekend, said officials. A total of 16 mobile phones, 20 SIM cards, 11 batteries and 230 gm narcotics substance have been recovered from the inmates since the arrest of the jail’s Deputy Superintendent and his accomplice on July 23. The police have been carrying out daily checking in the jail premises since the arrests. The Deputy Superintendent, Dharambir Chautala, and his accomplice Ravi were arrested acting on a tip-off. Eleven 4G SIM cards and 230g narcotics was seized from his house.The matter is under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-phones-recovered-from-inmates/article32217442.ece
29 July 2020||New Delhi,||Over two dozen hotels may be delinked today||Over two dozen hotels attached with the Delhi government as Covid Care Centres (CCCs) are expected to be delinked on Wednesday following a review meeting to be chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, said government sources. Mr. Kejriwal will chair a review meeting regarding COVID-19 management in the Capital with the Health and Revenue Departments where the decision is expected in light of lesser novel coronavirus cases, leading to the disuse of such facilities in the national capital.special correspondent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-two-dozen-hotels-may-be-delinked-today/article32217434.ece
