30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||60 mn Indians may have been exposed to virus: ICMR survey||Around 7% of India’s adult population may have been exposed to the novel coronavirus till the last fortnight of August, according to the second national sero-survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is roughly a 10-fold jump in numbers from the first sero-survey conducted by the Council across 70 districts in 21 States that sought to estimate the likely number of infected until early May. The people tested in the second survey were drawn from the same villages and clusters as the first, in which the scientists said that 0.73% of adults — or about 6.4 million — across the country were likely infected. No figures were shared on the likely number of infections by ICMR Director General, Dr. Balram Bhargava, in his presentation on Tuesday. But 7% of the population works out to about 62 million people.  Sero-surveys are conducted by drawing blood samples and checking for a specific class of antibodies called IgG that appear within two weeks of an infection. Because it is yet unclear how long antibodies detectably persist in the body, their presence only indicates past exposure to — and not presence of — the virus. During the first survey, it emerged that there were 82-130 infections for every confirmed COVID-19 positive case. That number has now dropped to 26-32 infections, which according to Dr. Bhargava, was the result of ramped up testing and early case detection. In September, there were 29 million tests, compared to 23 million in August, 10.5 million in July and 30,000 in March, according to Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. However, the numbers also suggest that the country still has an overwhelming majority of its population yet to be exposed to the virus and therefore, is far from any peak or herd immunity levels. These refer to approximate estimates that show what percentage of the population needs to be exposed to the virus so that its spread is curtailed. More risk in urban slums “The risk of being exposed to the virus is real and we have to continue with our measures. Risk in urban slums is twice that of non-slums and four times that in rural settings,” Dr. Bhargava said. One in fifteen individuals above 10 were exposed to the virus by August and there was no difference by age group and gender. “In light of upcoming festivities, winter season and mass gatherings, inventive containment strategies need to be implemented by States,” Dr. Bhargava emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/60-mn-indians-may-have-been-exposed-to-virus-icmr-survey/article32727448.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||India rejects China’s ‘unilateral’ claims on LAC||India and China on Tuesday exchanged sharp statements, blaming each other for the continuing border tensions, with New Delhi describing China’s Line of Actual Control (LAC) claims as “untenable”, and Beijing saying it “did not recognise” the Union Territory of Ladakh. “India has never accepted the so-called unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC),” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in response to a statement from China’s Foreign Ministry that the LAC was “clear” and that “it is the LAC of November 7, 1959”. The LAC of 1959 was first referenced in a letter from then Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai to Jawaharlal Nehru — an idea rejected by Nehru and subsequently never accepted by India. A South Block official said China had, this summer, gone even beyond this 1959 claim line. “While we don’t recognise the 1959 claim line, even going by their own 1959 line which runs near Patrolling Point (PP)14, the clash in Galwan Valley happened approximately 800 metres west of PP14,” the official said. “So they are violating their own claims.” India’s position that it never accepted the 1959 line was “consistent and well known, including to the Chinese side,” the MEA said, adding that both sides had, in previous bilateral border agreements, including the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the military field and the 2005 Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles, “committed to clarification and confirmation of the LAC to reach a common understanding of the alignment of the LAC”. The MEA said, “In fact, the two sides had engaged in an exercise to clarify and confirm the LAC up to 2003, but this process could not proceed further as the Chinese side did not show a willingness to pursue it.” It stated, “Therefore, the insistence now of the Chinese side that there is only one LAC is contrary to the solemn commitments made by China in these agreements… It is the Chinese side which by its attempts to transgress the LAC in various parts of the Western Sector, has tried to unilaterally alter the status quo... We, therefore, expect that the Chinese side will sincerely and faithfully abide by all agreements and understandings in their entirety and refrain from advancing an untenable unilateral interpretation of the LAC.” The Chinese Foreign Ministry, to a question on India’s border infrastructure projects in Ladakh, said it did not “recognise” Ladakh, reiterating its statements from last year that described the creation of the Union Territory as “illegal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-rejects-chinas-unilateral-claims-on-lac/article32727453.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||How long will Mehbooba be under detention, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to clarify how long they intend to detain former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti under the Public Safety Act (PSA). “You should address us on two issues: What is the maximum period for which a person can be detained and what is your proposal and how long do you propose to continue the detention,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, heading a Bench, addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and listed the case for October 15. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Ms. Mufti’s daughter, Iltija, represented by advocates Nitya Ramakrishnan and S. Prasanna. DM’s affidavit In an affidavit dated September 28, the Srinagar District Magistrate reasoned that the detention was ordered on the basis of an extensive scrutiny of the material on Ms. Mufti, which showed a “past conduct” of “glorifying militants, brazenly inciting religion to divide the people, demoralising the security forces and the proclivity to indulge in such behaviour in future which would be highly prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. Her “habituality” in pursuing this conduct, the affidavit said, would render the use of ordinary criminal law “futile”. Ms. Mufti was detained on August 5 last year amid the scrapping of provisions of Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile State, and bifurcation of the State into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. On February 5, the Srinagar District Magistrate ordered her detention under Section 8 of the PSA. She has been in custody for six months. Ms. Iltija said the grounds of Ms. Mufti’s detention were “vague, stale and had no rational nexus with disturbance to public order. They are based on extraneous material”. She contended that her mother had no access to any form of public speech and expression. There was no reason or material to show that she would act in a manner “prejudicial to maintenance of public order”. Ms. Iltija said the PSA allowed a person to be detained without trial for a year in case he or she was perceived as a threat to “public order” and two years if the person acted prejudicially to national security. Her mother had refused to sign “an illegal bond that no statements against the scrapping of Article 370 will be made”. The District Magistrate’s affidavit countered that Ms. Mufti had made “multiple statements” in the public domain, clearly inciting violence, in the eventuality of any decision being taken regarding Article 370. “Considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually”, it noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/how-long-will-mehbooba-be-under-detention-asks-sc/article32727603.ece
30 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. gang-rape victim dies in Delhi hospital||A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras village in Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally gang-raped by four upper caste men, succumbed to injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital early on Tuesday. The incident occurred on September 14 when the woman went to collect fodder from a field with her mother. She was allegedly gang-raped, and later strangulated and dragged with her dupatta. The victim was shifted to Delhi from Aligarh’s J.N. Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) on Monday on the request of her father. Speaking to The Hindu , the woman’s brother, waiting for the mortal remains to arrive from Delhi, demanded justice for his younger sister. “Though there is dominance of one caste in the village, I came to know about my sister being targeted by these men only when she recorded her statement. They told her if she didn’t submit to their ‘demands’, they would shoot her brother dead,” he said. Even when she was in the hospital, he added, they were threatened. Members of the Azad Samaj Party and Bhim Army, whose leader Chandra Shekhar Aazad met the woman in JNMCH, alleged that the administration had delayed in referring her to Delhi, and that the facilities in Aligarh were inadequate. They protested in front of Safdarjung Hospital. Mr. Azad tweeted in the evening that his party is giving “24 hours” to the Central government to announce Rs. 2 crore compensation and Class-I job to the victim’s family, besides sentencing of the accused in 30 days thro-ugh fast-track court. “If these demands are not met, then Bhim Army will call for Bharat bandh,” he threatened. The victim’s body had not been handed over to the family till late in the night, as officials feared that they would not head to Hathras and continue to protest in Delhi. Sources in the Azad Samaj Party said they would move only when the Chief Minister or a senior Minister arrived or made a statement.  Accused arrested The Hathras police have arrested the four accused — Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi — under Sections pertaining to murder and gang rape. Senior Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir transferred the Station House Office of Chandpa police station to Police Lines for failing to promptly act in the case. Sources in JNMCH also indicated that there had been “procedural delays possibly because of pressure from the administration”. “It could hamper the forensic investigation,” said a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-gang-rape-victim-dies-in-delhi-hospital/article32727605.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Avoid crowding on Durgam Cheruvu bridge’||The cable-stayed bridge on Durgam Cheruvu decked up with colourful neon lights is attracting hordes of people. Large number of people are flocking to the recently inaugurated bridge disregarding physical distancing. Pointing at a photo showing large gatherings on the bridge, Telangana’s Director of Public Health (DPH) G Srinivasa Rao urged people to avoid mass gatherings to stave off COVID-19. Even during the inauguration on September 25, social distancing was not maintained among politicians and people around them. It was inaugurated by State Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development KT Rama Rao, and Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy was the chief guest. “Please avoid mass gatherings. The cable bridge is not going to vanish in one or two months. It will be there after us too. If you were to go, wear mask, maintain physical distance. Mass gatherings could be source for a viral attack,” the DPH said. In view of upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections (GHMC) polls and by-elections when parties are expected to organise campaign meetings where hundreds would gather, Dr Rao urged parties to ensure that proper precautions are taken. Bars and pubs too reopened from September 26. Dr Rao requested people to avoid going there as the commercial spaces are often in closed environment. He said that as asymptomatic COVID patients too can spread the disease, one or two such people in the bars and pubs, can be source of infection.  “We cannot stop you from enjoying life. But please take precautions. We might get vaccine but we don’t know its efficacy and how long will the immunity given by it will last. To avoid COVID-19, wearing mask, maintaining physical distance, frequent sanitisation or washing hands, avoiding mass gatherings are the ‘social vaccines’ which will keep you, your family safe,” the DPH said. While senior officials from the State Health department have urged people to avoid mass gatherings, they have appealed to IT and other companies to resume work from office. “We are requesting IT companies to start operations as thousands are losing their livelihood. It does not mean they should not follow protocols. IT companies are not public gathering places,” Dr Rao said. Director of Medical Education (DME) K Ramesh Reddy said that various strategies can be adopted to avoid large number of employees gathering at office, such as calling only 30% of employees to attend office at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/avoid-crowding-on-durgam-cheruvu-bridge/article32727665.ece
30 September 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||New laws will devastate farmers, says Mamata||The new farm laws will devastate farmers, said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday and added that she would speak to State officials and take steps to protect their interests. Resuming her visits to the districts after more than seven months, Ms. Banerjee, who is on a four-day visit to north Bengal, also chaired an administrative meeting at Uttar Kanya building in north Bengal. “The farm laws will only help hoarders. The laws will not serve the interest of the farmers. We will soon convene a meeting of officials to see what can be done to protect the interest of the farmers,” she said. During the more than hour-long meeting, the Chief Minister touched upon a number of welfare schemes and government services, from housing for the poor to disbursement of caste certificates. Ms. Banerjee directed officials to step up development work in the five districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. The Chief Minister also asked the district officials and the public representatives to not lower their guard on the management of COVID-19 pandemic, even though districts of north Bengal have relatively less number of cases than areas in south Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-laws-will-devastate-farmers-says-mamata/article32727737.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||HC strikes down new NLSIU reservation law||In a setback to the State government, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday struck down the National Law School of India (Amendment) Act, 2020, which provided a reservation of 25% of the total seats at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) for students from Karnataka. The amendment, which came into force with effect from April 27, was contrary to the objective of the National Law School of India Act, 1986, in which the government had not reserved for itself any right to interfere in the administration, functions, control, curriculum, and academic matters of NLSIU. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Ravi V. Hosmani delivered the verdict while allowing the petitions filed by Master Balachandar Krishnan, a seat aspirant through the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), the Bar Council of India, and others.One cannot undermine the role of the government in the establishment of NLSIU, but the State legislature was conscious of its limited role of providing a legal framework for the university to be managed by an executive council, the Bench observed. The Bench also observed that State had not reserved any power to give directions/advisories to NLSIU as the latter was created as a distinct and autonomous institution as it was not dependent on funds or financial aide from the State government. On the government’s claim that the State was losing out in the admissions to NLSIU as only a few law graduates from there were practising in Karnataka, the Bench said the government could not expect or prescribe that NLSIU graduates practise law only in the State. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the Consortium of National Law Universities across India, which conducts CLAT, to publish the results of CLAT-2020, held on September 28, as per the reservation scheme that existed prior to the introduction of the 25% reservation. The court had, on September 8, stayed the implementation of the 25% reservation when the NLSIU decided to conduct its own admission test, the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT), after coming out from the consortium and CLAT. However, NLAT, conducted on September 12, was set aside by the Supreme Court, which directed NLSIU to admit students based on CLAT, which was held on September 28 across the country. NLSIU offers 120 seats for the B.A. LL.B programme through CLAT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-strikes-down-new-nlsiu-reservation-law/article32727463.ece
30 September 2020||mumbai,||State heads for low-key Navratri celebrations||There will be no mass dandiya and garba during Navratri celebrations in Maharashtra this year, according to guidelines issued on Tuesday by the Home Department against the backdrop of increasing COVID-19 cases in the State. The guidelines include restrictions on processions and height of the idols. While the height of the idol at public mandals has been fixed at not more than four feet, the limit for domestic idols is two feet. The notification has requested organisers to “not organise garba, dandiya and other cultural programs. Instead give preference to health related initiatives, blood donation camps which will be used to spread public awareness about corona, malaria, dengue and measures to prevent them.” No crowds will be allowed at Ravan-dahan ceremony on Dussehra and organisers will have to make arrangements for online darshan. Public mandals have been asked to avoid crowding at one place for religious programs and make available online facility using cable network, Facebook, and website for the devotees. No food items can be served in pandal and maximum five volunteers can remain present at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-heads-for-low-key-navratri-celebrations/article32728010.ece
30 September 2020||Pune,||Shekhar Kapur is FTII governing council chief||Eminent filmmaker Shekhar Kapur was on Tuesday appointed as the new president of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Society and the chairman of the governing council. Mr. Kapur (74), known for such acclaimed films like Bandit Queen (1994) and historical biopics Queen Elizabeth (1998 and 2007), will hold the post till March 3, 2023, said the FTII management in a statement. The tenure of the earlier members of the FTII Society had ended in March 2020. The other members of the GC are to be appointed soon, said a senior FTII authority. Mr. Kapur replaces filmmaker B.P. Singh who has been nominated to the general assembly of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. Mr. Singh will hold his new tenure till July 2023. Mr. Singh, an FTII alumnus of the 1970 batch, who was known as the creator of the popular television series CID , had taken over from Bollywood actor Anupam Kher in December 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shekhar-kapur-is-ftii-governing-council-chief/article32728011.ece
30 September 2020||DHARMAPURI,||Dead allotted houses under Central scheme||The thatch-roofed hut with its frayed walls on two cents of land at Marulukarankottai has been Devaki’s home for the last 28 years. Her husband Chinnasamy Sithan and she lived there till he died in 2014. Recently, Devaki walked into the Mukkulam panchayat office asking for a house to be allotted on the same plot of land that she inherited. Curiously, the records showed Devaki’s husband Chinnasamy had been allocated a house under the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana (PMAY) in 2017-18, long after he was dead. The bill was shown as “closed and completed” for Rs. 1.20 lakh under the scheme at that time for a house that should have existed on that very site. “I only need a house, I do not know what house, whether it is the State government’s [green house] or the Central government’s [PMAY],” she replied, holding out the death certificate of Chinnasamy and her widow certificate. With the records showing her husband as a beneficiary of the housing scheme, she is now ineligible for the State government’s green housing scheme for the BPL category. Similarly, Rani was surprised to see her father-in-law Murugesan Annamalai’s name in the PMAY list of 2017-2018: Murugesan had died seven years ago. “We checked after we heard about Devaki,” said Rani. The list showed that a work order for Rs. 1.20 lakh was issued and completed in 2017-2018. “The word has spread, and there is panic. People are coming and asking if their names have figured in the list too, while they didn’t know,” said Kandaperumal, spouse of Kanchana, the president of the Mukkulam panchayat. Speaking on behalf of his wife, Mr. Kandaperumal said he got the list from the BDO’s office at Karimangalam, since people were asking for information. Subramani, a resident of the village, said he had just filed a PIL petition online. In the four-page beneficiary list of 58 names for 2016-20, Subramani has circled 12 names as bogus because the beneficiaries mentioned were either dead or those who had no clue they were allocated funds under the scheme, but the bill was shown as closed and completed for a house under the PMAY. One such reported beneficiary is Kuppusami Rangasami, who was ‘allocated’ a PMAY house even after he had built a house under the green housing scheme. “The bill was passed for Rs. 1.20 lakh to his account, and then the panchayat clerk came and asked him to withdraw the money and give it to him saying there was a mistake of double allocation,” alleged Subramani. “But we have closed in on some 40 names that we believe may be bogus, but the number may be fewer,” said Mr. Kandaperumal. “All of this happened during the period when there were no panchayat presidents,” he said. “Many listed beneficiaries have single names without the last name. This makes it difficult to cross-check. The BDO’s office will have the records but they have refused to share the details even when we asked for them,” alleged Mr. Kandaperumal. “A beneficiary will have to submit Aadhaar card, voter identity card, ration card and a photo, and these are sent to the BDO’s office. Only the recommendation for the beneficiaries is made at the panchayat level after their category is vetted,” he says. The supervision at various stages involves overseeing of the works by a joint team of the BDO, the overseer, the Assistant Engineer and the panchayat clerk. The beneficiary bears the cost up to the basement, after which the construction work is measured and verified for reimbursement of funds in instalments. An official at the BDO’s office at Karimangalam, who did not want to be named, said, “The Collector has asked us to conduct an inquiry. The allegation of 40 bogus names is an exaggeration,” he said. But asked about the allocations made to the dead, of which at least two were verified, the official repeated, “The Collector has asked for an inquiry.” A panchayat clerk conceded that mistakes might have happened, even as he tried to explain what might have happened. According to him, the computer follows the names registered during the 2011 census. “For instance, Chinnasami Sithan’s name would be in the records. When we looked for it, there was another beneficiary Nirmala whose father’s name is Chinnasamy, and she may have applied. So, we gave it to her.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dead-allotted-houses-under-central-scheme/article32728002.ece
30 September 2020||GUNTUR,||CM: heartening to note decline in positivity rate||The aggressive testing, isolating and treating of infected persons have worked well as the COVID-19 positivity rate has declined to 8.3% in the State, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said at the weekly Spandana review with Collectors and Superintendents of Police through video-conferencing on Tuesday. It was heartening to note the declining rate, he said and wanted more publicity to be given to ‘Dial 104’, the single point of contact for all COVID-19 information. “Ensure that maximum publicity is given to Dial 104 and, every day, a mock drill should be held to test its effectiveness. I urge all Collectors to ensure publicity is given to help desk numbers, and ensure that a bed is provided within 30 minutes of a call,” the Chief Minister said. Stating that there were 240 COVID-19-designated hospitals across the State, he directed the Collectors to ensure that the information related to the hospitals and availability of beds was furnished at all village/ward secretariats. “We have appointed 17,000 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for COVID-19 duties and also will appoint 12,000 trainee nurses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-heartening-to-note-decline-in-positivity-rate/article32727440.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Schools in State to reopen on November 2||Schools in the State will reopen on November 2, but the distribution of kits under Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme will take place on October 5 as was planned earlier. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced this at a video conference as part of ‘Spandana’ programme on Tuesday, and said the school kits, comprising uniform cloth for three pairs, textbooks, notebooks, a pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, a belt and a school bag, would be given early to give sufficient time to students to get their uniforms stitched by the time schools reopen. He said the reopening was postponed due to the prevailing pandemic situation and asked the officials to speed up works taken up under the first phase of Nadu Nedu programme. In the first round, 15,715 schools were identified for giving facelift, but works were in progress only in 15,562 of them. Mr. Jagan asked the officials to shift 27,564 Anganwadi centres being run in rental buildings to permanent buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-in-state-to-reopen-on-november-2/article32727446.ece
30 September 2020||Lucknow,||Babri demolition verdict on Advani, others today||A special CBI court here will decide on Wednesday if senior BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani and 31 others — many of them linked to the Sangh Parivar — are guilty of instigating a mob of kar sevaks under a criminal conspiracy to bring down the Babri Masjid. The Mughal-era mosque was demolished almost 28 years ago on December 6, 1992, when the VHP-BJP-RSS combine led a Ram Janmabhoomi movement across several parts of the country. The accused include Mr. Advani, his BJP colleagues Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh, Lallu Singh, Sakshi Maharaj and Vinay Katiyar, and several others, such as Sadhvi Ritambara and Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Many of the accused are former or present Members of Parliament or members of State Legislatures. Mr. Kalyan Singh was the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh when the mosque was demolished. According to lawyers connected with the trial, he was the only accused to submit documentary evidence in his defence. None of the accused produced witness in their defence. On the other hand, 351 prosecution witnesses, many of them journalists, were examined during the trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/babri-demolition-verdict-on-advani-others-today/article32727451.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘No decision on reopening schools and colleges yet’||Students hoping to return to the classroom or even visit their schools to get doubts clarified will have to wait longer for a clear answer from the State government. “No decision has been made regarding the opening of schools and colleges so far,” said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday. He added that the government was not thinking of reopening schools and colleges and no tentative dates have been set. “We have invited suggestions from stakeholders regarding this and will take into consideration the opinion of elected representatives and the general public,” he said, adding that he would also speak to teachers’ associations and educational experts.  However, the government has come up with a Standard Operating Procedure to be followed by schools when they do finally reopen. It has also decided that students will not be allowed to visit schools to get their doubts clarified in the month of October, given the rising number of COVID-19 cases. “We had said that we would take a call on allowing visits at the end of September. But we have decided that we will not allow it until further notice,” a senior official said. RTE Students and Parents’ Association chief secretary B.N. Yogananda welcomed the move not to reopen schools at the moment. “Most schools in urban areas have cramped classrooms and maintaining social distance is not feasible [there]. We want the government to declare a zero academic year for students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-decision-on-reopening-schools-and-colleges-yet/article32727469.ece
30 September 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh kolkata,||Tea garden workers seek legally binding wages||Workers of tea gardens in north Bengal have written to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raising a host of issues concerning them such as wages, ownership of land and financial assistance for closed tea gardens. “We continue to get only Rs. 176 that has been determined in an ad hoc manner. Agricultural workers have a minimum wage of Rs. 257, as do workers in cinchona plantations,” the workers of closed, abandoned and sick gardens said in their letter addressed to the Chief Minister. The letter sought the government to fix a legally binding minimum wage rate for tea plantation workers and added that though an ‘advisory committee’ for the same was set up in 2014, it has not come up with a figure. The workers raised the issue of harassment by managements when they tried to withdraw their provident fund savings, pension or gratuity and not getting payment of dues (interim relief) as ordered by the Supreme Court. The letter, signed by representatives of Paschim Banga Khet Majoor Samity and union leaders of tea garden workers, added that tea plantation workers have no rights on the land they and their ancestors have been working on for over 200 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tea-garden-workers-seek-legally-binding-wages/article32727738.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Panneerselvam absent at meeting chaired by CM||Deputy Chief Minister and the ruling AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, did not attend an official meeting chaired by Chief Minister and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Tuesday morning to review the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead, he was closeted with a few senior office-bearers of the party. Those who met the Deputy Chief Minister at his residence on Greenways Road for about an hour were the party’s deputy coordinators K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam and former MP P.H. Manoj Pandian. On Monday, members of the executive committee of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) held a marathon discussion on two issues — the party’s Chief Minister candidate for the forthcoming Assembly polls and the formation of an 11-member steering committee. The camp of Mr. Panneerselvam was said to have been largely outnumbered by that of Mr. Palaniswami at the executive committee. Emerging from the day’s meeting, Mr. Vaithilingam told the media that his participation in the meeting was in his personal capacity. He denied that this had had any political significance. To a query, the deputy coordinator, who was part of the Palaniswami camp at the time of the split in the AIADMK in February 2017, replied that “I would do my mite so that the party is strong enough to retain power [during the forthcoming Assembly polls]. I will be supportive to the coordinator [Mr. Panneerselvam] and the co-coordinator [Mr.Palaniswami].” ‘No threat’ He emphatically said “no” to a question whether the confusion over the CM candidate would cause the fall of the government. Mr. Munusamy told The Hindu that the meeting pertained to “the party work,” the term which he declined to elaborate. He denied that this had had any political significance. To a query, the deputy coordinator, who was part of the Palaniswami camp at the time of the split in the AIADMK in February 2017, replied that “I would do my mite so that the party is strong enough to retain power [during the forthcoming Assembly polls]. I will be supportive to the coordinator [Mr.Panneerselvam] and the co-coordinator [Mr.Palaniswami].” ‘No threat’ He emphatically said “no” to a question whether the confusion over the CM candidate would cause the fall of the government. Mr. Munusamy told The Hindu that the meeting pertained to “the party work,” the term which he declined to elaborate. Did not the formation of steering committee form part of the party work? “I would only say the meeting was all about the party work,” the deputy coordinator replied. He added that all his efforts would be to ensure that “the party stays united, as it was founded by Puratchi Thalaviar [M.G. Ramchandran] nearly 50 years ago and nurtured by Amma [Jayalalithaa], giving enormous space to countless ordinary persons like me.” Ramanathapuram legislator and former Information Technology Minister M. Manikandan also privately met Mr.Panneerselvam. Later, Dr. Manikandan told this correspondent that the purpose of his meeting was “purely personal”. In the evening, Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani called on the Chief Minister. Even though full details of the meeting were not available, one of the reasons cited was that the Minister met Mr.Palaniswami to invite him for an official event to be held by Chennai Corporation on Wednesday morning. The Chief Minister continued to receive visitors including Natham R. Viswanathan and Minister Kadambur Raju. Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar met both him and the Deputy Chief Minister. Former Villivakkam legislator J.C.D. Prabhakar also called on Mr. Panneerselvam. Sources indicated that efforts were on to pacify Mr. Panneerselvam who was nursing the feeling of having been isolated at the executive committee meeting. ‘Healthy meeting’ Separately, after garlanding the statue of former Chennai Mayor N. Sivaraj in north Chennai, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, accompanied by his colleagues K. Pandiarajan, V. Saroja and P. Benjamin, said members of the executive committee expressed their views in a “democratic manner”, which was “healthy”. He added that the Opposition, which had expected that the meeting would lead to a crisis for the party, should be “feeling disappointed now.” As for the impact of the anticipated early return of former interim general secretary of the party V.K. Sasikala, on the party, the Minister termed it as an “unnecessary subject”. As for the delay in the constitution of the steering committee, Mr.Jayakumar answered that the party would take a call “at the appropriate time”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panneerselvam-absent-at-meeting-chaired-by-cm/article32727496.ece
30 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Schools won’t be reopened in a hurry, says Minister||Dismissing rumours on the reopening of schools that were indefinitely shut after the outbreak of COVID-19, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar has said that the government has not yet decided on the issue. He was speaking to mediapersons in Bidar on Tuesday. “The State government has not decided the date for reopening schools. There is no possibility of reopening them shortly. Parents, therefore, need not worry about the safety of their children in view of the pandemic. The well-being of our children is our top priority. People need not get confused and panic. There are complaints that the inordinate delay in school-reopening results in increased cases of child marriages. We have also taken this aspect seriously. We are closely watching this and collecting data. After taking opinion from all stakeholders, the government would decide on it. There is no hurry in reopening schools,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Minister paid visits to various government schools and took stock of the amenities in place. In some schools, he found that they did not have proper buildings, drinking water and toilet facilities and directed the officials to identify all such schools that are lacking basic amenities and submit a report. “Aravind Arali, a member of the Legislative Council had, in the Legislative Council, said that the schools in Bidar did not have basic facilities. I have, therefore, undertaken a Bidar district tour to have first-hand information at the ground level. I will take stringent action against the officials who have giving permission to run these schools without basic facilities,” he said. Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction (Kalaburagi) Nalin Atul, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Ganganna Swamy, Block Education Officer Suryakanth Madane and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-wont-be-reopened-in-a-hurry-says-minister/article32727649.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS reports 2,072 COVID cases||Telangana recorded 2,072 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 1,89,283. Nine more COVID patients died. While 54,308 people underwent tests, results of 790 were awaited. The new cases include 283 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 161 from Rangareddy, 160 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 139 from Nalgonda, 109 from Karimnagar, 92 from Khammam, 85 from Warangal Urban. From March 2 to September 28, a total of 29,40,642 samples were tested and 1,89,283 people tested positive for the coronavirus. Of the total cases, 29,477 are active cases, 1,58,690 have recovered, and 1,116 have died. The recovery rate in the State is 0.58%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-reports-2072-covid-cases/article32727664.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Mist shower||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mist-shower/article32727601.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No change in discharge policy: CM||There will be no change in the State’s discharge policy, at least for the time being, when the COVID-19 situation is still largely under control, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has said. The State will continue to discharge patients only after day 10 when they test negative in an antigen test, Mr. Vijayan clarified, addressing media here on Tuesday. On Indian Medical Association’s demand for the declaration of a “health emergency”, the Chief Minister said he was not sure in what way a “health emergency” can be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-change-in-discharge-policy-cm/article32727725.ece
30 September 2020||DHARWAD,||Two teenagers drowned||In a tragic incident, two teenagers who had gone to wash their cattle are said to have drowned in a tank at Kyarakoppa village near Dharwad. Although the mishap occurred on Monday evening, it came to light only on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Mrutyunjaya Kamadhenu (14) and Rohit Pujari (13) of Kyarakoppa village. They had ventured into the tank, which was filled with water to the brim, to wash their cattle. The parents launched a search for the boys, after the cattle returned home. Residents, who also joined the search, later informed the police. The Dharwad Rural Police, who were alerted, brought expert swimmers who then retrieved the bodies from the tank. A case has been registered at the Dharwad Rural Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-teenagers-drowned/article32727651.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Amnesty halts India operations||Amnesty International India on Tuesday said the government had frozen all its bank accounts, leading to all of its work in the country coming to a halt. “The complete freezing of Amnesty International India’s bank accounts by the Government of India which it came to know on September 10, 2020, brings all the work being done by the organisation to a grinding halt. The organisation has been compelled to let go of staff in India and pause all its ongoing campaign and research work,” a statement by the human rights organisation said. The freezing of accounts was the latest in the “witch-hunt” of human rights organisations, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amnesty-halts-india-operations/article32727439.ece
30 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. gang-rape victim dies in Delhi hospital||A 19-year-old woman from Hathras village in Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally gang-raped by four men, succumbed to injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital early on Tuesday. The incident occurred on September 14 when the woman went to collect fodder from a field with her mother. She was allegedly gang-raped and later strangled with herdupattaand dragged on the field. The victim was shifted to Delhi from Aligarh’s J.N. Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) on Monday on the request of her father. Speaking to The Hindu , the woman’s brother, waiting for the mortal remains to arrive from Delhi, demanded justice for his younger sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-gang-rape-victim-dies-in-delhi-hospital/article32727449.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NCB finds drugs in package in post office||Narcotics Control Bureau officials on Tuesday unearthed an international drug racket and arrested four people from whom they recovered 750 MDMA tablets. The accused are believed to have sourced the drugs from the Netherlands via the Darknet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-finds-drugs-in-package-in-post-office/article32727465.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports over 10,000 COVID-19 cases||The State on Tuesday reported a record 10,453 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 5,92,911. This is the highest single-day increase so far. There were 136 new deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-over-10000-covid-19-cases/article32727466.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Date set for byelections to two Assembly seats||With the Election Commission of India on Tuesday announcing the schedule for byelections to two Karnataka Legislative Assembly constituencies of Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar and four Legislative Council seats, poll fever is set to hit Karnataka amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/date-set-for-byelections-to-two-assembly-seats/article32727467.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records 3,227 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 3,227 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,76,325, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 48 more deaths were report-ed, pushing the toll to 5,320.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-3227-fresh-covid-19-cases/article32727607.ece
30 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan HC rejects plea to postpone civic polls||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday rejected a plea by the State government seeking postponement of the election dates for six newly formed Municipal Corpora-tions in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota districts from October 31 to March 20, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-hc-rejects-plea-to-postpone-civic-polls/article32727609.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Murder accused police officer arrested in Rohini||Delhi police sub-inspector Sandeep Dahiya, who had been absconding after allegedly killing his father-in-law and shooting at his friend, was arrested in Rohini, the police said on Tuesday. A weapon and a vehicle have been recovered from the SI, who was traced through electronic surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/murder-accused-police-officer-arrested-in-rohini/article32727608.ece
30 September 2020||Kolkata,||covid cases||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 3,188 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the total tally in the State to 2,53,768. The State registered 62 deaths taking the total fatalities due to the contagious viral infection to 4,899. The active cases in West bangal have increased to 26,064 and the discharge rate in the State remained at 87.80%. Of the 62 deaths in the past 24 hours, 15 were reported from Kolkata taking the death toll in the city due to COVID-19 to 1,699. North 24 Parganas district recorded 11 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll in the district to 1,088. In terms of new infections in the past 24 hours, Kolkata recorded 691 new COVID-19 infections taking total infections to 55,740. North 24 Parganas recorded 634 new cases taking that total tally in the district 50,838. Meanwhile, the State Education Minister Partha Chatterjee gave clear hints that schools in the State will not open before Durga Puja festival which is falls in the end of October. Mr. Chatterjee said that the government will not take any decision in haste. He added that once schools reopen teachers have to take classes unlike in college and universities which are only trying to hold examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases/article32727739.ece
30 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Actor found dead in girlfriend’s flat in Andheri||A 26-year-old struggling actor Akshat Utkarsh was found dead in Andheri on Sunday night. His body was found in the bedroom of his girlfriend’s flat on the fourth floor of Gokul Bhudargadh Cooperative Housing Society, and was first spotted by her. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Only child of his parents, Utkarsh from Muzzafarpur in Bihar had completed MBA and had come to Mumbai around two years ago. “Prima facie, it seems that he was depressed as he had had no work for the last six months, and was facing financial crunch,” Someshwar Kamthe, senior police inspector, Amboli police station, said. Raina Assainar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actor-found-dead-in-girlfriends-flat-in-andheri/article32728012.ece
30 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s recoveries exceed case surge||Maharashtra’s daily recoveries outpaced its case surge yet again with 19,212 patients being discharged on Tuesday as opposed to the State reporting 14,976 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s total case tally now stands at 13,66,129 of whom 2,60,363 are active ones. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 10,69,159 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-recoveries-exceed-case-surge/article32728013.ece
30 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||14 COVID-19 deaths||Districts in Bombay-Karnataka and Central Karnataka registered 14 COVID-19-related deaths on Tuesday. While Dharwad recorded four deaths, Belagavi and Chitradurga reported three deaths each, Haveri two and Gadag and Vijayapura recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-covid-19-deaths/article32727650.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Lockdown extended till October 31||Kerala reported 7,354 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, after testing 52,755 samples in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 1,87,276. The test positivity rate remains at a record high of 13.9%. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 3,420. The number of active patients in the State at present is 61,791.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-extends-lockdown-till-october-31/article32727499.ece
30 September 2020||Chennai,||T.N.’s COVID-19 case tally inches towards six lakh||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported 5,546 new COVID-19 cases, inching towards the six lakh tally, while the death toll moved closer to the 10,000 mark, with 70 more fatalities. Of the fresh infections, Chennai logged 1,277, Chengalpattu 330 and Tiruvallur 279.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tns-covid-19-case-tally-inches-towards-six-lakh/article32727500.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Order on reopening of schools put on hold||The State government on Tuesday decided to put on hold its Government Order, which permitted students in Classes X, XI and XII to go to schools on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from their teachers from October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-on-reopening-of-schools-put-on-hold/article32727501.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Galloping infections cross 10,000 in Karnataka||Telangana’s COVID-19 cases were again in the 2,000s band, at 2,072 on Monday. Nine more patients died. Also, 54,308 people underwent tests. There were 283 cases from Greater Hyderabad, 161 from Rangareddy, 160 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 139 from Nalgonda, 109 from Karimnagar, 92 from Khammam, and 85 from Warangal Urban. Andhra Pradesh reported 6,190 new infections and 35 deaths on Tuesday, an official bulletin said. The test positivity rate for 68,429 samples was 9.05% and the overall positivity rate of 57.34 lakh tests, 11.99%. Tests per million went up to 1.07 lakh and the cases per million ratio were 12,872. The new cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (991 cases and 4 deaths), West Godavari (907 and 2), Chittoor (784 and 6), Prakasam (569 and 8), Nellore (432 and 2), Guntur (410 and 4), Krishna (398 and 0), Srikakulam (377 and 2), Vizianagaram (312 and 0), Kadapa (299 and 0), Visakhapatnam (291 and 3), Anantapur (276 and 4) and Kurnool (144 and 0). Kerala’s incidence stood at 7,354 cases on Tuesday, from 52,755 samples. The test positivity rate was high, at 13.9%.  The State added 22 deaths to the official list. Five fatalities were reported at Kannur, four at Malappuram, three each at Thrissur, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram and two each in Kottayam and Palakkad. Again, 97% of new cases were locally acquired infections. Malappuram had 1,040 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 935, Ernakulam had 859, Kozhikode 837, Kollam 583, Alapuzha 524, Thrissur 484, Kasaragod 453, Kannur 432, Palakkad 374, Kottayam 336, Pathanamthitta 271, Wayanad 169 and Idukki 57. With another 5,546 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, the State’s tally of cases climbed to 5,91,943. The State recorded 70 more deaths, taking its toll to 9,453. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,277, while Coimbatore reported 572 cases. The cases surged in Salem as 343 persons tested positive for COVID-19. Chengalpattu had 330 cases and Tiruvallur reported 279 cases. Nine districts recorded 100-plus cases. This included Thanjavur (186), Kancheepuram (159), Tiruppur (153) and The Nilgiris (149, of which three were imported cases). Of the 70 fatalities, 41 persons died in government hospitals. This included a 37-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai who had no co-morbidities and was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever and cough for 10 days and difficulty in breathing for nine days on September 13. He died on September 28 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/galloping-infections-cross-10000-in-karnataka/article32727391.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vested interests are opposing farm sector reforms, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a blistering attack on the Opposition, accusing them of opposing the reforms initiated by his government in the past six years “only for the sake of opposing”. Mr. Modi was addressing a programme for the launch of projects in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gangey scheme. “Last month, big reforms were initiated for farmers and workers of this country. Farmers have been freed from restrictions and can sell their products to anyone, but certain parties with vested interests in keeping farmers shackled are opposing this. It was our government that brought in minimum support prices [MSP] as per the Swaminathan committee report, but the Opposition is using propaganda to spread lies about the government,” he said. “Four years ago, our brave soldiers attacked and destroyed terror launch pads across the border. But these people [Opposition parties] demanded proof of these strikes from our armed forces. By behaving thus, they clarified just where they stood with regard to the country.” He accused the Opposition of blocking the legal resolution to the Ayodhya issue and then the Ayodhya temple bhoomipoojan (ground breaking ceremony). Why none of the tall leaders of the Opposition had yet to visit the Statue of Unity, the monolith of India’s first Home Minister Sardar Patel, he asked. Opposition parties and the BJP’s own former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), have opposed three agriculture-related Acts cleared by Parliament last month and signed into law by President Ram Nath Kovind. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation), Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, will result in huge changes in the agricultural sector and have become a political talking point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vested-interests-are-opposing-farm-sector-reforms-says-pm/article32727408.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Forces ready for any eventuality’||The present security scenario along the northern border is at an uneasy “no war, no peace” status and air power will be a crucial enabler for victory in any future conflict, according to Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria. “Our defence forces are prepared for any eventuality. The IAF [Indian Air Force] has responded with resolve to counter any misadventure. Air power will be a crucial enabler in our victory in any future conflict. It is, therefore, imperative that the IAF obtains and maintains technological edge over our adversaries,” ACM Bhadauria said at a webinar jointly organised by the Centre for Air Power Studies and the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers on Tuesday. The recent induction of the Rafale fighter jet, along with the C-17 transport aircraft, the Chinook heavy lift helicopter, the Apache attack helicopter and other aircraft fleets had provided the IAF with “substantial tactical and strategic capability enhancement,” said ACM Bhadauria. High operational alert The IAF is currently on high operational alert in view of the ongoing stand-off with China along the disputed border in Ladakh, and several front line fighter jets have been forward deployed.  Talking of the modernisation process and the opportunity for the private industry, ACM Bhadauria said that in all, the IAF was “looking at 450 new aircraft, including helicopters, over the next two decades”, not to count around 200-300 aircraft upgrades that would take place in this period. These include the 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Mk-1A, the order for which was expected soon, 106 HTT-40 trainer aircraft and the LCA enhancements, including Mk-2 and subsequent upgrades.  On the Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA), he said they have requested the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to work on a single point agenda and develop a fifth generation aircraft with sixth generation technologies. Dr. Satheesh Reddy, Chairman of the DRDO, said the development of the LCA-Mk2 and the fifth generation AMCA were priority areas towards indigenous push. The AMCA was a major challenge for the indigenous aerospace industry, as several technologies needed to be developed such as materials, coatings, the complete system and weapons. Aircraft for Navy On the twin-engine aircraft carrier-based aircraft being developed for the Navy, Dr. Reddy said after several successful carrier landing and take-offs by the single-engine Naval LCA, they have gained the confidence to develop the aircraft. Indigenisation of spares and support was essential and presented an opportunity for industry. “We cannot be dependent on import of spares forever,” he added.  Air power will be a crucial enabler in our victory in any future conflict R.K.S. Bhadauria Air Chief Marshal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/forces-ready-for-any-eventuality/article32727399.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘There will be competition to give better terms and prices to farmers’||A day after protests in Karnataka against the new farm sector laws, cleared by Parliament and given assent by the President, North Bengaluru MP and Union Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda   highlighted the safeguards in the laws against large corporates exploiting farmers, and the government’s plan to reach out to farmers to explain the benefits of the new legal provisions . There have been protests in several parts of the country, including your home State Karnataka, against the farm laws. The opponents have no other issues to come to the streets at present, because the PM has brought all the people together despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Of course, there may be increase in case numbers… but the other issues — giving necessary benefits, incentives for all ordinary persons, including farmers and MSMEs... the PM has taken care of all. Nobody can talk about those issues. The only alternative left is to confuse the farmers. This is the one sector that has geared up even during the pandemic. Fertilizer sales have grown 40% during the months of the pandemic. Now, they wanted to make this an issue. Of course, it is our duty also to reach out to the farmer and say that after 70 years, you have got the freedom to sell your produce openly. So far, your hands were tied. Between the passage of the ordinances and the Bills, perhaps the government could have communicated these changes better? No.. it was in the public domain. But because of COVID-19, everyone was only panicked about the virus for the initial four months or so. We were also busy with assessing ground-level challenges in different States due to the lockdown and the pandemic. But now, we have planned. On Thursday, I have planned a big outreach beginning with Karnataka Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil. We have asked all our MPs and Ministers in charge of the districts to hold press conferences the next day. We have asked all our MLAs to do the same. Finally, we want to reach a handbill to each farmer on the benefits from these laws. When Jan Dhan accounts were started, and some had zero balances, many people laughed. Now, nearly 35 crore people have benefited. This is also like that — the farmer will come to know. And it is our responsibility to inform them and ask them for any corrections they may want. We don’t have any ego as far as farmers are concerned. As we reach out, if there are some grievances from the farmers, they will tell us. Who will be in charge of dispute resolution, and what safeguards are in place for farmers? Nobody should take undue advantage of farmers. There are specific provisions that private players don’t have much rights to do as they please. Under these laws, the farmers are free from the Indian Contract Act’s provisions. A company cannot override anybody; they can purchase and they should purchase for the farmers to get a benefit. I think within a year, you will see the results. There will be competition between mandis and private players on giving better terms and prices to farmers. Sale, lease or mortgage of farm land is totally prohibited. Earlier, someone could misuse a farmers’ land because they were uneducated. Now no one can do that. There are safeguards for the farmers. In agreements between a farmer and a private party, the farmer can come out of the contract at any time. The private firm cannot do that. Even if a farmer has taken an advance from the private player, he can return the principal and exit the contract. If I have a contract with you for selling tomatoes at Rs. 20 a kg, but the market price becomes Rs. 30, I can sell it outside for Rs. 30. For dispute resolution, State revenue departments will be responsible (along with) sub-divisional magistrates. Contracts will be bilateral, but if the farmer feels that a player is betraying or undercutting them, he has all options.  With most farmers being small and marginal, will they have adequate bargaining power in negotiating terms of trade and prices with large retail companies?  If you educate them, even a small farmer will stand for his rights. Now, it’s our responsibility to inform them. There is a specific provision that the Central government may provide a model agreement for facilitation. So everyone will enter contracts in that format and parties cannot go beyond that. If a single large player or two captures a particular market going forward, will the government intervene? Certainly, we will intervene. We hope that the new laws will save the farmers. If there are any instances where farmers will be harassed or private players will take over benefits from farmers’ hands, the government will not keep quiet. It is the responsibility of the government to minimise the middlemen. And even the private sector should play their role but not beyond their limits.  Sale, lease or mortgage of farm land is totally prohibited ... There are safeguards for the farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/there-will-be-competition-to-give-better-terms-and-prices-to-farmers/article32727416.ece
30 September 2020||new delhi,||SC orders States to supply dry rations to sex workers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered States and Union Territories to supply dry rations to sex workers identified by the National AIDS Control Organisation and district legal authorities without insisting on the production of identity documents like ration card amid the pandemic. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao then directed the States and Union Territories to file status reports in a month. In the last hearing, the Bench had highlighted the plight of the community, saying lakhs of people are in severe distress and the government needs to reach out to them and provide them with food. The Bench asked the Centre to consider whether it could take similar steps for granting relief to sex workers as were taken for helping the transgender community amid COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. The Durbar Mahila Samanway Committee, the country’s oldest collective of sex workers, had approached the SC for support amid the pandemic. The collective said sex workers were entitled to live with dignity and needed access to food, shelter and social protection. It said the pandemic has ravaged their lives and livelihoods and left the community impoverished. The collective is a party to proceedings in which a panel was set up to improve the living conditions of the community. One of the recommendations, which won the court's approval, was to provide them with ration cards, voter ID cards and bank accounts. However, the statement said these documents have not been issued to them in compliance with the 2011 recommendation. It said with no government identity documents and no earnings, the national lockdown since March has been especially tough on the community. Many in the community are single mothers unable to afford the education for their children in the current scenario. Attempts to secure alternative livelihoods have failed due to social stigma, the collective said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-orders-states-to-supply-dry-rations-to-sex-workers/article32727998.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SII commits to making 100 million more vaccine doses||The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday committed to producing an additional 100 million doses of the vaccines it is testing. With this, a total of 200 million doses will be available at $3 each to a group of at least 61 “low- and middle-income countries”, including India. This arrangement does not make it clear how many doses will be made available to India. “The collaboration further bolsters up our fight against COVID-19. Through the avid support of Gavi and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), we will now manufacture and deliver up to an additional 100 million doses of immunogenic and safe-proven future COVID-19 vaccines to India and low- and middle-income countries in 2021,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, said. Initial seed funding The Gavi COVAX is an international collaboration involving the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness that is coordinating the development of several probable vaccines. They have also devised an arrangement to ensure that all countries — irrespective of their wealth — are able to vaccinate a minimum percentage of their population. To ensure that low- and middle-income countries countries do so, it is currently seeking at least $2 billion in initial seed funding. Under the new collaboration, AstraZeneca’s candidate vaccine, if successful, will be available to 61 Gavi-eligible countries. The Novavax candidate, if successful, will be available to all 92 countries supported by the Gavi COVAX AMC. These countries align with SII’s licensing agreements with the two partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-commits-to-making-100-million-more-vaccine-doses/article32727418.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 hospital monitoring panels acted in a casual manner: Karnataka HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said the State- and district-level monitoring committees functioned in a “casual manner” when Karnataka had the secondhighest active COVID-19 cases and Bengaluru Urban district was worst affected among districts in the country. The court said there was absolute necessity for the State government to evolve a mechanism for constant monitoring of designated COVID-19 hospitals, both public and private hospitals and care centres. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar made the observation in its order on PIL petitions related to COVID-19 health management. The objective of regular inspection of COVID-19 hospitals was not to find fault with doctors and healthcare workers who have been working tirelessly for the last six months, but to ensure that the hospitals were well-equipped so that staff could discharge their duties properly, the Bench said. The apex court in July had directed all the State governments to set up monitoring committees to keep a vigil on facilities and functioning of COVID-19 hospitals. The Bench also pointed out that mechanism for inspection and helpline to assist patients and their relatives was very essential as a COVID-19 patient, once admitted to hospital, had limited opportunity to meet family members and the patient would not be in a position to complain about the lack of facilities while undergoing treatment in the hospitals. Oxygen supply As the State government said there was no shortage of oxygen to treat COVID-19 patients in the State, the Bench asked the government to inform how it would implement the price of oxygen as per the recent order passed by the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-hospital-monitoring-panels-acted-in-a-casual-manner-karnataka-hc/article32727470.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||All-party meet rules out lockdown in Kerala for now||An all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided that a lockdown was not the panacea for retarding the pace of the COVID-19 pandemic in Kerala. The meeting agreed to review the situation after a fortnight. If the contagion worsened, the conference would weigh the reintroduction of severe curbs on life, travel, production and retail trade. Mr. Vijayan said the lockdown had hurt workers in the unorganised sector most. Many survived on daily wages and had no protections as available to the salaried class. A closing down of the economy would further push them down the path to poverty. Moreover, experts had expressed scepticism about whether a lockdown would help flatten the disease curve permanently. Earlier, Mr. Vijayan had reportedly told a Left Democratic Front (LDF) meeting that the infection would peak in Kerala in mid-October. He reportedly predicted that the daily new-case count could touch 15,000. The government has to walk a tightrope between reining in the rate of infection and keeping the economy open. Hence, the all-party meeting decided to rope in the services of politicians, cutting across party lines, to persuade the public to comply with the mask rule and physical distancing norms. The UDF had earlier announced that it would drop mass agitations until the contagion receded. The LDF had followed suit on Tuesday. BJP State president K. Surendran said the protests against the government would continue within the bounds prescribed by the pandemic prevention protocol. The police and LSGIs would prevent overcrowding in markets and shops. Mask compliance was mandatory, and violators would invite hefty fines. Mass transport operators should ensure the physical distance between passengers. Ramp up testing: IMA Meanwhile, the State branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said tests for COVID-19 should be ramped up and strict restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the virus, treating the situation like a health emergency. Since the only way to contain the spread of the disease is to increase testing and isolate positive patients, the State must ensure that at least one lakh tests are done daily, says a statement issued by IMA State president Abraham Varghese and secretary P. Gopikumar. The test positivity rate remains high even when the number of tests done is low, indicating that the State is moving towards a grave situation, they note.  (With inputs from Kochi bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-party-meet-rules-out-lockdown-in-kerala-for-now/article32727378.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,||This temple in Guntur is akin to Yadagiri||An ancient cave temple dedicated to Lord Narasimha Swamy at Krosuru village in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh offers an excellent tourism potential as it is surrounded by a picturesque lake on a hillock. This temple of swayambhu (self-manifested) man-lion incarnation of Lord Mahavishnu has few parallels to Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Temple at Yadagirigutta near Hyderabad, as the cave temples in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are hardly countable. With a natural rock shelter facing west inside, on the back side of it a carved relief of seated Lord Narasimha image. The rock shelter on the summit of this hillock transformed into a cave temple of Lord Narasimha during 15th A.D. when the Vijayanagara rulers sojourned the region. The sculptural relief is badly eroded and only face of the deity is visible. The rock shelter can be reached through a flight of steps and currently the locals are worshipping the Lord as Kunda Pada Aisvarya Lakshmi Narasimhaswamy. The cave temple overlooks a lake. The pillared mandapam was constructed by Papanayanimgaru – a chieftain of the Vijayanagara kingdom. A pillared mandapam was constructed and added to this open air rock shelter shrine for the benefit of devotees during medieval times and simultaneously a flight of rock cut steps were also provided from the foot of the hillock up to the shrine, said D. Kanna Babu, former superintending archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Temple Survey Project, Chennai. An inscriptional slab of 15th Century A.D. on the steps reveals that emperor Srirangaraya-I of Vijayanagara dynasty appointed chieftain Papanayanimgaru, grandson of Timmanayanimgaru, to make certain contributions to the Narasimha temple, including the construction of mandapam and steps around 1547 A.D., Mr. Babu said, and added that the inscriptional slabs are badly eroded. “With the exposure of this temple, the list of hill shrines dedicated to the Lord Narasimha, including Mangalagiri, Simhachalam, Singaraya Konda, Vedadri and Yadadri, is strengthened,” he said. Mr. Babu stated that both the ancient temple and lake should be developed as a tourist destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-temple-akin-to-yadadri-in-ap/article32727711.ece
30 September 2020||COIMBATORE,||The Hindu’s long-standing News Editor passes away||K. Narayanan, who served The Hindu Group for nearly five decades as its long-standing News Editor, and was the newspaper’s first Readers’ Editor, died at his house here on Tuesday, after a prolonged illness. He was 88. Born in Palakkad, Kerala, on August 24, 1932, Mr. Narayanan grew up in Kozhikode. An alumnus of Chennai’s Loyola College, he joined The Hindu as a Kasturi Ranga Scholar in 1955, after a brief stint at the Indian Express . He was appointed as a sub-editor in 1956, and rose to become the News Editor in 1978. KN, as he was fondly known, worked closely with then Editor, G. Kasturi. He oversaw the news operations of The Hindu till 1990, and of Frontline from 1984 to 1996. Known for his hard work, integrity, and wide knowledge on a range of issues, KN served The Hindu with panache. He proved to be a shaping influence on a generation of journalists at the newspaper as News Editor, and later at Frontline , the fortnightly from the Group, as its Associate Editor. Recalling their association with KN, journalists who had worked under him said he would bring with him from home, pages from each day’s newspaper with errors and awkward phrasing, as well as good work, marked out. He also had a special skill for page layout. Mr. Narayanan held together the daily routine of the editorial department as the newspaper made a key transition in 1980 in production terms from hot metal technology to computerised photo typesetting. He ensured impeccable professional standards in the most self-effacing manner. Colleagues invariably looked up to him as a role model as he displayed efficiency and quick-thinking even under newsroom work pressure. After his formal retirement on August 31, 1996, he was appointed Consultant to Frontline . Later, in 2003, he became a consultant to The Hindu as well. He took office as the first Readers’ Editor of The Hindu on March 1, 2006. He continued in the role till June 30, 2009. The Hindu had modelled the role of the Readers’ Editor on the example set by The Guardian . Mr. Narayanan is survived by his wife Rukmini and son Krishnakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindus-long-standing-news-editor-passes-away/article32727393.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bypolls to one LS, 56 Assembly seats on November 3 and 7||Bypolls to 56 Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat in Bihar, which have been pending due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will be held on November 3 and 7, the Election Commission (EC) said on Tuesday. The Assembly seats include 28 constituencies in Madhya Pradesh, of which 25 were vacated due to the resignation of Congress MLAs, and three due to the death of sitting MLAs. The EC did not announce the schedule for bypolls to seven vacant seats in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala as the authorities in these States expressed difficulties in conducting polls, a Commission statement said. Polling for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency would be held on November 7, along with two Assembly seats in Manipur. Polling for the 54 Assembly seats – one each in Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana, two each in Jharkhand, Karnataka, Nagaland and Odisha, seven in Uttar Pradesh, eight in Gujarat and 28 in Madhya Pradesh – would be held on November 3. Counting of votes would be on November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bypolls-to-one-ls-56-assembly-seats-on-november-3-and-7/article32727395.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Police seizures at Power TV disrupt broadcast||Police seizures at Kannada news channel Power TV, that had recently aired a series of stories claiming to expose corruption by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s family members, has disrupted the broadcast of the channel from Monday night. “The police seized the server of the channel, changed passwords of all Power TV social media accounts essentially leaving us with no avenue to go live. For a news channel this is as good as shutting it down,” Rahman Hassan, Principal Editor, Power TV, told The Hindu. In a video message that has now gone viral, he alleged political vendetta by the CM, a charge that Mr. Yediyurappa has not responded to so far. The channel’s MD Rakesh Shetty, absconding presently, has been booked for extortion and forgery over the stories and sting operation videos connected to the CM’s family. A contractor who the channel alleged was being harassed to pay bribes by a member of the CM’s family, is the complainant against Mr. Shetty. The seizures were part of the search and seizure operations by Central Crime Branch (CCB) probing the case. They had a search warrant from the magistrate court, sources said. “We co-operated with the investigation. Even when they wanted to seize the server, I requested that they take the hard disc and not the entire server as that would disrupt the broadcast, but they seized it anyway,” Mr. Hassan said. Action condemned Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has written to the CM condemning the incident. “We are not objecting to any criminal investigation, which the police are free to carry out. But obstructing the broadcast of a TV channel is an attack on media freedom and jeopardises the jobs of hundreds of journalists,” Shivanand Tagadur, union president, told The Hindu.  Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah tweeted: “The CM’s misuse of power to try to harm a channel that aired stories exposing the corruption of his family members was condemnable. This act has only made people believe the allegations made by the channel. Only a probe can settle this”. However, city police stood their ground and defended their action. A senior police official leading the probe said, “Any inconvenience caused due to seizure is not intentional and doesn’t have any malice. Even for small fraud cases, bank accounts are frozen for months.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-seizures-at-power-tv-disrupt-broadcast/article32727374.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,||The Hindu’s former News Editor no more||Gomatam Dwarakanath, who served The Hindu Group for over four decades, and retired as News Editor of the newspaper, passed away in Bengaluru on Tuesday, after a prolonged illness. He was 86. GD, as he was affectionately referred to, joined the newspaper on August 1, 1958, after graduating in science and law from Mysore University. He replaced K. Narayanan as News Editor, after the latter went on to oversee the operations of Frontline . He retired from The Hindu in 2001. Recalling their professional association with GD, journalists who had worked with him remembered how loyal he was to the organisation and very professional in running the desk. He was humane and humorous, and rarely took leave. They said GD handled typical newsroom work pressure with ease and groomed youngsters in the team. He also ensured that everyone followed The Hindu ’s stylebook. His brother G. Kannan said GD was a violinist too. He has authored two books on Tyagaraja’s thoughts on music: Pancharatna Kritis – meanings and significance and Forgotten Chapters of Music . He was a student of the Ayyanar College of Music founded by the late T. Chowdiah and his advanced lessons under eminent composer Thanjavur Sankara Iyer taught him to delve into the rare kritis of Tyagaraja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindus-former-news-editor-no-more/article32727386.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||EU raises concerns over action against Amnesty||Expressing “concerns” about the government’s investigation into Amnesty International (AI), the European Union said it hopes the global human rights agency can continue its work in India. However, the government defended its actions, and said AI is in “clear contravention” of Indian law. The action against AI including freezing their funds, followed a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry, and is part of the government’s scrutiny of more than 20 international NGOs including Greenpeace, Compassion International, and Ford Foundation, over the past few years. “We have already raised the issue with our Indian interlocutors in New Delhi and in Brussels, expressing our concerns and the expectation that these issues will be solved, and we will continue to do so,” EU spokesperson for Foreign Affairs and Security policy Nabila Massrali said, in a response to The Hindu . “Not prejudging the outcome of any investigation or judicial proceedings, the European Union highly values the work of Amnesty International worldwide and hopes that the matter will be resolved, allowing Amnesty to continue its activities in India without interruption,” she said. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on the EU’s comments. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued a broad defence of actions by various agencies against AI for the past decade, calling it a “bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty”, which has now suspended its India operations, claiming a “witch-hunt” by the government. “In order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty UK remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by classifying it as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). A significant amount of foreign money was also remitted to Amnesty (India) without MHA’s approval under FCRA. This malafide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions,” said the MHA in a rare public statement on the NGO entitled “Human Rights cannot be an excuse for defying the law of the land”. “India, by settled law, does not allow interference in domestic political debates by entities funded by foreign donations,” the MHA added, in a reference to AI’s reports on alleged human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir, and its reference to Delhi Police investigations into the February riots where 53 people were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-raises-concerns-over-action-against-amnesty/article32727412.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Avoid crowding on cable bridge’||“We cannot stop you from enjoying life. But please take precautions. We might get vaccine but we don’t know its efficacy and how long will the immunity given by it will last. To avoid COVID-19, wearing mask, maintaining physical distance, frequent sanitisation or washing hands, avoiding mass gatherings are the ‘social vaccines’ which will keep you, your family safe,” the DPH said. While senior officials from the State Health department have urged people to avoid mass gatherings, they have appealed to IT and other companies to resume work from office. “We are requesting IT companies to start operations as thousands are losing their livelihood,” Dr Rao said. Director of Medical Education (DME) K Ramesh Reddy said that various strategies can be adopted to avoid large number of employees gathering at office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/avoid-crowding-on-cable-bridge/article32727671.ece
30 September 2020||guwahati,||Major arms haul by BSF on Bangladesh border||Personnel of the Border Security Force seized 30 sophisticated rifles, 29 of them automatic Kalashnikovs, from near the Mizoram-Bangladesh border. The weapons were seized in Mamit district on Monday night from two vehicles, officials said, and added that it was one of the largest arms hauls in recent times. Acting on intelligence inputs on the transportation of arms and ammunition, a BSF team had launched a special operation on the outskirts of Phuldungsei village. The team, supervised by BSF Deputy Inspector-General Kuldeep Singh, noticed the movement of two vehicles. It intercepted the vehicles at a place about 15 km from the India-Bangladesh border and seized the weapons. “While conducting a thorough search, we recovered 29 AK series rifles, including a 5.56 mm AK-74 and a carbine along with 7,894 live cartridges and 28 magazines concealed in the fabricated cavities of the vehicles,” a BSF spokesperson said. Three people carrying the weapons smuggled from Bangladesh, identified as Lalhuapzauva (56), Vanlalruata (25) and Liansanga (46), were apprehended for interrogation. All are from Mizoram capital Aizawl. The weapons were suspected to have been destined for an extremist outfit in the Northeast. “We are trying to find out which group and where the consignment was to have been delivered,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/major-arms-haul-by-bsf-on-bangladesh-border/article32727610.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Relief to Kerala parties as bypolls not scheduled||Political parties in Kerala appeared to heave a sigh of relief on Tuesday after they learnt that the Election Commission (EC) had not announced a schedule for Assembly byelections in Chavara and Kuttanad which it had scheduled for November. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala welcomed the decision. An all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on September 9 requested the EC to cancel the elections. The LDF has also welcomed the development. The meeting had agreed that the model code of conduct for the Assembly elections would come into force on March 10, 2021. The newly elected MLAs would not be able to do justice to their office in their three-month tenure. Moreover, Mr. Vijayan had pointed out that the entire government machinery was committed to fighting the pandemic and it would be impractical to deploy the administration to conduct the bypolls. The BJP had agreed to cancel the bypolls but insisted that the local body elections be held on schedule in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relief-to-kerala-parties-as-bypolls-not-scheduled/article32727943.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Amnesty International halts India operations||The freezing of accounts was the latest in the “witch-hunt” of human rights organisations, the statement said. “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including the Enforcement Directorate is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi Police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voices against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” Amnesty International India executive director Avinash Kumar said. Amnesty added that it had complied with all applicable international and Indian laws. For its work in India, it said it raised funds domestically, and around 1 lakh Indians had contributed financially in the past eight years. “These contributions evidently cannot have any relation with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The fact that the Government is now portraying this lawful fundraising model as money-laundering is evidence that the overbroad legal framework is maliciously activated when human rights activists and groups challenge the government’s grave inactions and excesses,” the statement said. The release further said that Amnesty International India stood in full compliance with all applicable Indian and international laws, and for human rights work in India, it operated through a “distinct model of raising funds domestically”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amnesty-international-halts-india-operations/article32727375.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||India rejects China’s ‘unilateral’ claims on LAC||We, therefore, expect that the Chinese side will sincerely and faithfully abide by all agreements and understandings in their entirety and refrain from advancing an untenable unilateral interpretation of the LAC.” The Chinese Foreign Ministry, to a question on India’s border infrastructure projects in Ladakh, said it did not “recognise” Ladakh, reiterating its statements from last year that described the creation of the Union Territory as “illegal”. “China has not recognised Ladakh Union Territory, illegally set up by the Indian side,” its spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. “We are opposed to conducting infrastructure development for military purposes in the border area. Based on the two sides’ consensus, no side should engage in the border areas in any activities that might complicate the situation, to avoid undermining two sides efforts to ease the situation.” The statements came amid the continuing stalemate along the border with no agreement on disengagement and returning to a pre-May 2020 status quo. Asked about China’s own infrastructure projects in the border areas and the asymmetry that Beijing has enjoyed because of such developments, Mr. Wang said China “consistently and strictly abides by the agreements signed with the Indian side”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-rejects-chinas-unilateral-claims-on-lac/article32727382.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||60 mn may have been exposed to virus: survey||The country wide prevalence of the virus was similar to that seen in the United States, which was around 9.3%. Brazil and Spain had a prevalence of 2.8% and 4.6%, the ICMR said. A scientist connected with the survey but who declined to be identified, said the final peer-reviewed version of the study would be available in a month. The lower rate of confirmed cases to true infections was due to an increase in testing as well as the large scale deployment of rapid antigen tests (these quick tests determine the presence of virus but tend to substantially miss infections). “The opening up of the country has no doubt seen the virus spread and it is quite likely that these numbers will increase. There needs to be a consistent decline for several weeks before we can think of having reached a peak,” said the scientist. The average prevalence in major cities ranged from 50% in Mumbai to 29% in New Delhi, 22% in Chennai and 7.8% in Indore. The sero-survey, which aims to capture national prevalence, sampled many more from rural India to reflect the population spread. On May 3, there were 49,720 confirmed cases and 3.7 million by September 1 — a 74-fold increase. As of Tuesday, India recorded 6.1 million confirmed infections, with about 9,50,000 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-mn-may-have-been-exposed-to-virus-survey/article32727383.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. gang-rape victim dies in Delhi hospital||“Though there is dominance of one caste in the village, I came to know about my sister being targeted by these men only when she recorded her statement. They told her if she didn’t submit to their ‘demands’, they would shoot her brother dead,” he said. Even when she was in the hospital, he added, they were threatened. Members of the Azad Samaj Party, whose leader Chandra Shekhar Azad met the woman in JNMCH, alleged that the administration had delayed in referring her to Delhi, and that the facilities in Aligarh were inadequate. They protested in front of Safdarjung Hospital. The victim’s body had not been handed over to the family till late in the night, as officials feared that they would not head to Hathras and continue to protest in Delhi. Sources in the Azad Samaj Party said they would move only when the Chief Minister or a senior Minister arrived or made a statement. The Hathras police have arrested the four accused — Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi — under Sections pertaining to murder and gang-rape. Senior Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir transferred the Station House Office of the Chandpa police station to Police Lines for failing to promptly act in the case. Sources in JNMCH also indicated that there had been “procedural delays possibly because of pressure from the administration”. “It could hamper the forensic investigation,” said a doctor. District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Lakshkar denied any laxity on the part of the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-gang-rape-victim-dies-in-delhi-hospital/article32727387.ece
30 September 2020||Patna,||RLSP quits ‘grand alliance’||Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) leader Upendra Kushwaha on Tuesday announced the severance of ties with the RJD-led mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) and the formation of a new alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and other smaller parties. “My party has made alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Janwadi Party (Socialist) and other parties to contest all the 243 Assembly seats and to form a government”, Mr. Kushwaha told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rlsp-quits-grand-alliance/article32727394.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Prefer to hang than seek bail in Babri case: Bharti||Former Union Minister Uma Bharti, one of the senior BJP leaders facing a verdict on September 30 in the Babri Masjid demolition case being heard in a special CBI court, has said that she would “prefer to hang than seek bail” in the case, if found guilty. In an emotional letter written to BJP president J.P. Nadda, dated September 26, the day he announced his new team of office-bearers (dropping her as party vice-president), she said that her decision not to seek bail if found guilty in the case may make him (Mr. Nadda) exclude her from his team, but that would be the latter’s decision. “I am proud of my participation in the Ayodhya movement and seeking bail would, I believe dilute this participating. Even if I have [to] hang for having participated, it will be acceptable to me. In such circumstances whether or not you would want to keep me in your team is for you to consider,” she wrote. In any event, Ms. Bharti did not find a place in Mr. Nadda’s team. She further wrote that even without a role or when the party had expelled her in the past, she had fought for the Ram temple, ‘Ram rajya’ and the party’s ideology, especially among backward communities. “Ram Mandir is being built, Ram Rajya is pending. I will dedicate the rest of my life to Ram Rajya,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prefer-to-hang-than-seek-bail-in-babri-case-bharti/article32727397.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||How long will Mehbooba be detained, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to clarify how long they intend to detain former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti under the Public Safety Act (PSA). “You should address us on two issues: What is the maximum period for which a person can be detained and what is your proposal and how long do you propose to continue the detention,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, heading a Bench, addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, and listed the case for October 15. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Ms. Mufti’s daughter, Iltija, represented by advocates Nitya Ramakrishnan and S. Prasanna. In an affidavit dated September 28, the Srinagar District Magistrate reasoned that the detention was ordered on the basis of an extensive scrutiny of the material on Ms. Mufti, which showed a “past conduct” of “glorifying militants, brazenly inciting religion to divide the people, demoralising the security forces and the proclivity to indulge in such behaviour in future which would be highly prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. Her “habituality” in pursuing this conduct, the affidavit said, would render the use of ordinary criminal law “futile”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-long-will-mehbooba-be-detained-asks-sc/article32727406.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||MSP will not be applicable: Congress||Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s charge that the Opposition is misleading people on the new farm laws, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused Mr. Modi of lying. He called the former “ Jagadguru of Jhoot ”, which roughly translates as ‘Universal Guru of Lies’. Mr. Modi, while inaugurating six projects in Uttarakhand, accused the Opposition of misleading farmers over the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and alleged that Opposition leaders were unable to tolerate the freedom the new laws had provided to farmers. “Their one more medium to earn black income is finished,” he said. Mr. Ramesh tweeted, “The new Farm Laws will in effect move agricultural trade from APMCs to markets controlled by private companies. MSP will not be applicable when private companies buy farm produce as there is no such provision in the two laws. The PM is being true to himself and lying. Jagadguru of Jhoot!” Mr. Ramesh was referring to the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. “Demonetisation was sold by Jagadguru of Jhoot as a way of recovering black money. That turned out to be wholly bogus. Now JoJ is proclaiming Farm Laws are an attack on black money! This is bizarre by even his standards. He will say anything to sell himself,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/msp-will-not-be-applicable-congress/article32727413.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Centre to hold talks with States to curb pollution||With winter approaching and concerns over an imminent rise in pollution across Delhi and other cities in the Gangetic plain, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has said that he will be convening a “virtual conference” of Environment Ministers of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan and officials in the State departments as well as from city corporations. “We had asked States to prepare short, medium and long-term plans for curbing pollution in 2016 and this meeting will be a review. It will be a free discussion,” he said at a conference on Tuesday. So far, the Minister said, there have been several meetings this year already with the States as well one that included the Prime Minister’s Office to discuss issues around curbing pollution. From October, teams of officials from the Central Pollution Control Board will be conducting spot checks in the Delhi-National Capital Region to catch and fine offenders who may be burning plastic waste, littering or be constructing structures without adhering to protocol. On Saturday, Delhi Chief Minister wrote to Mr. Javadekar, saying that alternative technologies ought to be tried to disincentivise stubble burning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-hold-talks-with-states-to-curb-pollution/article32727611.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Malabar exercise: meeting to discuss Australia’s entry||India will discuss its decision on whether to allow Australia into the Malabar trilateral exercise at the next week’s Quad Foreign Ministers meeting in Tokyo, a defence source said. “The issue would be discussed when they meet in Tokyo on October 6. Based on the understanding reached, a formal announcement could be made by the Ministry of Defence here,” the source said. This year’s edition of the exercise consisting of India, Japan and the U.S. is scheduled to take place in mid-November. India and the U.S. are also scheduled to hold the next round of 2+2 ministerial dialogue. External Affairs Minister Jaishankar will visit Japan from October 6-7 for the second India-Australia-Japan-U.S. ministerial meeting, the External Affairs Ministry said on Tuesday. No final decision The Defence Ministry on Friday discussed the issue of inviting Australia for the Malabar exercise and an understanding has been reached but no final decision was taken. As reported by The Hindu on June 3, after years of reluctance due to Beijing’s sensitivities India said it was open to Australia’s inclusion in the Malabar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malabar-exercise-meeting-to-discuss-australias-entry/article32727404.ece
30 September 2020||Jaipur,||HC rejects plea to postpone civic polls||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday rejected an application of the State government seeking postponement of the elections for the six newly formed Municipal Corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota districts from October 31 to March 20, 2021. The polls at these places will be held on time, by October 31. A Division Bench, headed by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty, said there was no reason for deferring the election process, when the State Assembly elections could be held in Bihar and the village panchayat polls were being conducted in several phases in Rajasthan. During the hearing, the State Election Commission agreed to hold elections on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-plea-to-postpone-civic-polls/article32727999.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||62 from A.P., TS figure in rich list||A total of 62 individuals from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana figure in the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2020, with their cumulative wealth pegged at Rs. 2,45,800 crore. Topping the list from the Telugu States with Rs. 49,200 crore is Murali Divi and family of Divi’s Laboratories. With 20 entrants, pharmaceuticals industry accounts for most number of wealth creators from the two States. With a wealth of Rs. 13,900 crore, B. Parthasaradhi Reddy and family of Hetero Drugs secured the second spot. Others in the top 10 from the two States are K. Satish Reddy and family of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories with Rs. 11,200 crore, Megha Engineering & Infrastructures’ P.Pitchi Reddy (Rs. 11,100 crore) and PV Krishna Reddy (Rs. 10,700 crore), Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories GV Prasad and G Anuradha (Rs. 9,400 crore), Rameswar Rao Jupally and family of My Home Industries (Rs. 8,900 crore), M. Satyanarayana Reddy and family of MSN Laboratories (Rs. 8,700 crore), Natco Pharma’s V. C. Nannapaneni (Rs. 7,500 crore); and C. Visweswara Rao and family of Navayuga Engineering (Rs. 4,900 crore). Mahima Datla of Biological E is the only woman from the two States. She and her family have a wealth of Rs. 4,700 crore. The IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2020 is a compilation of the richest individuals in India having a wealth of Rs. 1,000 crore or more, according to a release. Topping the list is Reliance Industries Mukesh Ambani with a wealth of Rs. 658,400 crore, followed by Hinduja brothers with Rs. 143,700 crore, Shiv Nadar and family at Rs. 141,700 crore, and Gautam Adani and family Rs. 140,200 crore. A release on the individuals figuring in the list from the two States said pharmaceutical sector accounts for 32% of the richest in AP and Telangana, followed by food processing with 11% and construction and engineering (8%). Figuring in the top five wealth gainers in India are Chigurupati Krishna Prasad of Granules India with Rs. 3,500 crore and C. Sathyanarayana of Laurus Labs (Rs. 3,100 crore). They gained 218% and 210% respectively. The release said the number of billionaires from the two States increased to nine from last year’s five. Medha Servo Drives, Virchow Laboratories and Singhania Foods International contribute the highest number of individuals, at three each. There are nine new entrants from the two States in IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2020. They are GS Raju and family of Deccan Chemicals (Rs. 3,400 crore), C. Venkateswara Reddy and S. Subramanyam Reddy of Aparna Constructions & Estates with Rs. 2,500 crore each, Ramoji Rao of Ushodaya Enterprises with Rs. 2,500 crore, Preetam B. Lalvani of Prayagh Nutri Products (Rs. 1,300 crore), Dasari Jai Ramesh of Vijai Electricals (Rs. 1,300 crore), Meka Yugandhar of Karvy Stock Broking (Rs. 1,100 crore), K. Prasad and family of Prasad Seeds (Rs. 1,000 crore) and K. Varaprasad Reddy of Shantha Biotech (Rs. 1,000 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/62-from-ap-ts-figure-in-rich-list/article32727715.ece
30 September 2020||S.R. Praveen,||Legal notice to Kerala govt. on Aadhaar||The petitioners in the Puttaswamy case that challenged the constitutionality of Aadhaar in the Supreme Court (SC) have sent a legal notice to the State government against making Aadhaar number mandatory for signing into the Integrated Local Self-Governance Management System (ILGMS). The intelligent e-governance system which provides access to the public to more than 200 services was launched in 150 panchayats on Monday. Civil society activists Bezwada Wilson and Kalyani Menon-Sen, the petitioners in the Puttaswamy case, have said in the legal notice that the use of Aadhaar for any purpose other than those strictly covered by Section 7 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Subsidies, Services & Benefits) Act, 2016 is prohibited by the Supreme Court’s judgment. The judgment of Justice Chandrachud, which directly addressed the threat of surveillance arising from the architecture of the Aadhaar project, found the project posed an unconstitutional risk of surveillance. The notice points out that the court had struck down the use of Aadhaar for seeding in bank accounts despite an enacted legislative measure, because it failed the test of proportionality. Privacy issues “It is most unexpected that a Left government could promote a clearly illegal and unconstitutional attempt to deprive citizens of their right to privacy,” Ms. Menon-Sen told The Hindu . Digital rights organisations Rethink Aadhaar, Article 21 Trust, Internet Freedom Foundation, SFLC.in and Swathanthra Malayalam Computing have endorsed the legal notice. The government has not yet responded to the notice. Illegal process “As per the law, there is no requirement of Aadhaar for any civil registration via offline visits. Online system designs need to respect the same. Use of Aadhaar shifts the responsibility of verification from issuing officers to an insecure identification system illegally. Now there is no way a citizen can use the ILGMS without OTP verification of Aadhaar. Practically it cripples the use of this new system, apart from its illegality,” said Anivar Aravind, public interest technologist and member of the Rethink Aadhaar and Swathanthra Malayalam Computing. IT Secretary Mohammad Y Safirulla told The Hindu that the Aadhar is used only for profile creation in the online application process. "For availing of any other services, there is no need for Aadhaar. Also, there is no denial of service, because it can be accessed in the offices or through Akshaya centres without an Aadhaar card. It is only for verification purposes that Aadhaar is being used, as the ration card is for the entire family and cannot be used for individual registration and the electoral card is available only for those above 18 years. Still, I have asked the Information Kerala Mission to check whether the system is as per the SC verdict and also to explore whether alternative IDs are possible for login," said Mr. Safirulla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/legal-notice-to-kerala-govt-on-aadhaar/article32727379.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah Naidu tests positive||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, 71, on Tuesday tested positive for COVID-19. His office, however, said he is asymptomatic and in good health. The Vice-President’s secretariat tweeted, “The Vice President of India who underwent a routine COVID-19 test today morning has been tested positive. He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine.” His wife Usha Naidu has tested negative. In the monsoon session of Parliament, 83 employees of the Rajya Sabha secretariat had tested positive. An official statement said a testing camp was set up on Parliament premises on September 7, ahead of the beginning of the session on September 14. As per reports, 83 of the 1,500 odd employees tested positive so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-naidu-tests-positive/article32727400.ece
30 September 2020||Srinagar,||Two ‘Army informers’ remanded||Two “Army informers”, accused of tipping off security personnel about the presence of “alleged militants” on July 18, leading to the Shopian operation, were produced in a local court in south Kashmir on Tuesday. They were sent to judicial remand for eight days. “The two accused were produced before the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Shopian, and were sent to eight days of judicial remand,” an official said. Police sources said Tabish Ahmad Malik, a farmer from Shopian, and Fayaz Ahmad, a Special Police Officer from Poonch, were questioned regarding the Amshipora encounter, which left three youth dead in July. After complaints by their families about the missing men, DNA matching by the police confirmed that all three were labourers from Rajouri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-army-informers-remanded/article32727403.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Denmark in strategic green alliance||India and Denmark on Monday began a new era of partnership in the form of a “far reaching Green Strategic Partnership” that will give the Scandinavian country a special place in delivering sustainable solutions to India. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen described the agreement as a “completely unique way to provide Danish export companies with new opportunities in a market where there is a large untapped potential.” The agreement is in line with the vision expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Ms. Frederiksen who held a virtual summit on Monday. Both sides discussed regional and multilateral issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-denmark-in-strategic-green-alliance/article32727405.ece
30 September 2020||Pune,||Shekhar Kapur is new FTII Society chief||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Thursday appointed eminent filmmaker Shekhar Kapur as the new president of the Pune-based Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Society and Chairman of the FTII governing council which runs the prestigious film school. Mr. Kapur (74), known for such films as Bandit Queen (1994), will hold the post till March 3, 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shekhar-kapur-is-new-ftii-society-chief/article32727410.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||U.P. govt. must apologise to rape victim’s family: Cong.||The Uttar Pradesh government should seek forgiveness from the family of 19-year-old Hathras girl who died days after she was brutally gang-raped, the Congress said on Tuesday. It accused the police and administration of trying to dismiss the incident by calling it “fake news” and reacting far too late. Former Congress pesident Rahul Gandhi said that “jungle raj” in Uttar Pradesh has killed yet another young girl. “The government said that this is fake news and left the victim to die. Neither this unfortunate incident was a lie, nor the death of the victim nor the brutality of the government,” he tweeted. At a press conference in Delhi, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and other women leaders of BJP were conspicuous by their silence on the issue. Ms. Shrinate asked, “She fought and she fought hard to survive, the question still remains, why did it take eight days for the Uttar Pradesh police to register the case under the relevant sections for the gang rape. Why is it that these men who brutally assaulted her do not face NSA [National Security Act] charges?” She said the incident and the treatment by the police, while shocking, was not surprising since out of 312 BJP MLas in the State, 82 were facing grave criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-must-apologise-to-rape-victims-family-cong/article32727414.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Assembly failed to honour MLA: Joseph||Congress leader K.C. Joseph, MLA, has taken exception to the “failure” on the part of the Assembly to honour the memory of Kerala Congress (M) leader C.F. Thomas, MLA. In a letter to the Legislature Secretary, he said convention demanded that in the event of the death of a sitting legislator, the government display his or her photograph prominently in the Assembly Hall and MLA hostel till the funeral was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assembly-failed-to-honour-mla-joseph/article32727942.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When will Marina beach be reopened, HC asks Corpn.||The Madras High Court on Tuesday wanted to know by when the Greater Chennai Corporation would allow the public to access the Marina beach here and then finalise the tenders for procuring and distributing new pushcarts to the vendors after regulating their presence through issuance of identity cards. Justices Vineet Kothari and Krishnan Ramasamy granted time till October 5 for Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal to get instructions from Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash also on the time limit within which the fishermen on the loop road along the Marina would be shifted to a market complex. When the senior judge in the Bench wanted to know whether public were now being allowed to access the beach, which was kept out of bounds since the nationwide lockdown announced in March to fight COVID-19, the AAG said the officials were deliberating on the issue but a final decision was yet to be taken. Justice Kothari said he personally did not see any reason why the beach should be kept out of bounds when the government had relaxed the lockdown to a great extent and allowed people to access almost all commercial spaces. He, however, made it clear that it was up to the Corporation to take a final call. “It is your policy decision and the court will not interfere,” he said. In so far as efforts taken by the court to ensure that the beach was kept neat and clean, the Bench wanted to know the status of directions passed by it since last year for regulating vendors and the fishermen on the loop road. Recalling that the Corporation had earlier told the court that it would call for tenders to procure stainless steel pushcarts and limit the number of vendors, the judges wanted to know whether the tenders had been finalised and by when the civic body would commence procurement and distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-will-marina-beach-be-reopened-hc-asks-corpn/article32727577.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport to have tunnel for shuttle train||In a few years from now, passengers will take a mini train to travel from one terminal to another through a tunnel in the Chennai airport. While one tunnel will have trains transporting passengers, another will carry their baggage. The length of the twin tunnels will be 1.5 km and it will link the satellite terminal with the new integrated terminal building. A consultant appointed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has finished the study for constructing the integrated terminal building. The satellite terminal will be located near the remote parking bays (and between the main and secondary runways). This plan was mooted primarily because there have been delays in passengers receiving their baggage, whenever an aircraft is parked in the remote bays. So, to make use of nearly 40 remote bays available and ensure passengers don’t have to wait long for their baggage, the satellite terminal has been planned and a study taken up. The new terminal will be linked to the integrated terminal building that is now under construction, as part of phase II modernisation project and likely to be ready in a few years. A passenger who gets off the vehicle, will step into the new integrated building, go through the check-in and security process and reach the tunnel. A two-car train will be waiting to take passengers to the satellite terminal. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the satellite terminal will have three levels — one for departure, one for arrival and another for boarding. “Before COVID-19 struck, the traffic was growing enormously and we found it difficult with terminals getting saturated to handle that volume of traffic. Now, the number of passengers travelling daily is low. But we have a plan for the future, when the traffic will eventually reach 35,000-36,000 a day and we should be able to handle it with ease,” an official said. The soil conditions have been checked and AAI claims there will not be issues to build twin tunnels here. The construction of the twin tunnels will begin first and then the work on the satellite terminal will follow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-to-have-tunnel-for-shuttle-train/article32727514.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown restrictions extended by a month||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday extended the COVID-19 lockdown across the State till October 31, but offered a few relaxations. Last month, it had extended the curbs till September 30. In a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said restaurants and tea shops would remain open between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Takeaway services would be permitted till 10 p.m. Essentially, this means an extension in operational timings by an hour each for dine-in and parcel services. He also announced that shootings for cinema could be carried out with 100 persons on set, but spectators were not to be allowed. "The State government announced major relaxations during September and, at the same time, the spread of the infection has decreased at the State level. Steps are being taken to further decrease the [case] mortality rate," Mr. Palaniswami said. Meeting with officials The announcement followed his video conference with District Collectors and his meeting with medical and public health experts at the Secretariat on Tuesday. While he announced that 50 more flights from other States would be allowed to land in Chennai per day, there was no such relaxation for Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai, Thoothukudi and Salem airports. The State-run and government-related training institutes would be allowed to function by complying with the Standard Operating Procedure in this regard. Weekly shandies in rural and urban areas alone would be allowed to function by complying with the Standard Operating Procedure. The prohibitory orders against the gathering of more than five persons in an area continue to remain in place, Mr. Palaniswami said, and clarified that the relaxations would not apply to COVID-19 containment zones anywhere in the State. Train services The orders against the reopening of cinema halls, swimming pools and entertainment/amusement parks, among others, would continue to be in force. The suspension of suburban train services too would continue. The ban on religious, social, political, recreational, cultural, educational and other meetings and rallies would also remain in place, he said. Mr. Palaniswami reiterated his appeal to the people to wear face masks in public places, wash their hands with soap at workplaces and in their homes regularly, and strictly adhere to physical distancing norms. “Only if you extend full cooperation, the infection could be contained,” he said, addressing the public. The general public has to follow the guidelines issued by the government while taking part in weddings, funerals and other family functions and while visiting religious places to avoid the spread of the infection, the Chief Minister said. ‘Prioritise elderly’ During his meeting with District Collectors in the morning, Mr. Palaniswami instructed the authorities to give priority to the elderly and persons with co-morbidities when taking samples for RT-PCR testing and while declaring results. The Chief Minister also instructed them to check whether government and private hospitals are following the Standard Operating Procedure for providing treatment for COVID-19.  The State government announced major relaxations during September and, at the same time, the spread of the infection has decreased at the State level||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-restrictions-extended-by-a-month/article32727552.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court Full Bench reserves verdict on effect of SHRC reports||A Full Bench (comprising three judges) of the Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a reference made to it by a Division Bench in July 2017 for answering whether the reports of the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) were merely recommendatory in nature or if they would be binding upon the State government. Justices S. Vaidyanathan, V. Parthiban and M. Sundar deferred their judgment after hearing marathon arguments advanced by a battery of lawyers since February 17 this year. Over 40 advocates made their submissions before the Bench. Additional Solicitor General R. Shankaranarayanan, Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath, Central Government standing counsel M.P. Jaisha and advocate R. Srinivas represented the Centre, the State government, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the SHRC, respectively, before the Full Bench and placed their submissions.  Amicus Curiae B. Vijay wound up the arguments by bringing to the notice of the judges that a previous Full Bench comprising Justices T.S. Sivagnanam, V. Bhavani Subbaroyan and M. Dhandapani had posed five significant questions, related to the issue, to the State government on June 17, 2019 and obtained written replies to them on July 10, 2019. Cumbersome procedure Mr. Vijay told the court that the State was actually following a cumbersome procedure that might end up whittling down the effect of the SHRC reports. Stating that it had received 101 recommendations from the SHRC in the last five years with respect to the Home department, the government said that 40 of those recommendations were accepted and 35 were under consideration. The recommendations made by SHRC in 26 other cases had been stayed by the High Court, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-full-bench-reserves-verdict-on-effect-of-shrc-reports/article32727568.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 5,546 cases, 70 deaths||With 5,546 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, the State’s tally of cases climbed to 5,91,943. The State recorded 70 more deaths, taking its toll to 9,453. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,277, while Coimbatore reported 572 cases. The cases surged in Salem as 343 persons tested positive. Chengalpattu reported 330 cases and Tiruvallur 279 cases. Nine districts recorded 100-plus cases. These included Thanjavur, 186, Kancheepuram, 159, Tiruppur, 153, and The Nilgiris, 149, of which three were imported cases. A total of 5,501 persons, including 1,119 in Chennai, were discharged. So far, 5,36,209 persons have been discharged in the State. As many as 46,281 persons are undergoing treatment, including 11,193 in Chennai and 5,156 in Coimbatore. Of the 70 deaths, 41 persons died at government hospitals. Among them was a 37-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on September 13 with complaints of fever and cough for 10 days and difficulty in breathing for nine days. He died on September 28 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 26-year-old woman with intellectual disability was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on September 18. Her swab returned positive the next day. She died on September 27 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 33-year-old man from Coimbatore died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on September 27. He had diabetes and died of bilateral broncho-pneumonia and diabetic ketoacidosis. Chennai accounted for 17 deaths, taking the city’s toll to 3,195. There were nine deaths in Salem and eight in Vellore and six in Chengalpattu. A total of 85,997 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 72,67,122 samples and a total of 70,50,820 individuals were tested. Two more private laboratories were approved for testing of samples — Sri Muthukumaran Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, Chennai, and Sri Samraj Labs, Kallakurichi. The State has 66 government laboratories and 120 private facilities for testing.  As many as 46,281 persons are undergoing treatment, including 11,193 in Chennai and 5,156 in Coimbatore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-5546-cases-70-deaths/article32727559.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||86,300 applications received under RTE Act in State||Around 86,300 applications have been received for admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act in Tamil Nadu till the last date on September 25. The Directorate of Matriculation Schools began admissions under the RTE Act on August 27 and applications were filed till September 25. "We have already scrutinised the applications received and have intimated parents who had submitted incomplete applications which had documents missing. A final list of students who have got admissions will be released on September 30," said A. Karuppasami, Director of Matric Schools. The RTE portal maintained by the School Education department where parents could apply online indicates that there were 1,15,689 seats in 8,615 private matriculation schools for admissions under the Act. Of this, Chennai had 5,533 seats in 462 schools. Tiruvallur had the highest intake capacity with 7,099 seats in 568 schools. On October 1, schools which have received more applications than the number of seats available will select students through a draw of lots. An official from the School education department said that their staff as well as an official from the revenue department will be present to monitor the procedure. Following this, the names of students who are selected will be displayed on the school notice boards on October 3 and all students are expected to complete the admission formalities by October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/86300-applications-received-under-rte-act-in-state/article32727574.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays G.O. requiring deemed varsities to obtain NOC for agriculture courses||The Madras High Court on Tuesday stayed the operation of a Government Order issued on July 28 directing all deemed universities to obtain no objection certificates (NOCs) from the government within six months for conducting agriculture or allied courses and not to admit new students until such NOC was obtained. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh granted the interim stay on petitions filed by SRM Institute of Science and Technology and Vellore Institute of Technology challenging the G.O. on the ground that the State government had no authority to force the deemed universities to obtain NOCs from it. Senior counsel G. Masilamani and Chitra Sampath told the court the G.O. had been passed by referring to the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations of 2004 and 2016, though all deemed to be universities across the country were now actually governed by the UGC (Institutions deemed to be universities) Regulations of 2019. Mr. Masilamani contended that the regulations in vogue do not require the deemed universities to obtain NOCs from the State government. Central Government Senior Panel Counsel B. Rabu Manohar, representing the UGC, also told the court that there was no necessity for institutions deemed to be universities to obtain clearance from the State governments. He brought it to the attention of the court that an association of self-financing agricultural colleges had already filed a writ petition seeking a direction to the government to implement the G.O. and prevent all nine deemed universities, that were offering agriculture and allied courses, from admitting students this year. The UGC had prepared a counter affidavit to that petition taking a stand that the government had no role to play in conduct of agriculture and allied courses by deemed universities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-go-requiring-deemed-varsities-to-obtain-noc-for-agriculture-courses/article32727522.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro waives licence fee for retailers, advertisers||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) will give huge concessions to firms operating in the 45-km network of phase I project in a bid to help them cope with heavy losses from the lockdown imposed by COVID-19. From retailers to advertisers, CMRL receives non-fare box revenue from a host of firms. But owing to lockdown, Metro Rail had incurred a loss of Rs. 80 crore in the past few months. According to CMRL officials, they will waive licence fee for the lockdown period (from April 1 to September 30) for all firms, except telecom operators who will get discounts. Since a majority of the people have been working from home, the telecom operators have witnessed surge in internet traffic. So, those who have put up optic fibre cables, mobile towers and signal boosters will be given 30%, 50% and 70% discounts respectively. Even in the coming months, CMRL will offer discounts to firms, officials said. The patronage of Metro Rail has been poor as a majority of the commuters hesitate to take public transport. “We understand they have had to face losses and these have to be equitably shared, in all fairness. And hence, we drew up a plan to offer discounts from October 1 to March 31, 2021. Our intention is to help them recover and manage business for a while,” an official said. Discount slabs In this period, firms that have put up kiosks, ATMs, placed advertisements inside trains or stations and solely depend on passenger turnout will receive a 50% discount in their licence fee. These outlets on the street that are not relying only on the passenger traffic but can have common public too as customers will get 25% discount. “We encourage new start-ups, women entrepreneurs and firms that come up with unique initiatives too. We have now begun to get new enquiries from a few companies for taking up spaces in stations,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-waives-licence-fee-for-retailers-advertisers/article32727509.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why is Modi protecting EPS, OPS: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was protecting Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, “who are the kingpins of corruption” and that he must explain to the people the reasons behind his support to them. “Mr. Modi, who campaigned about corruption everywhere, is now protecting the two leaders and the AIADMK government that is absolutely corrupt. Why is he so keen on trying to save this government, trying to protect them, making the CBI, ED cases against them be diluted? Will he explain to the people the truth behind all this?,” Mr. Stalin asked in a statement. The DMK leader claimed that it was the BJP government at the Centre that was protecting Chief Minister Palaniswami’s ‘corrupt regime’ flourish. Mr. Stalin said it was shocking that the CBI did not find any proof against Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) member Sekar Reddy in a cash seizure case in 2016. “The BJP has given this as special prize to the AIADMK,” he claimed. He further said the CBI, which is known to collect evidence even from a shred of paper, could not even trace the banks from which the currency notes seized from him were issued. “Right from the Rs. 570 crore Tiruppur container case to the recent PM KISAN scam, the BJP has protected the AIADMK government, even had an alliance with it in 2019 and will have an alliance in 2021 as well for the Assembly polls and get a sizeable number of seats. Is this why the BJP has signed a “corruption protection agreement” [with the AIADMK]?,” the DMK president asked. He also alleged that the BJP had enslaved the AIADMK to usurp the State’s rights, impose its communal agenda in Tamil Nadu, show hostility towards farmers and impose Hindi in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-is-modi-protecting-eps-ops-asks-stalin/article32727528.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nutritional care important for critically ill patients’||Experts on Tuesday discussed the importance of nutritional care for the critically ill COVID-19 patients. The Department of Clinical Nutrition, a unit of Madras Medical Mission (MMM), along with the Chennai chapter of NetProFan, organised the 12th annual nutrition meet — Nutriutsav 2020 — on ‘Nutrition care process for the critically ill COVID-19 patients-A multi-disciplinary approach’. Speaking on nutritional challenges and management of the critically ill COVID-19 patients, B. Ravinder Reddy, gastrointestinal surgeon, CARE Hospital, Hyderabad, said, “While the majority have mild disease, 5% to 10% need intensive care unit admission. The manifestations included cytokine storm, acute respiratory distress syndrome, tissue hypoxia, systemic inflammation, liver and renal dysfunction, reduced organ perfusion and gastrointestinal dysfunction.” Risk factors The risk factors for intensive care unit admission were people tending to be older (aged above 60), co-morbidities in 25%-40 % of patients, overweight or obesity, having initial symptoms for at least 10 days and sustained nutritional deficits prior to admission, he said. “ICU patients required 15-20 kcal/kg/day in the initial phases,” he said, adding that the lack of feeding could pose problems of severe malnutrition, barrier dysfunction and microbial translocation, while early enteral feeds had benefits, including increasing the blood flow. He outlined the role of micro-nutrients, while noting that diarrhoea, distention, aspiration, circulatory shock, prone position, reduced absorption and regurgitation were the challenges in feeding. Speaking on ‘Pathophysiology of malnutrition in COVID-19 Chronic Kidney Disease’, Georgi Abraham, director, nephrology, MMM, said the objective of nutrition in Chronic Kidney Disease was to prevent malnutrition, reduce uremic symptoms and slow down the progression of the disease. Tilakavati Karupaiah, professor, School of Biosciences Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, Malaysia, said the pandemic had impacted dietitian’s way of practice. Meenakshi Bajaj, dietitian, Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, said nutrition was a powerful clinical and therapeutic tool in the prevention and management of non-communicable diseases and key to heart health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nutritional-care-important-for-critically-ill-patients/article32727548.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||226 teams formed to ensure water supply during northeast monsoon||As part of its measures to face the northeast monsoon, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board has formed 226 operational teams across the State to ensure adequate water supply. According to a press release from C.N. Mahesvaran, TWAD Board Managing Director, the board had taken up SWOT analysis, a method used to evaluate strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats of infrastructure. The board has identified some vulnerable areas that require attention. These include damage to pipelines due to landslides, damage around infiltration wells and damage to pipelines near rivers. Water supply is being provided through 556 schemes across the State. Each of the 226 wings will have an assistant engineer and assistant executive engineer. The team will take precautionary measures to ensure alternate arrangements for water supply during power outages, cleaning and disinfection of sumps and attending to repairs and pipeline bursts. Moreover, 20 disaster response teams comprising of five members have been formed to assist local TWAD Board officials during emergencies in providing sufficient water supply and instant water quality checks.. Officials have also been instructed to adhere to safety precautions while executing 73 ongoing projects, including the underground drainage schemes and combined water supply schemes. Besides putting up boards with contact numbers of officials and providing adequate lighting at work sites, officials have been advised to immediately de-water excavated trenches after a rain spell and clear excavated earth immediately to avoid slippery stretches. Residents may contact the emergency information receiving centre on 9445802145, and through social media, regarding any issues in water supply, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/226-teams-formed-to-ensure-water-supply-during-northeast-monsoon/article32727518.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang committing loan fraud nabbed||The Anti-Bank Fraud wing of the Central Crime Branch on Tuesday busted a gang of 12 who were running a call centre in Thirumullaivoyal, and had cheated several persons by offering quick online loans at cheap interest rates. A senior police officer said, “The prime accused Gopi Krishnan, 30, of Villivakkam, had already been arrested last year for running fake call centres at a few places in the city and detained under the Goondas Act. After his detention was quashed by the court, he came out on bail a few months ago. Again, he began commiting the same kind of fraud, and ensnared many loan aspirants.” On the instructions of the Commissioner of Police, Additional Commissioner of Police, CCB, Thenmozhi formed a team to raid fake call centres during the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on a tip off, the team raided the call centre in Thirumullaivoyal. The “employees” called potential victims. Young women hired as telecallers were asked to offer loans. The executives would then collect documents and Rs. 20,000 as GST for sanctioning loan. After collecting the online transfer of money, the call centres switched off the phone numbers, the CCB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-committing-loan-fraud-nabbed/article32727516.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Covishield trial starts in Chennai||The phase two trial of the University of Oxford’s COVID-19 vaccine candidate, Covishield, has started in Chennai. Officials of the Health Department confirmed that the trial had started in Chennai, but refused to divulge any further details. 300 volunteers The trial, which is being carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, involves two institutions in the city — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research. A total of 300 volunteers would be involved, said a release issued earlier by the Health Department. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine had called for volunteers for the trial (phase two/three observer-blind, randomised, controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of Covishield in healthy Indian adults). About 200 vials of the vaccine candidate arrived in the city in the first week of September.  About 200 vials of the vaccine arrived in the city in the first week of September||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covishield-trial-starts-in-chennai/article32727543.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal’s party seeks to build rural base in State||Makkal Needhi Maiam party functionaries have been instructed to participate in gram sabha meetings on October 2 in at least 1,500 villages across Tamil Nadu and connect the village leaders and youngsters to party leadership via videoconferencing. MNM founder Kamal Haasan is expected to speak to the people. Speaking to The Hindu , MNM vice-president R. Mahendran said the party, which garnered sizeable share of votes from urban seats in the Lok Sabha elections, has been working to build a base in rural Tamil Nadu in the last six months. “There is no doubt that the majority of our population still lives in villages and we have asked four party functionaries to attend each of the 1,500 gram sabha meetings. These party functionaries will connect village elders and youngsters to party leadership,” he said. Asked if these efforts are being taken to set right the perception that MNM is largely an urban phenomenon, he said, “I disagree that we are more popular only in the urban pockets. This perception is based on the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in which we campaigned only for 17 days and were allotted a symbol just 21 days before.” “In the last six months, we have been working very hard and are proud to say that we have party representatives in most villages. We intend to kick off our campaign for the State Assembly elections on October 2,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamals-party-seeks-to-build-rural-base-in-state/article32727525.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Union seeks Governor’s support to retain Anna University’s name||The Anna University Teachers’ Association (AUTA) has written to Governor Banwarilal Purohit requesting him to advise the State government against renaming the university. The State government, through a law passed recently to bifurcate Anna University, has chosen to retain the name for the new institution while changing the name of the existing campus, comprising four institutions, to Anna Technological and Research University. Students, teachers upset Taking strong exception to this, the association in its letter said the renaming did not go down well with teachers, alumni and students as all their credentials such as ranking, journal papers, patents and memorandum of understandings were in the name of Anna University. “We get an ill-feeling of our intellectual properties being robbed,” the letter stated. “For 42 years, College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG), Madras Institute of Technology, Alagappa College of Technology and School of Architecture and Planning have gained their reputations as Anna University,” AUTA said. It said the word “research” was redundant for a university’s name and said the academic reach of the proposed unitary university, existing in the name of Anna University, had gone well beyond technology and into physics, chemistry, mathematics, English and media studies. Multidisciplinary role It already adopts a multidisciplinary approach mandated by the new National Education Policy, the letter said. “Hence, inserting the word ‘technological’ was uncalled for,” it added. Stating that it was wise convention to retain the name of old university and give another name to the newly created one, it appealed to the Governor to advise the State government to amend the law accordingly.  We get an ill-feeling of our intellectual properties being robbed Anna University Teachers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-seeks-governors-support-to-retain-anna-universitys-name/article32727563.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Manufacturing sector has major disabilities’||The Indian manufacturing sector has some major disabilities that must be removed to become globally significant, Pawan Kumar Goenka, Managing Director of Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd said. “Investment decisions by many of us here are conservative and India has tremendous cost disadvantages because of power cost, logistics cost and cost of regulatory compliances,” he said during a virtual meeting that was organised by the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI) to celebrate its Chamber Day. He further pointed out that India is lagging behind in capabilities in high tech manufacturing and its share in global high tech trade is under 1% while Germany's share is 8%, Korea 8% and China 26%. “India does not have a strong manufacturing brand — most affluent Indians use foreign brands,” he said, adding that there are very few areas where India owns technology and IPR. “There is very little technological innovation happening in India,” he said. He also stressed that India needs to have the right infrastructure to bring in investments into this space like what China and Vietnam did. Mr. Goenka pointed out that India has huge potential when it comes to electric vehicles specifically for shared mobility. “Now is the time to invest in technologies pertaining to electric vehicles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manufacturing-sector-has-major-disabilities/article32727569.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Reconsider paddy procurement price’||Office-bearers of the Tamilnadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the State government for paddy procurement for 2020-21 is not acceptable and urged the government to reconsider the price In a statement, P. Shanmugam, State Secretary of the sangam, said the Centre had increased the MSP by only Rs. 53 from last year and it worked out to Rs. 1,868 per quintal for the common variety and Rs. 1,868 per quintal for A variety. The Tamil Nadu government has offered an incentive of Rs. 50 per quintal for the common variety and Rs. 70 per quintal for A variety, which resulted in a procurement price of Rs. 1,918 and Rs. 1958 per quintal respectively, he added. The State government had not taken into account the increase in production cost and other factors, Mr. Shanmugam alleged and demanded the price be fixed at Rs. 3,000 per quintal. He also said the State government should ensure the functioning of procurement centres in the delta region with sufficient staff and funds, noting that stocks had been damaged. Mr. Shanmugam also asked the government to provide compensation for the damaged stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconsider-paddy-procurement-price/article32727575.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women arrested for fraudulently selling land||The Anti-Land Grabbing Cell of the Central Crime Branch has arrested two women — a licensed document writer and her relative — for allegedly creating forged documents and selling off property in Pallikaranai, belonging to a Singapore-based businessman. The police said the businessman, Vincent Selvasekar Kesan, has been living in Singapore for a long time, and inherited the property measuring 4,800 sq. ft. in Ram Nagar extension, Pallikaranai. Utilising his long absence from the city, the suspects planned to grab the property. Recently he learnt that his property was sold to two women in a fraudulent transaction. He lodged a complaint with the city police through his power of attorney last February. On investigation, the Anti-Land Grabbing Cell unearthed the alleged involvement of two women who were running an office near the Sub-Registrar Office of Saidapet on Perumal Koil West Mada Street. The suspects — N. Sornalatha, 49, who is a licensed document writer and her sister B. Lalitha, 52, registered a power of attorney in the name of the former by arranging an impersonator, making it seem as if the original owner executed the power of attorney. The registration was done based on forged documents. The suspects had obtained housing loans from the Tamil Nadu Industrial Cooperative Bank by pledging the forged land documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-arrested-for-fraudulently-selling-land/article32727511.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amazon sets up storage facility at Ponneri||Amazon India has opened a specialised fulfilment centre in Ponneri taluk in Kancheepuram district besides expanding its existing facility in Tiruvallur district. The new centre in Ponneri has close to 7 lakh cubic feet of storage space, which can also hold products in the large appliance and furniture category. With this, Amazon has storage capacity of close to 3 million cubic feet across five fulfilment centres to its more than 43,000 sellers in Tamil Nadu. “Tamil Nadu is an important market for us and we are delighted to further invest and expand our infrastructure in the State. This expansion will work as an enabler for small and medium businesses in Tamil Nadu helping them with faster delivery of their products to a wider customer base,” said Abhinav Singh, director – Amazon Transportation Services, Amazon India. N. Muruganandam, Principal Secretary, Department of Industries, said: “The Chief Minister has given clear instructions to all government agencies to provide facilitation and support to all industrial and commercial establishments. Amazon’s investment will generate significant employment opportunities.” The expansion is a part of Amazon India’s recently announced plans.  This expansion will work as an enabler for small and medium businesses Abhinav Singh Director, Amazon Transportation Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amazon-sets-up-storage-facility-at-ponneri/article32727517.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hotel GMs to conduct bike rally on October 2||In an effort to revive tourism and safe travel, a group of general managers of hotels in and around the city will go on a bike rally from Thiruvanmiyur to Mamallapuram on October 2. Called the Chennai Hotel General Managers, there are 60 of them in the group, and they plan to spread the message that the city is a safe destination and that hotels are ready to welcome back guests with safety protocols in place. The schedule Titled as ‘Rediscover Chennai, Rediscover Life’, the general managers will leave by 7 a.m. on Friday morning, reach the tourist town via Rajiv Gandhi Salai and ride back via the East Coast Road. Rajesh Radhakrishnan, The Park, said though hotels, restaurants and bars had reopened after five months, people were still apprehensive of dining out or staying out. “We want to tell people that if they follow safety protocols, they will be safe. Hotels have been given stringent norms by the government in every aspect of running a hotel,” he said. ‘Extremely challenging’ Shabin Sarvottam, Hotel Radisson GRT, said the pandemic had been extremely challenging for the tourism sector. The hospitality industry was an integral part of the economy as it ensured lakhs of job opportunities and generates revenue. “Hoteliers have come together to boost the hospitality industry and take back guests to re-experience the most wonderful yet safe services,” he said. Hotels have already begun getting guests opting for short staycations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotel-gms-to-conduct-bike-rally-on-october-2/article32727549.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man, son held for murdering relative||M.K.B. Nagar Police on Tuesday arrested a man and his son for allegedly murdering their relative, using a cricket bat, in Vyasarpadi. The police said Appunraj, 42, an autorickshaw driver, was a resident of Sanjay Nagar, Vyasarpadi. He had married two women, and they were living in neighbouring houses in Sanjay Nagar. Following a quarrel, they left for their maternal homes. On Monday, an inebriated Appunraj blamed his relatives — Velusamy and his son Raveeshwaran — for his wives leaving him. He picked a quarrel with them and allegedly attempted to attack the duo using a cricket bat. However, in retaliation, the duo snatched the bat from him and beat him up. Appunraj died on the spot and the duo surrendered to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-son-held-for-murdering-relative/article32727570.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kasimedu fishermen’s return delayed||The return of the eight fishers from Kasimedu, who drifted at sea for over 50 days, will take more time with the COVID-19 lockdown in place in Myanmar, where they are currently staying. “They were brought to the mainland by a chartered flight and have been kept at a place in Yangon. Hopefully, flights will resume by the October 7 and they can come home via Delhi by October 9,” said Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar. The assistant driver of the boat, Babu, who went missing at a fishing harbour in that country, is yet to be found. “It will be helpful if the government or some organisation came forward to take care of his children’s education,” said Balaji, the boat owner. The boat, which was retrieved and repaired, sank due to the damage in the cyclone that crossed the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kasimedu-fishermens-return-delayed/article32727573.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayakumar rebuts DMK’s charge||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Tuesday rebutted the DMK’s criticism over the State government’s support to Central laws on agriculture reforms. Asked about the DMK’s reported plan to get judicial remedy against the laws in the event of the State government’s failure to do so, Mr. Jayakumar, in a chat with reporters, accused the Opposition party of seeking to “mislead” the people on the issue. As explained by the Chief Minister, the laws would not adversely impact sources of livelihood of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayakumar-rebuts-dmks-charge/article32727523.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inter-State gang of drug peddlers held||Officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Chennai, have busted an inter-State drug smuggling gang and seized 25 kg of pseudoephedrine from a parcel service office on Walltax Road. Based on specific information, sleuths of the DRI, Chennai, in a swift operation on Monday, busted an inter-State drug smuggling gang operating in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and intercepted a consignment of European water closets from a private parcel office at Walltax Road, Chennai, which was about to be despatched to Ernakulam. On examination of the consignment kept in 15 cartons, around 25 kg of a white powder, believed to be pseudoephedrine was found concealed in the inner walls of the cartons, and was seized under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, a press release from DRI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inter-state-gang-of-drug-peddlers-held/article32727510.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decision on schools withheld||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday decided to put on hold the G.O. that permitted students of Classes X, XI and XII to come to schools on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from their teachers from October 1. The decision to put the order on hold followed inputs from the Collectors, the advice from medical and public health experts and the prevailing COVID-19 situation, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in a statement. “The issue would be reviewed and a decision would be taken on granting permission at an appropriate time,” he said. The Chief Minister held a video-conference meeting with the Collectors in the morning and chaired a meeting of medical and public health experts at the Secretariat in the evening. The restrictions pertaining to schools, colleges, research organisations and all educational institutions would continue, he said. The government last week decided to permit senior students to come to schools on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from their teachers from October 1, following the Union government’s guidelines for the partial reopening of schools. The Centre had specified that schools were permitted to call students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII, if they needed to meet their teachers for guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-schools-withheld/article32727560.ece
30 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Pocso Act: police, social defence dept. launch awareness campaign||The Special Wing for Crime Against Women and Children (CAWC) and the Department of Social Defence have launched an awareness campaign on Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act to prevent offences against children. R. Lalvena, Commissioner, Social Defence, said the idea was to catch the attention of the public by highlighting the punishment for offences, which under the Pocso can even be death sentence. “In Pocso cases, the perpetrators are predominantly men. Hence, we want to target places where men assemble, like salons and tea shops,” he said. Highlighting that a number of Pocso cases resulted from elopement where the girl is under 18 years of age, he said it was important to send the message that it did not matter whether the sexual act was consensual. Chennai police said that while a total of 252 cases were registered under Pocso Act in 2019 in the city, 2020 has so far witnessed 165 cases. “Through this campaign, we are targeting likely perpetrators, victims and parents. It is a warning asking people not to take Pocso Act lightly,” said Seema Agarwal, ADGP headquarters, who is holding additional charge of CAWC.  Poster campaign “Across the State, the police and social defence departments will paste the posters in barber shops, tea shops, ration shops and places where people gather in large numbers,” she said and pointed out that unlike other crimes, in Pocso cases, the perpetrator is most often known to the family of the victim. The SPs and Commissioners across the State were requested to release the poster, so that there is more awareness. “We are also planning to have video clips on the Act to be telecast on Kalvi channel to reach children,” she explained. H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner, CAWC, Chennai, said that apart from pasting posters, they have been conducting online sessions providing safety tips for parents to guide children on cyber safety. The police officers have been asking working parents to talk to their children before and after returning from work to understand their problems. A three-day training session on the Pocso Act and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act was also organised this week for Child Welfare Officers in police stations. Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Commissioner of Police, Chennai, took part and addressed the officers as part of the training. (Childline, operates a helpline, 1098, for children in distress across the country)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pocso-act-police-social-defence-dept-launch-awareness-campaign/article32727526.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Premalatha Vijayakant tests positive||DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, and was admitted to MIOT Hospitals on Tuesday. She is stable and under observation, the hospital said in a statement. DMDK founder Vijayakant, who had tested positive earlier, would be discharged shortly. He is asymptomatic, stable and responding well to routine non-invasive care, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/premalatha-vijayakant-tests-positive/article32727544.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior civic official dies of COVID-19||A pall of gloom descended on the Ripon Building, the headquarters of the Greater Chennai Corporation, on Tuesday, after a senior official fell victim to COVID-19. S. Shankar, a Superintendent Engineer who was working in the Storm Water Drain Department, succumbed to the infection. A senior official of the civic body said the 57-year-old Superintendent Engineer was an efficient officer, and was admitted to a private hospital more than 10 days ago. But he died on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-civic-official-dies-of-covid-19/article32727550.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman injured as lift crashes||Seven persons, including a pregnant woman, sustained minor injuries when an elevator crashed inside a marriage hall, at Minjur, on Monday. The marriage hall at Poongambedu village was booked to hold a baby shower ceremony for Sindhu, 21, wife of Seshadri of the same village. In the evening, the couple and five others took the lift after which it crashed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pregnant-woman-injured-as-lift-crashes/article32727512.ece
30 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation places COVID-19 caution boards across city||As part of efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, and warn the public on the penalty for violation of safety guidelines, Coimbatore Corporation has placed caution boards across the city. Sources in the civic body said the Corporation had placed 500 such boards mentioning the enhanced fine – Rs. 200 for not wearing mask, Rs. 500 for not following physical distancing norm and Rs. 500 for spitting in public. Barricades restored The Corporation has also restored the barricading of a part of or an entire street with over three COVID-19 positive cases, the sources said. The Corporation said in a press release that barricading would be done for 14 days and disinfection would be carried out, a measure that it had been carrying out. People within the containment zone would not be allowed to move out and those outside would not be permitted to enter.  179 containment zones As of Tuesday morning, the Corporation had 179 such containment zones with over three cases each, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-places-covid-19-caution-boards-across-city/article32727583.ece
30 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman arrested for stabbing husband to death||The Variety Hall Road police arrested a 27-year-old woman on charges of murdering her husband on Thirumal Street here on Tuesday. The accused, Carolin, confessed to the police during inquiry that she stabbed Franklin Britto (35) amid a verbal altercation in their residence at around 9.30 a.m. He was declared dead on arrival at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, police said. The accused was remanded in judicial custody. Accused held The Race Course police on Tuesday arrested an accused, who was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, for arriving at the special court in an inebriated state. Police sources said Suresh was arrested by the Saravanampatti police in 2018 for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl and was out on bail. As he arrived at the court for the trial on Tuesday, Judge J. Radhika noticed that he was drunk and ordered the police to arrest him on charges of disrespecting the court, the sources said. Probe on in Tiruppur Tiruppur District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said on Tuesday that the investigation in the case where two women from Madurai attacked a man in Palladam on September 14 was under way. Sangeetha and Muneera petitioned Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay on Monday alleging that Sivakumar, who was their supervisor at a mill in Perundurai in Erode district, attempted to sexually harass them and had fired them from the mill a few months ago. Following this, the two women allegedly attacked the man at Palladam. The Palladam police arrested and remanded all three and they were released on conditional bail, Ms. Mittal said. Further action would be taken based on the inquiry, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-arrested-for-stabbing-husband-to-death/article32727591.ece
30 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||54-year-old man arrested for sodomising minor||A 54-year-old man was arrested near Kovilpalayam in Coimbatore district on Tuesday for allegedly sodomising an eight-year-old boy repeatedly. Police said the accused, a native of Pudukkottai district, was employed as a cook near the victim’s house. He allegedly invited the boy to his house and sexually assaulted him for the last one week. On Monday, the boy told his mother about the assault, according to the police. Based on the mother’s complaint, Kovilpalayam police registered a case under sections 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) and (m) (whoever commits sexual assault on a child below twelve years) read with 10 (Punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and section 506(1) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused was remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/54-year-old-man-arrested-for-sodomising-minor/article32727590.ece
30 September 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||After 19 years, HM found to have forged documents||A 52- year-old government school headmistress was found to have used forged mark sheet 19 years after joining service here in Dharmapuri. Kannammal, headmistress of Thimmarayanahalli Government Elementary School, was found to have used forged mark sheets during her joining the department in 2001. In 2017, she was elevated as a headmistress of the government elementary school. But now, for special grade certificate verification, Kannammal certificates were sent for verification, when her Plus Two mark sheets were found to have been forged. Upon suspicion, the certificates were sent to the directorate of examinations, where it was found that Kannammal was absent for four papers in Plus Two board exams. A complaint was lodged at Mahendramangalam police station by the block education officer. The District Education Officer was awaiting orders for further action, an official source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-19-years-hm-found-to-have-forged-documents/article32727588.ece
30 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||AIDWA stages demonstration||After the Mahila Court here acquitted a rape accused, members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association staged a demonstration in front of the court complex condemning the judgement here on Tuesday. In April 2019, a 12-year-old girl, studying in seventh standard, was found dead in her dwelling in a village near Vadamadurai Union under mysterious circumstances. Her parents were shocked to see their daughter lying in an unconscious state when they returned home then. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the girl was raped by three youths in the locality. Police investigations led to the arrest of Krupanandam (19) and his confessions revealed that two more were involved in the crime. They had allegedly killed the girl by giving her electric shock. When the case came up for hearing, the judge acquitted the prime accused and directed the government to give a compensation of Rs. 3 lakh to the parents. As the news spread, members of the AIDWA assembled in front of the court and shouted slogans against the government and the judgement. ‘It is shocking to hear that the court had acquitted the rape accused, who had confessed to the crime. The court had examined as many as 35 witnesses. What else do they expect. The police, they alleged, had connived with the accused,’ they charged and demanded the government to render justice. The girl’s mother swooned in the court campus on coming to know that the accused had been acquitted and she was rushed to the Government Hospital, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aidwa-stages-demonstration/article32727763.ece
30 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of masks begins at PDS shops||Distribution of free masks to 7,19,508 lakh family cardholders comprising 40,87,588 members began at 1,132 fair price shops in the district on Tuesday. As a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19, the State government had, in June, announced distribution of two free reusable cloth masks per person, to cardholders across the State. Initially, the district received 1.50 lakh masks and later a few lakh more masks as distribution in fair price shops began. The distribution in each taluk is as follows: Anthiyur 71,151 cardholders (4,21,196 masks), Bhavani 77,496 (4,50,422), Erode 1,61,052 (9,67,234), Gobichettipalayam 93,184 (5,03,866), Kodumudi 39,111 (2,06,524), Modakurichi 51,764 (2,86,948), Nambiyur 36,525 (2,02,298), Perundurai 89,649 (4,86,910), Sathyamangalam 80,638 (4,54,744) and Talavadi 18,938 cardholders (1,07,446 masks). Officials said cardholders were asked to maintain physical distance while waiting in front of ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-masks-begins-at-pds-shops/article32727585.ece
30 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened across Erode district||Security has been tightened across the district here on Tuesday to prevent any untoward incidents post the judgment in the Babri Masjid demolition case by a special court for CBI cases in Lucknow on Wednesday. Over 900 police personnel have been deployed at railway stations, bus stands, religious establishments, Collectorate and places where people gather in large numbers. Armed policemen would continue to patrol the railway bridge across River Cauvery at Karungalpalayam while entry of vehicles at the inter-district borders and inter-State borders would be monitored round-the-clock. Police personnel were also posted outside the religious establishments and also in communally-tension areas in the district, including Talavadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-tightened-across-erode-district/article32727587.ece
30 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Couple found dead||A newly-wed couple was found dead in their house at Appakudal here on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Elango (23), a mechanical engineer from Malliyur, and Ramya (23). On Tuesday, neighbours found the two hanging from the ceiling in the house. Police sent the bodies to Anthiyur GH. The couple was married for three months. An RDO inquiry has been initiated. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-found-dead/article32727586.ece
30 September 2020||ERODE/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Postal dept. to conduct drawing contest for school students||The Department of Posts has invited applications for a drawing competition for school students on the theme “Postal services during COVID-19 pandemic”. The last date to apply is October 5 in Coimbatore and October 4 in Erode. A press release from the Department said that the Regional Office in Coimbatore would conduct the competition in two categories, juniors in the age group of 8 to 10 and seniors in the age group of 11 to 14. Drawings should be on A4-sized white sheet and it should not be folded. The participants should submit the drawings to the respective school heads. The rear side of the sheet should be signed by the Principal of the school with seal and should have details such as the name of the student, date of birth, class, school name and contact number. The selected drawings will be used to design special covers. Contact For details, contact 0422-2558214, 0422-2558514, 9843693243, 0424-2258066, 227077 or 88836-67220. The winner of the first prize winner will receive Rs. 2,500, the second prize Rs. 1,500 and the third prize Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-dept-to-conduct-drawing-contest-for-school-students/article32727589.ece
30 September 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital goof-up leaves kin shocked during last rites||In a goof-up at the Kallakurichi Government General Hospital, the body of a 52-year-old man who had tested negative for COVID-19 was handed over to the family of another person admitted to the hospital. This lapse came to light when the family that received the body was preparing to conduct the last rites. They alerted the authorities and the body was brought back to the hospital and kept in the mortuary. According to a Health Department official, the body was handed over to the wrong family due to the mix-up of case sheets. S. Kolanjiappan, 55, of Thottiyam near Kallakurichi, was admitted to the COVID-19 ward in the Kallakurichi GH on Sunday with complaints of fever. Within a few hours, S. Balar of Tirukovilur was admitted to the same ward. However, Balar died on Monday night and the body was released to the family of Mr. Kolanjiappan after the test results returned negative. While conducting the last rites, Mr. Kolanjiappan’s family noticed that it was not him and raised an alarm. They alerted the hospital and found that Mr. Kolanjiappan was under treatment in the COVID-19 ward. The Health Department official said the test results of Mr. Kolanjiappan had returned negative and he was shifted to a general ward. The department has sought an explanation from two doctors and five nurses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-goof-up-leaves-kin-shocked-during-last-rites/article32727564.ece
30 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||108 ambulance service in Madurai hit by staff crunch||Drivers of 108 ambulances complain that they have had to work for longer hours due to shortage of staff. M. Irulandi, a member of the ‘108’ Ambulances Employees’ Welfare Association, said that though five new ambulances were launched recently adding to the city’s fleet of 29 ambulances, three vehicles were still stationed on the ground and only two were functional. “Areas like Thoppur, Chittampatti and Kallandiri are being taken care of by ambulance drivers in and around the area. Apart from cases on our regular beats, we have to take care of other areas and be on call always. Although our shifts are only 12 hours long, we end up working 24 hours,” he said. He said that two bike ambulance services slated for Madurai were also not functional. An ambulance driver, who did not want to be named, said that the stretch between Oomachikulam and Kadavur was being looked after by just one driver, operating on shift bases. “As a result only one ambulance is being operated on the stretch for 15 days a month for the last six months. In case of emergencies, ambulances from Pudur are being asked to cater to those calling in from the Natham stretch. The lack of staff is affecting our daily routine,” he said. He said that there were no ambulances in Thumbaipatti area too. Project Manager, 108 ambulance services for Madurai, Theni and Dindigul region, V. Vimal Raj said that two of the five recently launched ambulance vehicles were functional in Thoddapanayakanur and Vikramangalam. “The other three will become operational next week as soon as we get recruits posted to this region. Each team needs at least six people,” he said. He said that the stretch between Kadavur and Oomachikulam only sees an average of 70 cases each day whereas there are between 180 and 190 cases each day in the city. “We are trying to find which areas have higher case load to ensure that we can have the new 108 ambulances stationed there”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-ambulance-service-in-madurai-hit-by-staff-crunch/article32727768.ece
30 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Districts record more discharges||A total of 96 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Tuesday. The total number of cases in Madurai district rose to 16,540. With 50 persons discharged from the district’s COVID-19 treatment facilities, the total number of discharged rose to 15,409. The total number of active cases on Tuesday was 742 and with two people succumbing to the virus, the death toll rose to 389. Virudhunagar district registered 36 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday taking the total number of cases to 14,395. However, after the discharge of 29 patients, the total number of discharged patients has increased to 13,886. After the death of 210 patients till date, the number of active cases stood at 299. Theni had 64 fresh cases with which the tally moved to 14,825. There were 53 discharges from the hospital. The number of active cases was 538 and till date the number of people who have succumbed to the infection was 177. Dindigul accounted for 34 new cases taking the tally to 8,822. There were 29 discharges from the hospitals. Active cases in the district stood at 489 and deaths till date was 161. Ramanathapuram had 22 new cases and the total number of people infected was 5,530. There were 26 discharges from the hospitals and 150 active cases. So far, 119 people have succumbed to the virus. Sivaganga saw 36 new cases with the tally moving up to 5,145. There were 38 discharges and 261 people were undergoing treatment. The virus had claimed 121 lives in the district till date.  Thoothukudi district, which has so far recorded 13,360 patients till Tuesday, added 43 new cases while discharging 72 cases. Even as 563 active cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals, a patient died of the viral infection to take the total fatality to 122. Tirunelveli, stands second in the list of total infections with 12,645 cases till Tuesday. The district added 127 patients to take the number of active cases to 882 even as 101 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district’s fatality touched 200 on Tuesday with the loss of one more patient. Kanniyakumari recorded 97 new patients that moved the tally to 12,610 even as 882 patients are undergoing treatment and 204 patients were discharged. One more patient died to take the fatality to 221. Tenkasi’s infection tally moved up to 7,283 with the addition of 68 new patients. While 62 patients were discharged from the hospitals, 447 patients are under treatment. The district’s fatality stood at 137 after the death of a patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/districts-record-more-discharges/article32728007.ece
30 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two held for cheating||The police have arrested R. Manimegalai (23) and an 18-year-old girl of Theni district in connection with duping aged persons in the guise of helping them withdraw money from ATMs. They police said the accused from Andipatti taluk had successfully tried their luck with two aged persons and taken their debit cards after helping them withdraw money. “After handing over the money, they would replace their debit card with a similar looking card. Once the victims left, they would go to another ATM and withdraw money,” Usilampatti Town Inspector of Police, N. Deivigapandian, said. The police said the accused had approached G. Jayabalan of Thanakkankulam and helped him withdraw money on Sept. 10. Later, Rs. 18,000 was withdrawn from his account. Similarly, they had cheated M. Pandi (55) of PMT Nagar on Sept. 13. Manimegalai had bought a pair of gold ear ring at a shop in Theni using the debit card of Pandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-cheating/article32727769.ece
30 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Suspend road projects until Deepavali, say traders||Traders at the four Masi streets started a ‘postcard campaign’ urging the Madurai Corporation to temporarily stop road projects undertaken in core city areas until the end of Deepavali. Ashraf Tayub, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, which initiated the campaign, said that in the first phase of the campaign around 500 traders wrote their grievances regarding the ongoing road projects and sent the postcards to the Corporation Commissioner and District Collector. While the ‘smart road’ work is under way at the four Masi streets, different road work projects are also being undertaken in other streets in the core city areas. Around 40% of the annual sales for traders at the Masi streets takes place during the month before Deepavali, said Farooq Ahmed, president of the Association. Business hit “But, if roads are dug up the area would become congested because of the ongoing projects, then customers would not be able to complete their Deepavali shopping,” he said. This will directly affect the livelihoods of around 20,000 traders in the four Masi streets, said E. R. K. Vignesh Babu, vice-president of the Association. “The traders are already struggling to recover from the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, we are requesting the Corporation to temporarily stop the road projects from October 5 till the end of the Deepavali festival,” he said. The civic body must make patchworks and temporarily close the dug-up portions to avoid accidents, said R. Karuppasamy, a trader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspend-road-projects-until-deepavali-say-traders/article32727760.ece
30 September 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries varsity invites applications for UG courses||The Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU) has invited applications for 2020-21 UG admissions. The TNJFU said it offers Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F.Sc.), B.Tech. (Fisheries Engineering), B.Tech. (Biotechnology), B.Tech. (Food Technology), B.Tech. (Energy and Environmental Engineering) and B.B.A. (Fisheries Business Management) degree courses; besides B.Voc. (Industrial Fish Processing Technology), B.Voc. (Industrial Aquaculture), B.Voc. (Industrial Fishing Technology) and B.Voc. (Aquatic Animal Health Management). During this academic year, 347 seats will be filled with students from within Tamil Nadu. Twenty-six seats have been allotted to Other State students, 14 for Non Resident Indians (NRIs) students and five for foreign nationals. Additionally, six seats in B.F.Sc. and two seats in B.Tech. (Fisheries Engineering) have been allotted under “Fishermen wards – Special Category”. Fees for students admitted under special category are sponsored by Tamil Nadu Fishermen Welfare Board. Online applications and prospectus for UG degree programmes have been made available at the University website ( www.tnjfu.ac.in ) from September 26. The last date for submission of online application would be October, 26, Vice-Chancellor G. Sugumar said in a press release. Students applying under Special Categories must upload relevant documents while filling the online application. Students need not send their application by post. Based on the cut-off marks obtained in higher secondary, the rank list will be generated and released on October 29. The counselling will be carried out through online mode. However, counselling for candidates under special categories will be conducted in-person and the date will be informed later through the website. For more information dial, 04365-256430/9442601908.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisheries-varsity-invites-applications-for-ug-courses/article32728044.ece
30 September 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||At Perali, neglected well gets a makeover||Residents of Perali in Perambalur desilted and painted a well that had been neglected for long to improve the groundwater table, increase water supply and promote water conservation. Led by Puthiya Payanam, a youth group which focuses on water conservation in Perambalur, the well was desilted and painted with slogans on water conservation to encourage the villagers to access water from it and promote usage of available water sources. Following a shortage of water in the region last year, the well, which had been a main source of water for at several houses in the village over 20 years ago, dried up. S. Ragavan, along with his youth group desilted the well for storing water accruing from monsoon rains. This year, water filled up to 5.5 feet deep in the well after good rains. “This meant that the water table had replenished, and since we desilted it, the well could hold water to the brim,” he said. The group then involved the locals to beautify the surroundings of the well and paint slogans and make decorations. “Earlier, people could not afford to dig wells near their homes and had only one or two per street. With borewells and private-wells becoming more common, public wells like this one have become neglected,” he said. Young children and even women gathered to help paint the wall of the well and promised to utilise it more. T. Nallappan, a resident said that despite having electricity and modern facilities, people depend on well water at times of exigencies. “I have noticed that people rush to take water from the public well in case of a power failure, or if their pump motor malfunctions. We need to encourage this usage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-perali-neglected-well-gets-a-makeover/article32728025.ece
30 September 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Child Protection Unit to widen information network for better coordination||The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) has taken to social messaging platform to widen its information network on issues relating to child protection and safety and receive inputs on crimes against minors. A dedicated Whatsapp group has been created by the DCPU enrolling the panchayat presidents and other stakeholders as members in the group to have better coordination and speedy action on reports of crimes against minors. Seventy five panchayat heads out of the total 121 village panchayats in Perambalur district have so far been enrolled as members of the Whatsapp group which also has a senior police officer in the rank of an Additional Superintendent of Police attached to Crimes against Women and Children, a representative of Childline, Child Development Project Officer, Integrated Child Protection Scheme, a representative of the Social Welfare Department and DCPU staff as members. The Whatsapp group has been created amid instances of child marriage and offences committed against minors in the district. The whole idea of creating the Whatsapp group during the current pandemic period was to have a network among stakeholders to share and exchange information instantly on issues relating to child protection and safety and crimes against minors by also involving the panchayat presidents for speedier action, says the District Child Protection Officer, Perambalur G. Arulselvi. It would also serve as a tool for widening information from the grass root level on such issues, Ms. Arulselvi said. The village heads are the president of the respective village level child protection committee. The Whatsapp group would come in handy for the DCPU to share the latest directives from the Department of Social Defence and their schemes to the panchayat level to enable those who wished avail the benefit besides to put across the awareness activities being carried out by the unit on issues relating to child safety, she said. The DCPU has currently embarked on a mass awareness mobile campaign covering all the 121 panchayats in the district from last Friday to sensitise the public to a host of aspects connected with child safety and security. A vehicle fitted with public address system has been deployed to carry out the exercise in the rural pockets explaining the hazards of child marriage, elimination of child labour, ways to protect minors from getting sexually abused or assaulted, punishment for organising child marriage and engaging children as bonded labour besides about the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenes Act and the role of Childline. The initiative is being carried out jointly by the Department of Social Defence, District Child Protection Unit and under the Integrated Child Protection Scheme of the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development and Anganwadi workers at the field-level. About 30 village panchayats are identified in every block to conduct the day-long campaigns during which pamphlets containing messages on child protection among others were being circulated. Ms. Arulselvi said the DCPU was in the process of creating another Whatsapp group at the block level with the same objectives by enrolling block medical officers, members of Self Help Groups, block level coordinators, block development officers and officials of health and education departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-protection-unit-to-widen-information-network-for-better-coordination/article32728032.ece
30 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Hospitalisation delay cause of many COVID-19 deaths in U.T.||An audit of the two COVID-19 deaths in Puducherry has revealed that delay in seeking treatment at a hospital led to the fatalities, Collector T. Arun said on Tuesday. The capital recorded two fatalities. Puducherry’s share of the cumulative toll of 517 stood at 438. At a press conference, Mr. Arun said the public health audit, which was carried out alongside the clinical audit, for each COVID-19 death showed that in both cases, the patients had failed to heed the advice of ASHA/ANM workers to seek hospital treatment. The patients had also failed to volunteer for testing. The delay in reaching hospital has been found to be a leading contributor to the high mortality among COVID-19 patients, especially with most of them aged above 60 and having underlying morbidities. The Collector urged the public to ensure that those with symptoms of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection were taken to COVID focus centre or hospital without delay and to volunteer for tests. From Wednesday, anganwadi workers would be deployed to help in monitoring of patients in home quarantine. As of Tuesday, there were 4,933 active cases, including 3,171 patients in home isolation. The Union Territory also registered 387 fresh cases from 5,031 tests in the last 24 hours, even as its overall tally aggregated 27,066. “We are focused on keeping the positivity rate under 10%, while pegging the volume of samples at 5,000 a day,” the Collector said. The case fatality rate was 1.91% and the recovery rate 79.86%. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who chaired a review meeting, said PHCs had been tasked with conducting Rapid Antigen Tests and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) tests at 3:1. Ambulances from willing private medical colleges and the CII would be sourced in coordination with the Secretaries of the Departments of Labour and Industries for timely transport of patients to hospital. The two departments would also take up with industries their requirement for COVID-19 negative certificates from workers who had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitalisation-delay-cause-of-many-covid-19-deaths-in-ut/article32727562.ece
30 September 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||SOP for educational activities in Puducherry schools to be issued tomorrow||A detailed Standard Operating Procedure will be issued on October 1 ahead of the phased resumption of educational activities in schools for higher classes from October 5, District Collector T. Arun said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Arun said a COVID control room would also be established at the Education Department from Thursday to take queries from students/parents, including those related to transportation. Under the Central government guidelines, the initial phase of reopening would involve sessions for clarifying doubts pertaining to classes 10 to 12. This would be followed by a similar session for students from classes 9-11 from October 12. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the phone-in control room would be manned by Health, Transport and Education department staff. The Education Department could also seek help from Health Department for Child Care COVID centres to exclusively cater to the specific needs of children. Virtual meeting The Director of Education has been asked to conduct a virtual meeting with PTAs. “In view of the resumption of education activities, there is a need for staff replacements/redeployments,” Ms. Bedi said. The shortage of manpower likely from the recall of teachers from COVID duties can be met with drafting medical college students, she said.  The initial phase of reopening would involve sessions for clarifying doubts pertaining to classes 10 to 12. This would be followed by a session for students from classes 9-11 from October 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sop-for-educational-activities-in-puducherry-schools-to-be-issued-tomorrow/article32727546.ece
30 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy slams BJP for protesting against power tariff||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday blamed the Centre for the power tariff hike in the Union Territory. In a virtual press conference, the Chief Minister said the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission, appointed by the Centre, was responsible for fixing the power tariff. Flaying the BJP for organising a protest in front of the Electricity Department, he said the government was willing to look into demands of any irregularity in power bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-slams-bjp-for-protesting-against-power-tariff/article32727565.ece
30 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man electrocuted||A 34-year-old man died of electric shock after coming into contact with overhead electric wire while cutting the branches of a tree at his farm in Ilanthavadi village under Keeranur police station limits on Tuesday. Police identified the deceased as S. Senthilkumar of Ilanthavadi. He had recently returned to his native village from Singapore, said police sources. The incident occurred in the evening when Senthilkumar climbed the tree to cut some branches when he accidentally came into contact with the live wire and died on the spot. Keeranur Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-electrocuted/article32728031.ece
30 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||11 Indonesians fined for violating norms||The Judicial Magistrate-II at the Salem District Court imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 each on 12 persons for violating COVID-19 safety protocols. The Salem city police had in April registered a case against 18 persons, including 11 Indonesian nationals and their guide from Chennai, under various sections of the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, T.N. Public Health Act and National Disaster Act. Four Indonesian nationals and the guide had tested positive for COVID-19. After treatment, they were shifted to Puzhal prison. Hearing the case on Tuesday, the judge imposed the fine on 12 persons, including the 11 Indonesian nationals and their guide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-indonesians-fined-for-violating-norms/article32727541.ece
30 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 survivors urged to donate plasma||The district administration has appealed to persons who had recovered from COVID-19 to come forward to donate plasma. In a release, Collector S.A. Raman said extensive measures were being taken in the district to contain COVID-19. As plasma treatment had been found helpful in treatment, persons recovered from COVID-19 could donate their plasma after 14 days. Two patients could be treated using one person’s plasma, he said. Those aged between 18 and 50 were eligible to donate plasma and till date, three persons had donated their plasma at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-survivors-urged-to-donate-plasma/article32727592.ece
30 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 14.69 lakh collected as fine for violations in Salem||District Collector S. A. Raman said that Rs. 14.69 lakh had been collected as fine from persons and businesses for violating COVID-19 safety protocols here. A press release said 7,100 persons were fined till date for violating the safety measures - nine persons for violating quarantine guidelines, 6,938 persons for not wearing masks, 28 persons for spitting in public places and 125 persons were fined for violating physical distancing norms. Sstern action would be taken against businesses if violations were found and steps would be taken to seal businesses repeating the offences, the District Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-1469-lakh-collected-as-fine-for-violations-in-salem/article32727594.ece
30 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||World Heart Day observed||World Heart Day was observed by the cardiology department at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the department had performed 400 coronary angiograms, 100 angioplasties, 30 temporary pacemaker implantations, 15 pericardiocentesis, the doctors said. Awareness was created among patients on the risks of heart disease and ways to prevent it. Dean R. Balajinathan, Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal appreciated the efforts of P. Kannan, head of cardiology, and other doctors in the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-heart-day-observed/article32727599.ece
30 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Salem||Heavy rain lashed Salem on Monday night inundating several areas. According to officials, an average rainfall of 28.77 mm was recorded in the district. Kadaiyampatti recorded maximum of 20 mm rainfall. In Mettur dam, the discharge through Cauvery river was reduced to 18,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-salem/article32727593.ece
30 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Cauvery delta||Many parts of the Cauvery delta region received moderate to heavy rainfall on Monday. Lodging of ready-to-harvest kuruvai paddy crop was reported from some places in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. The rain inundated paddy fields in some places, leaving the stem of the crop bent. Water stagnation on fields was reported from various villages including Ganapathi Agraharam, Manalur, Kabisthalam, Saliyamangalam, Kovilur and Arulmozhipettai. The crop lodging would make harvesting difficult for farmers. With water flowing to the brim in most irrigation canals, the rain water could not be drained immediately, farmers complained in some places. In Thanjavur district, kuruvai paddy has been raised on about 58,948 hectares and harvesting has been completed on about 40,185 hectares, according to sources in the Agriculture Department. A few coconut trees and electricity poles were damaged in Papanasam and Ayyampettai areas due to strong winds.  Kollidam in Nagapattinam district recorded the maximum rainfall of 105.40 mm in the core delta districts during the 24-hour period till early on Tuesday. The chief amount of rainfall recorded in some other parts of the delta was as follows (in mm): Sirkazhi 64, Manalmedu 62, Vedaranyam and Talaignayar 32.20 each, Nagapattinam 32, Mayiladuthurai 30; Needamangalam 52.4, Kodavasal 49.6, Tiruvarur 48.4, Mannargudi 42 and Nannilam 36, Neivasal Thenpathi 48.20, Vettikkadu 43.80, Pattukkottai 34, Ayyampettai 32, Kumbakonam 30.30 and Papanasam 29. In Perambalur district, Thazhuthalai recorded 69 mm and Labbaikudikadu 60 mm. Eraiyur (44 mm), Krishnapuram (40), K.Kalathur (37), Veppanthattai (36) and Agaram Seekur (25) also recorded good rainfall in the district. Jayamkondam (38) and Sendurai (30) in Ariyalur district and Keezhanilai (28) in Pudukottai district also registered good showers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-cauvery-delta/article32728041.ece
30 September 2020||Thondi,TAMIL NADU||10 tonnes of turmeric seized in 60 days in Mandapam||Ramanathapuram again appears to be the ‘most preferred’ destination for smugglers after a long pause. In the last 60 days alone, close to 10 tonnes of turmeric have been seized in Mandapam, Thondi and Rameswaram by the Central and State agencies in at least four different incidents. The modus operandi was simple. According to police sources, a group of persons took the responsibility of procuring the product from open markets and handing it over to the ‘agent’ here by road. The goods are then taken by sea route and handed over to the ‘contact’ person in Sri Lanka, who in turn settles the payment through ‘hawala.’ With the sea route between the two nation being just about 18 to 20 nautical miles, the boatman smuggle the goods in the shortest possible time and return to the shore. A Q branch police team led by Inspector Maheswari seized 93 bags of turmeric at Kaarangadu, a sea shore point near Thondi on Tuesday. Preliminary interrogations revealed that the bags, which weighed 2,325 kg, were ready to be shipped to Colombo. According to the confessions, turmeric was in high demand in the island nation and the smugglers booked huge profits through the illegal route. The police gave the names of the two arrested as Innasi (24) of Thangachimadam and Raju (54) of Rameswaram. They had received the turmeric from their accomplices Najmudeen and Yasser Arafat of Chennai. An officer, who interrogated the accused, said that Innasi operated the boat owned by Raju, who had been financed by the duo from Chennai. It is believed that the ‘contact’ in Colombo was related to one of the accused from Chennai. An officer in the Marine Police said that a fortnight ago, in a similar operation, a boat from Thoothukudi district was spotted near Mandapam. Interrogations revealed that the mechanised boat had turmeric and was on its way to Colombo. Due to a technical snag, the boat was stranded and they seized the goods and the boat and also arrested the boatman. Turmeric was selling like gold in Sri Lanka as there was high demand for the product following COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, smugglers indulged in carrying narcotic substances to Sri Lanka and in return smuggled in gold. According to the Q Branch police, the accused have been handed over to the Thondi police for further interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-tonnes-of-turmeric-seized-in-60-days-in-mandapam/article32727766.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No let-up in positive cases in Thanjavur district||The central districts witnessed a drop in number of fresh cases of COVID-19 and recorded four deaths on Tuesday. The daily count of positive cases went down to 543 from 675 persons, who tested positive on Monday. Thanjavur district recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts for another consecutive day on Tuesday with 186 patients testing positive for the virus. It was the only district in central region that registered more than 100 cases on Tuesday. Pudukottai district followed with 99 cases and Tiruchi with 83 fresh cases. Tiruvarur recorded 64 cases, Karur 42, Nagapattinam 38, Ariyalur 16 and Perambalur 15 cases. The central districts also registered a drop in number of deaths as per a State Health Department bulletin issued on Tuesday. It went down to four as against eight deaths recorded on Monday. Of the four deaths, three were from Thanjavur district and one from Pudukottai. One of the vicitms had no co-morbid conditions. The 58-year-old female patient from Thanjavur was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on September 16 with fever for 11 days, cough and breathing difficulties for a week. She died on Tuesday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another female patient, aged 53, who was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on September 23, died due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and sepsis on Monday. She was under treatment for type-II diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension for a few years. The third patient, who died of COVID-19, was a 62-year-old from Thanjavur, She was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on September 24. But she died on Sunday due to viral pneumonia, acute respiratory failure. She had been under medication for type-II diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease. The lone patient, who died of COVID-19 from Pudukottai district, too had type-II diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to Pudukottai Medical College on September 26 and died two days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-let-up-in-positive-cases-in-thanjavur-district/article32728030.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNCSC to supply fortified rice to family cardholders||The stage is set for distribution of fortified rice to family cardholders in Tiruchi district from Thursday. The scheme is aimed at combating malnutrition among the populace. The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) has begun moving stocks of fortified rice to fair price shops. Under the scheme, rice will be fortified through a process to add nutrients such as folic acid, vitamin B-12and iron. It will be mixed with rice meant for public distribution system at a ratio of 1:100 kg, whic will be distributed to cardholders from October 1. TNCSC has identified 12 rice mills to process 14,000 tonnes a month. The blended rice is being moved to 1,224 fair price shops. The Centre and State governments share the cost of adding nutrient values to the rice and transportation on 75:25 per cent basis. “We have made all arrangements for distribution of fortified rice in the district. Ration cardholders will get it free of cost from Thursday,” said K. Anbalagan, District Supply Officer, Tiruchi. He says there are 79,500 ration cards in the district. Each cardholder will get 20 kg of rice. The content of fortified rice will be 200 gram in 20 kg of rice. They will be distributed through 1,224 ration shops including 19 shops run by TNCSC. The State government has given permission to supply the fortified rice to cardholders in October and November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncsc-to-supply-fortified-rice-to-family-cardholders/article32728036.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Biometric system to be extended||After successful implementation of biometric-authenticated public distribution system (PDS) in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts on a pilot basis, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has initiated measures to implement it in the rest of the delta districts. As part of the scheme, cardholders have to authorise themselves to get ration items at fair price shops. Only after getting the thumb impression of customers through Aadhaar-linked biometric devices, the sales staff will distribute the items. The project has been extended to Karur and Nagapattinam districts recently. In Karur district, more than 500 fair price shops being run by the Department of Cooperation and the Food and Civil Supplies Department have been brought under the scheme. According to J. Hazrath Begam, District Supplies Officer, biometric devices have been installed in all FPS and biometric authentication has been made mandatory for distribution of ration items to cardholders. The system has enabled distribution of ration items to the right and eligible persons. Though there was apprehension among cardholders and consumer activists in Tiruchi district over spread of COVID-19 while stamping their thumb impression on devices, there has been no disruption in implementation of the project. It is learnt that the new method has largely eliminated duplicate cards and unauthorised sale of ration items. Steps have been initiated to extend the project to Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts as well, official sources said. Installation of biometric devices at fair price shops is on. Once the installation has been completed, they will be linked with national-level data repository. The project then will be rolled out coinciding with the start of October, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biometric-system-to-be-extended/article32728034.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi launches two online postgraduate certificate courses||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi has introduced postgraduate Diploma programmes in Human Resource Management and in Supply Chain Management on a device-to-device online learning platform through tie-up with delivery partners. The first batch of the Postgraduate Certificate Programme in Strategic Human Resource Management (PGCSHRM) was inaugurated on Monday. IIM-Tiruchi has roped in Jaro Education as its marketing and delivery partner for the year-long programme. Designed to provide an understanding of the latest models and frameworks in strategic human resource management, the programme will help participants understand how to operationalise and strategically align different functional dimensions of HRM to organisational objectives, Bhimaraya Metri, Director, Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi said. “As digital disruption will gather higher speed, HR will be central to businesses,” he said. Inaugurating the programme, Sapna Purohit, senior vice-president and head, Human Resources, Sun Pharmaceuticals, said organisations of today were facing VUCA — Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity and Ambiguity — and stressed the need for adaptability and spirit of constant learning to cope with the dynamic ecosystem. She discussed the importance of ethics and authentic leadership in steering an organisation during these challenging times, and also contemplated on how the role of an HR Manager had become central to managing people resources across different functions of an organisation. Sanjay Salunkhe, managing director, Jaro Group, took part in the programme along with 89 students. Earlier last week, Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi inaugurated the first batch of the Postgraduate Certificate Programme in Supply Chain Management (PGCSCM) roping in Times Professional Learning as delivery partner. The programme covers a focused set of relevant and contemporary topics in supply chain management and is designed to enhance the capabilities of supply chain professionals to achieve performance excellence, Prof. Metri said. Inaugurating the programme, Rakesh Sinha, founder and CEO, Reflexive Supply Chain Solutions, dwelt on aspects such as focus on consumers, striking the right compromise while using optimisation models, combining customer needs while making decisions and questioning the assumptions behind mathematical models. Vikas Vij, senior director and head of operations, Maersk Line, spoke on the need for transparency and visibility in supply chains that can be achieved by digitising the flow of cargo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-launches-two-online-postgraduate-certificate-courses/article32728047.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online interface enables university to sustain volume of Ph.Ds||By all indications, the lockdown has not reduced the number of Ph.D scholars of Bharathidasan University completing their doctorate degrees this year due to measures in place for online interface. As an outcome of the directive issued by the university that meetings pertaining to Ph.D. degree could be conducted through online platforms, 500 scholars have completed their viva-voce from May to September. The research supervisors were advised to tap the utility of Zoom, Google Meet, Microsoft or Webex or any other online conference mode available for the benefit of students. In a circular to college principals and heads of departments, the university instructed them to conduct the meetings of Departmental Research Committee, Doctoral Committee meeting - 1 (for framing course work syllabus), Doctoral Committee Meeting - 11 for confirmation of research; the third Doctoral Committee Meeting for submission of synopsis and the final Viva-Voce Examination. The soft copy of the meetings conducted online was required to be recorded in CD/ pen drive and submitted to the research section of the university. So far this year, about 950 candidates have completed their doctorate degrees. In all likelihood, the university will be able to produce as many Ph.D. candidates as in previous years. As many as 1,181 Ph.d. students received their degrees in 2019, S. Muthusamy, Director - Research, Bharathidasan University, said. The number of Ph.d students receiving their doctorate degrees, which was much lesser in the previous years, improved substantially from 2018 after initiation of administrative reforms. The number of Ph.d students passing out from the university was 606 in 2014, 779 in 2015, and 540 in 2016. The convocation of 2017 had to be pushed to the subsequent year due to administrative reasons. During 2018, a total of 1,189 candidates received their degrees during the convocation held during February, and 539 candidates were awarded their doctorate degrees in the convocation held during October. “The timing of convocation for this year has not yet been decided. In all likelihood, we will be able to reach last year's number this year,” Mr. Muthusamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-interface-enables-university-to-sustain-volume-of-phds/article32728028.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New designation for CCTNS police personnel||Police personnel attached to Crime and Criminal Tracking Networking System (CCTNS) in city police stations have been designated as assistant investigation officers by the Commissioner of Police to speed up probe and file chargesheets within the stipulated period. The move is aimed at ensuring speedy justice to victims and conviction to offenders. The CCTNS personnel are trained in computer operations and data entry.  In order to equip them with legal knowledge and improve their investigation skills, a three-day training programme was organised here from September 24 to 26. Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan inaugurated the programme and spoke to participants. Experts in the field of law and investigation held classes to 73 personnel designated as assistant investigation officers. The city police have planned to conduct the training programmes every week. In the first programme, police personnel were educated on transparent investigation, probe of simple hurt cases, traffic accidents and preparation of check list before filing of charge sheet. All types of cases will be taken up in the training programmes. Police personnel, who underwent training, will assist investigation officers as assistant investigation officer. The training module will soon be extended to sub-inspector, inspector and assistant commissioner of police, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-designation-for-cctns-police-personnel/article32728035.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CPI to hold Statewide protest against new farm legislations||The Communist Party of India (CPI) will conduct State-wide agitations on October 12 against the three recently enacted Acts on agriculture reforms, party State secretary R. Mutharasan said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters in Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district after participating in a CPI State council meeting, Mr. Mutharasan said the agitations would be organised at the district, taluk and union levels across the State. Claiming that the new farm laws of the Centre would eventually destroy the agriculture community, he said the party had been consistently seeking their withdrawal. The CPI leader said the meeting also deliberated on the new farm laws as they went against the interests of farmers and farm labourers. The new legislations would only compound the problems faced by 60 crore farmers and farm labourers, he said and predicted that they would pave the way for corporates to plunder the agriculture sector. A resolution passed at the meeting urged the Central government to disband the committee formed to study the origin and evolution of Indian culture. There were no members from Tamil Nadu or any southern State or from the northeast in the committee. No representation had also been given to a woman, the resolution pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-to-hold-statewide-protest-against-new-farm-legislations/article32728046.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three traders injured as shed collapses||Vegetable traders at a temporary market at Uzhavar Sandhai had a narrow escape as a makeshift shed collapsed on Tuesday. The incident occured around 10.30 am., causing tension among buyers and traders. Traders trapped under the shed managed to come out with the support of one another. Three were said to have suffered minor injuries. Gandhi Market traders, operating from temporary markets at other locations in the city, rushed to the spot. Some of them accused Tiruchi Corporation of failing to ensure their safety. They said the temporary shed had been in use for about six months. It had neither proper foundation nor support to withstand rain or strong wind. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said the temporary market would be re-established immediately. He had given instruction to officials to erect a shed by Wednesday. Safety precautions would be taken care as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-traders-injured-as-shed-collapses/article32728037.ece
30 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TMMK holds demonstration||The Thamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) organised a demonstration in Palayamkottai on Tuesday demanding the State and the Central Govts. to declare seven sub-sects as Devendrakula Velaalar. Led by party’s founder president B. John Pandian, the cadre raised slogans to highlight their demand.  “If the demand is not accepted by the governments, the Devendrakula Velaalar voters will teach a fitting lesson in the ensuing Assembly polls,” Mr. John warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmmk-holds-demonstration/article32728005.ece
30 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Avinashi GH closed after staff test positive||The government hospital at Avinashi in Tiruppur district was closed for fumigation on Monday after six medical personnel, including the chief medical officer, tested positive for COVID-19. The 43-year-old chief medical officer, four nurses, and a lab technician tested positive on Monday, following which the Avinashi Town Panchayat officials closed the hospital, Health Department sources said on Tuesday. Swab samples were lifted from 34 other medical personnel working in the hospital. At the time of closure, the hospital had no in-patients as the doctors were dealing with mostly out-patients, sources said. While the chief medical officer was admitted to Government IRT Perundurai Medical College Hospital in Erode, the five others were sent to the COVID-19 Care Centre, set up on the premises of a private college in Avinashi, as they were asymptomatic. The hospital will likely be reopened on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avinashi-gh-closed-after-staff-test-positive/article32727547.ece
30 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris district to get more COVID-19 care facilities||District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that more COVID-19 care facilities were being readied in the district, following an increase in the number of cases. The number of tests conducted each day in the district will be increased from 1,400 to 2,000 a day, she said. Ms. Divya said a 60-bed facility was being set up at the Sait Memorial Hospital in Udhagamandalam, and the estate hospitals and Primary Health Centres too would be turned into COVID-19 care facilities. The facilities would have oxygen lines to provide emergency care for patients. “People with mild symptoms can be home quarantined provided they have adequate facilities, and doctors will check on them via video calling,” a press release from the district administration said.  Tourist passes  Ms. Divya said the district administration was approving around 150 tourist passes each week. There had been certain sectors of business who had been calling for increasing the number of tourist e-passes. “They said the tourism industry itself had been greatly affected. So we are now approving tourists who are applying for passes with confirmed bookings,” said the Collector. The Collector said that if the number of cases continued to increase, the district administration would relook the strategy, but was quick to add that rather than tourists, it was the locals who failed to wear masks and follow physical distance protocols. She urged the residents to not travel unnecessarily outside the Nilgiris, to help slow down the rate of infection in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-district-to-get-more-covid-19-care-facilities/article32727598.ece
30 September 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in wall collapse in Villupuram||A woman was killed and her son seriously injured at Enathimangalam in the early hours of Tuesday after a portion of a wall of their house collapsed following heavy rainfall in the district. At 1.30 a.m., when the victim, S. Saroja, 70, and her son Elangovan, 44, were sleeping in their house, the wall collapsed and fell on them. While Saroja died on the spot, Elangovan was admitted to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-villupuram/article32727567.ece
30 September 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The district administration has invited applications seeking licence to set up temporary cracker shops for Deepavali. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said interested persons can make use of e-service centres to make online applications with six original copies of the site, construction plan, documents to show ownership or rental agreement document (five original copies), receipt for Rs. 500 paid in government account, proof of identity (PAN, Aadhar or ration card), copies of property tax receipts and two passport size photographs. Applicants would be given temporary licence for 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article32727761.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region sees over 1,600 cases and 14 deaths||The eight districts in the Western region saw 1,670 COVID-19 positive cases and 14 deaths on Tuesday. Six persons died in Salem district, four in Erode, two in Tiruppur and one each in Coimbatore and Namakkal. With 572 fresh cases, Coimbatore district’s tally rose to 31,489 on Tuesday. The death of a 33-year-old man took the toll so far to 425. A total of 25,908 patients have recovered and 5,156 were undergoing treatment. On Tuesday, 534 patients were discharged. Tiruppur district’s tally crossed the 8,000 mark with the 153 new cases reported on Tuesday. Two persons aged 63 and 70 died of the disease. Of the total 8,023 cases, 6,309 have recovered and 1,583 were active cases. The district has so far reported 131 deaths. A total of 204 patients were discharged. Of the 343 new cases reported in Salem district, 339 were indigenous. Four patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Chennai and Tiruchi.The disease claimed the lives of six persons aged 60, 45, 56, 68, 58, and 60. Namakkal district reported 140 new cases. According to health officials, 13 patients had returned from Erode, Salem, Coimbatore, Karur, Tiruchi. A woman aged 77 died. Erode district reported 126 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 6,642. While 133 persons were discharged, 1,100 persons continued to be under treatment. Four persons died, raising the toll in the district to 88. Nilgiris district reported 149 fresh cases. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases stood at 4,093. Twenty-five persons had died of the disease so far and 982 persons are under treatment. Krishnagiri reported 94 cases and Dharmapuri 93.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/western-region-sees-over-1600-cases-and-14-deaths/article32727596.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t ignore cardiac emergencies’||People should not ignore cardiac emergencies and avoid visiting hospitals due to apprehensions over contracting novel coronavirus, cardiologists in the city have cautioned. The warning comes from experts on the occasion of World Heart Day observed on September 29. “People are reluctant to visit hospitals fearing COVID-19 infection, but it also results in many ignoring symptoms of cardiac emergencies such as breathlessness or chest pain. Delayed medical attention can also create other complications,” P. Vijay Shekhar, cardiologist, Kauvery Heart City, told The Hindu.  As the medical community races to develop a vaccine to beat the virus, those with cardiac problems should be aware of ground realities, especially during lockdown. “Being a cardiac patient by itself is not considered an increased risk for contracting the virus, but the situation can get aggravated for those with associated diabetes or kidney disease or any other immuno-compromised condition,” said Kader Sahib Ashraf, consultant cardiologist, Apollo Speciality Hospitals, Tiruchi. The virus can affect the heart indirectly through the lungs, where reduced oxygen levels stress the heart muscle. The organ can also be affected directly through clots in blood vessels that can cause heart attack or pulmonary thromboembolism; heart muscle being affected directly by the virus resulting in myocarditis or cardiac nerves causing irregular heartbeats resulting in palpitations, he said. “Initially, since COVID-19 was said to increase blood clotting, in January and February, we were expecting a surge in the number of heart attacks as thrombosis is one of the basic causes of cardiac disease. But surprisingly, the number came down during the lockdown,” said Dr. Shekhar. “From 450-500 patients registered per month in January and February, the number came down to 200-250 during lockdown,” he added. While it is tempting to see the dip as one of the ‘positive’ effects of the lockdown, it would be unwise to attribute the changed dietary habits, isolation and lower exposure to air pollution experienced during the lockdown as a contributing factor to the lower numbers, said Suresh Kumar, assistant professor and consultant cardiologist, KAPV Medical College, GVN Hospitals and Maruti Hospital. “Generally, it takes at least three years of lifestyle change to bring about a positive effect on cardiac health. What we have noticed, even before the lockdown, is the changing demographic of heart attack cases. While it was once associated with people over 60 years, now anyone from 25 to 30 years can suffer from cardiovascular disease, mainly due to the sedentary and stress-filled lifestyle of professionals these days,” he said. Learning to manage stress is key to a healthy heart, said Dr. Suresh. “We should make exercise a part of our daily routine, whether at work or home. It is very sad to see heart disease cut off young men and women with familial responsibilities in their prime. Irrespective of the pandemic, everyone should make a greater effort to ensure a healthy heart,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-ignore-cardiac-emergencies/article32728026.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam skips meeting chaired by CM||He denied that this had had any political significance. To a query, the deputy coordinator, who was part of the Palaniswami camp at the time of the split in the AIADMK in February 2017, replied that “I would do my mite so that the party is strong enough to retain power [during the forthcoming Assembly polls]. I will be supportive to the coordinator [Mr.Panneerselvam] and the co-coordinator [Mr.Palaniswami].” ‘No threat’ He emphatically said “no” to a question whether the confusion over the CM candidate would cause the fall of the government. Mr. Munusamy told The Hindu that the meeting pertained to “the party work,” the term which he declined to elaborate. Did not the formation of steering committee form part of the party work? “I would only say the meeting was all about the party work,” the deputy coordinator replied. He added that all his efforts would be to ensure that “the party stays united, as it was founded by Puratchi Thalaviar [M.G. Ramchandran] nearly 50 years ago and nurtured by Amma [Jayalalithaa], giving enormous space to countless ordinary persons like me.” Ramanathapuram legislator and former Information Technology Minister M. Manikandan also privately met Mr.Panneerselvam. Later, Dr. Manikandan told this correspondent that the purpose of his meeting was “purely personal”. In the evening, Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani called on the Chief Minister. Even though full details of the meeting were not available, one of the reasons cited was that the Minister met Mr.Palaniswami to invite him for an official event to be held by Chennai Corporation on Wednesday morning. Separately, after garlanding the statue of former Chennai Mayor N. Sivaraj in north Chennai, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, accompanied by his colleagues K. Pandiarajan, V. Saroja and P. Benjamin, said members of the executive committee expressed their views in a “democratic manner”, which was “healthy”. He added that the Opposition, which had expected that the meeting would lead to a crisis for the party, should be “feeling disappointed now.” As for the impact of the anticipated early return of former interim general secretary of the party V.K. Sasikala, on the party, the Minister termed it as an “unnecessary subject”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panneerselvam-absent-at-cm-meeting/article32727519.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dead allotted houses under Central scheme||Similarly, Rani was surprised to see her father-in-law Murugesan Annamalai’s name in the PMAY list of 2017-2018: Murugesan had died seven years ago. “We checked after we heard about Devaki,” said Rani. The list showed that a work order for Rs. 1.20 lakh was issued and completed in 2017-2018. “The word has spread, and there is panic. People are coming and asking if their names have figured in the list too, while they didn’t know,” said Kandaperumal, spouse of Kanchana, the president of the Mukkulam panchayat. Speaking on behalf of his Panchayat president wife, Mr. Kandaperumal said he got the list from the BDO’s office at Karimangalam, since people were asking for information. Subramani, a resident of the village, said he had just filed a PIL petition online. In the four-page beneficiary list of 58 names for 2016-20, Subramani has circled 12 names as bogus because the beneficiaries mentioned were either dead or those who had no clue they were allocated funds under the scheme, but the bill was shown as closed and completed for a house under the PMAY. One such reported beneficiary is Kuppusami Rangasami, who was ‘allocated’ a PMAY house even after he had built a house under the green housing scheme. “The bill was passed for Rs. 1.20 lakh to his account, and then the panchayat clerk came and asked him to withdraw the money and give it to him saying there was a mistake of double allocation,” alleged Subramani. “But we have closed in on some 40 names that we believe may be bogus, but the number may be fewer,” said Mr. Kandaperumal. “All of this happened during the period when there were no panchayat presidents,” he said. “Many listed beneficiaries have single names without the last name. This makes it difficult to cross-check. The BDO’s office will have the records but they have refused to share the details even when we asked for them,” alleged Mr. Kandaperumal. “A beneficiary will have to submit Aadhaar card, voter identity card, ration card and a photo, and these are sent uploaded to the BDO’s office,” he says. The supervision at various stages involves overseeing of the works by a joint team of the BDO, the overseer, the Assistant Engineer and the panchayat clerk. The beneficiary bears the cost up to the basement, after which the construction work is measured and verified for reimbursement of funds in instalments. An official at the BDO’s office at Karimangalam, who did not want to be named, said, “The Collector has asked us to conduct an inquiry. The allegation of 40 bogus names is an exaggeration,” he said. But asked about the allocations made to the dead, of which at least two were verified, the official repeated, “The Collector has asked for an inquiry.” A panchayat clerk conceded that mistakes might have happened. According to him, the computer follows the names registered during the 2011 census. “For instance, Chinnasami Sithan’s name would be in the records. When we looked for it, there was another beneficiary Nirmala whose father’s name is Chinnasamy, and she may have applied. So, we gave it to her.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deceased-allotted-houses-under-pmay/article32727520.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Surprise showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surprise-showers/article32727572.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for stabbing sister||S. Arunkumar, 19, of Kalangarai, a construction worker, stabbed his sister, who had eloped and married a person of other caste near Appanthirupathi, here on Monday. The police said that his sister Priya, 21, married C. Sathyaprakash, 26, who belongs to Scheduled Caste of Arumbanur, against the wishes of her parents last year. Though both families seemed to have accepted the marriage, Arunkumar, went to Sathyaprakash’s house and stabbed her indiscriminately. Sathyaprakash rushed to her rescue, but the accused assaulted him also. The couple has been admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. The police said that Arunkumar’s father, K. Selvam, 47, who had accompanied his son, was also arrested for attempt to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-stabbing-sister/article32728008.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘‘Adequate stock of fertilizers’||Collector P. Uma Maheswari has said the district administration has taken steps to ensure availability of quality fertilizers and seeds to farmers. She was speaking at the monthly farmers’ grievances meet through video conference on Monday. Farmers’ representatives from 13 agricultural extension centres in taluks participated. The Collector said the district had received 444 mm of rainfall till date this year against the normal average of 392.6 mm, a surplus of 13%. The district’s annual average rainfall was 758.2 mm. The district administration currently had 2,563 tonnes of urea, 1,762 tonnes of DAP, 1,435 tonnes of potash and 4,188 tonnes of complex fertilizer stocks. They were being distributed to farmers in the district through cooperative societies and private dealers. Adequate stocks of certified paddy, pulses, millets and groundnut seeds were available at the agricultural extension centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-stock-of-fertilizers/article32728027.ece
30 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kateel meets grieving Suresh Angadi family||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel visited the house of the former party leader and Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi in Belagavi on Tuesday, and met the members of his family who were grieving over his death. He spent a few quiet minutes with Angadi’s mother Somavva, his wife Mangala and daughters Spoorthi and Shraddha. He met other family members before leaving for a meeting with party workers. Lingaraj Pati, former chairman of the Karnataka Oil Seeds Federation, and Angadi’s uncle, prevailed upon Mr. Kateel to field someone from Angadi’s family in the by-elections to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. “The party can nominate Angadi’s wife, one of his daughters or his brothers as a way of recognising his services to the party and the region,” he said. Mr. Kateel told journalists waiting outside that the party fully stands with the family. He did not answer questions about the political successor to Angadi. He said that he could not attend the funeral in Delhi or come to Belagavi earlier as he was under quarantine due to COVID-19. He said that a proposal to name the Belagavi-Bengaluru train after Angadi was before the government. Siddaramaiah criticised He criticised Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah as unworthy of his position. “As Chief Minister, he never visited a single farmer’s family whose bread winner had died. But now he is trying to give us lessons on farmers welfare,” he said. He said that the farm bills passed by the Centre were the only laws in Independent India that would empower farmers and enable them to fix prices for their produce. What is wrong in them? Why is the Congress opposing them? he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-meets-grieving-suresh-angadi-family/article32727653.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Date set for bypolls to 2 Assembly seats||With the Election Commission of India (EC) on Tuesday announcing the schedule for byelections to two Karnataka Legislative Assembly constituencies of Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar and four Legislative Council seats, poll fever is set to hit Karnataka amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. While bypolls to the two Assembly constituencies will be held on November 3, bypolls to four seats of the legislative council will be on October 28. With this, all three major political parties in the State are getting ready for the battle in the next two months. While the Opposition Congress has announced the candidature of former Minister T.B. Jayachandra for the Sira seat, ruling BJP and Opposition JD(S) have not yet announced their nominees. Bypolls in Sira was necessitated following the death of B. Sathyanarayana, JD(S) MLA, and in Rajarajeshwarinagar owing to the resignation of Munirathna, who was elected as Congress MLA in 2018 and quit the party and joined the BJP along with 13 other Congress and three JD(S) MLAs last year. Byelections to the Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency was withheld owing to the pending election malpractice case. The election malpractice case related to Maski constituency in Raichur is also pending. The EC announced the calendar of events after considering various factors such as local festivals, weather, movement of forces, and the pandemic. While October 16 is the last day for filing nominations, the scrutiny of papers will take place on October 17. The last day for withdrawal of nominations is October 19. Counting of votes will be on November 10. Electoral roll of January 1, 2020, is applicable to both constituencies. The model code of conduct came into effect on Tuesday in Bengaluru Urban and Tumakuru districts. Council polls Elections to two Graduates Constituencies – South East and Karnataka West; and two Teachers Constituencies – North East and Bengaluru, will be held on October 28. The last date for filing nominations is October 8 and the scrutiny of papers will be on October 9. The last day for withdrawal of nominations is October 12. Counting of votes will be on November 2. The model code of conduct came into effect on Tuesday in these constituencies. Four seats became vacant after R. Chowda Reddy Toopahalli, Sharanappa Mattur, S.V. Sankanur, and Puttanna retired on June 30. Considering the unforeseen situation of public health emergency due to COVID-19, and guidelines and order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the EC said it had deferred the elections earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/date-set-for-bypolls-to-2-assembly-seats/article32727485.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC tells Mangaluru City Corpn. that it may have to stop permission for new buildings||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday cautioned that it may have to pass orders stopping the Mangaluru City Corporation from granting permission for construction of new buildings in the city if the corporation failed to come out with a time-line for implementing Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and other measures for disposal of municipal solid waste (MSW) as per law. The court also directed the corporation to submit the yearly data of MSW collected since January 2017 till September 30, 2020 and the number of permissions granted for construction of new buildings this year till September 30. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while hearing a PIL petition, filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA). As the State government itself pointed that the corporation has facility to process only 225 tonnes of MSW as against a daily collection of 425 tonnes, the Bench asked the government what action it has initiated against the corporation for illegally dumping the remaining 200 tonnes of waste everyday without following the norms. The Bench was of the view that if the corporation was not in a position to handle the waste generated from the existing buildings, granting permission for new building should be stopped till the corporation puts in place the required infrastructure to dispose of waste as per law. The Bench also asked the corporation whether it is prepared to appoint an expert agency such as the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to examine the facilities to dispose of MSW generated in the city, especially when there are allegations that leachate from landfill is allowed to enter not only the ground water but also the Phalguni river due to unscientific management of dumped waste. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to initiate action against the officials of the corporation as per the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 for their failure to implement environment laws relating to MSW. The petitioner had complained about the failure of the corporation in disposing of municipal solid waste scientifically as per law apart from pointing out that the corporation had not taken corrective measures to address human and environmental issues that cropped up due to the slippage of dumped garbage at Pachhanadi landfill into adjacent agricultural and residential areas during August 2019. The Bench asked the government to explain why it has released only Rs. 8 crore for relief and rehabilitation of Pachhanadi residents against the Rs. 22 crore sought by the corporation.  Division Bench asks Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to act against civic body officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-tells-mangaluru-city-corpn-that-it-may-have-to-stop-permission-for-new-buildings/article32728009.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-civil servants express support for new farm laws||In the midst of ongoing farmers’ protests, a group of 32 former civil servants have issued a statement supporting the farm Bills passed by Parliament saying these are game changers and will liberate the farming community from the shackles of exploitative practices. “The Government of India has introduced a definite game-changer in the life of the Indian farmer through the far-sighted legislations. Major impediments which retarded the seamless growth of the farming fraternity of India are given the go by through the passage of these monumental Acts”, they said in the statement. Former IAS officers from different States signed it. ‘Several benefits’ They said the bills mark the watershed in the liberation of farming community from the shackles of exploitative practices that slow-pedalled their progress. There are several farmer benefits, they said. These include continuation of the Minimum Support Price mechanism; allowing farmers to sell their products wherever they want without interstate or intrastate restrictions; freedom from exploitation by middlemen; permission to enter into contracts with any potential, buyer or exporter; and relaxation of restrictions on storage of agricultural produce prescribed in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. “Despite categorical assurances from the Union Agriculture Minister, vehemently reiterated by the PM, that MSP will remain as ever before, it is objectionable to incite the farmers and create disaffection in their mind by wrongly suggesting that their interests are being bartered in favour of multinational concerns,” they said. In fact, the farmers are suffering because of inadequate local marketing facilities leading to their exploitation by middlemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-civil-servants-express-support-for-new-farm-laws/article32727495.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees highest single-day jump of over 10,000 cases||The State on Tuesday reported a record 10,453 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 5,92,911. This is the highest single-day increase so far. With 136 new deaths, the toll rose to 8,777. This includes 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 6,628 persons were discharged on Tuesday taking the recoveries to 4,76,378. Active cases continued to remain over a lakh with 1,07,737. Of these, 815 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. Bengaluru Urban also saw a record spike with 4,868 cases, which is the highest on a single day so far. With 67 of the 136 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 2,912. Testing also increased with 87,475 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the State government has warned of stern action against people who flout mask wearing and social distancing rules in public places.Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who on Tuesday conducted a meeting with members of the State COVID-19 expert committee and technical advisory committee (TAC), said a detailed directive on enforcing strict action against violators will be issued after discussion with the Chief Minister. Admitting that the pandemic has been on a high in the State in the past two months, the Minister said: “Despite awareness regarding the virus, people have been negligent and are not wearing masks. To combat this, the government is keen on bringing stern rules against those found flouting the rules. A detailed directive will be out in a few days.” He said experts had recommended that the State should restrict political and religious gatherings that have been on the rise post the lockdown. “Permission will be given only for those events that are unavoidable, and only 100 people will be allowed with prior permission from the district administration,” he said. Giridhara R. Babu, TAC member, said the committee had suggested that the State improve testing on a syndromic approach and initiate measures to reduce deaths. The State is contemplating allowing relatives to visit patients for a short duration after following elaborate safety measures, said Mr. Sudhakar. He said this was being allowed in some States and will be in the interest of the psychological health of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-highest-single-day-jump-of-over-10000-cases/article32727491.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||126 kg of ganja worth Rs. 76 lakh seized||The South division police on Tuesday arrested three men for allegedly running an inter-State drug racket. “The trio had lost their jobs and other steady sources of income during the pandemic. They decided to sell drugs to make a quick buck,” said a senior police officer. The police recovered 126 kg of ganja worth Rs. 76.2 lakh from Mahipal P., 22, and Kiran G., 22. from Telangana, and Zahir Khan, 24, from Anekal. The racket came to light when the J.P. Nagar police, acting on a tip off, nabbed Zahir while he was selling ganja to his clients on the road. They recovered 650 gm of ganja, Rs. 1,500 cash and a mobile phone from him. He claimed to be working as a driver for a private firm in Anekal but had developed an addiction to drugs. Unable to support his family with his meagre salary, which had already taken a hit on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, he allegedly started buying ganja in bulk from Kiran and Mahipal. Kiran told the police that he was a guest lecturer in the ITI college in Krishnapura in Telangana but lost the job during the lockdown. Mahipal is a BA graduate from Zahirabad in Telangana, who, until the lockdown, eked out a living doing odd jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/126-kg-of-ganja-worth-rs-76-lakh-seized/article32727481.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Come in as a consumer, go out as an activist’||The Heggodu-based Charaka and Desi Trust, which had shut down operations due to huge losses and lack of sales due to the pandemic and the lockdown, is organising a series of exhibition-cum-sale of handmade products to get back on its feet. The first such exhibition will be held at Gandhi Bhavan, Kumara Park East from October 2 to 4. Charaka, the largest naturally-dyed handloom fabric manufacturer in the country being run as a co-operative by women, is saddled with a whopping 87,000 metres of unsold fabric and about Rs. 16 lakh worth of garments. Desi, which markets products of Charaka through 15 stores in Karnataka, has a stock of garments worth around Rs. 1 crore. “We continued working during the lockdown to ensure the women do not lose jobs. But there was no sale, which has left us with unsold stock. We have run out of cash and were left with no choice but to shut down operations,” said theatre person Prasanna, the key force behind Charaka and Desi Trust. Grama Seva Sangh has taken up a two-part initiative which will include a rural campaign where villagers will picket panchayat offices seeking answers as to why the rural economy is in dire straits, and an urban campaign led by consumers to encourage the purchase and support of handmade products. The exhibition at Gandhi Bhavan is the first in a series of exhibitions to be held across the State with the slogan ‘Come in as a consumer, go out as an activist’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/come-in-as-a-consumer-go-out-as-an-activist/article32727475.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ambulances donated||Continuing its CSR initiatives, HAL on Tuesday donated one ambulance each to the State-run Institute of Nephro Urology situated on the Victoria Hospital campus and Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital. “Considering the pandemic, we are doing whatever we can to strengthen the health infrastructure,” said R. Madhavan, CMD, HAL. The ambulances are equipped with facilities like air conditioning, basic life support system, analog oxygen delivery system, auto loader stretcher trolley with floor mounting mechanism, and a doctor’s seat. They are particularly useful for patients who require medical monitoring in transit and non-invasive airway management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambulances-donated/article32727488.ece
30 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to increase testing to 40,000 per day||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, BBMP has decided to increase the number of daily tests from 26,000 to 40,000. The civic body also plans to test garment workers on a large scale. Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that the civic body had recently recruited 148 medical professionals for swab collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-increase-testing-to-40000-per-day/article32727473.ece
30 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||11 more die of COVID-19||As many as 11 people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Tuesday, taking the toll to 322. Including 476 fresh cases reported, 16,348 people have tested positive for the infection in the district. Among them, 12,775 have recovered and 3,251 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-more-die-of-covid-19/article32727654.ece
30 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||In-principle approval given for 24 x 7 water supply works||A Rs. 1,041.80-crore project to supply water round-the-clock to all villages in Dharwad district was given in-principle approval during a meeting a meeting of elected representatives and officials chaired by Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday after participating in the meeting of elected representatives, in which Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi participated through a video link, Mr. Shettar said that the blueprint of the mega project covering all villages in the district had been given in-principle approval. “STUP Consultants have prepared the preliminary report and presented it in detail before the elected representatives and Mr. Pralhad Joshi. Of the project amount, Rs. 900.46 crore is meant for project implementation and Rs. 141 crore for maintenance of the water supply system for five years,” he said. The Minister said that the resolution of the meeting would be sent by the Chief Executive Officer of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat to the State government. “After getting approval from the Department of Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation, the project will be tabled in the Cabinet meeting. After Cabinet approval, tenders will be floated,” he explained. Time sought To a query, the Minister said that L & T company had sought six months for a survey and study on providing 24 x 7 water supply for all wards in Hubballi-Dharwad and it has been given three months to complete it. The project would be implemented from March next year, he said. Dharwad Zilla Panchayat president Vijayalakshmi Patil, panchayat vice-president Shivanand Karigar, MLA Amrut Desai, MLC Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat B.C. Sateesh, Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Commissioner Suresh Itnal and other officials participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-principle-approval-given-for-24-x-7-water-supply-works/article32727658.ece
30 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||400 dialysis sessions for COVID-19 patients at KIMS||In an achievement of sorts, Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital has conducted 400 free dialysis sessions for 137 COVID-19 patients from April so far. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Director of KIMS Ramalingappa Antaratani said 10 to 15% of COVID-19 patients faced the risk of renal problems and renal failure. “COVID-19 affects the functioning of kidneys too. COVID-19 patients with kidney problems are being referred to KIMS from adjoining districts and we are treating them for free. Till date, over 100 COVID-19 patients with renal problems have been treated for free at KIMS and they have been discharged from the hospital after treatment,” Dr. Ramalingappa said. To a query, he said that among the COVID-19 patients at KIMS around 10% had problems related to kidney functioning and the doctors and staff of the Nephrology Department had been working without leave over the last six months. If patients approach the hospital immediately after preliminary symptoms, the mortality rate could be brought down, he said. Dr. Ramalingappa said that so far 16,000 COVID-19 swab tests had been conducted at KIMS and steps were on to increase the testing capacity. He said that so far 400 COVID-19 patients had died at KIMS. KIMS had received 45 ventilators from the State government and 35 from the Centre. “We have 12 dialysis equipments at KIMS and there is no shortage,” he said. Head of the Department of Nephrology Venkatesh Moger clarified that dialysis was being conducted at the Super Specialty Hospital of KIMS where COVID-19 patients were being treated. He said that LIC and Lions Club had donated two dialysis equipments to KIMS. “We have kept two ventilators specifically for the dialysis unit and dialysis is being conducted without causing any problem to COVID-19 patients,” he explained. KIMS Administrative Officer Rajeshwari Jainapur, Medical Superintendent Arunkumar and others were present. Intestinal surgery Meanwhile, an intestinal surgery was conducted on a 45-year-old COVID-19 patient at KIMS. The small intestine of the patient was infected with gangrene and has been removed through surgery. Surgeons Vinayak Byatappanavar, Gurushanthappa Yalagatti, Ramesh Hosamani, Vijay Kamath and postgraduate students conducted the surgery and the patient is recovering now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/400-dialysis-sessions-for-covid-19-patients-at-kims/article32727663.ece
30 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Honorary doctorate for Dakshayini S. Appa||Dakshayini Sharanbasavappa Appa, chairperson of the Sharanabasaveshwar Vidya Vardak Sangha and member of the Board of Governors of Sharnbasva University, has been selected by the Davangere University for a honorary doctorate this year. The honorary doctorate will be conferred on Ms. Dakshayini Appa at the university convocation to be held on the main campus, Shivagangotri, on the outskirts of Davangere on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honorary-doctorate-for-dakshayini-s-appa/article32727656.ece
30 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘There is no structural damage to Arate bridge’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Tuesday said that there was no structural damage to the newly built major bridge across the Souparnika river in Kundapur taluk. In a press release, he said that a team of technical experts that visited the bridge and inspected the structure has given its report. The team said that there was no issue with the construction. The crack was only limited to the surface of the bridge, at the span joint. The team said that there was no danger to the bridge and vehicles using it. Located at Arate-Hosadu, the 700-m-long bridge, part of National Highway 66 four-lane project between Kundapur and Goa border, developed a crack at one of its expansion joints on Friday last. It triggered concern among road users and local residents, following which the police prohibited vehicular movement on the new bridge and diverted traffic on the old bridge. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is executing the project through concessionaire IRB West Coast Tollway Pvt. Ltd., a subsidiary of IRB Infrastructure Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-structural-damage-to-arate-bridge/article32727660.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||NCB finds drugs in package in post office||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials on Tuesday busted an international drug racket and arrested four people from whom they recovered 750 MDMA tablets. According to the zonal director Amit Ghawate, the accused sourced the drugs from Netherlands via the darknet, used an international courier agency for delivery, and paid through Bitcoins. A team led by Ghawate recovered the consignment from the Bengaluru Foreign Post Office, Chamarajpet. The parcel contained 750 MDMA tablets weighing 140 gm. “There was no address of the consignee on the parcel. The officials carried out a detailed investigation and managed to catch K. Pramod, Faheen, A. Hashir and S.S. Shetty,” said the NCB. The kingpin of the racket, Faheen, allegedly learnt to order online using the darknet and paid through cryptocurrency. He ensured that consignments were delivered to various post offices across India providing just the names of his associates. Later, his associates would collect the parcels from the post offices after submitting ID proof. According to the NCB, the accused peddled drugs at Manipal University, NMAMIT college in Udupi district, SRM University in Chennai, clubs in Manipal and other places in Karnataka, in the last two years. The NCB officials have now taken the accused into custody to ascertain the extent of the drug network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncb-finds-drugs-in-package-in-post-office/article32727480.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stay on metro work near Jakkur||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday restrained the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) from commencing construction of the proposed elevated metro line on the western side of the aerodrome of the Government Flying Training Institute at Jakkur in breach of the restrictions on construction around airstrips imposed under provisions of the laws related to operation of aircraft. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by Ajoy Kumar Patil, a city-based advocate who pointed out that the Chief Secretary had admitted in the High Court in 2013 that construction of an elevated portion of the national highway leading to the airport was a violation of the rules. The discriminatory act of the State government “clearly demonstrates that the only intention of the State government is to render the Jakkur aerodrome unusable and unviable so as to divert the usage of this vital lung space for real estate and other purposes,” the petition alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stay-on-metro-work-near-jakkur/article32727478.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP issues safety guidelines for voters||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued a set of guidelines for the Rajarajeshwarinagar bypolls, scheduled to be held on November 3, in the light of COVID-19. Voters will be provided with disposable hand gloves for signing the register and casting their vote on the EVM, after the finger is inked. Polling agents will also issue face masks to to those who come without one. Voters need to lower their masks for identification. Polling authorities will earmark places on a queue for 15-20 persons to ensure physical distance of 6 feet. There will be three separate queues for males, females, and persons with disability and senior citizens. Meanwhile, thermal scanners and hand sanitisers will be used at entry/exit points of the polling station and at all tables within the booth. Paramedical staff or ASHAs will be deployed to check the temperature of electors. If the temperature of a voter is higher than the set norms of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for two readings, they will separated from the queue and issued a token. They will have to come back in the last hour of polling, when COVID-19 patients and suspected patients will be facilitated to cast their vote, under strict measures. A separate set of guidelines will be issued for voters residing in containment zone, BBMP commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-issues-safety-guidelines-for-voters/article32727482.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC tells State to help NIA in D.J. Halli violence probe’||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to extend all possible assistance and support to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in its probe into two cases registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in relation to the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction on noticing that the NIA, which had deputed several officers to Karnataka to probe the two First Information Reports among the over 70 FIRs registered in connection with the violence, had written to the State government seeking tactical support to continue the probe. The bench also directed the State government to empower Claims Commissioner H.S. Kempanna, a retired judge of the High Court, under provisions of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 to enable him to summon any individual, documents and take assistance of an investigating agency, to assess the damage caused to public and private properties during the violence, and fix the liabilities. The bench directed the NIA and the city police, who are investigating cases other than those handed over to the NIA, to submit reports on progress of the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-tells-state-to-help-nia-in-dj-halli-violence-probe/article32727476.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No decision yet on reopening schools’||However, the government has come up with a Standard Operating Procedure to be followed by schools when they do finally reopen. It has also decided that students will not be allowed to visit schools to get their doubts clarified in the month of October, given the rising number of COVID-19 cases. “We had said that we would take a call on allowing visits at the end of September. But we have decided that we will not allow it until further notice,” a senior official said. RTE Students and Parents’ Association chief secretary B.N. Yogananda welcomed the move not to reopen schools at the moment. “Most schools in urban areas have cramped classrooms and maintaining social distance is not feasible [there]. We want the government to declare a zero academic year for students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-decision-yet-on-reopening-schools/article32727486.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BSY will complete his term: Kateel||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel has denied that the party was trying for a change of Chief Minister. “There have been no meetings on this issue. Nor was it discussed at any meeting. B.S. Yediyurappa will complete his term. There are no plans for change,” he told journalists in Haveri. He was responding to claims by farmers’ leader Lingaraj Patil that the BJP had considered making late Suresh Angadi the next CM. Mr. Patil, who spoke in Belagavi earlier, is Angadi’s uncle. The BJP was seriously considering making Angadi the next CM, Mr. Patil said. “Senior leaders had held meetings for the last few months, planning to make him the next CM. If all had gone well, he would have become the CM in 4-5 months. But fate had other plans,” he told journalists at Angadi’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-will-complete-his-term-kateel/article32727492.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||High Court strikes down new NLSIU reservation law||The Bench also observed that State had not reserved any power to give directions/advisories to NLSIU as the latter was created as a distinct and autonomous institution as it was not dependent on funds or financial aide from the State government. On the government’s claim that the State was losing out in the admissions to NLSIU as only a few law graduates from there were practising in Karnataka, the Bench said the government could not expect or prescribe that NLSIU graduates practise law only in the State. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the Consortium of National Law Universities across India, which conducts CLAT, to publish the results of CLAT-2020, held on September 28, as per the reservation scheme that existed prior to the introduction of the 25% reservation. The court had, on September 8, stayed the implementation of the 25% reservation when the NLSIU decided to conduct its own admission test, the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT), after coming out from the consortium and CLAT. However, NLAT, conducted on September 12, was set aside by the Supreme Court, which directed NLSIU to admit students based on CLAT, which was held on September 28 across the country. NLSIU offers 120 seats for the B.A. LL.B programme through CLAT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-strikes-down-new-nlsiu-reservation-law/article32727494.ece
30 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||524 test positive in Alappuzha||The single-day spike in COVID-19 cases crossed the 500-mark yet again in the district with 524 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. The fresh cases include 498 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, 15 people who came from other States, five from abroad, five health staff, and a Karuvatta native. The Karuvatta native’s source of infection is unknown. Among the 498 locally transmitted cases, 64 were recorded from Alappuzha, 40 from Aroor, 36 each from Bharanikavu and Kadakkarappally, and 32 from Arattuppuzha. Ambalappuzha (21), Cherthala (19), Chettikkad (17), Haripad (16), Mavelikara (15), Pandanad (13), Mulakuzha (11), Thuravoor (11) and Purakkad (10) also reported double-digit contact case count. Meanwhile, 273 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. Active COVID-19 cases in the district stand at 4,193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/524-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32728016.ece
30 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Stolen idol found||A panchaloha idol allegedly stolen by a gang from an idol-making unit at Karakkad, near Chengannur, was recovered from the compound of the unit on Tuesday. The Ayyappa idol made of 30 kg of copper, 10 kg of tin, 1 kg of silver and 16-gram gold was found by the owners of the unit. The idol went missing on Sunday. The police said they had doubts and were probing all angles. They have registered a case under Sections 395 (punishment for dacoity) and 326 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stolen-idol-found/article32728017.ece
30 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||3 hospitalised after taking ‘spurious liquor’||Three persons were admitted to two different hospitals after they consumed ‘spurious liquor’ at a homestay at Chithirapuram under the Vellathooval police station limits on Monday. Those who consumed the spurious substance included the owner of the homestay, his friend and a helper. Condition serious Two of them were admitted to the Kolachery medical college hospital and one at a private hospital at Angamaly. The condition of the two were said to be serious. According to an excise official, they consumed the ingredients of a sanitiser mixed with honey. A native from Thrissur brought the product and the three consumed it at the homestay. According to the police, homestay owner Thankachen, his friend Manoj and helper Joby consumed the spurious liquor. Later, their health worsened and Thankachen and Joby were shifted to the Kolanchery hospital. The police have registered a case and an inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-hospitalised-after-taking-spurious-liquor/article32727991.ece
30 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||31 wards for women in Kannur Corpn.||For the upcoming elections, 31 wards in Kannur Municipality Corporation have been reserved for women, including two wards for Scheduled Caste women and one for Schedule Castes in general. Renu Raj, Director, Department of Urban Affair, issued the orders as per the 1994 Kerala Municipality Act under Section 6(9) after selecting the wards through a draw of lots. Reserved wards The wards reserved for women are: Kunnav (ward No: 2), Talap (3), Udayamkunnu (6), Podikundu (7), Kakkad (10), Thulicheri (11), Kakkad North (12), Sadulipalli (13), Palliparam (14), Varam (15), Macheri (18), Pallippoil (19), Kappad (20), Edachovva (24), Athiragam (25), Kappicheri (26), Thilanoor (30), Edakkad (33), Ezhara (34), Adikadalai (38), Kuruva (39), Vethilapalli (41), Chovva (44), Thana (45), Kasanakotta (49), Ayikkara (50), Thalikkavu (51), and Panjikkayil (55). While Kakkad North (12) and Sadulipalli (13) are reserved for women from Scheduled Castes, Kokkenpara (3) is reserved as a general ward for Schedule Castes. In Thrissur In Thrissur, the draw of lots for selecting the reserved wards for women and Scheduled Castes was held under the leadership of District Collector S. Shanavas on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/31-wards-for-women-in-kannur-corpn/article32727946.ece
30 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||New damselfly found in Kannur||Scientists from the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) have identified a new damselfly species, Platylestes kirani , in the wetlands of Kannur district. The species has been named after late C.G. Kiran, odonatologist and the author of the book Dragonflies of Kerala ( Keralathile Thumbikal ). “Since the species has been collected from the coastal wetlands of the region, it highlights that our wetlands are rich in diversity and still remain unexplored,” said Muhamed Jafer Palot, ZSI scientist. The research revealed that the adult flight period was for a short time between August and October, he told The Hindu. The specimen has been deposited in the national collections of the ZSI, Western Ghat Regional Centre, Kozhikode. The specimen was collected from the Edakkepuram wetlands of Kannapuram grama panchayat in Kannur district. The finding was published in the latest edition of the Journal of Threatened Taxa . The team behind the discovery comprises scientists K.G. Emiliyamma of ZSI Kolkata, Muhamed Jafer Palot of ZSI Pune and C. Charesh of ZSI Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-damselfly-found-in-kannur/article32727953.ece
30 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Chief Minister opens Payyanur Sub RTO||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said that the government had been able to solve the unhealthy trends in the motor vehicle department. He was speaking after inaugurating the Payyanur Sub-Regional Transport Office at Vellur, through video-conferencing. It took four years of hard work to change the image of the Department of Motor Vehicles. However, isolated incidents did occur. He said they would be closely monitored and strict action taken. With the opening of the new RT office, Payyannur has acquired KL 86 as the registration number of the State Motor Vehicle Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-opens-payyanur-sub-rto/article32727951.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Prompt medical care crucial for patients in home isolation||With 3,575 out of the 6,214 COVID-19 patients in the district remaining in isolation at home as on Tuesday morning, prompt medical attention and rapid response in case of deterioration of their health condition are crucial. But for now, the administration is not providing pulse oximeters to monitor blood oxygen levels, and people remaining in isolation at home after testing positive are required to procure one on their own. “We do not insist that people buy one, except in the case of some older people over 50 years,” said Dr. George Tukalan, joint secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kochi, who has been coordinating the telemedicine unit managed by the IMA and the district administration. But people might sometimes experience silent or ‘happy’ hypoxia, when oxygen levels in the blood fall without any obvious signs. Normal blood oxygen levels are at 96 or above. “For such situations when patients might require sudden medical attention, rapid response teams, with doctors from the nearest health centre and local body officials, are ready at the local body level,” Dr. George said. “Local bodies have also been asked to set aside vehicles for the purpose,” he added. If people have access to a pulse oximeter, they are required to monitor it every two to four hours and report any variations. People with ‘controlled’ co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension were also being allowed to remain in isolation at home, Dr. George said. “All asymptomatic people, even those with co-morbidities, are allowed to remain at home,” said a health official. Mildly symptomatic people are also permitted to stay at home provided they do not have any co-morbidities. Telemedicine unit The telemedicine unit has been functioning with about 20 to 25 doctors and a few data entry operators and moderators who assign patients to doctors. A 39-year-old, who tested positive in the city on September 4 and turned negative on September 18, said that she had received calls daily from a doctor, monitoring her health. She had experienced only body aches, had bought an oximeter herself, and was required to report the readings on it, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prompt-medical-care-crucial-for-patients-in-home-isolation/article32727968.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NGT flays govt. apathy to Periyar pollution||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said that the State government cannot absolve itself of its responsibility of identifying land and extending financial assistance for setting up effluent and sewage treatment plants in local bodies located along the Periyar river aimed at checking pollution. The Bench, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, said that it was the responsibility of the government to protect the interests of the people and find out ways to raise funds for making the rivers pollution-free even if the Centre was not providing any assistance. They cannot go back in discharging their responsibility of fulfilling the constitutional obligation on the ground of want of funds. Providing clean drinking water was a part of the right to life as provided under Article 21 of the Constitution, it said. The Bench said that the government was yet to make any contribution to setting up the effluent treatment plants. If the local bodies did not have the funds, it was the responsibility on the State government to find a solution. Ncessary treatment plants had to be provided for the purpose of avoiding untreated sewage or effluents being discharged into the river, which was the major cause for pollution of the rivers, the Bench said. The government/district administration would have to identify and acquire the land for establishing the effluent and sewage treatment plants, wherever it was required and the health of the people had to be protected by the State, it said. The Bench criticised the government for spending huge amounts for preparation of the detailed project report (DPR) for remediation of the Periyar and its streams including the Kuzhikandamthodu, Panachithodu, Pallipuramchal and Unthithodu. It was quite unfortunate that a huge amount had been earmarked for the preparation of the DPR. The expenditure required for the remediation process was less than the cost incurred for preparing the detailed project report, it said. The tribunal asked the Chief Secretary and Secretaries to the Departments of Local Self Government and Irrigation to initiate steps to provide necessary financial assistance and help for implementing the remedial measures suggested by the committee constituted to look into the pollution of the Periyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-flays-govt-apathy-to-periyar-pollution/article32727963.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pact inked for modernisation of fishing harbour||The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) and the Cochin Port Trust have entered into a pact to modernise Kerala’s busiest fisheries harbour at Thoppumpady at a cost of Rs. 140 crore. MPEDA chairman K.S. Srinivas and CPT chairperson Dr. M. Beena signed the memorandum, said the MPEDA in a communication here. The Rs. 140-crore project will be implemented through a special purpose vehicle (SPV), being floated now. The SPV would mobilise resources from various Central government schemes, it said. The fisheries harbour modernisation project is the biggest in the State so far and aims to substantially enhance the unit value realised from wild catch as well as minimise post-harvest losses. The MPEDA said that the harbour was the hub of about 250-tonne fish landings on an average daily. A major source of high value fish for seafood processors in both Ernakulam and Alappuzha districts, it was the operational base for more than 600 gillnet-longline vessels, 80 purseiners and around 300 trawl boats, said M. Majeed, general secretary of Gillnet-Longline Boat Owners’ and Traders’ Association. He welcomed the development and said: “Modernisation of the fisheries harbour has been one of our long-standing demands.” The Cochin Port Trust runs the harbour now. Built on 27 acres of port land, the harbour was established in 1978. The new features will include air-conditioned auction halls, an effluent treatment plant, a retail market, fish-dressing unit and net-mending area along with offices and dormitories. Mr. Srinivas said the MPEDA had proposed modernisation of 25 fishing harbours across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pact-inked-for-modernisation-of-fishing-harbour/article32727961.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Violations suspected in quarry operations in district||The ongoing inspection of quarries in the district by the Ernakulam Rural police has exposed serious violations in their operations. The inspection was triggered by a recent explosion of gelatine sticks stocked in a building near a stone quarry in lllithodu near Malayattoor that killed two migrant workers. Quarry operators are supposed to appoint a ‘mine manager’ under the Mines Act with the prescribed qualifications. As per rules: “He shall, on instructions by or on behalf of the owner or the agent, be responsible for the overall management, control, supervision and direction of the mine or quarry.” “The mine manager is supposed to oversee the operation of the quarry, including the use of explosives. However, it has to be suspected that many quarries just maintain that post in the payroll while not actually deploying one and explosions are undertaken by lay workers without any specialised knowledge,” said a senior police officer. Even in the instant case in Illithodu, someone had been shown as mine manager in the books though the police are yet to verify whether it was a mere decoy for official purposes. The Explosive Rules, 2008, also calls for the employment of a ‘shot firer’ for blasting operations in compliance with the Mines Act. He is supposed to take all precautions against fire, accident, loss, pilferage etc., of the explosives and shall be personally held responsible for any contravention of the provisions of the Explosives Act. It is also not clear how many quarries actually engage such a specialised person. The officer said that though quarry operators claim that they purchase explosives within the permissible limits to create a facade of compliance with the rules, many of them purchase more directly from explosives manufacturers on the sly. “Besides, many operators stock these explosives in some kind of sheds near the blast site in violation of the safety distance prescribed by the law,” he said. While the police claim to carry out the inspection without fail, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation authorities clarified they haven’t received any such periodical reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/violations-suspected-in-quarry-operations-in-district/article32727965.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court asks rights panel to hold fresh hearing||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights to conduct a fresh hearing of all stakeholders, including the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), and inform the court whether any modification of the commission’s order restricting the duration of online classes of CBSE-affiliated schools can be made. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while issuing the directive, extended till October 14 the stay on the commission's order directing the schools affiliated to the CBSE to limit the duration of online classes to two hours and give students a break of 10-15 minutes. The court directed the commission to file a statement after holding a fresh hearing of all stakeholders. When a petition filed by a CBSE school from Thiruvalla challenging the commission's order came up for hearing, the court observed that since the education of children was regulated specifically by the syllabus and the schedule as stipulated by the CBSE from time to time, the commission should have consulted the CBSE before issuing the order. The petitioner alleged that the order was in violation of the guidelines issued by the Centre and State governments on online classes and examinations. The commission had passed the order on complaints filed by the parents of some students. The parents had complained that online classes were being held from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. As a result, the students were forced to use their mobile phones continuously, affecting their eyesight and putting them in severe stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-asks-rights-panel-to-hold-fresh-hearing/article32727992.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fraudsters eye a wider prey base||With largely restricted indoors with little human contact in the wake of a raging pandemic, attending a WhatsApp video call even from an unknown number may seem tempting. But that is what it takes to fall victim to a potential online honeytrap. Within minutes of attending the call, the person may receive a screenshot that may look like him having a sex chat with a nude woman. A threat to upload the image on social media follows unless money is paid. This is among the online frauds in which gullible victims in the Ernakulam Rural police limits lost around Rs. 2 crore so far this year. “We have received so many complaints from people who lost their money to such online frauds,” says K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Other than the “OTP” fraud (victims are cheated by tricking them into sharing the OTP), fraudsters deploy seven or eight different methods. Social media ads Social media advertisements for lucrative jobs abroad with real vacancies are used to trap job aspirants, who pay the amount only to realise that the original employers have nothing to do with it. Victims lured by advertisements of data entry jobs end up paying rather than earning. “The fraudster finds fault with the work and demands compensation threatening legal action using bogus job contracts featuring the victim’s fraudulently procured signature,” say cyber police sources. Some fall for online chats in which fraudsters pretend to choose them as conduits for charity works. The victim is then forced to pay money under the guise of getting the charity money in dollars released from the airport and then to avoid punitive action by the Reserve Bank of India for foreign exchange violations. One victim paid up to Rs. 11 lakh. In another case, a person was duped of Rs. 1.80 lakh as processing fee for an online loan. The police say fraudsters have a wider pool of susceptible victims now that people are increasingly spending more time online. In the majority of cases, fraudsters are found to be from remote places in Jharkhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fraudsters-eye-a-wider-prey-base/article32727997.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Less than 10% of cases in private hospitals||A total of 590 patients, or a little less than 10% of more than 6,000 active cases in the district, are being treated at private hospitals, according to data available with the district administration as on Tuesday morning. “About 42 private hospitals are treating COVID-19 patients, mostly those who test positive on their premises, and in some cases, people who had requested a shift from a government facility to a private one,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. ‘Beds set aside’ The district had not yet reached a point at which patients would have to be referred from brimming government facilities to private ones, particularly since people without severe symptoms were being advised to remain at home, he said. “But if that situation were to arrive, six private hospitals empanelled under the government’s Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) health care scheme, have set aside 200 beds altogether,” Dr. Numpeli said. The price of treatment has been capped by the State government at KASP-empanelled hospitals. Meanwhile, at the Government Medical College Hospital, which has borne the brunt of the COVID-19 case load so far, 236 out of 300 beds are occupied. At PVS Hospital, which was recently renovated and turned into a COVID-19 hospital, 15 out of 30 beds are occupied. PVS has the capacity to treat about 120 critically ill patients and more beds at the hospital would be made functional as and when patients are directed to the hospital, Dr. Numpeli said. The Fort Kochi taluk hospital would also be ready to treat category B and C patients in about a week, he said. Treatment cost Dr. Joseph Benaven, general secretary, Kerala Private Hospitals’ Association, said the treatment cost for COVID patients would be a reflection of what the hospitals charged otherwise, but the costs had changed considering the humongous use of disposables like PPE kits. “The issue of sufficient personnel persists at private hospitals too and most hospitals are in a critical situation when it comes to human resources, with staff testing positive or going into quarantine, and having only a few specialists to handle regular hospital functions,” he said. “Across the State, patients who test positive on the hospital premises are treated at a private hospital, and patients were not yet being transferred from government facilities, except by the patient’s choice. “But we could arrive at such a situation soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/less-than-10-of-cases-in-private-hospitals/article32727969.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ramp up testing: IMA||Tests for COVID-19 should be ramped up and strict restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the virus, treating the situation like a health emergency, the State branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said. Since the only way to contain the spread of the disease is to increase testing and isolate positive patients, the State must ensure that at least one lakh tests are done daily, says a statement issued by IMA State president Abraham Varghese and secretary P. Gopikumar. Grave situation The test positivity rate remains high even when the number of tests done is low, indicating that the State is moving towards a grave situation, they note. “The test positivity rate has gone from less than 5% in May to 13.6% recently,” Dr. Varghese says. “The number of health-care workers being infected now is alarming. The number of tests done dropped during the Onam season, and on Sundays, testing dips again,” he says. “While restrictions must be strengthened in containment zones, a total lockdown is not necessary at this point. A lockdown in the early phase was meant to buy time to see that the infrastructure is ready. Arrangements have been made already – some hospitals were declared as facilities for COVID-19 patients and some planning was done. But then, so many relaxations should not have been given. All sorts of get-togethers should be avoided,” says Dr. Varghese. The government must ensure that people follow COVID-related hygiene and physical distancing protocol. Places of worship and schools must not be allowed to reopen until the spread of the disease has been curbed. The IMA also suggests a return to limiting attendance in offices at 50% of the staff strength or less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramp-up-testing-ima/article32727986.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||859 new cases reported||A total of 859 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Of them, 731 people contracted the disease through local transmission and the source of infection of 112 people remains unknown. Ten health workers have tested positive. A total of 216 people tested negative on Tuesday and 23,363 people remain in quarantine. As many as 7,084 people are being treated for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/859-new-cases-reported/article32727966.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC adjourns hearing on expulsion of students||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned till October 8 hearing on a writ petition challenging the action of the authorities of St. Joseph Public School, Manalimukku, Ernakulam, expelling some students from online classes because of their inability to pay the full school fee. The court had earlier directed the school authorities not to expel students from the online classes on the ground of their failure to pay the full fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-expulsion-of-students/article32727957.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Shipyard delivers two ro-ro vessels to IWAI||Cochin Shipyard delivered two roll-on roll-off vessels to the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI). The delivery protocol was signed by Mathew George, director, IWAI Kochi, and Suresh Babu N.V., director (operations), CSL, in the presence of the officials of IWAI and CSL, said a press release here. These vessels are part of the order for 10 vessels comprising eight ro-pax vessels for operation on NW1 and NW2, which were delivered earlier. The vessels delivered on Tuesday are for operations on NW3, the press release said. Dedicated facility CSL has invested its resources in the inland water segment, including the development of a dedicated shipbuilding facility in Kolkotta, with the aim of providing a complete solution to the customers operating in the inland water segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shipyard-delivers-two-ro-ro-vessels-to-iwai/article32727958.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Toll exemption to continue on Container Road||The toll exemption given to residents of Mulavukad, Kadamakudy, and Cheranallor panchayats who are using NHAI-owned Container Road will continue, it was decided at a meeting chaired by District Collector S. Suhas here on Tuesday. The meeting was held as suggested by Hibi Eden, MP, after the company which was entrusted with collecting toll from motorists using the stretch decided to take away the exemption that was enjoyed by residents of these panchayats. This gave rise to a spree of protests, the latest being by Congress activists, who conducted a protest march to NHAI's toll plaza at Ponnarimangalam. Hundreds of people from these panchayats had surrendered their lands for the Container Road. They deserve to be exempted from the toll. Moreover, the NHAI has not readied streetlights and other critical infrastructure on the road, despite fatal accidents, mainly involving parked and moving lorries. No motorist would pay toll if the NHAI insisted on collecting toll from people living in the vicinity of the toll plaza, Mr. Eden said. But the agency was bent on toll collection. “I had met the Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways, demanding installation of lights and reflectors on the stretch,” he said. A tripartite agreement must be readied on the issue of toll collection, involving NHAI, district administration and local bodies, to prevent such issues creeping up when toll contractors change, it was suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-exemption-to-continue-on-container-road/article32727959.ece
30 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Collector cancels licence||District Collector S. Suhas has cancelled the licence of the quarry at Illithodu near Malayattoor after two migrant workers were killed in a blast at an adjacent building in which gelatine sticks were stored, last Monday. The move is based on the interim report of a magisterial inquiry being conducted by Additional District Magistrate Sabu K. Jacob. Further action would be taken based on the final report, Mr. Suhas said. The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) had cancelled the licence of the quarry following the explosion. A special investigation squad has so far arrested seven persons in connection with the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-cancels-licence/article32727964.ece
30 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BJP to continue protests||Protests against the State government will continue strictly complying with the COVID-19 protocol, BJP State president K. Surendran has said. The protests would be much more decentralised at panchayat and booth levels from now on, he told media after a party core committee meeting here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-to-continue-protests/article32727970.ece
30 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||583 more on Kollam case list||The number of active cases in Kollam crossed 5,000 on Tuesday with 583 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. While 566 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include three NRIs and 11 persons who had travelled from different States. Among the patients are three health workers and two of them have been working at Family Health Centre, Neduvathur, while the third one is attached to a private facility. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 55-year-old Thekkemuri resident, 62-year-old Perumpuzha resident, and 80-year-old Anchal resident are due to COVID-19. They died on September 21, 23 and 25 respectively. While Kollam Corporation reported over 140 cases on Tuesday, Thrikkaruva, Neendakara and Paravur are among the places that reported new contact cases. The district currently has 19,651 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,02,894. While 2,133 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 42,433 primary and 6,623 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present 17 COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are operating in the district and the number of active cases is 5,307. The number of recoveries on Tuesday is 262. Since the number of cases are on the rise, the district administration has decided to open more COVID second-line treatment centres (SLTCs) in Kollam. Admission to the two COVID-19 hospitals in the district including Government Medical College Hospital and Kollam District Hospital will be limited to patients with serious issues and emergency cases. The Health Department will also ensure that the patients who are referred from first-line treatment centres are provided proper treatment at private hospitals with ICUs. FLTCs to SLTCs More facilities will be introduced to FLTCs to convert them to SLTCs and Category B patients with severe symptoms will be treated there. All asymptomatic patients including children and the elderly and those with mild symptoms like fever, cough and sore throat will be recommended home care, says District medical Officer Dr. R.Sreelatha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/583-more-on-kollam-case-list/article32728021.ece
30 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Mata: COVID-19 a warning to humans to mend their ways||Mata Amritanandamayi has said the need of the hour is not fault-finding or feeling guilty, but casting away idleness and engaging in dharmic action with intense alertness and courage. COVID-19 is not a punishment from the nature, but a warning to help humankind correct its behaviour. “We may feel that such times of crisis are a form of punishment from the nature. But treat it as a clarion call from the nature for us to mend our ways. Think of it as a shock treatment from God, or the nature, to prevent us from doing worse things. Both Mother Earth and Mother Nature are considered as paragons of patience. However, man has taken this patience as a licence to commit atrocities. It is time to correct this mistake,” she said in her birthday message. She stressed on the need for compassion in her address. “We may not be able to help everyone in this world. But if we are able to express our compassion to a few people around us, they will pass it on and very soon it will spread like links of a chain. This ‘karuna’ virus (virus of compassion), which can conquer the coronavirus, is what should spread across the world.” Owing to the pandemic, the 67th birthday of Mata Amritanandamayi was celebrated as global prayer day for world peace the other day.  ‘Karuna’ virus (virus of compassion) is what should spread across the world.  Mata Amritananda Mayi  Spiritual guru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mata-covid-19-a-warning-to-humans-to-mend-their-ways/article32728018.ece
30 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cases in Kottayam cross 10,000 mark||With 336 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 , the total number of COVID-19 cases in Kottayam crossed 10,000 mark on Tuesday. As per estimates, the total number of cases in the district was 10,263 and of this, 3,491 were active cases. Of the fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 327 persons, including four healthcare workers contracted the virus through local contact. High TPR The remaining nine persons tested positive for the disease after landing from other States. The test positivity rate (TPR) also remained high at 7.3%. Kottayam municipality continued to lead the tally with 52 fresh cases, while Ettumanur municipality and Mundakkayam panchayat stood at the second place with 17 cases each. Changanassery municipality, where 16 persons were confirmed with virus infection on the day, followed closely. Meanwhile, 153 more persons recovered from the disease on the day. In the past seven days, a total of 2,458 persons were confirmed with virus infection across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-in-kottayam-cross-10000-mark/article32728023.ece
30 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Collector warns of action against protocol violators||Two days after guidelines were issued for the strict enforcement of COVID-19 protocol in Kozhikode, the district administration has warned of action against violators, even as 837 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. Pointing out that the pandemic had entered a new phase in Kozhikode, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said on Tuesday that over 7,500 cases had been reported from the district in the past fortnight. Over 900 cases were reported on Monday alone. “This is a result of lack of efforts to comply with the restrictions and the protocol,” he said. Test positivity The test positivity had gone up from 4% to 10% during the period. “The fact that most of these people got it through local transmission should be viewed seriously,” he said. So far, 64 deaths have been recorded from the district. Over 5,000 people are under treatment at two government hospitals, 10 private hospitals and 21 first-line treatment centres. In an order, the Collector authorised sub-divisional magistrates, deputy collectors, tahsildars, deputy tahsildars, village officers and leaders of quick response teams, secretaries of all local bodies, and police personnel not less than the rank of sub-inspectors to do the enforcement job. Any failure to comply with physical distancing, wearing of two-layer masks, and usage of hand sanitisers at markets, commercial complexes, and public spaces would lead to cancellation of their licences. People who fail to wear face masks properly will have to face legal action. Four deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as a 72-year-old man from Kozhikode city, a 49-year-old man from Chettippadi, Malappuram, a 49-year-old woman from Cheruvadi in Alappuzha, and a 78-year-old man from Payyoli, Kozhikode. Corporation limits Meanwhile, the District Medical Officer said in a release that 789 people acquired the infection locally, of whom 429 were from the Kozhikode Corporation limits. There were nine health workers among the newly infected persons. The number of active cases from the district has reached 6,415.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-warns-of-action-against-protocol-violators/article32727950.ece
30 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Remnants of Iron Age found at Triprangode||In a rare find, the Kozhikode unit of the State Archaeology Department has discovered an early Iron Age burial monument from a rock-cut chamber claimed to be over 2,000 years old at Triprangode village in Tirur taluk in Malappuram district. K. Krishnaraj of the Archaeology Department says 16 pottery and three iron implements were recovered from the chamber recently following a land levelling work on the premises of a newly built house. “The entire range of pottery in different shapes and sizes is wheel-made and finely baked. The collection includes black and red wares of the Megalithic age,” he says. Almost all pieces have a fine coating of red slip on the exterior and some on the interior as well. The paintings were executed with white clay directing onto the surface before firing. First of its kind “No such kind of painted pottery has been reported anywhere else in Kerala. A rock-cut chamber at Poduvachery in Kannur had yielded painted pottery, but the repertoire differs from this collection in pattern and colour scheme,” Mr. Krishnaraj says. The iron types discovered from the site consist of two swords and a tripod stand. One of the swords having a length of 61.5 cm is double-edged while the second sword has been broken into many pieces but the total length of the recovered part is 58 cm. The tripod stand recovered is the commonest type of object recovered from Iron Age Megalithic rock-cut chambers, he says. The artefacts have been shifted to the Pazhassi Raja Archaeological Museum at East Hill in Kozhikode. The Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, has agreed to carry out the metallographic examination and scientific analysis of the iron implements to find out the type of forging and carbon content, E. Dineshan, Director, Department of Archaeology, says. Mr. Krishnaraj says the site and neighbouring Tirunavaya, a town situated on the northern banks of the Bharathapuzha, are abundant in such archaeological monuments. “The cave must be re-excavated scientifically in search of further burial artefacts and possible bone fragments. Further researches should be conducted to get information about painted decorations. Also a detailed graphic, and photographic documentation of the monument is necessary,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remnants-of-iron-age-found-at-triprangode/article32727990.ece
30 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varsity move to hold entrance tests criticised||Calicut University’s move to conduct entrance tests for admissions to postgraduate, M.Phil and Ph.D courses has been criticised for violating rules. P. Rasheed Ahmed, a Syndicate member backed by the United Democratic Front (UDF), claimed on Tuesday that the plan to entrust the responsibility of preparation of question papers to teachers from the university itself was against its examination rules. The work should be given to external question paper setters as was being done with normal exams. Otherwise, it would put the entire system under the shadow of suspicion, Mr. Ahmed claimed. It was mandatory to assign false numbers on answer scripts before the evaluation. The examination rules mandate maintaining confidentiality of the exam, which is the basic right of any candidate. Violation of the rule would also damage the credibility of the exam system and could lead to nepotism in awarding marks, said Mr. Ahmed. Calicut University had been holding admissions to PG courses in pure science and humanities based on marks and for courses such as journalism through entrance tests. It was made uniform two years ago. In view of the COVID-19 situation this year, it was decided to go back to the old system. However, the plan was changed again later. In a letter to M.K. Jayaraj, Vice Chancellor, Mr. Ahmed demanded that a set of guidelines be prepared for the conduct of the tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-move-to-hold-entrance-tests-criticised/article32727948.ece
30 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Spices sector sees export growth: experts||The two-day workshop of the All India Coordinated Research Project on Spices (AICRPS) which began at the ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR) on Tuesday discussed the scope of the spices sector in the country and evaluated the major hurdles during the COVID-19 lockdown. Despite the pandemic, speakers at the workshop said that the spices sector in India was witnessing a steady growth in exports. The importance of technology outreach and trait specific adaptation of varieties was also emphasised. In his inaugural address, R. Chandra Babu, Vice Chancellor of Kerala Agricultural University, said that giving more thrust to research could reduce pesticide use in spice crops so as to improve the export potential. A.K. Singh, Deputy Director General of ICAR, said that the export demand of spices had risen at the global level. Raigarh Centre of Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur, was given the best AICRPS centre award for the year 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spices-sector-sees-export-growth-experts/article32727947.ece
30 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram’s daily cases hit new high||The number of daily COVID-19 cases from Malappuram crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time on Tuesday, with 1,040 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and District Medical Officer K. Sakeena have urged people to exercise extreme caution. While 970 people contracted the virus through direct local contacts, the source of infection could not be traced in 54 cases. There were four health workers among the new cases. While five patients came from other States, seven came from abroad. The number of active cases in Malappuram rose to 5,261. Dr. Sakeena said 525 people recovered from the disease on Tuesday. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 374 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. District officials said there were 269 recoveries. As many as 239 people were infected through local transmission. Six persons came from other States. The source of infection could not be identified in 129 cases. In Kannur As many as 432 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Of those affected, 385 people contracted the disease through contact, while four had returned from abroad, 11 from other States and 32 are health workers. As many as 196 people recovered on Tuesday. In Kasaragod In the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, 453 people from Kasaragod tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Of them, 424 were infected through local contacts, while 13 had returned from other States and 16 from abroad. In Thrissur Thrissur recorded 484 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Of them, 482 contracted the disease through local contact. There are 4,877 patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals. In Wayanad A total of 169 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 813. Of them, 162 people, including five KSRTC workers and six health workers, were infected through contact. While two persons had returned from abroad, five came from other States. Fifty-three persons recovered on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappurams-daily-cases-hit-new-high/article32727956.ece
30 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||High Court seeks mark list of Sabarimala melsanthi candidates||Taking note of last year’s report on the wide difference in awarding marks to candidates during the interview for melsanthis (head priests) for the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram temple, the Kerala High Court has directed the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) to produce the mark list of this year’s candidates along with the video of the selection process.  By October 10 In an order appointing former judge K. Padmanabhan Nair as observer for the selection process, the Division Bench comprising Justice C.T. Ravikumar and Justice K. Haripal directed the TDB Commissioner to produce the same in a sealed cover by October 10. The interviews are slated to be held in Thiruvananthapuram on October 5 and 6. The TDB will be permitted to fix the date for draw-of-lots subject to orders after the report to be filed by the observer. A report submitted to the High Court by former judge R. Bhaskaran, who was the observer for the selection last year, had noticed wide difference in the marks awarded by the three tantris. “It is, therefore, observed in the report that it would be better if the observer is directed to file a report before the lots are drawn, so that the mark list can be verified by the court, to ensure that the interview was conducted in a fair manner. Evidently, the suggestion is made with bona fide intention to ensure that an upper hand was not actually given to any particular person by anyone,” the order said. Besides three tantris, a senior and a junior tantri from Tazhamon madom and a tantri from outside the family, the selection committee for melsanthis also include the president, two members and the commissioner of the TDB In view of the pandemic situation, the court permitted to depute two male children above the age of 10 as agreed by the senior Raja of the Pandalam royal family for drawing the lots. According to a report by M. Manoj, Sabarimala Special Commissioner and District Judge, as many as 89 applicants have been recommended for interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-seeks-mark-list-of-sabarimala-melsanthi-candidates/article32727751.ece
30 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||271 new cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 271 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 226 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while 34 persons had come from other States. The remaining 11 cases had landed from abroad. With 28 cases, Thiruvalla municipality reported the highest number of cases, closely followed by Ezhumattoor panchayat by 23 cases. Adoor municipality reported 17 cases while Pandalam municipality had 14 cases. Five persons, including four women, tested positive for the virus post-death. They were identified as a 75-year-old woman from Konni, a 77-year-old woman from Pallikkal, 59-year-old man from Kodumon, 63- year-old woman from West Othara, and 74-year-old woman from Ezhumattoor. These numbers, however, are yet to be included in the official figures of the State. With these deaths, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Pathanamthitta rose to 44. Meanwhile, the district reported 204 recoveries during the day, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,790.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/271-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32728022.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State records yet another day of over 7,000 cases||Kerala reported 7,354 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, after testing 52,755 samples in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 1,87,276. The test positivity rate remains at a record high of 13.9%. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 3,420. With total recoveries reported till date being 1,24,688, the number of active patients in the State at present is 61,791. Of these, 389 are critically ill and being treated in ICUs and another 94 on ventilator support. The State’s toll went up to 719, with the addition of 22 new deaths in the State’s official list of COVID deaths. Five of these deaths were reported in Kannur, four in Malappuram, three each in Thrissur, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram and two each in Kottayam and Palakkad. Of the new cases reported on Tuesday, 97% – 7,166 out of the 7,354 – are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 672 of these cases. The number of health-care workers affected is 130, with 32 cases in Kannur, 30 in Thiruvananthapuram and 24 in Kasaragod and the rest scattered across districts. Most in Malappuram Malappuram has the highest number of new cases reported on Tuesday, at 1,040, followed by Thiruvananthapuram with 935 cases. Ernakulam has 859, Kozhikode 837, Kollam 583, Alappuzha 524, Thrissur 484, Kasaragod 453, Kannur 432, Palakkad 374, Kottayam 336, Pathanamthitta 271, Wayanad 169, and Idukki 57. The active cases in Thiruvananthapuram crossed the 10,000 mark to reach 10,405. Ernakulam has 7,084 active cases, Kozhikode 6,634, Kollam 5,307, and Malappuram 5,257.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-records-yet-another-day-of-over-7000-cases/article32727978.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre to help investors launched||A dedicated toll-free call service, investment facilitation centre and an upgraded version of the single-window clearance portal to make the investment process fast, efficient and transparent have been launched in the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched them through videoconference on Tuesday, besides launching the e-news letter Investor Konnect of the Department of Industries and Commerce. These projects, launched as part of the Invest Kerala 2020 campaign, fulfil the commitment made by the Chief Minister before leading industrialists at the Global Investors Meet, ASCEND 2020, held in Kochi in January. Ideal destination “The interventions and initiatives of the government in the past four years have transformed Kerala into an ideal investment destination. Investors themselves have acknowledged this and the efforts of the government have yielded concrete results,” Mr. Vijayan said in his address. Noting that no industrialist would now complain of disruptions by workers, the Chief Minister said whatever unhealthy practices that existed in isolated pockets had been resolved by taking trade unions into confidence. If such tendencies lurked their head again, the authorities should take stern action. Dugs, medical devices Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who presided over the function, said manufacturing of health and medicinal products and devices was an area that would offer great scope in the post-pandemic period. The toll-free number — 1800 890 1030 — will provide all information on investment-related queries. The service, to be provided in Malayalam and English, will be available from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all working days. The dedicated investment facilitation centre at the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation will receive, track and resolve all investment-related issues. The upgraded version of the Kerala Single Window Interface for Fast and Transparent Clearance portal (KSWIFT 2.0) will considerably reduce the strain of physical interaction by entrepreneurs for securing licences and clearances. Senior officials of the Industries Department and representatives of industry and trade bodies Confederation of Indian Industry, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Kerala State Small Industries Association also attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-to-help-investors-launched/article32727995.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||935 cases push caseload to 10,405||The COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district witnessed yet another steep spike on Tuesday as 935 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. While a large chunk of the cases were recorded during the past 24 hours, official sources said that the results of many tests conducted during the previous day also reflected on the tally. Recording a five-figure mark of case burden for the first time, the capital district currently has 10,405 active cases. The district’s death toll also continued to mount to 212 after two more people, who hailed from Nedumangad (aged 61 years) and Pettah (70 years), succumbed to the disease. Among those diagnosed with COVID-19, 767 contracted the infection through local transmission while the source of infection of 131 others was yet to be known. Thirty health workers have also been diagnosed with the disease. These included two doctors attached to the Anjuthengu primary health centre and the Manamboor community health centre. Appeal for restraint During his daily briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that COVID-19 crisis remained grave with the disease having spread to almost all parts of the district. Pointing out that district health authorities had faced difficulty in tracing the source of infection in several instances, Mr. Vijayan said that as many as 988 such cases were reported last week. COVID-19 cases also continued to increase among the vulnerable sections in the district. Ninety two children aged below 15 years and 138 people above 60 years of age had contracted the infection. Last week, 786 senior citizens and 567 children tested positive, the Chief Minister said. Appealing for greater restraint among all sections of society to rein in COVID-19 spread, Mr. Vijayan said the withdrawal of lockdown curbs had led to blatant disregard for the need to exercise caution. Besides parts of the capital city, the situation remained critical in places such as Attingal, Kallikkad, and Maranalloor, official sources said.  KWA office to be closed An employee of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) in its Karamana revenue section tested positive on the day. The Karamana revenue section office will be closed down on Wednesday for disinfection. The KWA has urged customers to avail themselves of its online services throughwww. epay.kwa.kerala.gov.infor bill payments. The district administration quarantined 1,811 people on the day, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 29,100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/935-cases-push-caseload-to-10405/article32727755.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Polycarbonate RCs, driving licences soon||The Motor Vehicles Department will soon issue polycarbonate cards for Registration Certificate (RC) and driving licence to motorists in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Inaugurating the Sub-Regional Transport Offices (Sub-RTO) at Chadayamangalam, Pathanapuram, Feroke and Payyannur through videoconference on Tuesday, the Chief Minister said issue of PUC certificates online through approved testing centres was also in the final stages. The RFID facility to screen goods vehicles at border check-posts and the GPS facility to track stage carriers were in the final stages. The Safe Kerala project that ensured round-the-clock presence of MVD personnel had helped reduce road accidents in the State, Mr. Vijayan said. Quality of service The Chief Minister said the government was of the view that at least one MVD office should be there in a taluk. The number of Sub-RTO offices had gone up to 67 in the State. Bid to end corruption There was a perceptible change in the quality of service provided from RTO and Sub-RTO offices. Instances of corruption in the MVD offices had come down, but there were isolated cases. The government was keeping a tab on them as part of weeding out corruption in public offices. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polycarbonate-rcs-driving-licences-soon/article32727975.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tension at district court||The district court at Vanchiyoor here witnessed tense scenes on Tuesday when a group of lawyers allegedly manhandled a bench clerk. The incident at the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court - II was triggered after Nirmalanandan, a bench clerk, purportedly refused to provide information regarding the listing of a court hearing to an advocate at short notice, the police said. While the two quarrelled, the issue apparently died down after sitting commenced in the court hall. Soon after the conclusion of the sitting, a group of lawyers allegedly rounded Mr. Nirmalanandan and assaulted him. He sustained an injury on his left hand and was subsequently admitted to the General Hospital.  While the issue threatened to boil over with the employees of the court taking up cudgels for the bench clerk and holding a demonstration on the court premises, the Chief Judicial Magistrate intervened to restore calm.  Case against 40 The Vanchiyoor police subsequently registered a case on the basis of a complaint submitted by Mr. Nirmalanandan against nearly 40 identifiable persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tension-at-district-court/article32727756.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ordinance against CBI probes alleged||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said an Ordinance to ban the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from investigating offences and cases registered in Kerala was in the works and urged the government to drop the purported move. Mr. Chennithala said the file to request the Governor to promulgate the Ordinance was on the table of the Law Secretary. The measure was to cover up high-level corruption in the State government. The CBI inquiry into the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract to provide free housing for the poor in Thrissur had rattled the government. The fear of prosecution by the CBI had prompted the government to impede the investigation by attempting to pass an executive order to hobble the probe. Mr. Chennithala said he would request Governor Arif Mohammad Khan to reject the government's proposal. He would also move the court if required. CBI probe When pressed whether the government was considering such an Ordinance at a press briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government could act only within the bounds of the law. It was examining the matter, he said. To another question, he said political parties were entitled to their opinions about the CBI. The government would not hazard any comment, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ordinance-against-cbi-probes-alleged/article32727980.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Maggots in wounds: probe ordered||The State Human Rights Commission has directed the Director of Medical Education and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) to inquire the allegation of maggot infestation on the body of a man who was under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic has sought a report into the incident before October 20. The action comes on a complaint filed by S. Anithakumari, wife of R. Anil Kumar of Manikanteswaram here. He was admitted to the Ortho ICU at the hospital on August 22. After being tested positive for COVID-19, he was shifted to a ward but when his blood oxygen level dipped, he was readmitted to the ICU.  Doctor’s approach The complaint alleges that a doctor said Anil Kumar was unlikely to survive. A written statement that he was in a critical condition was also taken from Anil Kumar’s son. He had tested negative for COVID-19, but was later diagnosed with the disease in the first week of September. On testing negative last week, the family was asked to take him back home. It was after discharge that they noticed the maggot infestation. Ms. Anithakumari said the collar around his neck was tight and had led to a wound at the back of the head, and there were wounds on his shoulders too. These wounds were infested with maggots and contained pus. The complaint sought action against the staff of ward 6 of the medical college hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maggots-in-wounds-probe-ordered/article32727752.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Containment zones||Containment zones were declared at Thrikkannapuram, Punnakkamugal, Thirumala, Mulloor (Nellikkunnu area), Ambalathara, Kamaleswaram, Kalippankulam, Sreevaraham, and Pangode wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Kovoor ward in Chemmaruthy grama panchayat; Pavachakkuzhy ward in Vilavoorkkal grama panchayat; and Arattukuzhy and Mundanad wards in Vellarada grama panchayat. The existing containment zone in Edamannila ward in Navaikulam grama panchayat has been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/containment-zones/article32727758.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala seeks probe into Wayanad encounter||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday said a forensic investigation had failed to justify the government claim that the police had killed suspected Maoist C.P. Jaleel in a gun battle in Wayanad in March last year. Mr. Chennithala, quoting the investigation report, said the police had shot Jaleel in the back when he attempted to flee the force. He demanded a top-level inquiry into all Maoist killings in Kerala since 2016. He demanded justice for Jaleel and said the current magisterial probe ordered by the government would not bring out the truth.  A police team had surrounded Jaleel and an associate when they arrived at a resort in Lakkidi on March 6, 2019. The police allegedly did not offer them a chance to surrender. An officer had later alleged that the suspected Maoists had attempted to extort money from the resort owner. Mr. Chennithala said the forensic report revealed that Jaleel had not attacked the police. There was no gun residue on Jaleel’s hand. He had not fired the country-made firearm found beside his body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-seeks-probe-into-wayanad-encounter/article32727996.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P.M. Mathew Vellore dead||Noted psychologist and author P.M. Mathew Vellore died here on Monday. He was 87 and lived at Charachira, near Plamoodu here. The funeral was held at St. George Orthodox Church at Karipuzha, Mavelikara, on Tuesday. After completing his postgraduation and doctorate at the University of Kerala, Dr. Mathew worked as a clinical psychologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. He has written numerous articles and over 20 books on psychology and various other topics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-mathew-vellore-dead/article32727750.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nedumangad hospital gets new ICU||The district hospital at Nedumangad has witnessed unprecedented levels of developmental activities in the past four years, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. She was speaking after inaugurating a new intensive care unit (ICU) at the hospital, as part of its hundredth anniversary celebrations, on Tuesday. In the past four years, developmental works amounting to Rs. 12 crore were carried out at the hospital. New dialysis units, ICUs, cancer-care centre, ophthalmology department, operation theatre and ward, power laundry, renovated mortuary and freezer and a round-the-clock medical store were set up during this period.  Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran laid the foundation stone for a new three-storeyed hospital block to be built by the district panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nedumangad-hospital-gets-new-icu/article32727757.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ordinance for salary cut||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Tuesday promulgated the Kerala Disaster and Public Health Emergency (Special Provisions ) Ordinance, 2020. The Ordinance is to make special deferment of any payment in part, due and payable to any person, institution and any pay, in part to any employee in the event of disaster and public health emergency in the State and for the matters concerned therewith or incidental thereto. The Ordinance has been published in the Extraordinary Kerala Gazette of September 29 . With the Ordinance that will come into effect from September 30, the government can deduct the salary of one month of government employees and teachers again as it did from April to August this year to mobilise funds for COVID-19. The government needs only to issue orders on modalities of deducting the salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ordinance-for-salary-cut/article32727973.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reservation wards selection||The selection of reservation wards ahead of the upcoming local body elections are under way. The exercise through draw of lots commenced on Monday when wards in Parassala, Nemom, and Varkala block panchayats had been finalised. The reservation wards in the 13 grama panchayats under the Pothencode block panchayat were identified on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reservation-wards-selection/article32727753.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One-time settlement scheme extended||The government has extended the one-time settlement scheme for undervaluation of title deeds and renewal and filing of arrears of societies registered under the Charitable Societies Registration Act, 1955 till March 31, 2021 in view of COVID-19, Minister for Registration and Public Works G. Sudhakaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-time-settlement-scheme-extended/article32727974.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food kits for students||Food kits will be distributed by the General Education Department to students from pre-primary to Class 8 who are included in the mid-day meal scheme for this academic year. The kits comprising rice and other provisions will be distributed as food security allowance for 62 days in the months of June, July, and August (except holidays).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kits-for-students/article32727981.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||World Space Week celebrations from Oct. 4||The World Space Week (WSW) celebrations organised every year by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) centres in Kerala will be held online this year in view of the pandemic, the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre said. WSW-2020 will be held from October 4 to 10. The theme this year is Satellites Improves Life. Visit the website wsweek.vssc.gov.in for more information and registration. Phone: 0471 2564949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/world-space-week-celebrations-from-oct-4/article32727982.ece
30 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New Information Commissioner||Rajeevan H. assumed office as Information Commissioner here on Tuesday. He is the fifth member on the State Information Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-information-commissioner/article32727984.ece
30 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Daily train to Delhi from State capital||Railways will commence the 2625/2626 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Super Fast Special daily train from September 30 as fully reserved service. Train 2625 will commence journey at11.15 a.m. from here to reach New Delhi at 1.45 p.m. on the third day. In the return journey, the train (2626) will start from New Delhi at 11.35 a.m. to reach here on the third day at 3.15 p.m., Railways said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-train-to-delhi-from-state-capital/article32727985.ece
30 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Waiting for Neethu Johnson||Anil Akkara, MLA, Ramya Haridas, MP, and Congress leaders waited for two-and-a-half hours for Neethu Johnson by the roadside at Mankara on Tuesday morning. As she did not turn up they lodged a complaint to find her. Amidst the controversy around the LIFE Mission flat project at Wadakkanchery, a post on social media by a student, Neethu Johnson, complaining that the scam has thwarted her family’s hope for a safe house, went viral. In her post, Neethu says she and her mother, a textile worker, are staying in a one-room house on ‘puramboke’ land. Her family is on the list of people who have been allotted flats in the LIFE Mission project at Wadakkanchery. She, in the post, requests the MLA not to spoil their chances of getting a flat by the controversy. As the post went viral on the social media, Mr. Akkkara came with a promise to construct a house for Neethu’s family. But he could not trace the girl. The MLA on Monday announced on the social media that he would wait for her at Mankara Junction on Enkakkad Road from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Tuesday. As promised, Mr. Akkara, Ms. Haridas, and other Congress leaders waited for Neethu Johnson at the junction on Tuesday. However, she did not turn up. The MLA then lodged a complaint with the police to find the girl. He said if there was no such person, action should be taken against people who spread such fake news. “If the police find the girl, I will give her three cents and provide a loan for constructing a house,” Mr. Akkara said. Ms. Haridas offered her two months’ salary for house construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waiting-for-neethu-johnson/article32727994.ece
30 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Change of job and realisation of a dream||Tom Kiran Davis, an organic farmer from Thumboor, has won the Swami Vivekanandan Yuva Prathiba Award instituted by the State Youth Welfare Board for 2018. A postgraduate in economics from Christ College, Irinjalakuda, Tom turned to farming after leaving his job in Dubai. A former volleyball player of Calicut University, Tom always had a fascination for farming. Quits job in Dubai When he quit his hospital administration job in Dubai five years ago to pursue his dream of farming, many raised eyebrows. However, after five years, the 36-year-old farmer proved that his passion for farming was not a mere time pass. He led a mission to turn 200-odd acres of paddy fields in Velukkara grama panchayat, which had been lying fallow for two decades, to cultivable land. He could inspire many farmers to return to farming. At a time farmers lament about huge loss, Tom set up a successful marketing model using social media platforms to sell produce of farmers in his area. “Fair price for the farm produce is the basic need for survival of farmers. Unfortunately, most of the time farmers end up selling their products at a loss. Here, we are utilising social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, and Instagram to reach directly to consumers avoiding middlemen,” Tom says. Velukkara farmers can sell anything through the social media platforms, whether it is rice, nutmeg, pepper, turmeric, jackfruit, tapioca, mango, even Malabar tamarind ( kudam puli ). He is the secretary of the Kannukettichira-Vazhukkilichira Padasekhara Samiti and member of a rubber production society at Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-of-job-and-realisation-of-a-dream/article32727972.ece
30 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||10 kg of ganja seized, 4 held in Thrissur||The police on Tuesday seized 10 kg of ganja from a car at Sakthan Nagar here. Four persons, including a woman, were arrested in this connection. The arrested were Jafar Khan, 34; Riyas, 39; Shameer, 31; and Sumi, 26 of Thiruvananthapuram. The ganja was hidden under the bonnet of the car. The police conducted the search on a tip-off received by City Police Commissioner R. Adithya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-kg-of-ganja-seized-4-held-in-thrissur/article32727954.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against ‘Opposition violence’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-opposition-violence/article32728001.ece
30 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of proper management of water flagged in IAB meeting||The lack of accountability and coordination among the irrigation engineers managing the distribution of Tungabhadra and Krishna water, through High-Level Canal (HLC) and Hundri Neeva Sujala Shravanthi (HNSS), came up for severe criticism from the MLAs as the tail-end areas are still not getting water despite the quantum almost getting doubled from 2012. That the Agriculture, Irrigation, Horticulture, and Revenue Departments were not acting in concert came out very clearly, with none approaching agriculture and irrigation holistically to ensure proper distribution of about 60 tmcft of water likely to be received this year. No clear roadmap The meeting again failed to give a clear roadmap for the release of water with specific dates and quantum to different canals and reservoirs/irrigation tanks. There was lack of ground-level coordination among the Agriculture Department officials to pin-pointedly tell the IAB meeting as to which soils were suitable only for paddy and in which alternate irrigated dry crops could be raised. There was also no coordination between farmers and the officials. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy recalled that before the HNSS water came to the district, Anantapur used to have only 25 tmcft at the maximum and for the past two years, the district received 55-60 tmcft, but the irrigation in the disadvantaged areas remained hit even today. The HLC Superintending Engineer Nayakanti Rajasekhar said survey work for the proposed Guntakal Reservoir was pending due to lack of funds from the government, though the project has administrative sanction. “If this project is completed, the excess flood water coming from Tungabhadra could have been stored,” said Guntakal MLA Yellareddygari Venkatarami Reddy said. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who chaired the meeting in the presence of Roads and Buildings Minister M. Sankaranarayana and Government Whip Kapu Ramachandra Reddy, asked the HNSS and HLC Engineers to immediately prepare an action plan for the steps to be taken to ensure 10 tmcft of Tungabhadra Water was totally tapped in addition to district’s share of 29.98 tmcft through the HLC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-proper-management-of-water-flagged-in-iab-meeting/article32728050.ece
30 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack Rs. 7 cr. worth mobiles robbery case||The Chittoor police, in a joint operation with the Madhya Pradesh police, cracked the sensational theft of mobile phones worth Rs. 7 crore in a highway robbery on Nagari-Tamil Nadu border on August 26. The operation led to the recovery of the booty, except for a few pieces of mobiles, and the arrest of some key members of a large gang, with links spread over Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. A police officer termed the operation as “no less than the film Khakee .” On August 26 night, a container with 16 cartons of mobiles from a mobile manufacturing unit at Sriperambudur in Tamil Nadu, on its way to Mumbai, was hijacked by a gang near Nagari in Chittoor district. After allegedly assaulting its driver, the gang took away part of the consignment, worth about Rs. 7 crore. One particular incident on the Palamaner-Karnataka border, which took place a few weeks before the Nagari incident, caught the attention of the Chittoor police. After striking the vehicle, a gang had abandoned it, finding the consignment not useful to them, as it was some gigantic technical equipment meant for space operations. Similarly, another incident in Nellore district came in handy to establish some vague links connected to Dewas city of Madhya Pradesh. The Superintendent of Police formed a special party and it left for Dewas on August 30. A senior police officer at Dewas reportedly played a crucial role in giving the Chittoor police an early lead, giving information about notorious highway robbery gangs from Dewas and Ujjain. “The gangs, known as Kanjarbhats, in M.P., would break into moving vehicles using advanced gadgets to break the locks. The crew would know about the theft several hours later while they halt for rest,” a police officer told The Hindu . Vital clue On scrutinising the bank accounts of some prime suspects, a cash transfer from a key suspect to the account of a youth on the eve of August 26 reportedly provided the essential leads, tracing the links to Tamil Nadu. After a gruelling investigation, some members of the gang were taken into custody in Dewas. It was found that after striking the container and taking the booty from Nagari on August 26, the gang left for Maharashtra via Kadapa and Bellary in Karnataka. The stolen consignment was said to have been handed over to a “party” at a city in Maharashtra. With solid information and clues, the police zeroed in on the accused, cracking the case in one month. The police in Chittoor confirmed that the special party was on the job of producing the accused at a court in Dewas on Tuesday, to process the transit warrant for Chittoor, along with the recovered property. Meanwhile, the gangs linked to Ujjain and Dewas were believed to be behind the highway robbery at Mangalagiri in Guntur district early this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-crack-rs-7-cr-worth-mobiles-robbery-case/article32728076.ece
30 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Working women should know their rights’||There is a need for creating greater awareness among working women regarding the various Acts meant for protecting their rights, opined speakers at the one-day event titled “Empowering Women through Legal Awareness”, jointly conducted by the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) and the National Commission for Women (NCW) at Nagaiah Kala Kshetram here on Tuesday. District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) secretary and Senior Civil Judge I. Karuna Kumar said as women from a cross section of society had come to play a very crucial role in the nation-building process in recent decades, it was essential for them to be aware of various laws drafted to protect them and their rights. “Despite enacting a number of Acts to protect women from atrocities, including harassment and intimidation at the work stations, domestic violence and dowry harassment, due to lack of proper knowledge of their existence, women continue to suffer. This has to change,” he said. Mr. Karuna Kumar said that the field staff was willing to undertake the responsibility of conducting awareness programmes at the grass-root level. He said that the DLSA had been chalking out programmes for promoting legal awareness among women groups from time to time, besides extending support to them. Gender bias Senior advocate P. Hima Bindu deplored that the gender bias continued to be detrimental to the girl children in the form of gender detection tests done clandestinely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/working-women-should-know-their-rights/article32728052.ece
30 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Village secretariats should replicate Gram Swaraj’||Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said that the village secretariats were part of a revolutionary system of administration where the concept of “Gram Swaraj” should become a reality. Mr. Gupta, who was inspecting the two village secretariats at Puthapattu mandal headquarters on Tuesday, said that the prime objective of the secretariats at the grassroot level is to strengthen the local administration and to be people-friendly in its true sense. Mr. Gupta looked at the records pertaining to the revenue services being provided to the public in addition to the work related to the COVID-19 task force. The Collector said that it had come to the notice of the district administration that the public were still approaching the private parties for works pertaining to both revenue and non-revenue subjects, he asked the staff to ensure that the secretariats be made a one-stop destination for the public by extending the number of services offered.  The Collector sought them to furnish information on the agriculture pattern in the mandal, particularly the prime crops of the kharif season, and the forthcoming rabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-secretariats-should-replicate-gram-swaraj/article32728051.ece
30 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSP for all crops will be announced tomorrow: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Tuesday that paddy procurement would begin shortly and the MSPs for crops would be announced on October 1. Reviewing the ‘Spandana’ programme , Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the role of Rythu Bharosa Kendras would be important. “Ensure that e-cropping is done meticulously and all the information should be sahred with village secretariats. E-cropping is essential for payment of crop insurance premiums, procurement and providing MSP. The produce will be collected at farms and coupons should be given to farmers indicating the time of procurement. There will be no manual certificates. The MSPs of all crops will be announced on October 1 and the poster will be displayed at all RBKs by October 5,’’ he said. He asked the officials to set up multi-purpose facility centres at all RBKs to act as a single point of information regarding cold storages, custom hiring centre, primary processing, grading and storing facilities. The government would be spending Rs. 6,300 crore to set up these facilities in the next two years. Advisory panels He suggested that farmer advisory committees should give suggestions to farmers. “The role of the panels is crucial as we have managed to limit the cotton cultivation to 5.75 lakh hectares in Prakasam and Kurnool, and convinced farmers to opt for brinjal. Now, farmers should be advised on the cropping pattern for rabi,’’ he said. Reviewing the MGNREGS scheme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said all buildings of secretariats should be ready by March 31. Works were going on at a slow pace in East Godavari, Krishna and Prakasam districts. The construction of 10,408 RBKs and 1,269 YSR Health Clinics were being completed. “Ensure that Rs. 10 crore worth of works are done in each Assembly constituency every week. If funds are not sufficient, we are ready to give Rs. 5 crore for the buildings of secretariats, RBKs, village clinics and etc. We are setting up 7,529 bulk milk units in the State,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/msp-for-all-crops-will-be-announced-tomorrow-jagan/article32728063.ece
30 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jashuva’s stirring poetry recalled on his 125th birth anniversary||The rich ouevre of legendary poet Gurram Jashuva was remembered in a webinar organised by Benaras Hindu University to honour the life and times of the Dalit writer on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary. Many prominent personalities, including Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, took part in the webinar. “The stirring verse poetry of Gurram Jashua mirrored the untouchability and the social discrimination pervading the society,” said Additional DG, APCID, P.V. Sunil Kumar. Mr. Sunil Kumar, who is also a prolific writer in Telugu, said Jashuva belonged to a generation of Dalit poets who had fearlessly raised their voice against caste based discrimination. Mr. Sunil Kumar spoke on a wide range of issues faced by socially backward communities. Kusuma Dharmanna, who is known as Adi Kavi, is the first Dalit poet who used his verse poetry to highlight social prejudices. His poem, ‘Maa Koddi Ee Nalladorathanam’, highlighted widely prevalent social discriminations. ‘Unparalleled skill’ “Jashuva is unparalleled in his versatile skill as a poet. His verses can stir the collective conscience and his use of imagery is highly appreciable. As a poet, he lives on the tongues of people,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said. Stating that there were verse poets who have been patronised by the rulers, Mr. Sunil Kumar said that there were also poets, who wrote about people, social issues and presented solutions to social issues through their poetry. Jashuva belonged to a generation of people’s poets, the other being Yogi Vemana, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. He is also an artiste shaped by the socio-cultural moorings of his time and his poetry reflected the primordial prejudices against the Dalits, he said. “Jashuva’s poetry also showed the way for Dalits in choosing a non-violent way of fighting oppression. Movements with streaks of violence can be easily crushed, while non-violence can wear down the opponent forcing him to yield,” said Mr. Sunil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jashuvas-stirring-poetry-recalled-on-his-125th-birth-anniversary/article32727458.ece
30 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad-Bengaluru industrial corridor has got Central nod: Minister||A new industrial corridor will be set up between Hyderabad and Bengaluru with Orvakal in Kurnool district as its node, Minister for Industries, Infrastructure and Investments Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said. “The Centre has approved the new corridor through National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT). In a similar way, Kopparthi in Kadapa district will be a node for the Visakhapatnam-Chennai corridor and Tamminapatnam in Nellore will be a node for the Chennai-Bengaluru corridor. These new corridors will give the industry sector in the State a boost,” said Mr. Goutham Reddy during a review meeting at the APIIC office at Mangalagiri on Tuesday. Assuring the industries of continous bulk water supply, the Minister said that road links to the industrial clusters would be improved. He reviewed the road works on the Samarlakota-Rajanagaram stretch, common effluent plant in the Nayudpet industrial corridor. APIIC Chairperson R.K. Roja, Special Chief Secretary (Industries) Karikal Valavan, APIIC Director Subramanyam Javvadi, ED Pratap Reddy and the officials of the industries and trrigation departments were present in the meeting. IT Park proposal Later in the day, the representatives of Kapil Consultancy Services Private Limited met Mr. Goutham Reddy and explained him about the proposal to set up an IT Park at a cost of Rs. 500 crore with ‘walk-to-work concept’ in Tirupati. The project would create 6,000 jobs and the representatives urged the government to allot 25 acres of land for it. The Minister said that he would examine the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-bengaluru-industrial-corridor-has-got-central-nod-minister/article32727471.ece
30 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood-hit farmers will be bailed out, say Ministers||Minister for Housing Ch. Ranganatha Raju has said the government will pay compensation for every acre which has been damaged due to floods. The Minister, along with Home Minister M. Sucharitha and Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, on Tuesday inspected the crop damage in Amaravati mandal. They visited Pedamadduru and Dharanikota villages, through which Narakullapadu, Endraye and Kondaveedu drains flow. Later, they told the media at Pedamadduru that the government would bail out farmers. Ms. Sucharita said crops in 11,000 hectares had been damaged and preliminary estimates revealed that crops in 2,500 hectares may be severely damaged. She said the Nallamada drain modernisation had helped the villages in Prathipadu mandal from getting affected by floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-hit-farmers-will-be-bailed-out-say-ministers/article32728064.ece
30 September 2020||NAGAYALANKA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Villages in low-lying areas under sheet of water||The flood situation along the bank of the Krishna River continued as many villages were under a sheet of water on Tuesday. Flood water entered many villages in the downstream areas as the Krishna river has been in spate since the last two days. In the upstream areas too, several habitations in Jaggaiahpet, Nandigama and Kanchikacherla mandals remained inundated. Police arranged pickets as water was overflowing onto the roads. Residents were evacuated from some villages as the flood water entered the houses in the low-lying areas. Road links to many villages snapped in Avanigadda, Mopidevi, Challapalli and Nagayalanka mandals as the canals were overflowing. Villagers living in Pamulalanka, Amudalalanka, Gogullanka, Bobbarlanka and other island villages were shifted to safer places, the police said. Strict vigil on ghats “Police pickets have been arranged at Vedadri, Muktyala and other villages. The perssonel have been instructred to intensify patrolling along the river and canal bunds,” said Krishna SP M. Ravindranath Babu. With the heavy discharge from the Prakasam Barrage and the canals overflowing, operations of small boats have been prohibited in the river, said Avanigadda DSP M. Ramesh Reddy after visiting the flood-hit areas.  National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan said the personnel have been maitaining a strict vigil on the bathing ghats and on the river bund in Krishna and Guntur districts. “We have delpoyed around 100 NDRF personnel equipped with inflated boats, life saving jackets, ropes and other equipment in the flood affected areas to meet the emergency,” Mr. Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villages-in-low-lying-areas-under-sheet-of-water/article32728073.ece
30 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm Acts will trigger more suicides, say Congress leaders||The activists of the youth wing of the Congress party as also the Left parties staged separate demonstrations in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here demanding that the Centre repeal the three farm Acts enacted by the Parliament. Youth Congress State president P.Rakesh Reddy,who led the protest by party activists, opined that the so-called reforms in the agriculture sector would pave the way for more farmer suicides. Farmers who were already struggling to get a remunerative price for their produce would be rendered pawns in the hands of big corporates, feared the youth Congress leader who came in a big procession on bullock carts along with District youth Congress president Dasari Ravi. Leading the protest by activists of the Left parties, Communist Party of India(CPI) Prakasam district secretary M.L.Narayana said weakening of the Agriculture Market Committees would deny a fair price for the produce of farmers. Farmers would be rendered captive growers by big corporates who would decide on the crops to be grown and dictate the prices for the same, said CPI(Marxist) district assistant secretary G.V.Konda Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-acts-will-pave-way-for-more-suicides-congress/article32727720.ece
30 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 bound over for moving suspiciously||Prakasam police nabbed three persons moving under suspicious circumstances near the Chennakesava swamy temple at Gopanipalli villlage, near Kumarolu, in Prakasam district on Tuesday. The three from Miryalguda in Telangana were produced before the Kumarolu Tehsildar and Mandal Executive Magistrate who bound them over under section 109 Cr.Pc for good conduct. The arrests came as part of an exercise undertaken across the district to nab anyone moving suspiciously in and around worship places, following a series of attacks on temples, a police release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-bound-over-for-moving-suspiciously/article32728053.ece
30 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap CPS, demand govt. employees||State government employees on a call given by the All India State Government Employees Federation staged a lunch-hour demonstration in front of Prakasam Bhavan here on Tuesday in protest against the “anti-employee” policies of the Union and State governments. The employees, led by Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Officers Association Prakasam district unit president K. Sarat Babu, raised slogans demanding scrapping of the contributory pension scheme and regularisation of the services of all employees taken on contract basis. General secretary R. Ch. Krishna Reddy pressed for a Pay Revision Commission (PRC) and release of all pending dearness allowance for the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrap-cps-demand-govt-employees/article32728054.ece
30 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus eases its grip over south coastal Andhra||The number of recoveries in the last 24 hours were double the number of fresh admissions into COVID-19 hospitals, while the combined toll due to pandemic in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam rose to 923 during the period. In Prakasam district, the toll rose to 478 as eight more lost the battle against the viral disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday night. In Nellore district, two more patients died, taking the toll to 445. The number of infections, which had been 1,000 plus in each of the two districts in the previous weeks, came down drastically to about 500 plus in each of the districts during this week. The number of persons who got discharged from hospitals was more by 1,003 when compared to fresh admissions in the last 24 hours. As many as 2,003 patients recovered the illness in the two districts during the period, while only 1,001 patients, tested positive for the disease. The confirmed cases rose to 53,486 in Nellore district as 432 contracted the disease while 569 persons got infected in Prakasam, taking the count to 47,925. The active cases came down to 3,688 in Nellore district and 9,360 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-eases-its-grip-over-south-coastal-andhra/article32728056.ece
30 September 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Shutdown near total in E. Godavari||The one-day bandh observed by the tribal associations demanding constitutional amendment to the GO No.3, that was scrapped by the apex court, in the Agency of East Godavari district on Tuesday was peaceful. The bandh was led by the GO No.3 Sadhana Committee. All the government offices, including head offices of ITDA-Rampachodavaram and Chintoor, were closed till afternoon. All the commercial establishments remained closed extending support to the bandh. The protesters who did not allow the bus services to run, however, did not stop the inter-State buses. The fleet of APSRTC buses remain parked in the Gokavaram bus depot till noon. In Rampa Agency, CPI(M) district committee member M. Subramanyam and other tribal leaders visited all the government offices and banks seeking their support to the bandh. Mr. Subramanyam told The Hindu over phone that the scrapping of GO No.3 by the apex court would deprive tribal youth of job opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shutdown-near-total-in-e-godavari/article32728077.ece
30 September 2020||TIRUVURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man nabbed after spree of inter-State temple thefts||A notorious burglar, Pathan Salar Khan, said to be involved in around 80 cases of thefts at temples, was arrested by the police in Krishna district on Tuesday. The accused, hailing from West Godavari district, confessed to have committed ‘hundi thefts’ at more than 80 temples in the last 15 years in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States. He was arrested and convicted in some cases and was facing trial in the remaining cases, said Tiruvuru Circle Inspector M. Sekhar Babu. The modus operandi of the accused was to stay at the temple for some days, take ‘prasadam’, observe the security at the shrine and rob the ‘hundi’ at a convenient time. He said that he refrained from touching the idols or any other objects in the temple. Salar Khan was released from jail recently, after which he committed thefts at four temples. He was arrested with the help of CCTV footage, the CI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-nabbed-after-spree-of-inter-state-temple-thefts/article32727461.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second flood warning at barrage withdrawn||A second flood warning issued at the Prakasam Barrage due to heavy flooding in the Krishna was withdrawn on Tuesday as the inflow and outflow declined. At 8 a.m., the inflow was at 5.99 lakh cusecs and it came down to 5.59 lakh at 11 a.m. The outflow was 5.52 lakh cusecs and the second flood warning which was issued late on Sunday night has been withdrawn. Further, the discharge of surplus floodwater came down to 3.70 lakh cuses by 6 p.m. close to the first flood warning level of 3.69 lakh cusecs. The flood level is expected to gradually come down as the outflow at upstream projects has been coming down. However, several houses were still inundated in low-lying areas in the city in Krishnalanka and Ramalingeswara Nagar areas. The flood discharge has further come down to 3.29 lakh cusecs by 7 p.m. which is much lower than the first warning level of 3.69 cusecs. However, the first flood warning has not been withdrawn as of 9.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-flood-warning-at-barrage-withdrawn/article32727371.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF personnel avert mishap by plugging acid leak on NH||Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 10th Battalion, prevented a major mishap by plugging the leakage of hydrochloric acid from an oil tanker. On Tuesday, at around 8 a.m, NDRF inspector Gagan Bihari was returning home when he saw acid leaking from a tanker stranded at a highway toll plaza near the ANU campus. Mr. Bihari immediately alerted the NDRF control room after which a team from the battalion headquarters led by Sukhendu Datta (Deputy Commandant-Operations), under the supervision of Commandant Zahid Khan, rushed to the spot in 20 minutes. The tanker was carrying 25.410 tonnes of hydrochloric acid from a private company in A.P. to Chennai. When the tanker reached the toll gate near the ANU campus, acid began to leak from the tanker. No injuries were reported, the NDRF team said, adding that they took it to an open place and barricaded an area of 500 m around the tanker. The NDRF then plugged the leakage at 10 a.m. The situation is under control now and the hydrochloric acid will be shifted to another empty tanker which is en route, Mr. Zahid Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-personnel-avert-mishap-by-plugging-acid-leak-on-nh/article32727381.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 recovery rate crosses 90% for first time in State||The State reported 6,190 new COVID-19 infections and 35 deaths in 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, according to the COVID bulletin. The tally has gone up to 6,87,351 and the death toll reached 5,780. With 9,836 new recoveries, the recovery rate crossed 90% for the first time and reached 90.51%. There were only 8.64% active cases, as 59,435 patients are undergoing treatment currently. Death rate stands at 0.84% and the total number of recoveries was 6,22,136.  Positivity rate Positivity rate of the 68,429 tests conducted in the past day was 9.05 and the overall positivity rate of the total 57.34 lakh tests was 11.99%. The tests per million ratio has gone up to 1.07 lakh and the cases per million ratio is at 12,872. For the first time after many days, no district reported more than a 1,000 new cases. However, the Godavari districts reported over 900 new cases each. On a brighter side, also for the first time, four districts reported no deaths. The new cases and deaths in districts are as follows: East Godavari (991 cases and 4 deaths), West Godavari (907 and 2), Chittoor (784 and 6), Prakasam (569 and 8), Nellore (432 and 2), Guntur (410 and 4), Krishna (398 and 0), Srikakulam (377 and 2), Vizianagaram (312 and 0), Kadapa (299 and 0), Visakhapatnam (291 and 3), Anantapur (276 and 4) and Kurnool (144 and 0). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (96,191), West Godavari (66,243),Chittoor (60,933),Anantapur (56,795), Kurnool (55,942), Guntur (54,192), Nellore (51,920), Visakhapatnam (49,793), Prakasam (47,925), Kadapa (43,431), Srikakulam (39,256), Vizianagaram (34,853) and Krishna (26,982). The recovery rate in Kurnool district was the highest at 96% and lowest in Prakasam at 79%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-90-for-first-time-in-state/article32728060.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCC urges President to repeal three farm Acts||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to repeal the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, calling them the ‘three black laws’. The Congress leaders took out a rally from the Andhra Ratna Bhavan to Raj Bhavan on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum addressed to the President, to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. Sharing the contents of the memorandum with the Governor, the APCC president said that around 62 crore farmers, agricultural labourers and 250 farm organisations have been staging demonstrations across the country, opposing the ‘draconian laws’. “The NDA government had subverted the country’s federal structure, subjugated the constitutional mandate and suppressed the Parliamentary procedure to pass the Bills without any discussion or prior consultation. Even a division of votes was not allowed in the Rajya Sabha and the Bills were passed using force by deploying marshals and by evacuating the Members of Parliament,” said Mr. Sailajanath. He warned that the new laws would destroy the system of procuring agricultural produce. “The farmers will neither get the Minimum Support Price (MSP) nor the price prevailing in the market for their produce,” he said. “If the farm produce, instead of being sold in the market, is purchased by crony capitalists at his field itself, how will the farmers get the MSP? They will lose the power of price determination,” he said and argued that the NDA government’s claim that farmers could sell their produce anywhere in the country was a lie. Abolition of mandis, he said, would snatch away the livelihood of millions of farm labourers, commission agents, munims, loaders, transporters and sellers among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apcc-urges-president-to-repeal-three-farm-acts/article32728066.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||35% of APSRTC buses being operated now, says MD||Around 35 % of the buses of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) are being operated now and the services of the employees should be utilised on rotation basis, given the COVID-19 pandemic, its Vice-Chairman and Managing Director M. T. Krishna Babu said here on Tuesday. Mr. Krishna Babu, who is also the Principal Secretary (Transport), held a video conference with the RTC Executive Directors and Regional Managers across the State and reviewed the performance of the corporation which stopped operating buses from March 22 to May 20 owing to the lockdown. The services were partially restored from May 21 after the curbs were relaxed. “The revenue earned by the Corporation in August and September was just sufficient to meet the fuel cost. From October, a monthly instalment of Rs. 70 crore needs to be paid to towards the bank loan for which, it is imperative for the APSRTC to operate buses in at least 30 lakh km daily with a minimum of 60 % occupancy ratio,” he said and asked the officials to plan the bus operations so as to ensure a minimum monthly revenue of Rs. 250 crore. Mr. Krishna Babu asked the depot managers to boost the morale of the employees in the difficult phase of pandemic. “Around 4,500 (9%) employees of the corporation have tested positive for the virus till date and 72 of them died. The depot managers should infuse confidence among the staff and give them courage to discharge their duties effectively,” he said. COVID-19 protocols Mr. Krishna Babu wanted all the staff to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocols without fail. He said the staff union has agreed to contribute a day’s basic salary of the staff to help the families of the workers who died of the virus. “The kin of the deceased employees will be given Rs. 5 lakh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/35-of-apsrtc-buses-being-operated-now-says-md/article32728069.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power staff JAC urges govt. to bail out utilities from crises||The Andhra Pradesh State Power Employees Joint Action Committee (APSPE-JAC) on Tuesday wrote a letter to Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, seeking urgent resolution to certain issues to pull the utilities out of the crisis. Referring to the Centre’s proposal of privatising or franchising the transmission and distribution companies in the States as part of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, JAC chairman P. Chandra Sekhar, secretary general M. Veda Vyasa Rao and convener B. Sai Krishna said that it was time the State government opposed the move. The JAC leaders suggested that all units of the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant and Dr. Tatarao Thermal Power Station should be brought into operation soon. “The government should set up the proposed 10,000-MW solar project as a public sector unit through AP-Genco or A.P. Green Energy Corporation , not on the Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) model,” they said. The JAC also sought that the issues pertaining to the EPF, GPF and pension facility for the employees recruited between February 1, 1999 and August 31, 2004 be sorted out. ‘Regularise contract staff The other issues that need the government’s immediate attention are regularisation of outsourced and contract employees working at all utilities, consideration of pending compassionate cases of under or over aged dependants of the deceased and the employees who have been declared unfit on medical grounds. The JAC also sought unlimited medical policy for the employees and their dependants. The JAC leaders also thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the Energy Minister for allocating Rs. 18,000 crore to the power sector. They expressed concern over the flagging the AP-Genco’s thermal plants as liabilities on the ground that the tariffs are not being in line with the desired cost-to-serve parameters. The JAC leaders sought an audience with the Chief Minister in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-staff-jac-urges-govt-to-bail-out-utilities-from-crises/article32728074.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collect pass certificates, Inter students told||Students, who appeared for Intermediate public examination, March 2020, and Intermediate public advanced supplementary examination, July 2020, can collect their pass certificates from their respective Regional Inspection Officers in the district, according to Board secretary V. Rama Krishna. In a statement on Tuesday, he said principals should issue the pass certificates to students before October 15 without fail. He warned college managements against insisting on payment of dues for issue of the certificate and said the Board would initiate action against such managements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collect-pass-certificates-inter-students-told/article32728067.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No garbage collection charges for Sept., Oct||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has decided not to collect user charge on the door-to-door garbage collection service for September and October, according to a release. The Corporation had earlier announced that it would collect Rs. 50 from households giving away segregated garbage and Rs. 100 from households giving away unsegregated garbage. However, following the requests of several colony associations, the civic body postponed collection of user charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-garbage-collection-charges-for-sept-oct/article32727455.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inauguration of renovated Bapu Museum tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the revamped Bapu Museum including the new building and the renovated heritage structure (old museum)) on October 1. Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, Archaeology and Museums Commissioner G. Vani Mohan, Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu, State programme coordinator T. Raghuram, MLA Malladi Vishnu and Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha inspected the newly-built premises. Mr. Imtiaz said that the new museum building has over 1,500 artefacts which will be put up for display. He said the museum has a unique technology where visitors can know about the history of artefacts through an app on their mobile phone. Ms. Vani Mohan said that the Bapu Museum, revamped at Rs. 8 crore, has many artefacts dating back to thousands of years. The museum houses galleries of history, Buddha, Jain and Hindu sculptures, and weapons, she said. The construction of the new museum building in the Bapu Museum (formerly known as Victoria Jubilee Museum) was started several years ago but the completion was delayed due to various hurdles. The museum was renamed after the legendary film director, cartoonist and author Sattiraju Lakshmi Narayana, known professionally as Bapu. He was a recipient of two National Film Awards and seven Nandi awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inauguration-of-renovated-bapu-museum-tomorrow/article32727456.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain likely in State||Several parts in the State are likely to witness lightning and heavy rain on Wednesday due to cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast, according to India Meteorological Department. A.P. State Disaster Management Authority has warned of heavy rainfall on Tuesday night and Wednesday. APSDMA Commissioner K. Kanna Babu asked people in low-lying areas and areas alongside major rivers to stay alert . As per IMD’s inference, the cyclonic circulation between 1.5 km and 7.6 km above mean sea level over west central Bay of Bengal of Andhra Pradesh coast and the cyclonic circulation over south Andhra Pradesh have merged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-likely-in-state/article32728061.ece
30 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. schemes yielding results, says Vijaya Sai||YSR Congress Party general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Tuesday said that the welfare schemes launched by the State government for various sections of the society were helping the targeted beneficiaries improve their living standards. Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu Taking to his Twitter handle, Mr, Vijaya Sai referred to the Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu programme as part which the school infrastructure is being spruced up, and said, “Never before in the history of Andhra Pradesh, the government schools have witnessed such a demand. More than 2.5 lakh students have migrated the government schools from private institutions.” “, Our CM prefers to stand by the people,” he posted on the Twitter. In a separate tweet, Mr. YSRCP leader said that 11,270 retail outlets were established by women under the YSR Cheyutha scheme. He tweeted, “Soon, milk procurement centers to be started with the support of the AMUL in East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna & Prakasam districts in Phase I. Beneficiary to self-employed, courtesy YSR Cheyutha.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-schemes-yielding-results-says-vijaya-sai/article32728070.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Robot attends to patients at rly. hospital||COVID-19 patients, undergoing treatment at the Divisional Railway Hospital in the city, are being served by a robot for nearly two weeks now. The robot is serving the hospital staff and assisting them in providing medicines and food to the patients. The ‘MeD robot’ fabricated by Diesel Loco Shed (DLS), Visakhapatnam, rules out the need for direct contact between the patient and healthcare givers. It is particularly useful in the pandemic situation, which poses a risk to the care givers in attending to patients. Now, the DLS, Visakhapatnam, has fabricated a second robot for use at the Railway Central Hospital at Bhubaneswar. “We have added additional features like an ‘auto thermal scanner’, which records the temperature of the patient, when he/she puts out his/her hand and an UV Sanitising Box for the use of health care givers like nurses, who can sanitise their personal belongings at the end of the day, on completion of their duty,” Santosh Kumar Patro, Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (Diesel), DLS, Visakhapatnam, told The Hindu on Tuesday. “The first robot was built at a cost of Rs. 32,000 and this one costs Rs. 42,000 as some additional features were incorporated. Even papers can be sanitised by this robot. A third robot will be built with additional features to replace the existing one at the divisional hospital in the city. The existing one would be sent to some other railway hospital over East Coast Railway,” he says. These robots give the much needed relief to doctors, nurses and other medical staff to stay away from the risks of contracting the virus. The existing robot at the divisional hospital is operated through a unique mobile app that has been developed as part of the innovation, supported by the WiFi facility. It supports sensor-based features, which are capable of reading the patients’ body temperature and transmit the same for display on the mobile phone. In case of any abnormal high-temperature reading, the robot is capable of raising an alarm so as to alert the hospital staff, attending to the patients. The first robot was handed over to the Divisional Railway Hospital by Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, two weeks ago. The second robot is on its way to Bhubaneswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/robot-attends-to-patients-at-rly-hospital/article32728087.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No action taken on land-grabbers: CPI||CPI national secretary K. Narayana has alleged that the Union government failed to fulfil its election promises and to meet the aspirations of people. Instead of going to their rescue, in the pandemic situation, it is subjecting them to further hardship by increasing prices, he said. Addressing the participants at a protest, organised by the Left parties at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC here on Tuesday, Mr. Narayana alleged the BJP government had failed to bring back the black money stashed away in banks abroad but allowed 36 loan defaulters, to escape abroad with thousands of crores of rupees of public money. Coincidentally, a majority of the defaulters were from the Prime Minister’s native State of Gujarat, he alleged. The Centre had promised to double farmers’ income but failed to pay them even the Minimum Support Price which had led to suicides by farmers, he alleged. The three farm laws show the lack of commitment of the Union government towards the farmers, Mr. Narayana alleged He alleged that the YSR Congress Party in the State had borrowed Rs. 1.25 lakh crore in 15 months and plunged the State into a debt trap. CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, CPI(M) city secretary B. Ganga Rao, CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju, CPI-ML New Democracy leader Y. Kondayya, CPI-ML leader Ganesh Panda and leaders A. Vimala, Subba Rao and P. Eswara Rao were among those who participated in the protest. The CPI National secretary visited Kommadi, on the outskirts of the city, and surveyed the lands, which were grabbed by lands sharks in the past. Mr. Narayana alleged that five acres of government land in S.No. 154/3 was grabbed on a benami name by former Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao. The CPI had lodged complaints with the Special Investigation Teams, appointed by the previous Telugu Desam Party government in 2017 and the present YSR Congress Party government, but the grabbed land was not recovered, so far, he said. Similarly, 10 acres of government land in S. No. 28/2 was in the possession of land grabber Srinivasa Reddy, he alleged. The CPI leader alleged that the Congress, TDP and the YSR Congress Party had failed to check land-grabbers. He said that 2,000 acres of land around the city was encroached upon. He warned that the CPI would mobilise the poor to construct huts on government lands, if the State government failed to recover the lands grabbed by the land sharks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-action-taken-on-land-grabbers-cpi/article32728090.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15,658 candidates to appear for AP Ed.CET||About 15,658 candidates, including 9,988 girls, have registered themselves for the Andhra Pradesh Education Common Entrance Test, AP Ed.CET- 2020 to be held on October 1, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m, said Convenor of AP Ed.CET R. Siva Prasadh. He said all arrangements had been made for the online examination. Andhra University had been entrusted the responsibility to conduct AP Ed.CET to fill vacant seats for B.Ed in colleges in the State. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Prof. Siva Prasadh said 50 centres had been allotted across 17 various places of the State, including Anantapur, Guntur, Bhimavaram, Kadapa, Kakinada & Surampalem, Nandyal, Nellore, Tirupati, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and others. Social distancing Prf. Prasadh said officials would allow candidates into the examination centres from 9 a.m. Candidates should bring hall tickets, ID cards, failing which the candidate would not be allowed to write the test. He said candidates should maintain social distancing at the examination centre and must wear mask apart from carrying personal hand sanitisers and water bottle. According to the convener, 4,658 candidates will appear for Mathematics Methodology, 2,035 faor Physical Science and 4,779 had registered for social science. He said that 97 candidates had registered for Urdu medium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15658-candidates-to-appear-for-ap-edcet/article32728079.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh in Visakha Agency total, peaceful||The one-day bandh call given by various Left parties, tribal associations and GO No. 3 Sadhana Committee members in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district evoked good response on Tuesday. However, no untoward incident was reported from any part. The call was given demanding legal recognition/ protection to the GO No. 3 that was issued by the State government in 2000, guaranteeing 100% reservation to Adivasis for the posts of teachers in the Schedule V areas. The GO was annulled by the Supreme Court in April this year, and the tribals, since then, have been vehemently opposing the order. Speaking to The Hindu , Kilo Surendra of Girijan Joint Action Committee said that the GO protected the rights of the tribals, as enshrined under Schedule V of the Indian Constitution. “We demand that the GO be given legal sanctity and protection and appended to the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution. The State government has already filed an appeal in the Supreme Court, but it has not come up for hearing due to COVID-19 pandemic. We demand Parliament to take up the issue and clear it through a special ordinance,” he said. From 1986, the tribals were being recruited for the posts of teachers in the Agency areas and it has been a major source of employment generation, said CPI(M) leader Appalanarasa from Paderu. Though the tribals and members of various tribal organisations, including Sadhana Committee, and Left parties staged dharnas at many places, the bandh was peaceful and there was no untoward incident, said Chintapalli ASP Vidhya Sagar Naidu. The bandh was complete in all the 11 mandals of Visakha Agency. APSRTC buses stayed off the road and local public transport joined the bandh. Shops and establishments remained closed throughout the day. Other demands The tribals also demanded that the government take care of all persons who have been displaced due to the Polavaram project and pay the RR (Rehabilitation and Resettlement) package, as per the new LA RR Act. The tribals also demanded that tribal villages listed under the non-schedule areas be brought under the Schedule areas. The leaders expressed that about 1,200 tribal villages in the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam, are still listed under non-Schedule areas, and they be brought under the Schedule area, so that benefits from the tribal sub-plan and other benefits, be extended to the tribals from those villages. The members of GO No.3 Sadhana Committee members condemned the arrest of its members in Seethampeta area of Srikakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandh-in-visakha-agency-total-peaceful/article32728081.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nominated to School Board of IGNOU SOA||N.S.R. Sastry, a retired professor of Livestock Production and Management, Haryana Agricultural University, hailing from Visakhapatnam, has been nominated as a Member of the School Board of the School of Agriculture (SOA) of the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU). The school was established in 2005 and since then it has developed many certificate and diploma level programmes in agriculture and allied sectors, according to S.K. Yadav, Director, SOA, IGNOU, New Delhi. Dr. Sastry is one among the five Members from all over India, and the only one from the State, who were co-opted at the 36th meeting of School of Agriculture held in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nominated-to-school-board-of-ignou-soa/article32728085.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs seek safe drinking water for tribals||Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) general secretary A. Aja Sarma and Praja Arogya Vedika general secretary T. Kameswara Rao on Monday said that the tribals had no access to clean drinking water in Agency area and they fetch water from a spring nearby. A 20,000-litre water tank, built at Rompilli panchayat centre in 2017, has not been put to use till date, as there was no power connection, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngos-seek-safe-drinking-water-for-tribals/article32728091.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||381 new cases take district tally to 50,395||The district reported 381 fresh COVID-19 infections and three deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Tuesday. The cumulative tally stands at 50,395 in the district as on date since the pandemic began. The death toll increased to 396. According to the bulletin, the number of active cases in the district is 4,105. As many as 370 persons recovered from the virus. The new discharges take the total number of recoveries to 45,894. Out of 718 clusters in the district, 54 clusters are very active and 24 are active clusters. A total of 192 clusters were denotified earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/381-new-cases-take-district-tally-to-50395/article32728096.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Kalibari reaches out to the poor, destitute||Waltair Kalibari has taken up the distribution of food packets to the poor and the destitute here. The members of the Kalibari has been cooking a meal, packaging them and distributing about 100 food packets to the poor and homeless, since September 1, on a daily basis. “Every morning before going to our duty, we come to the Kalibari and prepare a meal which contains different items on different days such as lemon rice or curry and rice, sambar rice or upma or vegetable biryani, and distribute them to the poor who come to the Kalibari,” said a member. Initially, the members, after cooking a meal, were seen going around in two-wheelers to take up the distribution at different places. Now that people have come to know, they come directly to the Kalibari by 10 a.m.. The food for poor programme is being funded by a company by name Waltari Coal Private Limited, and the members say that the sponsor is ready to continue the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-kalibari-reaches-out-to-the-poor-destitute/article32728098.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance service launched||Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana inaugurated the ambulance services launched by JCI Vizag Smart. This ambulance service for the community is free or nominally priced. It will be available to the patients 24 hours a day just at a call from the needy, said JCI Vizag Smart members. President Maya Choraria, Chapter Advisor Ravi Choraria and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-service-launched/article32728094.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3-day online training for civil engineers to begin today||A three-day online national training programme on “Disaster Risk Reduction in Resilient Infrastructure” is being organised by the Department of Civil Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, in association with National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), New Delhi, from September 30 to October 2. The online training programme will be inaugurated by Andhra University Vice- Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy at 11 a.m. The event is being coordinated by Prof. C.N.V. Satyanarayana Reddy of AU and Dr. Amir Ali Khan of NIDM. The programme will feature lectures by experts. More than 550 participants have registered for the event from different parts of country . The event is being live streamed on YouTube and can be viewed via YouTube link:https://youtu.be/ sKOzsok1Fok.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-day-online-training-for-civil-engineers-to-begin-today/article32728088.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gajuwaka ASI lands in ACB trap||Officials from the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Suryanarayana working with Gajuwaka police station for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 5,000 for doing an official favour, here on Tuesday. According to Deputy Superintendent of Police, ACB (Visakha urban) K. Ranga Raju, on August 30, one Naresh Kumar Patnaik and his father were travelling on bike and his father allegedly slipped from the bike and died while undergoing treatment at KGH on August 31. Gajuwaka police registered a case against bike rider Naresh as accused in the case. The ASI has allegedly demanded Rs. 5,000 from Naresh Kumar Patnaik to provide post-mortem report of his father and grant station bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gajuwaka-asi-lands-in-acb-trap/article32728093.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable suspended||SP B. Krishna Rao issued orders suspending a K. Satish, a constable of Cheedikada Police Station, in the district, on charges of indulging in corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-suspended/article32728092.ece
30 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest Department registers cases against mining co.||Reacting to a sustained agitation taken up by tribal people against the alleged illegal transportation of granite blocks by Stone Plus company in Cheemalapadu under notified reserve forest block in the catchment area of the Kalyanalova reservoir in Visakhapatnam district, the Forest Department registered cases under relevant sections of the Forest Act against the mining company, here on Tuesday. The cases were filed in the Chodavaram Forest Range office. The adivasis have been opposing the attempted transportation, allegedly without requisite permits, of 195 granite blocks quarried by Stone Plus from Compartment 800 in the Cheemalapadu Reserve Forest and which were seized by the Forest Department on May 1. About five heavy trailers each containing about three granite blocks, heavy machinery and equipment were seized by the department and kept at Dandapudi forest check-post. The Divisional Forest Officer had, in a letter on March 16 to the Director, Mines and Geology, urged “to cancel the mining lease granted erroneously in favour of Stone Plus since the lease area falls in the notified forest block.” Earlier, he wrote to the Assistant Director, Mines & Geology, asking that no transit permit be issued without clearance from the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-department-registers-cases-against-mining-co/article32728082.ece
30 September 2020||VISSANNAPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||29 youth held for betting||Police busted an alleged cricket betting racket by arresting 29 persons from Korra Thanda at Vissannapeta mandal in the district. A team led by Vissannapet SI M. Lakshman raided Korra Thanda and arrested K. Balu and K. Venu, who were allegedly accepting bets from 27 punters through mobile phones, SP M. Ravindranath Babu said. “The accused, all belonging to the Lambada tribe, were betting on the outcome of matches, as well as on players’ performance, overs and each ball during the ongoing IPL,” said Tiruvuru Circle Inspector M. Sekhar Babu. Cases were registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/29-youth-held-for-betting/article32727454.ece
30 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people to get land pattas on October 2||Parvathipuram Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer R. Kurmanath on Tuesday said that all eligible families in tribal areas would get land on October 2. He interacted with people of Gavarapeta, Pedamerangi and other places to explain the government’s welfare programmes and selection of beneficiaries..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-to-get-land-pattas-on-october-2/article32728078.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marching ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marching-ahead/article32728058.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cool nap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cool-nap/article32728084.ece
30 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bandh over 100% quota for ST teacher aspirants||To mount pressure on the Centre bring in an ordinance to ensure 100% reservation for ST candidates for teacher posts in scheduled areas, the Adivasi Organisations’ Joint Action Committee observed a bandh in Bhadrachalam Agency on Tuesday. The bandh was observed by the JAC to muster support for its demand for enactment of an ordinance to provide ‘statutory status’ to GO No. 3, dated January 10, 2000, which was quashed by the apex court in April this year, sources said. Rallies and demonstrations marked the bandh in Bhadrachalam Agency. Many shopkeepers downed shutters voluntarily in the town. Activists owing allegiance to various constituent organisations of the Adivasi JAC staged a road blockade in front of the bus station on Tuesday. The stir hit the operation of bus services for more than an hour, sources added. Members of the Telangana Adivasi Girijana Sangham organised a demonstration in the tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam highlighting the JAC’s charter of demands. The other demands of the JAC include release of Special DSC (teachers’ recruitment) notification for filling up all vacant teacher posts in Agency areas and grant of pattas for all ‘podu lands’ being tilled by Adivasis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandh-over-100-quota-for-st-teacher-aspirants/article32727706.ece
30 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Ruckus over razing of tribals’ huts||Several huts put up by some shelter-less tribals on the government land abutting a nursery at Prashantinagar under the Garimellapadu Gram Panchayat in Chunchupalli mandal were removed by the Revenue staff, as part of an ‘anti-encroachment drive’ on Tuesday morning. The mandal revenue officials, accompanied by the local police, launched the drive in the early hours of the day. Earth movers were used to pull down the huts during the eviction drive that lasted for more than three hours, sources said. The eviction drive triggered tension as some irate occupants of huts entered into a heated argument with the revenue staff. The angry hut dwellers alleged that their repeated pleas to the mandal level officials for sanction of house site pattas or two bedroom houses fell on deaf ears. Police shifted the hut dwellers, including women and children, to the local police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ruckus-over-razing-of-tribals-huts/article32727708.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State govt. invites bids for Dharani data back-up servers||The State government has invited bids for installation of servers outside the State for storing the data pertaining to Dharani — the integrated land record management system. The bids follow the announcement made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the recently concluded session of the Legislative Assembly that the government would take all steps for adopting effective disaster management practices in storage and maintenance of the land records that would be uploaded on the portal. The Chief Minister said servers would be set up at multiple locations as a backup mechanism to ensure that data was stored in a fool proof manner. The Telangana State Technology Services (TSTS), on behalf of the Inspector General Registration and Stamps (IGRS), has accordingly invited bids from experienced suppliers for supply, installation and commissioning of SAN storage of 200 TB capacity. SAN (storage area network) is a high speed network that connects different data storage devices to servers and this might extend to multiple or remote locations for backup and archival storage. According to the tender document, the disaster recovery site would be set up either in Bhubaneswar or New Delhi as part of Dharani application combining data of registration and mutation of immovable properties in the State. The last date for submission of the bids through the government’s e-procurement portal is October 1 and the bids would be opened on the same day. The document said the TSTS Managing Director would reserve the right to accept or reject any or all the quotations without assigning any reasons thereof and to add, modify or delete any of the terms and conditions without any notice. The department would not accept conditional bids and options would also not be accepted. If the vendor was willing to give an option, he/she may submit a separate bid along with a separate EMD which would be treated as a separate bid for evaluation. The bidders should be an authorized representative of a manufacturer and should be in business of supply, installation and maintenance of IT hardware in the country on the day the bids were invited. They should have experience in supply, installation of minimum one SAN storage (minimum 50 TB) to any Central government/State government/PSUs in the last three financial years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-govt-invites-bids-for-dharani-data-back-up-servers/article32727717.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tracking nutrition and health status of Indians||City-based Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Nutrition (ICMR-NIN) has initiated ‘Mapping of nutrition and health status – A national level participatory real-time data generation programme’ to develop a mobile-based device to be used by nutrition researchers at district level nationwide during this ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The mapping will be done region-wise simultaneously in collaboration with the Nutrition Society of India (NSI) and this platform will be used to collect data in future periodically too. “This will help us develop food-based strategies through inter-ministerial convergences for ensuring food and nutrition security. It includes data generation through crowdsourcing using ICMR-NIN web portal as a platform,” said NIN director R. Hemalatha. She was speaking at the release of ‘Nutrient Requirements for Indians’ and ‘What India Eats’ report by Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan in the presence of ICMR chief Balram Bhargava in Delhi on Monday. ‘What India Eats’ had revealed a majority of the population consumed lower than recommended levels of pulses, legumes, milk, nuts and vegetables while consumption of cereals and millets was higher than recommended levels. Dietary data analysis of adults in urban and rural India on macronutrient intakes based on household 24-hour dietary recall showed an average urban adult consumed 1943 Kcal/day, 289 g carbohydrates, 51.6 g fat and 55.4 g protein. In rural region, an average adult consumed 2081 kcal/day, 368 g of carbohydrates, 36 g of fat and 69 g of protein. Total energy intake from cereals contributed to 998 Kcal/day, while visible fats, and pulses and legumes contributed to 265 Kcal/day and 119 Kcal/day, respectively in urban areas. In contrast, total energy intake from cereals was much higher (1358) Kcal/day, and considerably lower from fats (145 Kcal/day), pulses and legumes (144 Kcal/day) in rural areas. Dairy in diet Milk and milk products contributed almost similar in urban (99 Kcal/day) and rural areas (87Kcal/day). Food groups recommendations state not more than 45% of energy should be contributed by cereals and millets, whereas, actual contribution was 51% in urban region and 65.2% in rural region; while pulses, legumes, meat, poultry and fish contributed to mere 11% of the total energy per day in urban areas and rural areas, as against the recommended minimum intake level of 17% of total energy from these foods. As for milk and milk products, only 8.7% in rural and 14.3% of the population in urban areas consumed as per the recommended intakes. About 8.8% of the population in rural and 17% in urban areas consumed vegetables as per the recommended intake while 22% in rural parts and 27% in urban areas consumed the recommended intake of nuts and oil seeds. Importantly, foods like chips, biscuits, chocolates, sweets, juices, etc., contributed to 11% energy intake per day in urban areas as compared to 4% in rural areas. Prevalence of abdominal obesity (AOb), overweight (OW) and obesity (Ob) issues were 53.6%, 31.4% and 12.5% among urban populations, while chronic energy deficiency (CED) was 9.3%. Among rural India, the prevalence of AOb, OW and Ob were 18.8%, 16.6% and 4.9% respectively, while CED was 35.4%. Proportion of population consuming more than recommended intakes of cereal was 97.1% in rural and 68.8% in urban region. Proportion of population consuming recommended (>66% protein from pulses, legumes, nuts, milk, flesh foods) level of good quality protein were only 5% among rural and 18% among urban people. Low consumption of fruits and vegetables and low intake of milk and milk products increased the risk of diabetes and hypertension, respectively. Recommended intake daily is 45% of calorie/ energy intake from cereals and millets, 17% from pulses and flesh foods and 10% energy from milk and milk products for a 2000-calorie diet a day. Food groups ‘My Plate for the Day’ developed by NIN illustrates the proportion of foods from different food groups to be sourced for a 2000 Kcal Indian diet. It recommends sourcing of macronutrients and micronutrients from minimum of eight food groups per day with vegetables, fruits, green leafy vegetables, tubers forming essentially half the plate of the recommended foods per day. The other major portion consists of cereals and millets, followed by pulses and milk/curd. Intake of cereals should be not more than 45% of the total energy, while for pulses the recommendation is equal to 17% of the total energy/day, total fat intake is less than or equal to 30%, while milk and milk products intake should be more than or equal to 300ml/day. Vegetables/tubers (excluding potato) intake should be 350g, while ideal consumption of fruit and nuts should be 150g and 20g per day, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tracking-nutrition-and-health-status-of-indians/article32727680.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kodandaram’s entry heats up Graduate MLC elections||The massive electoral victories of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the last two years have not diminished the hopes of the Opposition parties on the Graduate MLC elections that are likely to be conducted sometime February or March next year. ‘Poor’ track record These elections, the Opposition parties see, are the only hope of containing the TRS given the ‘poor’ track record of the ruling party in the MLC elections, where masses are not directly involved. The massive victory of Congress leader T. Jeevan Reddy from the Karimnagar-Medak-Nizamabad-Adilabad constituency right after the TRS’s thumping win in the 2018 Assembly elections also proved the theory a bit. However, the entry of Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) president M. Kodandaram has suddenly shifted the focus onto these elections. The Telangana Jana Samiti has also written to all the political parties seeking support for Mr. Kodandaram for the Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal Graduates’ constituency. Losing to Kodandaram is one factor the TRS will not be able to digest given his ‘differences’ with the Chief Minister and the party is taking that extra step to enrol the graduate voters before the last date — November 6. A senior TRS leader confessed that the enrolment is focussed at the village level now. The seat is presently represented by current chairman of the Rythu Bandhu Samiti Palla Rajeshwar Reddy of the TRS. Congress support The Congress party is likely to extend its support, though officially not yet confirmed, to Mr. Kodandaram despite several aspirants within the party. “We are confident of winning the seat,” says Srisail Reddy Panjugula, member of the TJS Political Affairs Committee. “Even several ruling party MLAs have expressed their wish of seeing Mr. Kodandaram in the Legislative Council,” he claims. The Hyderabad-Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy seat, which is currently represented by BJP’s N.V. Ramchander Rao, is likely to see a keen contest. The TRS lost this seat right after coming to power in 2014 elections to Mr. Rao. Many ‘interested’ TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao is keen on winning this at any cost to shatter the myth that the party doesn’t enjoy the support of educated sections. It is looking for a strong candidate and is apparently considering GHMC Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, who was active in the Telangana movement as a student leader and with personal connection to voters. However, senior TRS party leader said that the Chief Minister is not willing to reveal any name as of now. The BJP is likely to renominate Mr. Ramchander Rao. A host of Congress leaders too are eyeing the seat. After the party called for applications, 29 Congress leaders showed interest, including former Minister G. Chinna Reddy and former MLAs Vamshichand Reddy, Sampath Kumar and T. Rammohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kodandarams-entry-heats-up-graduate-mlc-elections/article32727701.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prepare for GHMC polls: KTR||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban development K. T. Rama Rao on Tuesday stated that details of all the development works executed during the past five years in the city were being compiled into a report. Titled ‘Pragathi Nivedika’, the report would be released soon, Mr. Rama Rao said, during a meeting with corporators and legislators from the city.At the meeting organised ahead of the poll bugle for GHMC elections, the Minister directed all the corporators and other people’s representatives to explain to citizens in detail the work done by the government for the city. During the last five years, the government had spent over Rs. 67,000 crore for various development works in Hyderabad, he said. Speaking of the revenue exercise being carried out throughout the State, Mr. Rama Rao said the long-standing issues of ownership rights of non-agricultural properties would be sorted out soon with Dharani portal, and awareness needed to be created among citizens about the same.For various reasons, at a few locations in Hyderabad registrations were held up and people were unable to have complete rights over their properties. The government would strive to resolve all such issues, he assured. The State government had already launched an exercise for people to voluntarily register details pertaining to non-agricultural properties on the Dharani website, he said, and assured that there would be complete transparency in the process. There would be no scope for middlemen or agents in this exercise, hence not one rupee needed to be paid to them. The Minister appealed to all corporators and other people’s representatives to enrol their names in the voters’ list and also to encourage the graduates to enrol, in view of the forthcoming MLC elections for Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Mahabubnagar graduate constituencies. All efforts should be made to improve the poll percentage in Hyderabad for MLC elections by enrolling all graduates, he told the corporators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prepare-for-ghmc-polls-ktr/article32727686.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC ran thousands of trips||At a time when the city was under lockdown due to the novel coronavirus and movement was restricted, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation operated buses running to thousands of trips, facilitating the movement of frontline warriors, including Secretariat employees, health workers and sanitation staff. According to data obtained by means of the Right to Information Act by transport researcher Gurugubelli Sai Ratna Chaitanya, the transport juggernaut operated their buses on as many as 91 routes during the lockdown. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) buses made as many as 7,173 trips on 37 routes to take hospital staff to their destinations. In the same period, as many as 6,062 trips were made on 30 routes to transport sanitation staff to enable them to discharge their duties. An additional 2,503 trips on 24 routes were made to move Secretariat workers. All routes were in the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation ’s Greater Hyderabad Zone. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation did not leave behind migrant workers. Data shows that as many as 3,278 trips were made to move them to railway stations so that they could board Shramik Special Trains. Response to RTI Information obtained by means of a separate RTI shows the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation ’s performance on several metrics for the yesrs 2018-19 and 2019-20. For instance, the number of schedules, meaning number of services per day, operated in 2019-2020 was lower than the previous year. In 2018-19 the number of schedules was 3,558 and in 2019-2020 the number stood at 2,761. Similarly, the actual earnings in 2018-19 was higher than in 2019-20. Data shows that in 2018-2019 the earnings were Rs. 1,159.15 crore, and in the subsequent year decreased to Rs. 1,013.31 crore. The occupancy ratio dipped marginally from 70.21 in 2018-19 to 69.24 in the subsequent year. The kilometres operated in 2019-2020 as compared to the previous year too dipped. Interestingly, the earnings per kilometre increased from Rs. 33.88 in 2018-19 to Rs. 36.12 in 2019-20. “The decrease in number of schedules is likely on account of the strike called by the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation ’s trade unions which lasted 55 days. There was a loss of revenue in this period. The increase in EPK could be on account of the fare hike which came into effect. The point is that for many years few buses were procured, then there has been an increase in cost, and there has also been a reduction in operations. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation lost revenue owing to the pandemic. All this has compounded the problem,” an analyst aware of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation ’s operations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-ran-thousands-of-trips/article32727694.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Emotion that connects women and KCR||A six-feet saree carries myriad emotions and the bond this piece of cloth connects between human beings cutting across relations is perhaps the strongest emotion to have been captured by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with women in the State. The launch of this year’s Bathukamma sarees saw the outpouring of joy and happiness as women, some in tears and some with visible affection, termed the CM as a brother, father and someone whose gift is fondly looked forward to as the Bathukamma festival arrives. IT and Textiles Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who launched the sarees here, could just smile silently appreciating their feelings and enjoy the satisfaction of the hard work bearing fruits. Indira from Wanaparthy, who turned emotional as she spoke, explained how it had become a ritual for them to wait for the sarees as if they were coming from their parents. The feedback from SHG representatives made the Minister to ask officials to explore the possibility of creating a brand for these sarees for marketing across the country. New designs and colours added this year make the sarees more appealing, said Mr. KTR, appreciating Handlooms and Textile director Shailaja Ramaiyer for creating the vibrant designs. The sarees now, are in 287 designs and colours to satisfy the choice of all women. Weavers from Sircilla, Warangal and Karimnagar were entrusted with the job to produce 91 lakh sarees of 6.30 Mts each and another 8 lakh sarees of 9 metres length, which are traditionally worn by the elderly in North Telangana districts. The Minister explained that Rs. 317.81 crore have been spent this year while it was Rs. 313 crore last year and Rs. 280 crore the year before. The sarees serve the dual purpose of gifting to women and at the same time providing work to powerloom weavers. This scheme has turned around the handloom sector and changed the fate of weavers, who were earlier in news for suicides, he said, adding that 6,000 powerlooms secured job producing 30 lakh metres of cloth. The sarees this time will be distributed through the SHGs either directly providing them at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries or programmes organised with the assistance of Collectors concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/emotion-that-connects-women-and-kcr/article32727698.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 1,300 complaints raised against corporate hospitals||After the Health department encouraged people to lodge complaints for issues faced at corporate hospitals, a total of 1,351 complaints were filed. Of those, 309 were related to excess billing or insurance coverage. The department had announced a WhatsApp number (91541-70960) to lodge complaints against private hospitals. Most people who approached officials with complaints demanded that the excess amount they paid to the hospitals in bills be returned to them. Of the 309 complaints regarding surplus billing and insurance, 183 were resolved by Task Force, and a monitoring cell in the department. “The remaining 126 complaints will be resolved,” said Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao addressing a press conference held at the State Health Campus, Koti, on Tuesday. Asked what ‘resolved’ mean, the senior official said that it means two forms of action. The first one is when they find in audit that the patients paid excess bills, hospitals are asked to repay the amount. However, the number of such cases were not mentioned. Besides, when someone contacts them through WhatsApp soon after receiving bills, the officials ask the hospital managements to reduce the bill if found to be in excess. He said Health Minister Eatala Rajender and other officials held a series of meetings with managements of corporate hospitals where the issues were discussed. Dr Srinivasa Rao said the number of complaints, especially related to inappropriate charges, have come down over the months. While 819 grievances were filed in July and 422 in August, it has dropped to 110 in September so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-1300-complaints-raised-against-corporate-hospitals/article32727673.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Follow up with RT-PCR test if symptomatic and RAT-negative’||For individuals who have COVID-19 symptoms but test negative in Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), a common question that comes to the mind is whether the results are reliable. Considering this, Health department officials have asked people to demand RT-PCR test at government sample collection centres if they are symptomatic and have tested negative in RAT. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said instructions to this effect have been passed on to their staff. Samples for follow-up RT-PCR test must be collected soon after testing negative in RAT. Between March 2 and September 28, a total of 29,40,642 samples have been tested in the State. Of them, around 38%, which is 11.17 lakh, were conducted through RT-PCR method. The rest (18.23 lakh) samples were subjected to RAT. Dr Srinivasa Rao said around 50% symptomatic who tested RAT-negative followed up with RT-PCR. “We have around 20 mobile testing labs which are sent to collect samples for RT-PCR. The vehicles are sent to places from where high positivity rate is reported,” he added. Sunday slowdown In the past few weekend, it has been observed that testing dips by 40% to 50%. Usually, around 50,000 to 59,000 samples are collected in a day. However, on Sundays, only 31,000 to 35,000 samples are put to tests. The Director of Public Health explained that the testing is low on Sundays as the number of people who turn up for tests is less. Of the 55,000-odd samples tested in a day, around 10,000 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. Senior officials said they will continue to check high number of samples. However, District Medical and Health Officers have informed fewer people are now getting checked for coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/follow-up-with-rt-pcr-test-if-symptomatic-and-rat-negative/article32727674.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All eyes on Hyderabad for a safe vaccine: Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday said the whole world is looking at Hyderabad to come out with an effective COVID-19 vaccine. Scientists and other researchers have been working tirelessly to bring out an effective vaccine to prevent and fight COVID-19, she pointed out and hoped for the vaccine to come by the end of this year. The Governor was interacting with scientists involved in COVID-19 vaccine research and trials at the Bharat Biotech campus at Genome Valley here. “I salute all those scientists and researchers for their relentless work on finding a vaccine for COVID-19. Not only Telangana or India, the whole world is hoping that our scientists come out with an effective, affordable and safe vaccine for the COVID-19,” she said. Expressing anguish over many celebrities and common people succumbing to the virus, she called for a cost-effective vaccine by the end of the year. “We must ensure that the reaches every person across the world. It must benefit all irrespective of their socio-economic status or their country of residence,” she said. The Governor called for creation of better awareness to motivate people of different sections to go for the vaccine once it is released and said the real challenge is to get everyone immunised. She interacted with Bharat Biotech founders Krishna M. Ella and Suchitra Ella and other scientists, and appreciated their efforts and achievements in supplying a record number of three billion doses of different vaccines to people across the world, thus immunising and saving millions of lives. She presented a badge of ‘Thank You’ to Dr.Suchitra Ella for leading the ‘COVAXIN’ research and trials, and wished their efforts succeed soon, a press release from Raj Bhavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-eyes-on-hyderabad-for-a-safe-vaccine-governor/article32727678.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||E-scooters presented to promising athletes||Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud handed over electronic scooters to three promising athletes of the State — J. Deepthi, V. Nandini and G. Maheshwari — at the Ravindra Bharathi here on Tuesday. The athletes were also presented with a cash incentive of Rs. 10,000 each for their outstanding performance at the national level. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister thanked V. Chamundeswaranath, ex-Andhra Ranji captain and vice-president of Telangana Badminton Association, for holding the event. “It is good to see Chamundi and SATS chairman A.Venkateshwar Reddy continuing to encourage young rural talent. The incentives will help them dream big and achieve bigger goals,” Mr. Goud said. The Minister also reminded that the State government is determined to give fresh impetus to promoting sports across the State by ensuring that each district has a full-fledged stadium to lure more youth into sports. “Recently, it also revised the Government Order for ensuring 0.5% sports quota for admission to professional courses other than medical courses. We are also in the process of finalising a new State Sports Policy,” he said. Among those present included chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand, MLR Motors director Mullapudi Sri Krishna, Olive Foundation chairman Mustyala Ramesh and athletics coach N. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-scooters-presented-to-promising-athletes/article32727682.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Facial recognition software in each ward, says SEC||The State Election Commission has decided to introduce facial recognition software on pilot basis in the ensuing elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The commission has decided to utilise the facial recognition system in one polling station in each of the 150 wards in the GHMC. State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi said the new system was one of the advanced innovations that would facilitate identification of voters with the data available with the election authority. The software had been successfully tested in 10 polling stations in the past for its accuracy. Mr. Parthasarathi said the commission was planning to pilot e-voting process for senior citizens, disabled and polling personnel. Modalities were being explored in association with the IT department for evolving mechanism to introduce e-voting in the forthcoming elections. The officials concerned were confident that once introduced, e-voting would become a role model for the entire country to replicate. The Election Commissioner was speaking at the concluding ceremony of the training programme conducted for GHMC officials on Te-Poll software. He said use of advanced technologies would enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in the entire process. Using advanced technology in the election process had become imperative more so in the light of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic for ensuring smooth conduct of the elections. Voters could download their voter slips, constituency and polling station wise voters’ lists and know their polling stations in advance. “Maximum use of technology will ease the election process from filing of nominations to declaration of results. Te-Poll will allow contesting candidates and parties to view all the poll related details online,” he said, adding that technology use would also reduce human interface besides ensuring accuracy. The election authority had decided to organise training for GHMC officials relating to election process management, polling and counting personnel randomization system etc. Officials from six zones participated in the training which started on September 23 and concluded on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/facial-recognition-software-in-each-ward-says-sec/article32727683.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four arrested for ‘land grab’||The Rachakonda Police Special Operations Team and Bibinagar police on Tuesday arrested four persons for allegedly grabbing land and selling same plots to multiple buyers. The accused are Golanukonda Muthyalu (52), Vadde Sathaiah (65), and Gudeboina Shyam Prasad (39), all residents of Bibinagar, and Mohd Anwar (24), a resident of Santoshnagar. Police booked a case against them under Sections 120(B), 420, 447, 427, 506 of the Indian Penal Code. According to police, Sathaiah was in possession of 3 acres and 1 gunta land in Bibinagar village. In 1995, he decided to sell it and approached real estate broker Muthyalu. The land was sold to P Bal Reddy, who with his associates, sold the plots of land. Police said that once all plots were sold, Muthyalu planned to sell the same land again. He allegedly spoke to Sathaiah and Balamallaiah and executed a general power of attorney document in favour of P Bal Reddy. Muthyalu was allegedly a signatory to this. After this, P Bal Reddy sold plots of land to unsuspecting customers. The accused allegedly removed stones which marked boundaries and levelled the plots of land for development. When one of the legal owners visited his plot, he found the accused levelling the land parcel who allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. Following a complaint, the police apprehended the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-arrested-for-land-grab/article32727689.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Missing woman found murdered||A woman who was reported missing was found murdered on Tuesday on a plot of land under the Ibrahimpatnam police station limits. Her limbs were dismembered and were found at a distance from the body. Police identified the victim as Maisamma (60), a resident of Saheb Nagar in Vanasthalipuram. While a missing case was registered at the Vanathalipuram police station, the body was found in Ibrahimpatnam police station limits. Vanasthalipuram police said the victim’s son Kishore, a driver, had come to the police station with a missing person complaint on September 27. A case was registred the next day. The victim’s body, police said, was found in the afternoon, around 2 pm, on Tuesday. “The legs of the deceased were cut off. We have sent the body for postmortem to the Osmania (General) Hospital and are waiting for the report. It was a murder for gain case and we have registered a case and are investigating,” Vanasthalipuram inspector K Murali Mohan said. The sections dealing with missing person had been altered to murder. Police said whether the victim had been subjected to sexual assault would be known after the postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/missing-woman-found-murdered/article32727691.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prediction about dip in cases was right, say officials||By September 30, COVID-19 cases would start dipping in districts apart from the GHMC region, Health officials had earlier predicted. However, around 80-140 cases a day continue to be reported from Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Khammam and Bhadradri Kothagudem. In the first week of August, senior officials had said that cases in GHMC will dip by August-end, and in other districts by September-end. Currently, around 300-350 cases per day continue to be recorded in GHMC limits. Officials said their estimations have come true. “I am not saying there will be no cases. Definitely, there will be cases. The numbers should decline gradually, not in peaks and troughs,” said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. The senior official said that barring two to three districts, less number of cases are being reported in districts apart from GHMC. Around 300-350 cases in GHMC against one crore population in the municipal limits was considered as low, he added. Asked if their estimates were right, Dr. Srinivasa Rao said three indicators are taken into consideration to show that a pandemic is under control — number of tests per million, positivity rate and number of hospital admissions. The official said that the tests per million is higher than World Health Organisation’s recommendation, and positivity rate and number of admission in hospitals have come down. The positivity rate which was 23% in July, the highest since March, has come down to 4% in September. “For 3.7 crore population in our State, 5,440 tests per million population is sufficient. But we are performing 79,206 tests per million. The number of admissions in government and private hospitals too have come down,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prediction-about-dip-in-cases-was-right-say-officials/article32727675.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Arvind: TRS fears losing control over farmers||Nizamabad MP Arvind Dharmapuri claimed that TRS’s opposition to farmers’ bills passed in Parliament “showcased its fear of losing farmers’ support totally”. In an interaction with reporters on Tuesday, Mr. Arvind said that the bills were a death knell on opposition parties and TRS was opposing it “solely because of losing its base among farmers”. Stating that the bills would change the fortunes of farmers, he said they would get money in advance for the crop from the sponsor and at the same time, sell their crop at a higher price at any place after cancelling the initial agreement with the crop sponsor. The bill clearly states that sponsors cannot charge any interest if the farmer wishes to return the money. Moreover, the bill ensures that the responsibility lies on the sponsors to take the produce from the field. District Collectors will have the final say on the disputes, if any, between the sponsors and farmers. Mr. Arvind rejected the TRS party’s accusation that farming would be corporatised. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who is a farmer himself, has tie-ups with corporates for selling his crop and farmers too, can have similar tie-ups, he argued. The TRS is worried that it would lose market yard fee to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crore, he claimed. Rejecting the TRS charge that the bills were passed unilaterally, he asked if the ruling TRS party had taken the opinion of opposition parties while abolishing the VRO system. On BJP corporators defecting to the ruling party, he said that Kavita could not win even after senior leaders like Suresh Reddy and Mandava Venkateshwara Rao joined the TRS and the BJP would not lose much if some corporators leave the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arvind-trs-fears-losing-control-over-farmers/article32727699.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices served on TPF vice-president over bail||Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to Telangana Praja Front (TPF) vice-president Nalamasu Krishna in a writ appeal filed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging the bail granted by NIA Special Court to him. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy posted the matter after two weeks for next hearing. Advocate Vishnuvardhan Reddy, appearing for NIA, contended that Krishna was accused of extending financial support to activists of banned organisations and persons indulging in extremist activities.  Shifting of public toilet The division bench dismissed a writ appeal challenging a single judge order declining to shift a public toilet from Begumbazar to another place. Some residents of the locality filed a writ petition seeking a direction to shift the public toilet to another place stating that it was causing inconvenience to the locals. The GHMC authorities informed the court that they had already sanctioned funds to renovate the old public toilet. They maintained that due to COVID-19 the renovation works could not be completed. A single judge dismissed the petition directing the authorities to complete the reconstruction of the public toilet within four months. Challenging this single judge order, the petitioners filed a writ appeal. The division bench dismissed the appeal observing that works involving larger public interests cannot be stopped even it meant inconvenience to a smaller section of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-served-on-tpf-vice-president-over-bail/article32727713.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS-BJP reiterates opposition to LRS||Telangana State Bharatiya Janata Party (TS-BJP) has once again strongly expressed its opposition to the new Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) and said that its introduction during the pandemic, when people of all sections have suffered a severe setback, was ‘unfair and anti-people’. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar informed the media on Tuesday that people cutting across all sections were more concerned about losing employment, livelihood and unable to run the businesses due to the lockdown. Therefore, bringing the scheme during these critical times showed the ‘callousness’ of the government. He claimed that the protest programmes taken out across the State in front of the MRO offices were successful despite the arrests and detainments. By participating in these programmes, people have expressed their strong opposition to the LRS. “TS people are determined to teach a befitting lesson to TRS in the municipal elections considering the intensity of the agitations against the LRS all over the State. The party will intensify the agitation till the government withdraws LRS,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-bjp-reiterates-opposition-to-lrs/article32727696.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Building owner fined Rs. 1 lakh||The management of Vasavi GP Trends, a building in Nanakramguda, was fined Rs. 1 lakh for allegedly releasing water accumulated in its basement onto the Outer Ring Road service road near the Hanuman temple, Cyberabad police said. Police said commuters had complained of difficulties due to water release. Police visited the spot and asked the management to stop water release. However, they allegedly did not comply. Then, police wrote to the GHMC. After this, a fine of Rs. 1 lakh was imposed on the owner, Sudhakar Reddy. Betting racket busted The North Zone Task Force on Tuesday apprehended K Sudheer (46), a resident of East Marredpally, for allegedly organising an online cricket betting racket in Tukaramgate and sezied Rs. 45,000 and two mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/building-owner-fined-rs-1-lakh/article32727687.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahindra unveils electric three-wheeler||Mahindra Electric Mobility has launched its electric three-wheeler Mahindra Treo in Telangana at Rs. 2.7 lakh (ex-showroom) post FAME scheme subsidies. The running cost of Mahindra Treo is 50 paise/km. The lithium-ion battery requires zero-maintenance and offers 1,50,000 km of hassle-free running. The electric autorickshaw is completely designed and developed in India, the company said. The EV is available with a low down payment scheme of Rs. 50,000 from Mahindra Finance and low interest rate scheme of 10.8% from State Bank of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahindra-unveils-electric-three-wheeler/article32727672.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OLX fraudsters apprehended||The Cyberabad Cyber Crime police on Tuesday announced arrest of five persons for ‘involvement’ in OLX frauds. They are Rukhmin (26), a private employee, and resident of Rajasthan, Murfeed (23) a native of UP, Saikul Khan(25), also from Rajasthan, Sharukh (20), and Rakham Khan (26). The accused confessed to being involved in 40 cases. Police seized two mobile phones, 12 ATM cards, 21 SIM cards, and Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/olx-fraudsters-apprehended/article32727684.ece
30 September 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||7 held, 54 kg ganja seized||The West Zone Task Force on Tuesday announced arrest of seven persons, including a minor and seized 54 kg of ganja. They were Nalam Shiva (26), Jajula Sathibabu (27), Chinni Durga Prasad (25), Shaik Azam (28) and a minor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7-held-54-kg-ganja-seized/article32727690.ece
30 September 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police patrol vans to receive complaints||The Commissioner of Police of Hyderabad city, Mr Anjani Kumar, on Tuesday announced that police vehicles used for patrolling were now equipped to take complaints from people at the doorstep of a complainant. In his tweet, the Commissioner, Mr Anjani Kumar, said, “Hyd Police is your service provider for safety and security. Now Patrol cars are equipped to collect complaints from your doorsteps. Our objective is to reduce the need to visit PS. Give your petition to Patrol car of your area and enjoy the service at your doorsteps. 9490616555.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-patrol-vans-to-receive-complaints/article32727693.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vinod Kumar appointed to TISS Hyd Board||State Planning Board VC B. Vinod Kumar has been appointed to the Advisory Board of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Hyderabad, for two years. TISS has its main campus in Mumbai and campuses in Hyderabad, Tuljapur and Guwahati. It was designated as a deemed university in 1964 and is known for offering quality courses in inter-disciplinary areas of social sciences and research. The present chairman is S. Ramadorai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinod-kumar-appointed-to-tiss-hyd-board/article32727703.ece
30 September 2020||Hyderabad/Siddipet,TELANGANA||Dubbak by-poll on November 3||The Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the schedule for by-election to the Dubbak Assembly constituency. The election will be held on November 3 and counting of votes would be taken up on November 10. The election process would be completed in all aspects by November 12, the EC said in its notification. The seat fell vacant following the death of TRS MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy. Notification for the election would be issued on October 9, and the last date for filing nominations is October 16. Scrutiny of the nominations would be taken up on October 17 and October 19 would be the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The TRS has intensified its campaign to retain the seat. Minister T. Harish Rao has been campaigning in Dubbak since the past few days and gearing up the party’s rank and file for the bypoll. Though Dubbak is a stronghold of the party, the TRS leadership is leaving nothing to chance and touching each doorstep to secure an emphatic victory. “It may not be possible to do something immediately after you asked for. Give me two days’ time and I will sanction Rs. 1 crore for these development works,” was what Mr. Harish Rao said in a meeting held in a village at Dubbak recently. However, TRS has not yet finalised its candidature. Sujatha, Ramalinga Reddy’s wife, may be offered the nomination. The main contest may be between TRS and BJP. BJP leader M. Raghunandan Rao has been making all efforts to win, though his name was not yet announced. Meanwhile, no one from the Congress has made any serious effort in this direction, so far. Former MLA T. Narsa Reddy and ex-LS contestant Sravan Kumar Reddy have been trying their luck for party nomination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dubbak-by-poll-on-november-3/article32727695.ece
30 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||A registered medical practitioner (RMP) was killed after being struck by lightning at Gannavaram village in Wyra mandal late on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased was identified as A. Srinivas, 46, of Gannavaram. He stopped his bike on the roadside and took shelter under a tree amid heavy rain when the incident happened. Two others, who stood next to him, had a narrow escape from the thunderbolt strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32727707.ece
30 September 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||ACB brf||In continuation of the investigation into the bribery case of G. Nagesh, former Additional Collector of Medak, ACB sleuths visited Masaipet village at Veldurthi mandal and interacted with about 20 farmers and real estate agents. Officials inquired whether Mr. Nagesh had purchased any land in the name of his relatives as benamis and if so, when did the transactions take place. Officials raided the houses of one Prabhakar Gupta and Shiva Kumar at Toopran and Masaipet and grilled them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-brf/article32727704.ece
30 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||NSP assets transferred to Nandikonda municipality||District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Tuesday instructed officials to ensure smooth transfer of properties relating to Nagarjunsagar Project (NSP) to the newly-formed Nandikonda municipality and the various departments under it. Mr. Patil said the State government had issued relevant directions for the same, through an order dated September 9. Discussing with officials from the municipality, Mission Bhagiratha, TSTransco, NSP and Revenue officials on Tuesday, he said change in possession of the NSP quarters, street-lighting system and maintenance, parks and supply of drinking water in the local body limits would be effected. All the pending electricity bills till September 9 have to be cleared by the NSP, after which the municipality will take over the ownership. Also, the SBI Nehru Park, for which the Irrigation Department had called tenders and works are in progress, should be handed over after the renovation is complete, he said. Similarly, Mr. Patil also instructed officials to prepare reports on the types of quarters, built-up area, and told officials to colour-mark the existing 260 quarters in the limits as ‘NSP’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nsp-assets-transferred-to-nandikonda-municipality/article32727709.ece
30 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar oustees join TRS||In a strange twist, the villagers of Pallepahad in Toguta mandal joined the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the presence of Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at his residence on Tuesday. They quit the BJP and this development took place when the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced conduct of elections for Dubbak Assembly constituency on November 3. They have promised to vote for TRS in the by-elections. Pallepahad is located in the constituency and is one of the villages submerging under Mallannasagar. The villagers fought against the government for fair compensation in the past, but surrendered later. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is compassionate towards the oustees of Mallannasagar like that of Kondapochammasagar. People of Pallepahad are in the forefront in giving up their land for the reservoir. In the same way they have been responding now,” said Mr. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallannasagar-oustees-join-trs/article32727722.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protests erupt over Hathras victim’s body||Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad and other members of the organisation gathered at Safdarjung Hospital and protested the confusion in handing over the mortal remains of Hathras gang rape victim on Tuesday. The 19-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras village, who was undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital, succumbed to injuries in the early hours of Tuesday. Bhim Army’s Delhi president Himanshu Valmiki said that the protest began around 12 p.m. after there was no clear communication over the girl’s body. “Police are not informing us about it. The officials said the body is not in the hospital. We suspect that they have moved the body without the consent of parents,” he said, adding that the victim’s family was protesting along with them. Another member of the organisation, who identified himself as Jatin Goraya, said that several U.P. police officers and Hathras district officials were present at the hospital. “We have been unofficially informed that the body is still in the hospital but no official communication from anyone yet,” he said. Issue over treatment Mr Valmiki also raised questions over the girl’s treatment at Safdarjung Hospital. “The family had demanded that she should be treated at AIIMS but she was still shifted to Safdarjung and the family was told there were no enough beds at AIIMS,” he said. Mr. Valmiki further criticised the administration in the way they handled the case. He alleged that the police initially didn’t register a case and after they intervened on September 16, a case was registered. Initially, they did not add Sections of rape either. As the number of protesters swelled and they were not following COVID-19 guidelines, police ordered the crowd to disperse. The functioning of the hospital was also disrupted due to the crowd.  Commenting on the matter, Delhi Police Spokesperson said: “The family members were not on dharna, they wanted to go. Different groups tried to hijack the issue. Later the family was convinced and they left with the SDM and Circle Officer of Hathras.” Fakhrul Hoda, head of the Neurosurgery Department of Aligarh Medical College, said the victim was in a quadriplegic condition and doctors at Safdarjung Hospital would also have had to wait for her condition to stabilise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protests-erupt-over-hathras-victims-body/article32727614.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Anti-CAA stir will continue after pandemic’||Bilkis, also known as Shaheen Bagh dadi, was felicitated by several women’s organisations on Tuesday after she was recognised by Time Magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of the year. The 82-year-old had become the face of the Shaheen Bagh protest, which began in December last year and saw hundreds of women take to the streets to raise their voice against the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Speaking at the event on what her demands are under the current circumstances, Ms. Bilkis said: “The young students who are in jail need to be freed. I want them to be released from jails so that they can study further. If students are in jail then how will they study and what will be the country’s future?” Adding that the movement against the citizenship law would continue after the pandemic, she added, “Right now fighting the novel coronavirus is of utmost importance. After that we shall take the CAA-NRC movement forward.” “The government needs to listen to us as well as the concerns of farmers. There is poverty everywhere and people are famished. I will continue to raise my voice till the government listens. We are not here to step back,” said Ms. Bilkis.  Stating that the practice of “criminalising peaceful protests” should be ended, Annie Raja of the National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW) said: “There were multiple protests across the city and the country, where women were sitting peacefully and protesting in a democratic manner. But the fascist conspiracy is to link the peaceful protests to the riots. We condemn that. We want to tell the government that this conspiracy will not be successful.” ‘Discrediting movement’ Delhi University professor Poonam Batra said: “Efforts have been made to delegitimise and discredit the movement. But in reality, we felt that real education was being imparted to the children who participated in the movement. What they were learning there could not be taught in schools. Shaheen Bagh became a space for education for children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anti-caa-stir-will-continue-after-pandemic/article32727622.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sub-Inspector nabbed for killing father-in-law, shooting at friend||Sub-Inspector Sandeep Dahiya has been arrested for allegedly killing his father-in-law and shooting at his friend in Rohtak, the police said on Tuesday. “Dahiya was arrested from Rohini’s Sector-3 at 11 a.m. by the joint teams of special staff, cyber cell and Lahori Gate police station,” a senior officer said. A weapon and vehicle have been recovered from Dahiya, who was traced through electronic surveillance, the officer added. While interrogation, it was revealed that Dahiya has an animosity against his in-laws. He also had some altercations with his friend. The incident happened on Sunday when he was with his friend in north Delhi’s Alipur. They had a quarrel following which he shot at her and fled the spot, the police said. He then went towards Narela and Kundli and reached near his wife’s village Bansi in Rohtak in the night. He shot his 60-year-old father-in-law on Monday morning and fled to Kundli, the officer said. Posted at Lahori Gate The 35-year-old accused was posted at Lahori Gate police station from December 21, 2017. The woman and Dahiya were having an affair since last year, the police said. The SI’s wife told the Rohtak district police that they had been living separately for some time due to strained marital relations and also said he had earlier threatened that he would kill her father. The police on Monday said the victim — Ranbir — was cleaning a drain outside his house when he was shot dead. A CCTV camera installed in the street showed an SUV with a Delhi registration number, leaving the area after the crime was committed. Dahiya had joined the Delhi Police in 2006 as a constable and became a SI in 2010. He used to stay in Shalimar Bagh Police Colony. He was on medical rest for two days and joined duty on Friday. Since he has been the Division Officer, a 9mm pistol with 10 rounds was allotted to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sub-inspector-nabbed-for-killing-father-in-law-shooting-at-friend/article32727620.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. blames U.P. govt. for failing to prevent assaults on women||The Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress (DPMC) on Tuesday held a protest at Vijay Chowk against the Uttar Pradesh government for “failing” to prevent the occurrence of assaults on women, particularly against Dalit women. The party expressed shock and sorrow at the death of the girl, who was raped by four men at Hathras in U.P. Newly appointed DPMC president Amrita Dhawan along with several party workers participated in the protest. Ms. Dhawan said women were not safe in U.P. or in Delhi where the Arvind Kejriwal government talks about their safety only when elections are round the corner.  “We need to speak up for the victim of the Hathras incident and demand justice to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. The BJP government in U.P. came to power promising women safety but the number of incidents of crime against women has shown that there is jungle raj in the State,” Ms. Dhawan said after being detained from the protest. The party said in Delhi as well, it was only recently that a 14-year-old girl was sexually assaulted at the high-security Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Chattarpur, a patient was gang-raped at the Hindu Rao Hospital, a 16-year-old girl was raped at the Netaji Subhash Place and a 90-year-old was raped in Chhawla. ‘Mute witnesses’ It added that the Delhi Police, which is under the Centre, and the Delhi government had remained mute witnesses to such crimes. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the girl was the latest victim of U.P.’s lawlessness under the BJP government. He alleged that U.P. has become a den of crime where women are subjected to sexual assaults almost on a daily basis and the criminals roam around scot-free.  The BJP govt. in U.P. came to power promising women safety but the number of incidents of crime against women has shown that there is jungle raj in the State Amrita Dhawan DPMC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-blames-up-govt-for-failing-to-prevent-assaults-on-women/article32727617.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Applicants given only 15 days to make travel arrangements during pandemic’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) on Tuesday said applicants scheduled to appear for the entrance examination between October 5-8 facing difficulties as the dates were announced on September 24, giving students only 15 days to make travel arrangements during the pandemic. The JNUSU said the National Testing Agency (NTA) had to change the date of the UGC-NET from October 7 as it had not realised earlier that the dates of two sets of examinations organised by the same agency were clashing. The students said the dates were also clashing with the dates of final semester examinations that are ongoing at Calcutta University, Jadavpur University, Mumbai University, Burdwan University, and a number of premier educational institutions. The JNUSU said it demands that a one-month notice be given before the conduct of examinations, allowing people to plan logistics, be prepared in the time of a pandemic, and to avoid clashes. It alleged that several aspirants have complained that they had been allotted centers far away from their homes and for those sitting for multiple entrance tests, some centers were allotted in different cities as well. “The entire process of centre change as it currently stands is based upon individual mails to NTA/JNU, with no public notice, and no assurance of change in centre,” the JNUSU said. It also called for a phase-wise return of students to the JNU campus to enable research students to access their work. It added that several students who let the university at short notice were not able to take their belongings with them and were facing difficulties not only with continuing their academics but with seeking admission elsewhere in the case of final-year students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/applicants-given-only-15-days-to-make-travel-arrangements-during-pandemic/article32727618.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU colleges directed to respond to teachers’ plea||The High Court on Tuesday asked four Delhi University colleges to respond to a petition by teachers seeking direction to release their salaries pending for the last four months. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad asked Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies to file their status reports on the petition. The court additionally asked the Delhi government and DU to file their replies to the plea and listed the matter for further hearing on November 4. Advocate Ashok Agarwal, appearing for the teachers, argued that Delhi government was punishing 2,000 families. He asked for immediate release of the grant to colleges to enable them to pay the employees’ salaries. He said that apart from these teachers there are other employees, teaching and non-teaching staff, who have not received their salaries for the months of May, June, July and August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-colleges-directed-to-respond-to-teachers-plea/article32727619.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for hitting policemen with car||Two policemen were injured after they were hit by a car in Vasant Kunj on Sunday, the officials said. The accused — Salmu — has been arrested for hitting Head Constable Komal and ASILakhwinder Singh. The incident happened when the officials signalled Salmu to stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-hitting-policemen-with-car/article32727615.ece
30 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmer groups meet Punjab CM, discuss next course of action||Representatives of as many as 31 farmer outfits that are agitating against the Centre’s new agricultural legislations on Tuesday met Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to discuss the way forward to fight the farm laws. Farmer outfits announced that they would intensify their agitation from October 1, which will include an indefinite “rail roko” protest; the social boycott of political leaders whose parties have not opposed the “anti-farmer legislations” and sit-in protests outside their residences. Federal structure Asserting that the Centre had no right to enact these laws as it amounted to the violation of the Constitution and an attack on the federal structure, the Chief Minister said his government shared the concerns of the farmers and would do whatever it took to scuttle the Union government’s “attempt to ruin the farming community with these legislations”. Captain Amarinder said he would take the suggestions of the farmers’ unions to legal experts to finalise the next course of action. The Chief Minister said he would be discussing the issue with his legal team to finalise the next steps, including challenging the farm laws in the Supreme Court. “We will take all possible steps to counter the Union government’s assault on the State’s federal and Constitutional rights, and fight for the interests of the farmers,” Capt. Amarinder assured the farmers’ representatives. If legal experts advised amendments to the State laws to fight the Central laws, a special session of the State Assembly would be immediately called to do so, he said. The Punjab CM made it clear that the government had no qualms about convening an Assembly session if that was the best course under the circumstances. However, he dismissed the Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal’s demand for a special Assembly session as “a cheap gimmick” after the party’s active support of the Central laws for months. “It was clear that the Akalis, led by Sukhbir Badal, had been wholeheartedly supporting the farm Ordinances throughout, and only backed out once their position in Punjab became untenable amid widespread angst among the farmers. If they were so concerned about the farmers’ interests, why did Harsimrat Badal not resign from the Union Cabinet the moment the Ordinances were brought in by the Centre,” he said. Dharnas planned Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said farmers were all set to intensify their agitation from October 1. “We have decided to stop railway traffic indefinitely from October 1 across the State. We will socially boycott those political leaders and representatives whose parties have not opposed these anti-farmers legislations. We will stage dharnas outside the residences of the BJP leaders.” “Also, resolutions will be passed by the gram sabha of each village to cancel the agriculture Bills. Apart from this, we have decided to start a campaign to boycott products of corporate houses that we believe have a big hand in getting the farm legislations passed by the Central government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-groups-meet-punjab-cm-discuss-next-course-of-action/article32727644.ece
30 September 2020||JAIPUR,||HC rejects Rajasthan govt. plea to postpone civic polls||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday rejected an application of the State government seeking postponement of the elections for the six newly formed Municipal Corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota districts from October 31 to March 20, 2021. The polls at these places will be held on time, by October 31. A Division Bench, headed by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty, said there was no reason for deferring the election process, when the State Assembly elections could be held in Bihar and the village panchayat polls were being conducted in several phases in Rajasthan. During the hearing, the State Election Commission agreed to hold elections on time. The polls will be held for electing councillors in 560 wards of six new Municipal Corporations of Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. There are more than 35 lakh voters in the areas covered by these civic bodies. Elections to the Municipal Corporations were earlier postponed several times because of the pandemic. The HC had on July 22 permitted the State government to conduct the polls by October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-rejects-rajasthan-govt-plea-to-postpone-civic-polls/article32727645.ece
30 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Animal lovers demand better care for tuskers||Distressed by the death of four elephants in the last six months at Hathi Gaon near Jaipur, animal rights groups here on Tuesday demanded better conditions for the tuskers, including urgent steps for their veterinarian care, appropriate food and water and adequate exercise, to prevent more deaths. The captive elephants, kept tethered at Hathi Gaon, were mostly used for ferrying tourists to the historic Amber Fort before the COVID-19 lockdown. The elephant rides to the fort are closed during the pandemic, rendering their owners jobless. Digital protest Activists led by ‘Help in Suffering’ and ‘Angel Eyes’ have decided to organise a nationwide digital protest and a protest rally at Albert Hall Museum here, followed by a candlelight vigil at the fort on October 1. The Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations has written to Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup and the forest authorities seeking steps to prevent deaths and rehabilitation of old and sick elephants to the rescue centres. A recent report of the Animal Welfare Board of India stated that out of 102 captive elephants in Jaipur, 19 were found to be blind, and using them at public places would put the safety of people at high risk. Of the 91 elephants screened for tuberculosis, 10 were found positive for the disease. Activists pointed out that neither the Forest and Animal Husbandry Departments nor the owners had taken responsibility for the elephants’ deaths. “Elephants are taken captive using a loophole in the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The owners are required to ensure their upkeep and maintenance,” said FIAPO executive director Varda Mehrotra. The lockdown has exposed a “harsh reality” that the owners would only maintain the elephants if they continued to generate revenue. Activists said while it was highly unlikely that the elephants of Hathi Gaon would return to full work any time soon, they were currently tethered with limited food and water and no medical care. ‘Help in Suffering’ co-organiser Mariam Abuhaideri said there was a direct link between captivity and poor health of elephants, while the conditions at Hathi Gaon were “appalling, all in the name of heritage and business”. The digital protest on October 1 will take the shape of tweet-a-thon, while the protest gatherings will be telecast live from Instagram page @hathikadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/animal-lovers-demand-better-care-for-tuskers/article32727647.ece
30 September 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai maps its biodiversity||In a first-of-its-kind attempt to visually empower Mumbai’s citizens with the resources they share the city with, a biodiversity map of the city to showcase the wildlife hotspots, mangrove forests, urban green spaces and over 90 species that can be spotted in the city has been illustrated. Rohan Chakravarty, popularly known for his work under the title of Green Humour, is the man behind the map “that will serve as a reminder to Mumbaikars that they must act to protect Mumbai’s biodiversity, which has been under threat due to unsustainable development”. This is part of a campaign Biodiversity by the Bay, initiated by the Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic, a citizen’s collective comprising Mumbaikars who wish to bring the issue of protecting biodiversity to the forefront. Mr. Chakravarty said, “I am a wildlife cartoonist. I have been working with forest departments on maps of national parks, forests. The Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic approached me in July and it took a month to execute the project. Usually I undertake field visits, but it wasn’t possible here due to the COVID-19 situation.” Mr. Chakravarty relied on available information, published material, books, research papers on species being discovered, and material available online. “The findings are amazing. These are totally different than what one thinks about Mumbai. From leopards in the heart of the city to marine biodiversity, this city has a lot to offer,” he said. He said that he created this map with the motive to empower Mumbai's youth with a visual resource of the city's biodiversity, and a reminder to the government of the natural heritage we must conserve and coexist with. “The map also pays tribute to the Warli and Koli communities, and the very spirit of Mumbai,” added Mr. Chakravarty. The campaign will culminate in an engagement with key stakeholders like the Brihanmumbai Mumbai Corporation, and writing to Aaditya Thackeray, Environment and Tourism Minister, to initiate conversations on the future of Mumbai’s biodiversity. The campaign also includes an action plan on the protection of Lesser Flamingos and their habitats, given their significance to Mumbai; acknowledging Aarey as a forest and increasing the protection of Mumbai’s green cover; proposing a supportive policy for the Koli community’s livelihoods, in consultation with the community; and, protecting and growing Mumbai’s parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-maps-its-biodiversity/article32727639.ece
30 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra modifies Forest Rights Act||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday issued a notification modifying the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006 that will enable tribals and other traditional forest dwelling families to build houses in the neighbourhood forest areas. The decision is likely to provide a major relief to Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest-dwelling families residing in the scheduled areas of the State. The move aims to prevent the migration of forest-dwelling families outside their native villages and provide them housing areas by extending the village site into forest land in their neighbourhood. The notification has been issued by the Governor using his powers under sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 5 of the Schedule V of the Constitution, according to a statement issued by Raj Bhavan. The notification is the result of the consistent efforts of Vayam — a community-based organisation — working for the empowerment of tribal communities in Palghar and Nashik districts. Milind Thatte, founder of Vayam and a member of the Governor’s Tribes Advisory Council said, “The amendment is a landmark one as it assures the human rights of housing to all tribal population — especially the current generation — that has built houses after 2005.” During his visits to Palghar, Nandurbar, Gadchiroli and other districts having scheduled areas, it had come to the notice of the Governor that certain scheduled tribes and forest-dwelling families in the scheduled areas were moving outside their native villages and migrating elsewhere in the absence of housing areas for their growing families. “The FRA recognises rights to habitation and cultivation on forest lands if the land were occupied before December 13, 2005. The forest department officers in Jawahar division held that all new houses built in tribal habitations on forest land were illegal and had filed criminal offences and scheduled demolition,” said Mr. Thatte, adding that it was natural, as the population grows, that there would be new houses built. “The urban areas get increased FSI, the rural areas (on revenue lands) get Gaothan Vistaar Yojana, but tribal villages (on forest lands) have no legal space for building houses. PESA rules in the State have given recognition to many habitations as villages, but there is no provision for land for house-building,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-modifies-forest-rights-act/article32727637.ece
30 September 2020||Mumbai,||Devise way to allow citizens to use local trains, HC tells State||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said the Maharashtra government needed to come up with a way to allow common people to use public transport system in Mumbai as people are losing jobs, while hearing a plea by lawyers seeking permission to board suburban trains. The HC directed the government to file its reply within a week on a plea filed by the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa demanding that all lawyers from Maharashtra be allowed to board local trains for court hearings in Mumbai. The bar council claims to represent over 1,75,000 lawyers from the two States. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni also sought a reply from the State government on another plea of lawyers demanding that consumer courts across the State be directed to begin proceedings either online or through physical hearings. The Bench said the State needed to come up with a way to allow general public to begin using public transport system in Mumbai. “Allowing only lawyers can seem like bias on our part. For why not allow the other sectors? We cannot only think of lawyers. People who are starving, losing their jobs. General manager in office is doing a dumper driver’s job. Someone is selling vegetables (because of the pandemic). Many people would be getting back to their jobs. You (State) have to devise a formula,” the Bench said.  The plea on consumer courts has been filed by an association of consumer court lawyers from across Maharashtra. The petitioner stated that consumer courts had halted all hearings since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March. Consumer courts across the State do not have any provisions for conducting online hearings, it said, while urging the HC to issue necessary orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/devise-way-to-allow-citizens-to-use-local-trains-hc-tells-state/article32727744.ece
30 September 2020||Mumbai,||Payal Ghosh meets Governor, seeks justice||Actress Payal Ghosh, who has accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of raping her seven years ago, on Tuesday met Maharashtra Governor B.S. Koshyari to seek action against him. “Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale accompanied by film actress Payal Ghosh met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan, Mumbai and presented a memorandum,” the Raj Bhavan tweeted. On Monday, Ms. Ghosh in a joint media press conference with Mr. Athawale, president of the Republican Party of India, had demanded that Mr. Kashyap be arrested. Mr. Athawale told reporters after the half-an-hour meeting with Mr. Koshyari that the Governor had said that he would speak to Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/payal-ghosh-meets-governor-seeks-justice/article32727640.ece
30 September 2020||Mumbai,||CR to file FIRs against those using fake IDs||The Central Railway (CR) has decided to file FIRs against those using fake ID cards to travel in local trains which are currently being run in Mumbai only for essential services staff, an official said on Tuesday. Amid complaints of overcrowding in local trains, CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar told PTI that they have so far caught 30 people with bogus ID cards and FIRs have been filed against two of them. Railway officials said they have come to know that some people are making bogus QR-coded identity cards, and are charging Rs. 500 to Rs. 600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cr-to-file-firs-against-those-using-fake-ids/article32727743.ece
30 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||APMC traders put off indefinite protest||Following the announcement by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar that the farm Bills passed by Parliament would not be implemented in the State, the APMC traders who were planning an indefinite protest in October, have stalled their decision. “The proposed indefinite bandh from October 1 has been postponed. Traders also demand abolition of the market fee and reduction of other expenses,” Mohan Gurnani, chairman of the Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said. A virtual meeting of all the APMCs was held under the aegis of CAMIT and the Federation of Associations of Maharashtra, where the decision was made. “We shall approach the State government to abolish the market fees and other extra expenses, and will also urge it to simplify the APMC rules,” Mr. Gurnani said. It was also decided that another meeting would be held after a week to decide about the further course of action. The traders want a level-playing field while dealing with farmers as corporates and others buying produce from farmers don’t have to pay market fee while the APMC traders have to pay 1% market fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/apmc-traders-put-off-indefinite-protest/article32727641.ece
30 September 2020||Pune,||Pune’s SII to produce additional 100m COVID-19 vaccine doses||The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday announced a further collaboration with the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations (GAVI) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate the manufacture and delivery of an additional 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines for India and low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This expansion brings the total number of vaccine doses to be covered by the partnership between the SII, GAVI, and the Gates Foundation to an aggregate of up to 200 million doses, following the initial agreement for up to 100 million doses announced in August this year. The Gates Foundation, via its strategic investment fund, will provide at-risk funding of a further $150 million to GAVI, bringing the total funding provided through this collaboration to $300 million, the SII said in a statement. This funding will be used to support SII to manufacture potential vaccine candidates, and for future procurement of vaccines for India and the LMICs through GAVI’s COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC) facility. According to the statement, the collaboration will help provide upfront capital to SII — the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume — to help it increase manufacturing capacity and distribute vaccine doses at scale to LMICs as early as the first half of 2021 once a vaccine (or vaccines) gains regulatory approval and the World Health Organisation (WHO) prequalification as part of the GAVI COVAX AMC mechanism. “This collaboration further bolsters our fight against COVID-19. Through the avid support of GAVI and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, we will now manufacture and deliver up to an additional 100 million doses of immunogenic and safe-proven future COVID-19 vaccines to India and low- and middle-income countries in 2021,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO, SII, said. Mr. Poonawalla further said that at this stage, it was important for governments, global health and financial institutions in the public and private sector to come together in ensuring that no one was left behind in the road to recovery. “This association is in line with our efforts to see that future vaccines reach the remotest parts of the world and provide full immunisation coverage in a bid to contain the spread of the pandemic,” he said. The funding is to help accelerate the manufacturing by SII for the candidate vaccines licensed from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and WHO prequalification. The vaccines will have a ceiling price of $3 per dose, a price enabled by investments made by partners such as the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), the Gates Foundation, and SII. The collaboration between GAVI, SII, and the Gates Foundation supports the efforts of the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator’s vaccines pillar, also known as COVAX, co-led by GAVI, CEPI, and the WHO, to accelerate the development of COVID-19 vaccines and ensure rapid, global access to them. Decisions around investment in manufacturing are taken in collaboration between these three lead organisations of the COVAX pillar. The deal is additional to a memorandum of understanding between AstraZeneca and GAVI, announced in June, which will commit an additional 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s candidate vaccine to the wider COVAX facility, to be supplied upon licensure or prequalification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punes-sii-to-produce-additional-100m-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article32727747.ece
30 September 2020||Pune,||Post-COVID-19 counselling centres to come up in Pune||Stating that the case surge across Pune division was showing signs of stabilising since the past week, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said post-COVID-19 centres would be opened to counsel discharged patients suffering from COVID-19 sequelae. Mr. Rao said the administration in the next two-three days would be opening post-COVID-19 management counselling facilities at jumbo facilities in the city, as well as in other facilities like the Naidu hospital and the Baner mini-jumbo COVID-19 centre. “As of now, more than 2.30 lakh patients have been discharged. Around 10-12% of them are reported to have been experiencing psychological problems, are in need of physiotherapy, or are suffering from fibrosis, neuro-muscular problems or the side effects of medicines. Hence, we will be constituting a team of doctors to counsel them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/post-covid-19-counselling-centres-to-come-up-in-pune/article32727642.ece
30 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s recoveries exceed case surge yet again||Maharashtra’s daily recoveries outpaced its case surge yet again with 19,212 patients being discharged on Tuesday as opposed to the State reporting 14,976 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s total case tally now stands at 13,66,129 of whom 2,60,363 are active ones. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 10,69,159 with the recovery rate rising to 78.26%. As many as 430 deaths saw the State’s fatality count climb to 36,181. Pune district reported more than 2,000 cases to take its total case tally to 2,89,803 while 44 deaths saw its fatality toll reach 5,733. Mumbai reported 1,713 cases to take its total case tally to 2,02,614 of whom 26,124 are active. As many as 49 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 8,883. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 1,000 cases taking the district’s total case tally to 76,648. As many as 49 deaths saw the death toll cross the 2,000 mark to touch 2,012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-recoveries-exceed-case-surge-yet-again/article32727745.ece
30 September 2020||Washington,||Biden takes lead in battleground State||As the presidential candidates prepared to make their way to Cleveland, Ohio, for the first presidential debate on Tuesday night (Wednesday morning India time), a new poll in the crucial State of Pennsylvania showed Democratic nominee Joe Biden with a “sizeable but not definitive” lead over the incumbent — President Donald Trump. The Washington Post -ABC poll shows Mr. Biden leading Mr. Trump 54% to 44% among registered voters and 54% to 45% among likely voters, the Post reported. However, the margin of error for each candidate’s level of support is 5%, making this significant lead less than definitive. As per the Post ’s reporting of the poll results, 53% of registered voters in Pennsylvania approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of the economy but 57% disapprove of how he has handled the coronavirus. Overall, 55% of registered voters disapproved of how Mr. Trump was handling his job. With 20 electoral seats, Pennsylvania — from where Mr. Biden hails — is key to Mr. Trump retaining the presidency. He had squeaked past Hilary Clinton in 2016 in Pennsylvania, winning the State by a margin of less than 1%. The last time it went to the Republican presidential candidate was 1998. Mr. Biden led Mr. Trump by 9% points (49% v 40%) among Pennsylvania registered voters in another poll released Monday by the New York Times and Sienna College. Run for money Both polls show that Mr. Biden is giving Mr. Trump a run for his money among voters that helped Mr. Trump to the White House in 2016. Mr. Trump’s lead (in the teens) in both polls among uneducated White voters has declined significantly since 2016. Similar to Ms. Clinton in 2016, Mr. Biden holds a 23-point advantage among College graduates and a 64% lead among non-Whites in the ABC-Post poll, the Post reported. Some State-level polls in 2016 were not accurate predictors of the winner in that year and they are not definitive indicators of voting outcomes. First debate On Tuesday, candidates made their way to Ohio where the first of three Presidential debates is being held at Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic. Moderated by Chris Wallace of Fox News, the debate will address the following topics: Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden’s records, the Supreme Court, COVID-19, the economy, race and violence, and the integrity of the election. Democrats and Republicans are in the throes over a battle on whether the Supreme Court vacancy created by the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg should be filled now or by the newly-elected President. Mr. Trump has attempted to delegitimise the election by questioning — without sufficient factual basis — the integrity of an election in which at least 75% of Americans will be eligible to receive postal ballots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-takes-lead-in-battleground-state/article32727369.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Why are Azerbaijan and Armenia fighting again?||Fresh clasheserupted on the Armenia-Azerbaijan border on Sunday, threatening to push the former Soviet republics back to war 26 years after a ceasefire was reached. Dozens have been killed so far as the violence is entering the third day. Roots of the conflict The largely mountainous and forested Nagorno-Karabakh, home for some 150,000 people, is at the centre of the conflict. Nagorno-Karabakh is located within Azerbaijan but is populated, mostly, by those of Armenian ethnicity. The conflict can be traced back to the pre-Soviet era when the region was at the meeting point of Ottoman, Russian and the Persian empires. Once Azerbaijan and Armenia became Soviet Republics in 1921, Moscow gave Nagorno-Karabakh to Azerbaijan but offered autonomy to the contested region. In the 1980s, when the Soviet power was receding, separatist currents picked up in Nagorno-Karabakh. In 1988, the national assembly voted to dissolve the region’s autonomous status and join Armenia. When Armenia and Azerbaijan became independent after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the clashes led to an open war in which tens of thousands were killed. The war lasted till 1994 when both sides reached a ceasefire. By that time, Armenia had taken control of Nagorno-Karabakh and handed it to Armenian rebels. The rebels have declared independence, but have not won recognition from any country. The region is still treated as a part of Azerbaijan by the international community, and Baku wants to take it back. Current clashes Despite the ceasefire, there were occasional flare-ups on the border. In July this year, at least 16 people were killed in clashes. After Sunday’s violence, Azerbaijan and Armenia blamed each other. Baku said it was forced to respond after Armenian attacks killed and wounded Azeris. Armenia, on the other side, blamed Azerbaijan for launching the “large-scale” attack targeting peaceful settlements. The energy-rich Azerbaijan has built several gas and oil pipelines across the Caucasus to Turkey and Europe. This includes the Baku-Tblisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, the Western Route Export oil pipeline, the Trans-Anatolian gas pipeline and the South Caucasus gas pipeline. Some of these pipelines pass close to the conflict zone. In an open war between the two countries, the pipelines could be targeted, which would impact energy supplies. Turkey’s role Turkey has historically supported Azerbaijan and has had a troublesome relationship with Armenia. In the 1990s, during the war, Turkey closed its border with Armenia and it has no diplomatic relations with the country. On the other end, the Azeris and Turks share strong cultural and historical links. Azerbaijanis are a Turkic ethnic group and their language is from the Turkic family. After Azerbaijan became independent, Turkey established strong relations with the country, which has been ruled by a dynastic dictatorship. In July, after the border clashes, Turkey held a joint military exercise with Azerbaijan. On September 28, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan blamed Armenia for the most recent clashes and offered support to Azerbaijan. There were reports that Turkey was recruiting mercenaries from West Asia to fight for Azerbaijan in the Caucasus. This fits well into Ankara’s aggressive foreign policy, which seeks to expand Turkish interests to the former Ottoman territories. Russia’s stand Moscow sees the Caucasus and Central Asian region as its backyard. But the current clashes put President Vladimir Putin in a difficult spot. Russia enjoys good ties with both Azerbaijan and Armenia and supplies weapons to both. But Armenia is more dependent on Russia than the energy-rich, ambitious Azerbaijan. Russia also has a military base in Armenia. But Moscow, at least publicly, is trying to strike a balance between the two. Like in the 1990s, its best interest would be in mediating a ceasefire between the warring sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/why-are-azerbaijan-and-armenia-fighting-again/article32727360.ece
30 September 2020||Kuwait City,||Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad Al-Sabah dies at 91||Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, the architect of the nation’s modern foreign policy and mediator in some of the worst crises to grip the Gulf, died on Tuesday at the age of 91, the royal court announced. Sheikh Sabah had earned a reputation as a shrewd, unshakeable leader who helped steer his country through the 1990 Iraqi invasion, crashes in global oil markets and crises in Parliament and on the streets. “With great sadness and sorrow, we mourn... the death of Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Emir of the State of Kuwait,” said Sheikh Ali Jarrah Al-Sabah, Minister in charge of Royal Affairs, in a televised statement. State television had cut its regular programming and switched to a broadcast of Koranic recital before the announcement. The Emir had been receiving hospital treatment in the U.S. since July after undergoing surgery in Kuwait City. No details have been disclosed on the nature of his illness or treatment, and the palace did not say where he died. Health issues The Emir, who has ruled the oil-rich Gulf state since 2006, had his appendix removed in 2002, two years after having a pacemaker fitted. In 2007, he underwent urinary tract surgery in the U.S. Under Kuwaiti law, in the absence of the Emir de facto power is passed to the Crown Prince, the late leader’s half-brother Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, 83. Sheikh Nawaf, an elder statesman who has held high office for decades including the defence and interior ministries, is now expected to be appointed the new ruler. The 15th leader in a family that has ruled for over 250 years, Sheikh Sabah weathered Kuwait’s crises with shrewd judgement and an iron fist. As the country’s top diplomat for nearly four decades, he fostered close ties with the West, most notably the U.S. which led the international coalition that freed Kuwait from Iraqi occupation in 1991. He later emerged as mediator between the GCC and Iran, and between Saudi Arabia and Qatar following Riyadh’s 2017 decision to cut ties with Doha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kuwaits-emir-sheikh-sabah-al-ahmad-al-sabah-dies-at-91/article32727365.ece
30 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka bans cattle slaughter||Sri Lanka has banned cattle slaughter after the Cabinet cleared Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s recent proposal, the government announced on Tuesday, adding that it would take steps to import beef. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Rajapaksa made a proposal to the parliamentary group of the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP, or People’s Front) on banning cattle slaughter. Legislators of the party had “applauded” when the proposal was made then, but it obtained official sanction following Cabinet approval. For some years now, reactionary Sinhala-Buddhist groups, many of whom are supporters of the Rajapaksas, have been demanding a ban on cattle slaughter. Sri Lanka is a Buddhist majority country, those following the religion constitute 70% of the country’s population. Most of them do not eat beef, as they consider cows sacred, while minority Muslims, who make up about 10%, Christians and a section of Hindus consume beef. Government critics have voiced concern that the call for banning cattle slaughter could be a move to target the island’s Muslims who not only eat beef, but also control a considerable part of the meat trade, including its halal certification that hard-line groups have sought to ban in the past.  Justifying its move, the government has said that various parties had pointed out that the livestock resource required for traditional farming purposes “is insufficient due to the rise of cattle slaughter” and that was an impediment to the local dairy industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-bans-cattle-slaughter/article32727367.ece
30 September 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Three more killed in fresh wildfires in U.S.||California’s famed wine country, already suffering an economic blow brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic and covered in smoke for weeks, is on fire again. The State’s losses were mounting Monday as two new wildfires burned out of control, killing three people in Shasta County, the sheriff said. In wine country, the famous Chateau Boswell winery was gone, a community of tiny homes for formerly homeless people has burned, and an untold number of houses were feared lost. The two fast-moving blazes, the Zogg fire in Shasta County and the Glass fire in Napa and Sonoma counties, are uncontained and had burned more than 67,000 acres by Monday night, prompting new evacuation orders for thousands. “As of right now, there’s zero containment,” Jimmy Zanotelli, Public Information Officer, Shasta County Sheriff’s Department, said of the fatal Zogg fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/three-more-killed-in-fresh-wildfires-in-us/article32727363.ece
30 September 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Afghan negotiator urges new era in ties with Pak.||The chief of Afghanistan’s peace negotiating team said Tuesday on a visit to Pakistan that the time has come for the two neighbouring countries to shun the suspicion, “stale rhetoric” and tired conspiracy theories that have dogged past relations. Abdullah Abdullah is in Pakistan on a bridge-building mission meant to mend deep-rooted mistrust between the two countries. It was his first visit in 12 years. Mr. Abdullah told the Institute of Strategic Studies in Islamabad that the two neighbours are on the threshold of a new relationship characterised by “mutual respect, sincere cooperation and shared prosperity”. “I am a firm believer that after many troubling years, we now need to go beyond the usual stale rhetoric and shadowy conspiracy theories that have held us back,” Mr. Abdullah said. “It is more urgent than ever to look to our region as one region,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-negotiator-urges-new-era-in-ties-with-pak/article32727366.ece
30 September 2020||PARIS,||Macron meets Belarus opposition leader, pushes for mediation||French President Emmanuel Macron is pushing for European mediation in the Belarus political crisis after meeting with the ex-Soviet republic’s opposition leader on Tuesday. During a visit to Lithuania,he met with Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the main opponent of Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. “We had a very good discussion,” Mr. Macron told presspersons.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/macron-meets-belarus-opposition-leader-pushes-for-mediation/article32727362.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A wage code that is a hasty composition||In the brief monsoon session of Parliament, three new labour codes (The Industrial Relations Code, the Social Security Code and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020) were bulldozed into passing and now await the President’s assent. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar told the media that four new labour codes will become operational before the year ends. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on his part, has said the Code on Wages, 2019 would expand the coverage of workers in all industries in the unorganised sector as the old Minimum Wages Act covered only 30% of the total workforce. He also said that while there were 10,000 slabs of minimum wages that existed, they would now be reduced to 200 slabs. The Code on Wages, 2019 seeks to consolidate and simplify four pieces of legislation — Payment of Wages Act, 1936, Minimum Wages Act, 1948, Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 and Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 — into a single code. Its object and reasons stated that even the Second National Commission on Labour (Ravindra Varma, 2002) suggested consolidating all labour laws into four codes. While the previous four pieces of legislation had a total of 119 sections, the new Code has 69 sections. Considering that the repealed legislations each had a definition section, inspectors, penalties, a competent authority, an appellate authority, and rule-making powers, any consolidation will impact their length. Further, all requirements for enforcing the Act, have been relegated to the Rules. Section 67 had authorised the framing of rules relating to as many as 38 provisions of the Act. As a result, the delegated pieces of legislation (Rules) will be bigger than the Code; this is no way to condense prior pieces of legislation. New problems will arise All the four repealed pieces of legislation were enacted historically at different points in time and to deal with different situations. The combining of asymmetrical laws into a single code is not an easy task and will only create its own set of new problems. Barring a few new concepts, the new Code retains almost all provisions. These are features such as the procedure for fixing minimum wage, limit for fines and deductions in wages, minimum and maximum bonus, calculation of allocable and available surplus, as well as gender neutral consideration in fixing wages. The Code will have the same definition of the term “worker”; but, a person employed in a supervisory capacity drawing up to Rs. 15,000 will also be considered a worker. In the (erstwhile) Minimum Wages Act, to fix minimum wage in an employment which has more than 1,000 workers to be first included in the Schedule, and, thereafter, minimum wages will be fixed as per law.  The new Code has dispensed with the necessity of having a minimum number of workers and the inclusion of such employment into the schedule. The central government will have the power to fix a “floor wage”. Once it is fixed, State governments cannot fix any minimum wage less than the “floor wage”. It is unwarranted since many States always fix minimum wages higher than the existing rates, depending upon the employment and workforce involved. The concept should be for a binding minimum wage and not have dual wage rates — a binding floor wage and a non-binding minimum wage. On MGNREGA Hitherto, there was a conflict between the minimum wages fixed by the State governments for agriculture workers. There were cases as to whether the Minimum Wages Act would have an over-riding effect over the provisions of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005. Several High Courts have placed the Minimum Wages Act to override MGNREGA. That has been set to rest by excluding MGNREGA from the purview of the Code on Wages. However, foremost in the labour code will be its enforcement provisions and the sanctions behind it. The Code has created an omnibus inspector-cum-facilitator who will act as per the inspection scheme framed by the government. He will advise employers and workers to comply with the provisions of the code and may carry out inspections as may be assigned by the government (Section 51). As for the claim mechanism, Section 45 stipulates that they will be heard and determined by an authority who is not below the rank of a “Gazetted Officer”. A government official without legal and administrative background can hear such claims. However, any dispute regarding bonus will continue to go before the Industrial Tribunal (the new Industrial Relations Code Bill contemplates a two-member Tribunal). As against the decision of the Gazetted Officer, one can prefer an appeal to an appellate authority who must be one rank higher than the competent authority (Section 49). Neither the Code nor the Rules (presently, draft Rules) prescribe the qualifications and experience required for appointment of competent authority. Complicated questions of law and facts arising out of claims will henceforth be decided first by a Gazetted Officer, and thereafter by an Appellate Authority who must hold one rank above him.  Provisions on penalty The penal provisions found hitherto in any pieces of labour legislation never had an impact on employers. In People’s Union For Democratic Rights and Others vs. Union Of India & Others , 1982 (Asiad case), the Supreme Court of India observed: “If violations of labour laws are going to be punished only by meagre fines, it would be impossible to ensure observance of the labour laws and the labour laws would be reduced to nullity. They would remain merely paper tigers without any teeth or claws.” But, curiously, a new provision (Section 52) has been introduced where an officer (not below the rank of an under secretary to the government will be notified with power to impose a penalty in the place of a judicial magistrate. An essential judicial function is now sought to be vested with the executive in contravention of Article 50 of the Constitution, where the State has been mandated to separate the judiciary from the executive in public services. A similar provision (Section 21 of the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976) which empowered revenue officers designated as executive magistrates to try offences under the Act was struck down by the Division Bench of the Madras High Court (Gajendran, 2014). A review filed by the central government was dismissed (2018). The Division Bench had observed: “On enforcement of the Code (Criminal Procedure), there has been complete separation of Judiciary from the Executive to implement the mandate under Article 50 of the Constitution which requires that State shall take steps to separate the Judiciary from Executive. By merging the judicial function in the executive, the basic structure of the Constitution is affected; justice and fair trial cannot be ensured by the Executive Magistrates in as much as they are not required to be legally qualified and trained persons and in actual practice are required to perform various other functions... In fact the functions of the Judiciary and Executive are quite different. In other words it is clear that the Executive Magistrate has no role to play in conducting judicial trial and recording judicial decisions.” Apart from providing for a compounding of offences (Section 56), the Code also exempts employers from penal provisions if they were able “to prove that they had used due diligence in enforcing the execution of the code and it was the other person who had committed the offence without his knowledge, consent or connivance”. Though the Prime Minister had claimed that the erstwhile provisions covered only 30% of the workers, there is nothing particular in this Code that it will have wider coverage. Similarly, as minimum wages mostly help the unorganised worker, the 200-slab categorisation may not have much of an impact. The Code on Wages (yet to be notified) has neither succeeded in a consolidation of laws nor will it ever achieve the claims made by the Prime Minister. Justice K. Chandru is a retired judge, Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-wage-code-that-is-a-hasty-composition/article32727346.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Going beyond the ‘Me Too’ movement||Recent allegations of sexual harassment against filmmaker Anurag Kashyap by actor Payal Ghosh have opened fresh debates on the ‘Me Too’ movement in India. Many have raised concerns over the veracity of the allegations. With Mr. Kashyap’s colleagues, ex-employees and former spouses coming out in his support, questions arise as to whether ‘believing the survivor’ is a slogan reserved only for certain women. While Ms. Ghosh has filed an FIR, Mr. Kashyap and other female actors named by her have initiated legal action at their ends. However, criminal law is unlikely to be able to maturely handle the complex elements of sexual harassment at the workplace. This article highlights issues stemming from abandoning due process mechanisms for nebulous allegations on social media, and underscores how this could potentially intensify the problems confronting survivors, furthering their marginalisation. Devising a holistic response to sexual harassment lies in the creation of strong, formal systems at the workplace where survivors can level charges without fearing a backlash. Towards a just system for all The controversies surrounding ‘Me Too’ are complicated by the reality that the movement itself is a result of the failure of due process. Years of apathy towards the Supreme Court’s Vishaka guidelines failed to provide a safe working environment for women and actively created hurdles when they sought legal recourse. Yet, losing sight of the fact that the ‘Me Too’ movement is only a symptom of the problem and not its cure is missing the forest for the trees. Today, when we have a law on sexual harassment at the workplace, it is imperative that this new-found attention on ‘Me Too’ paves the way for systemic changes which are based on fair principles of justice delivery to all parties. A look at some of the cases arising out of the ‘Me Too’ movement in India validates the urgent need for creating systems that are fair to all parties. For instance, when anonymous allegations of sexual harassment were made against writer Varun Grover by a woman claiming to be his junior and colleague at a theatre group of Banaras Hindu University, Netflix considered dropping his web series, Sacred Games 2 . Mr. Grover clarified in detail how the dates in the allegation proved that he had not worked with the woman at Banaras Hindu University. Later, an independent inquiry cleared him of all charges. Similarly, in one of the incidents which embroiled comedy company All India Bakchod in a major controversy, comedian Utsav Chakraborty was accused of sexual harassment, and CEO Tanmay Bhat was accused of not taking appropriate action. A year later, one of the women who had accused Mr. Chakraborty acknowledged having consensual sex with him and another clarified that she was not underage, although the messages were unsolicited. It remains unclear if the women making allegations in these cases had access to formal complaint registration and grievance redress mechanisms, such as the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) or the Local Complaints Committee (LCC) in accordance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The mere presence of ICCs or LCCs may not be sufficient, as sexist, prejudicial attitudes towards women are often pervasive among employers as well as members of these committees. But this is no reason to imply that the framework itself can be substituted by a culture of naming and shaming. Drastic outcomes like shutting down of companies, firing employees or stalling shows result from not having strong systems in place, and that is precisely why every institution must put its weight behind building robust systems. The scale of violence against women in India demonstrates that the popular rhetoric of women ‘abusing’ the system through false complaints is unwarranted. However, notions about ‘believing the survivor’ must be grounded in the principle that a woman cannot be disbelieved merely because she does not conform to societal standards of morally appropriate behaviour. At the same time, one cannot discount the possibility of a false allegation, or place subjective feelings over objective facts by characterising all inconsistencies in a woman’s statement as evidence of trauma. A just process necessarily allows all parties to probe, and decision-makers to assess the credibility of the parties and witnesses. Giving a full and fair opportunity to the accused to defend themselves forms part of inalienable principles of natural justice. Diluting these principles not only increases the scope of people being unfairly and disproportionately punished, but also makes way for accused persons to be vindicated later in lawsuits in court, as artist Subodh Gupta tried through a civil defamation suit, which ended in a settlement leading to taking down of the posts. This could further undermine the credibility of the survivors, rendering them more vulnerable. Seeking solutions in call-out-and-cancel cultures also does not help survivors in the long term. Survivors seeking closure through such calling out may end up disappointed, especially since structures of power operate in a way that even when powerful men are called out, their lives seem to go back to normal after what might be just another tumultuous episode. Issues of identity Moreover, issues of identity, especially in a country like India, are way more nuanced than a ‘men versus women’ debate can address. Not all women can access the Internet in the same ways to make allegations against perpetrators. Similarly, there exists the very real possibility of men from vulnerable sections being unable to counter charges against them on social media and avail formal legal processes to rebut arguments to the same extent as their more privileged counterparts. Moreover, in a political climate where every dissent is stifled by exaggerated allegations, it is all the more important to create, enable and retain systems which protect the rights as well as the mental and physical well-being of survivors and the accused. Fair solutions within the due process framework are rarely easy to arrive at, given the ambiguity of what constitutes sexual harassment in different contexts, as well as the general atmosphere of sexual policing in India. Despite this, feminist efforts need to be directed towards implementing the law on sexual harassment while simultaneously working on its inadequacies. Building strong systems would go a long way in assuring survivors that their complaints are taken seriously, without sexist prejudices and power structures getting in the way. Preeti Pratishruti Dash is a Research associate at Project 39A, National Law University and works on various issues of criminal law. Views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/going-beyond-the-me-too-movement/article32727356.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A demarcation in the interest of public order||The reiteration by the Supreme Court in the Shaheen Bagh case of the right to protest, within reasonable restrictions, helps in understanding the breakdown of public order in Delhi over a three-month period. There are two perspectives explaining the 16,000 calls to the police, 3,500 on one day, registration of 751 cases, 53 deaths, and destruction of property of over Rs. 20 crore and the initial charge sheet running into 17,000 pages against 15 people. The Police Commissioner, responding to criticism of partisanship, rightly pointed out that the criminal justice system, with its inherent checks and balances, be allowed to work. The other perspective is that community-wide protest is not itself a crime and Delhi Police, having magisterial powers under the Criminal Procedure Code to take preventive action, failed to maintain public order. The public policy issue, as the alleged Shopian encounter underlines, is that such delegation confuses powers with roles. First, distinction between independent actions, for which no political clearance is needed, by the District Magistrate to maintain public order and by the police to investigate crime and make arrests, was ignored. Second, maintaining public order requires the District Magistrate to make hard choices between life and property to check violence. Though any death opens the door to an inquiry, there is no justification for lack of effective police action. Third, the District Magistrate is expected to consider protest as legitimate, leveraging governmental action to prevent others exploiting the grievance. In Delhi, the police did not distinguish between wider political support and violence caused by a few. Riots essentially result from failure to maintain public order. The sequence of related events, spread of ‘chakka jam’ and police action in restricting or ceding space are a case study of how a few public figures intervene to incite violence changing the nature of a peaceful protest; absence of immediate arrests leads to a riot and dithering on ordering firing results in its spread.  Court distinction, concepts The Supreme Court has made a distinction between law and order, relating to individual crime, and public order, pertaining to a community at large. The top court has also emphasised that the two terms are not interchangeable. The two concepts have different objectives and legal standards. Law and order consists of the analysis made by police of the situation in an area and their commitment to firm action and penalties under criminal law. Public order is a duty imposed on the District Magistrate to assess whether it is necessary to rush to the spot where law and order has been breached to prevent violence spreading and ease tension. The National Security Adviser, substituting for the District Magistrate, did just this after the riots in northeast Delhi and in getting the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters vacated. The District Magistrate’s role is important in exceptional situations — for example, to prevent a breach of peace at a particular place as in Gargi College; and also for grievance redress as in Shaheen Bagh. If an official is allotted a dual role, to both keep in place law and order and maintain public order, this could lead to the displacement of one goal in favour of the other, as was witnessed in Jamia Millia Islamia, community implications of the religious gathering in Nizamuddin and preventing violence in northeast Delhi. The Supreme Court has formulated certain guidelines and rules when it comes to these distinct duties. The first concerns the degree and extent of the reach of an act on society. Some disgruntled and agitated people going on a vandalising spree affect “public order” only when they affect a particular community as a whole. In Ram Manohar Lohia vs. State of Bihar , in 1965, the Supreme Court held that in the case of ‘public order’, the community or the public at large have to be affected by a particular action as it “embraces more of the community than ‘law and order’, which affects only a few individuals”. The Delhi Police did not make this distinction when a mass of unruly outsiders entered colleges, creating panic. Second, in the Madhu Limaye case, the Bench reiterated that “the emergency must be sudden and the consequences sufficiently grave” for an imposition of restrictions. Extension of a restriction over a larger territorial area or for a longer duration requires a relatively higher justification and calibrated response. Third, in Anuradha Bhasin vs. Union of India , the Supreme Court held that prohibitive orders should not prevent legitimate expression of opinion, or grievance or exercise of democratic rights. Specific restrictions have to be tailored to the goal, nature and stage of the emergency, requiring the adoption of the least restrictive measure. In Aldanish Rein vs State of NCT of Delhi , the High Court directed the setting up of an oversight mechanism to periodically review the exercise of magisterial powers by Delhi Police. The Supreme Court, in a PIL, is examining whether police officers can act as magistrates in certain cases. The Supreme Court has also specifically recognised the importance of the assessment of the role of the District Magistrate, distinct from that of the police. Will need policy rethink Judicial review of roles and proportionality of decisions for maintaining public order, to check whether they are the least intrusive measure, requires a policy rethink if such duties need to be delegated to the police. Pertinently, the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution distinguishes between ‘police’ and ‘public order’. Prevention through grievance redress and reliance on the least blunt instruments are critical for legitimacy, eschewing an adversarial view. The National Police Commission also recognises the coordinating role of the District Magistrate, having more leverage than the police. Kerala has both a District Magistrate responsible for public order and a senior police officer as city Police Commissioner focusing on crime. Mukul Sanwal has served as District Magistrate in Uttar Pradesh, in Almora, Dehradun and Agra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-demarcation-in-the-interest-of-public-order/article32727348.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The perils of state overreach||The Vodafone Group has just won one of the most high-stakes legal battles involving a foreign investor and the Indian state under international law. An Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) tribunal, constituted under the India-Netherlands bilateral investment treaty (BIT), has ruled that India’s imposition of tax liability amounting to Rs. 22,000 crore on Vodafone is in breach of India’s BIT obligations. Shaking the faith of foreign investors This case arose after the Indian Parliament in 2012 amended the Income Tax Act declaring that income deemed to be accruing to non-residents, directly or indirectly, through the transfer of a capital asset situated in India is taxable retrospectively with effect from April 1, 1962. Obnoxiously, this amendment was carried out to override the Supreme Court ruling in favour of Vodafone. The Court held that Vodafone didn’t owe any tax to the Indian state on account of acquiring a 67% stake in Hutchison Essar through an offshore transaction. At that time, the likes of Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Deputy Chairperson of the Planning Commission, counselled against amending the law retrospectively, but the then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, the architect of this law, ignored this sane advice. This amendment dented India’s reputation as a country governed by the rule of law, and shook the faith of foreign investors. The BJP, which was in the opposition, vehemently criticised the retrospective amendment calling it “tax terrorism”. Thus, when the Modi government assumed office in 2014, many believed that the law would be amended and made prospective. Given the Modi government’s enormous political capital, this was attainable. But the government did nothing to change the law. Like the United Progressive Alliance government, it strenuously pursued the act of fiscal plundering hoping to mobilise sizeable revenue. Key lessons While a detailed legal analysis of the case will have to wait until the arbitral award is available, there are several points worth noting. First, the tribunal has ordered India to reimburse legal costs to the tune of more than Rs. 40 crore incurred by Vodafone in fighting this case. In other words, the taxpayer’s money will be used to pay Vodafone. So, the important lesson is that all the three organs of the Indian state — Parliament, executive, and the judiciary — need to internalise India’s BIT and other international law obligations. These organs need to ensure that they exercise their public powers in a manner consistent with international law, or else their actions could prove costly to the nation. Second, India should learn that being a country that values the rule of law is an important quality to win over the confidence of foreign investors and international goodwill. Unleashing tax inspectors to extract money out of foreign investors by constantly changing the rules of the game is not an attribute that a liberal democracy should be proud of. Honouring international law Third, it is likely that the government might challenge the award at the seat of arbitration or resist the enforceability of this award in Indian courts alleging that it violates public policy. If the government indeed follows these options, there’s a long, gruelling road ahead for Vodafone. The government would be ill-advised to go down this road because it would mean that India does not honour its international law obligation. It would send a deleterious signal to foreign investors reaffirming the sentiment that doing business in India is indeed excruciating. Fourth, this ruling might have an impact on the two other ISDS claims that India is involved in with Cairn Energy and Vedanta on the imposition of taxes retrospectively. Fifth, it is quite possible that India might use this award to further harden its antagonistic stand against ISDS and BITs. As is well known, India unilaterally terminated almost all its BITs after foreign investors started suing India for breaching BITs. The belief in the Indian establishment is that the ISDS regime unduly intrudes into India’s sovereignty. Thus, this decision might be used to strengthen this populist narrative, oblivious of the fact that this case and several others are a result of bad state regulation. Finally, this decision shows the significance of the ISDS regime to hold states accountable under international law when in case of undue expansion of state power. The case is a reminder that the ISDS regime, notwithstanding its weaknesses, can play an important role in fostering international rule of law. If the Modi government is serious about wooing foreign investment, India should immediately comply with the decision. Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor of law at South Asian University and the author of ‘India and Bilateral Investment Treaties: Refusal, Acceptance, Backlash’. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-perils-of-state-overreach/article32727358.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Managing the global commons||This year is defined by a pandemic, record-breaking forest fires, floods and droughts in various places, and the rapid melting of Arctic ice. The disruption of our environment is one of the main factors causing these events. To cope with these events, we need to increase our efforts in managing our interactions with the environment on a global scale. Governing shared resources When we want to manage shared resources, we need to balance both private and public interests. Each individual farmer may benefit from turning on the pump to irrigate his/her land, but on a larger scale, it contributes to declining groundwater levels and electricity blackouts. In 1968, biologist Garrett Hardin popularised the notion of the tragedy of the commons, which implies that communities cannot manage their shared resources and require governmental interventions to regulate resource use or privatise the resource. In 1990, political scientist Elinor Ostrom published her landmark book on governing the commons that demonstrated that communities can govern on their own their shared resources, often better than imposed, well-intended solutions from outside. Ostrom was recognised in 2009 for her work by the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. Global commons refer to shared resources that cannot be managed within national jurisdictions. The spread of zoonotic diseases like COVID-19; greenhouse gas emissions; biodiversity reduction; overfishing; and the accumulation of plastic waste are some of the problems within the scope of global commons. Although we have a good idea of what kind of governance might be successful at the local community level, these insights do not directly address the challenges we face on a global scale. The consequences of human activities on a global scale are only being recognised in recent times. The appropriate scale of governance of global commons is a highly debated topic. Some argue that top-down governance with binding agreements is the only effective solution for problems of a global scale. Multilateral negotiations on climate change and other global commons over decades have had limited success. Others have emphasised a more decentralised multi-level or polycentric approach that builds on the observed successes of local solutions. Coordinated activities There is no panacea to solve this problem. We need to have coordinated activities at different scales. For example, local irrigation communities could monitor the state of infrastructure and water use and adapt their watering scheme or cropping patterns to changes in water availability. Community members may have more knowledge about the local ecological and social context, but they could also lack expertise, may be ruled by powerful factions within the community, or may not perceive sufficient incentives to sustain the local commons. Empirical research also demonstrates that well-intended solutions imposed on community members are typically short-lived. To manage our global commons, we need to facilitate and accommodate the self-governance of local commons, but provide safeguards at different levels to avoid exploitation and manage risks. If we facilitate rural and urban communities to self-govern their shared resources, there will be risks involved for which cities and nations need to accept responsibilities. At the local levels, initiatives and solutions could be developed that fit the local context. When expertise is not available, higher-level organisations could facilitate learning from peers in similar conditions. Failures will be inevitable if we stimulate local-level experimentation, and higher-level authorities need to provide insurance for those cases. If local initiatives are successful, higher-level authorities need to provide insurance that the outcomes of those successes will not be grabbed by outsiders. Governing the global commons is the defining challenge for current and future generations. Marco Janssen is President, International Association for the Study of the Commons and Professor, College of Global Futures, Arizona State University, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/managing-the-global-commons/article32727351.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Weighing the costs||With over 6 million cases and the death toll from COVID-19 approaching 100,000, India is entering the first winter of the pandemic. Viral infections, particularly of the influenza variety, are also common at this time of the year and there may be new unknowns in the risks that lie ahead. However, another potential milestone approaches: the probable availability of a vaccine. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, on multiple occasions has said that an India-made vaccine was likely to be available in “early 2021”. The government already has an expert committee on vaccine distribution. Their job is to decide who gets the vaccine first, how many will be eligible for the early doses, what the costs would be, and whether there should be a cost at all for the majority of Indians, who anyway were the hardest hit by the pandemic in the summer. Storage and supply of vaccines are also problems as daunting as making one and pose complex challenges in India. The government is yet to make its policy on distribution explicit but the current thinking appears to be that nobody would be denied a vaccine on the grounds of affordability. There is even discussion that a vaccine may be available via the national immunisation programme. This initiative currently offers at least nine vaccines for preventable diseases free for children and pregnant women. The pandemic’s global nature has meant that even the quest for a vaccine is international. The GAVI Covax alliance has emerged as the largest coordinator of vaccine development as well as distribution of a probable vaccine. Based on a combination of payments by 78 high-income countries and donations, the GAVI Covax aims to ensure that between 15-20% of every country’s population, or at least their most vulnerable, are able to be inoculated first. In principle, these are laudable aims and underline principles of equity. A paucity of testing facilities and equipment in March led to stringent restrictions on who could be tested. Though the tests were ‘free’, they were first available only in government facilities and this contributed to a significant pool of untested carriers and a rapid spread of the virus that was only marginally blunted by the lockdown. Only after the number of labs expanded to both public and private labs, restrictions on who could get tested were removed and, a greater variety of tests became available that disease management improved even though testing — though not expensive — was also not free. It is to be anticipated that vaccine delivery will be a protracted process and it will be a long time before the average citizen has access to it. There are at least three Indian companies testing their own vaccines, and so a prohibitively expensive vaccine, besides being unacceptable, is also unlikely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/weighing-the-costs/article32727341.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Minsk on the brink||With a strongman trying to cling on to power despite mounting challenges and a defiant opposition determined to continue protests despite a police crackdown, the political crisis in Belarus appears to have entered into a dangerous stalemate. Faced with the toughest political crisis of his career, President Alexander Lukashenko, often called “the last dictator of Europe”, shows no sign of compromise for a peaceful settlement of the crisis and a smooth transition of power. Earlier this month, he was secretly sworn in, while his security police continued to crack down on the opposition. Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the main opposition leader and Mr. Lukashenko’s challenger in the August 9 election, is in a self-imposed exile in neighbouring Lithuania. Maria Kolesnikova, another key opposition figure, is in detention. Thousands of other protesters have been detained. But despite the regime’s coercive tactics, the protests on the street continued to swell. The crisis began after the country’s election commission declared Mr. Lukashenko, who has been in power since 1994, the winner of the presidential election with 80% vote, but the opposition claims the vote was rigged. Amid growing protests, the EU and the U.S. have thrown their weight behind the opposition, while a beleaguered Mr. Lukashenko has turned to his most important ally, Vladimir Putin of Russia. Mr. Putin has backed Mr. Lukashenko and sent “consultants” to Minsk to help the regime tide over the crisis. Before the elections, Mr. Lukashenko had expressed the desire to take Belarus away from Moscow’s orbit and strengthen economic and political ties with the West. That possibility has now been shut. With Russia’s help, he might be able to hold on to power, for now, but it is unlikely to solve any of the country’s problems. Already battling economic woes and the pandemic, the political crisis has practically paralysed the country. If Mr. Lukashenko’s plan is to continue to retain power at any cost, it could invite international sanctions that would wreak havoc on its economy. If the protests refuse to die down, Mr. Lukashenko would find it difficult to earn legitimacy and stabilise his government. He should ask himself if his continuance in office is worth destabilising the country that he has ruled for 26 years. Also, a politically unstable country with a hostile opposition with direct support from the West would not serve Russia’s interests either. By propping up Mr. Lukashenko, Mr. Putin might be protecting Russia’s short-term interests, but the ensuing instability would threaten those interests in the long term. A peaceful settlement of the political crisis, a smooth transition of power and the formation of a credible, legitimate and stable government is essential. Both Russia and the West should work with the Belarusian government and the opposition to achieve this goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/minsk-on-the-brink/article32727342.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The O’Dwyer allegations||The full text of the proceedings of the Indian Legislative Council meeting held on the 8th instant which appears in the Gazette of India received today contains the text of the questions put by the Hon’ble Mr. Sachidananda Sinha, and the Government’s answers thereto, on Sir Michael O’Dwyer’s allegations in regard to the Hunter Report contained in his letter to the Press in June last. It will be remembered that Sir Michael, in that notorious letter, complained that “his evidence before the Hunter Committee has not been made public, though he asked for its publication.” Asked whether such was the case, Sir William Vincent replied: “The facts are that Sir Michael O’Dwyer was asked by the Government of India whether he had any objection to the publication of his evidence. He replied that he had no objection but the Government of India eventually decided that none of the evidence taken in camera should be published, partly because the publication would be a breach of confidence, as the evidence was private and privileged and partly because its publication in full would be in their opinion prejudicial to the interests of the State and the public safety.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-odwyer-allegations/article32727349.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A restraining hand lost (From an editorial)||The Arab world is not going to be the same without President Gamal Abdel Nasser. Perhaps the world too, for what happens next in the United Arab Republic can have momentous repercussions beyond the confines of West Asia. Political firebrand though he was when he seized the reins of power in his country in 1954, Nasser mellowed with the years and developed into a statesman of international stature and a powerful force for moderation in the highly volatile and trigger-happy Arab world. His fellow Arabs have many things to be grateful to him for, but his greatest service to them was that he inculcated in them a sense of common identity and gave them leadership at a time of defeat and despair. Though he had to learn it the hard way, he was the only revolutionary Arab leader to realise that pushing Israel into the sea was not a practical proposition and it would be best for the Arabs to accept that country as a fact of life, albeit an unpleasant one. It was this realisation that made him agree to negotiations with Israel on the basis of the American peace proposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-restraining-hand-lost-from-an-editorial/article32727350.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cairn seeks $1.4 bn from Centre due to losses from tax demand||British oil explorer Cairn Energy Plc. said it is seeking $1.4 billion (about Rs. 10,300 crore) from the Indian government in losses arising from the expropriation of its investments to enforce a retrospective tax demand. In its half-yearly earnings statement, the company said it expected an international arbitral tribunal to shortly give a decree on its challenge to the Indian government seeking Rs. 10,247 crore in retrospective taxes. “The main evidentiary hearing of Cairn’s claim under the (U.K.-India Bilateral Investment) Treaty took place in August 2018 in The Hague with a final hearing in December 2018. All formal hearings and submissions have now been made and the tribunal is in the process of drafting its award,” the firm said. The tribunal, it said, has indicated that “it expects to be in a position to issue the award after the end of the summer of 2020, with no significant delay expected as a result of COVID-19.” Cairn said it was seeking “full restitution for losses of more than $1.4 billion resulting from the expropriation of its investments in India in 2014; continued attempts to enforce retrospective tax measures; and the failure to treat the firm and its investments fairly and equitably.” This is the second-most high profile retrospective tax litigation. Last week, an international arbitration tribunal ruled India’s efforts to claim Rs. 22,100 crore in past taxes from Vodafone Group were in breach of fair treatment under the bilateral investment protection pact between the south Asian nation and the Netherlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cairn-seeks-14-bn-from-centre-due-to-losses-from-tax-demand/article32727332.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Jio flags spectrum auction delay||Questioning the ‘inexplicable delay’ in holding spectrum auctions, Reliance Jio has written to the Department of Telecom stating that the spectrum scarcity situation was not only impacting the quality of services and investors’ confidence but also causing huge revenue loss to the exchequer. “We are unable to find any reasonable rationale behind the sudden pause in successful and fruitful policy of auctioning all available spectrum every year, since the Supreme Court decision in 2012,” Reliance Jio wrote in the letter to Anshu Prakash, Secretary, DoT. “Auctions were conducted annually from 2012 to 2016. The operators acquire spectrum according to their business plan and it is not necessary that all operators bid for all service areas in all bands,” the firm wrote. The telco noted that a total of 1,461.5 MHz spectrum in paired bands and 790 MHz in unpaired bands with a reserve price of about Rs. 3.92 lakh crore is currently lying unused. ‘Vested interests’ “We understand that a few service providers might be opposing spectrum auctions to stifle competition as they have amassed large amounts of spectrum through mergers and acquisition and they are also losing customers every month,” the letter dated September 28, stated. Without naming rivals, Jio said some operators were merely interested in perpetuating their 2G technologies and monetising old equipment as much as possible. “We submit that the nation-building policies should not be kept hostage to vested interest of such a few,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jio-flags-spectrum-auction-delay/article32727325.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Stimulus inadequate, Centre could have done more’||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday said India was among the worst-performing economies in the world and that the government’s economic stimulus was inadequate to tackle the problem. He, however, said that the country will see a revival in growth in the July-September quarter of the current fiscal. Speaking at a virtual event, Dr. Banerjee said the country’s economic growth was slowing down even before the COVID-19 pandemic hit. Dr. Banerjee, a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said he did not think that India’s economic stimulus was adequate. “India’s economic stimulus was limited. It was a bank bailout. I think we could have done more,” he said. The stimulus measures “did not increase consumption spending of lower income people as the government was not willing to put money in the hands of the low-income population,” he noted. On inflation, he said India’s growth strategy was that of a closed economy with the government creating lots of demand, which resulted in high growth and inflation. “India had 20 years of high inflation and high growth. The country benefited a lot from stable high inflation in the last 20 years,” he opined. He added that India needed to be more competitive globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stimulus-inadequate-centre-could-have-done-more/article32727328.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Gati MD steps down, company cancels EGM||Gati managing director Mahendra Kumar Agarwal has stepped down from the position of director, MD and key managerial personnel, according to the express logistics and supply chain solutions firm. His resignation, effective September 28, came ahead of an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) called at the request of Allcargo Logistics for his removal as director and MD. Allcargo holds almost 47% stake in the Hyderabad-based company. His resignation follows the share purchase agreement entered into by Mr. Agarwal and two other promoter group members with Allcargo Logistics in December, Gati informed stock exchanges on Monday evening. The EGM for the removal of Mr. Agarwal as director and MD, scheduled for September 30, “has become infructuous” and the board decided to cancel it, the firm said. In July, announcing the appointment of Allcargo CMD Shashi Kiran Shetty as Gati chairman, a release said Allcargo had acquired 46.83% in Gati for Rs. 416 crore in April. On Tuesday, Gati shares rose 14.7% to Rs. 56.90 apiece.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gati-md-steps-down-company-cancels-egm/article32727321.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Listed units must report start of forensic audit’||In order to address the gaps in availability of information, the board of markets regulator SEBI on Tuesday decided that listed entities will have to make disclosures about initiation of forensic audit. To boost repo trading in corporate bonds, the board also approved the proposal to facilitate setting up of a limited purpose repo clearing corporation. Information to bourses The listed entities will make disclosures about the fact of initiation of forensic audit along with the name of entity initiating such audit and reasons for the same, if available, to stock exchanges, SEBI said in a statement after the board meeting. Further, the companies will be required to disclose the final forensic audit report, other than for forensic audit initiated by regulatory or enforcement agencies, on receipt by the listed entity, along with comments of the management, if any. The disclosure needs to be made without any application of materiality, SEBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/listed-units-must-report-start-of-forensic-audit/article32727323.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘COVID-19 impact on tech demand has stabilised’||HCL Technologies chairperson Roshini Nadar on Tuesday said that the impact from COVID-19 on customer demand had stabilised and the company had moved to a positive growth trajectory. Addressing shareholders for the first time at the company’s AGM as the chairperson, she said the challenges in the external environment had created a new demand for the company’s products and services and it had seen growth in several areas, including infrastructure and cybersecurity services, e-commerce, digital marketing, and digital experience. “The impact from COVID-19 on customer demand has stabilised after the early days of the pandemic. We have managed our business with operational discipline, and we believe the initial revenue decline has turned the corner to a positive good growth trajectory going forward,” Ms. Nadar said. Digital transformation for clients and within HCL would continue to drive the company’s business agenda. “For instance, retailers are now looking to accelerate and scale their e-commerce model to quickly move away from remaining brick and mortar structures,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-impact-on-tech-demand-has-stabilised/article32727326.ece
30 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Credit demand from priority sectors drops’||Despite efforts by the government to boost credit supply by offering many a scheme to MSMEs and other priority sectors, the same has plunged to a low 1.9% in the June quarter from 10.2% a year ago, according to a report. To help small business tide over the impact of the pandemic, the government has offered credit-driven boost to the economy. Citing the Reserve Bank’s quarterly statistics on deposits and credit for the June quarter, Care Ratings on Tuesday said in absolute terms, overall bank deposits stood at Rs. 141.3 lakh crore in June 2020, up 11.5% from Rs. 126.7 lakh crore in June 2019. Outstanding credit stood at Rs. 103.3 lakh crore, up 6.4% but lower than 11.7% in the same period in June 2019. But on a sequential basis, credit growth has seen a negative 1.1% during the reporting period, which was also a negative 1% in the March 2020 quarter. Overall contraction Though overall contraction in credit demand has continued in the June quarter at minus 1.1% from minus 1% in June 2019, in absolute terms, incremental credit declined by a higher Rs. 1.2 lakh crore in June 2020 from Rs. 1 lakh crore in June 2019. This is owing to decline in overall sectoral growth — agriculture and allied credit declined by 0.4% incrementally, industrial credit by 1%, services sector declined by 2.6% and personal loan segment declined by 2.5% growth, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-demand-from-priority-sectors-drops/article32727334.ece
30 September 2020||Chennai,||Groupe PSA to unveil Citroen SUV in 2021||French auto major Groupe PSA will unveil Citroen C5 Aircross sport utility vehicle (SUV), by the first quarter of 2021, said a top official. The SUV is on track and would be introduced by the first quarter of 2021, Roland Bouchara, senior vice president, Sales and Marketing India, Groupe PSA, said in a statement on Tuesday. Groupe PSA also unveiled the Eurorepar range of multi-brand, aftermarket products in India. PCA India, the local entity of Groupe PSA, signed a sales and distribution agreement with GoMechanic, a prominent Indian aftermarket player that will support the sales of Eurorepar spare parts in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/groupe-psa-to-unveil-citroen-suv-in-2021/article32727318.ece
30 September 2020||mumbai,||States get extra time for borrowings||With an aim to help State governments tide over the financial problems triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic, the RBI on Tuesday extended by six months the additional flexibility provided to States to raise funds through market borrowing and overdraft. The Reserve Bank in April provided additional flexibility to States and Union Territories (UTs) to raise funds to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. The flexibility was available till September 30. On a review, it has been decided to extend the measures till March 31, 2021, the central bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-get-extra-time-for-borrowings/article32727330.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amazon unit gets Rs. 1,125-cr. festive boost||U.S.-based e-commerce giant Amazon has infused fresh capital to the tune of Rs. 1,125 crore into one of its India units, Amazon Seller Services, according to regulatory documents. The infusion will provide ammunition to Amazon to compete aggressively against Flipkart and JioMart in the festive season. Amazon Corporate Holdings Private Limited, Singapore and Amazon.com Inc. Limited, Mauritius pumped in Rs. 1,125 crore into Amazon Seller Services, documents sourced by business intelligence platform Tofler showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-unit-gets-rs-1125-cr-festive-boost/article32727333.ece
30 September 2020||Chennai,||Indian Bank to merge 325 branches||Consequent to the amalgamation of Allahabad Bank with Indian Bank, the latter plans to merge over 300 branches of the former with itself, said a top official. Indian Bank would be amalgamating more than 325 branches that would not only help reduce cost but also provide better services to the customers, said M.K. Bhattacharya, executive director (ED), Indian Bank. On Tuesday, Indian Bank ED V. Shenoy Vishwanath opened one of the amalgamated branches in Chennai. He said so far, Indian Bank had amalgamated eight branches in the city and 33 branches pan India. As of December 2019, the banks had over 6,000 branches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-to-merge-325-branches/article32727336.ece
30 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||For Business Pages (Briefly) Sigachi files DRHP for IPO||Cellulose-based excipients manufacturer Sigachi Industries has filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with SEBI for an IPO to raise about Rs. 60 crore. The IPO is for a fresh issuance of up to 28,41,500 equity shares of a face value of Rs. 10 each. The net proceeds are for expansion of production facilitiest Dahej and Jhagadia in Gujarat between FY21 and FY22 as well as for general corporate purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-business-pages-briefly-sigachi-files-drhp-for-ipo/article32727319.ece
30 September 2020||MUMBAI,||IndiGrid inducts KKR affiliate as sponsor||The unitholders of India Grid Trust (IndiGrid) have approved the induction of Esoteric II Pte. Ltd., an affiliate of KKR&Co. Inc., as a sponsor. The special resolution to induct Esoteric II as a sponsor was passed with a special majority (75% voting) at IndiGrid’s AGM on Monday. All regulatory approvals, including the board’s assent are in place for Esoteric II ‘s induction as a co-sponsor,” KKR and IndiGrid said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indigrid-inducts-kkr-affiliate-as-sponsor/article32727329.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders IPO subscribed 2 times on first day of bidding||State-owned defence firm Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders’ initial public offer (IPO) was subscribed 2 times on the first day of bidding. The IPO to raise Rs. 444 crore received bids for 6,39,74,227 shares against 3,05,99,017 units on offer. The category for qualified institutional buyers was subscribed 4%, non-institutional investors’, 78% and retail individual investors’, 5.65 times.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mazagon-dock-shipbuilders-ipo-subscribed-2-times-on-first-day-of-bidding/article32727340.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||UTI AMC garners Rs 645 cr from anchor investors; IPO opens for subscription||UTI Asset Management Company (AMC) has raised Rs. 645 crore from anchor investors as its initial share sale opens for public subscription on Tuesday. The company has allocated 1,16,36,124 equity shares at the upper price band of Rs. 554 to 67 anchor investors, the asset management company informed the stock exchanges late on Monday night.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uti-amc-garners-rs-645-cr-from-anchor-investors-ipo-opens-for-subscription/article32727335.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunrisers outshine Capitals||Delhi Capitals lost the plot the moment Kane Williamson (41, 26b, 5x4) started finding the gaps in the first innings. The Kiwi’s quickfire knock, along with Rashid Khan’s spell (4-0-14-3), helped Sunrisers Hyderabad record its maiden win in IPL 2020 at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday. Asked to take first strike, David Warner’s men scored 162 for four and restricted Shreyas Iyer’s side to 147 to seven. Capitals opener Prithvi Shaw fell chasing a Bhuvneshwar Kumar outswinger, offering a regulation catch to wicketkeeper Jonny Bairstow. Turning the tide Shreyas and Shikhar Dhawan (34, 31b, 4x4) added 40 for the second wicket before falling into the Rashid trap. The star leggie dismissed the skipper by having him caught at deep cover by debutant Abdul Samad and foxed Dhawan with a googly to turn the tide in Sunrisers’ favour. He returned in the 17th over to remove Rishabh Pant (28, 27b, 1x4, 2x6) to seal the win. Earlier, the Capitals bowlers put up an impressive show in the PowerPlay, conceding only 38 runs. Patience pays The seamers took pace off the ball, making scoring difficult. However, the big-hitting openers Bairstow (53, 48b, 2x4, 1x6) and Warner (45, 33b, 3x4, 2x6) struck around on a slow wicket. Their quick running between the wickets kept the scoreboard ticking. The first four came off the eighth delivery, but it took 25 more balls for the first six to arrive. Anrich Nortje erred in length, landing the ball closer to Warner who played the signature lofted drive over covers for the maximum. The duo added 77 for the first wicket before Warner fell to leg-spinner Amit Mishra while executing a reverse sweep. Bairstow hung around for a crucial fifty. Kagiso Rabada (two for 21) and Mishra (two for 35) stood out among the Capitals bowlers, but the batters’ underwhelming performance meant that the Delhi side suffered its first reverse of the tournament.  After Warner and Bairstow lay the foundation, Williamson takes over Rashid turns the match around removing Shreyas and Dhawan in his opening spell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunrisers-outshine-capitals/article32727433.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Jones seemed to carry his country’s flag to the batting crease||The context is different, the circumstances too, yet Rupert Brooke’s poem written during the first World War must apply to those who die with their boots on in a foreign country. The lines are familiar enough: If I should die, think only this of me: / That there’s some corner of a foreign field / That is for ever England. Or forever Australia, as in the case of Dean Jones. There is something heart-wrenching about someone dying thousands of kilometres from home and family. It was a fate that befell Ken Barrington when he passed away in Bridgetown, Barbados, as assistant manager of the England cricket team. Also Bob Woolmer, at the 2007 World Cup in Kingston, Jamaica when he was guiding the Pakistani team. The shock of loss is accompanied by the unfairness of it all. As Frank Keating wrote from Bridgetown of Barrington’s passing: “It just could not be true. Why, he was so happy that his wife had come out for a holiday only last week. No, you could not take it in…In the nets he bowled at them and followed through to advise; always a smile; always relishing the day like mustard…” In her book on love and grieving, Joan Didion speaks of how “Life changes in the instant. The ordinary instant.” And it is not just one life that changes in the ordinary instant: lives of those around, and lives of those at great distances who didn’t personally know someone like Dean Jones but knew of his exploits, and admired him change too. Something shifts, not by a lot but enough to ensure that things won’t be exactly the same again. Jones was more than the double century in the Chennai Tied Test, more than the racist comment he made once and regretted forever on television, more than the embarrassing ‘Prof Deano’, a silly character he found hard to live up to. He wasn’t a man of great subtlety — he wore his passion for cricket on his sleeve. His enjoyment of whatever he was doing connected with the game was manifest, and like Barrington, he seemed to carry his country’s flag to the batting crease with just as much purpose and determination. That Tied Test was important for both of us. It was my first Test reporting, and we went through a routine whenever we met — which wasn’t often — that had whoever was around him clutching their heads. They had heard it all from Jones before! Yet it was worth repetition as one of the bravest innings ever played. Chennai was hot and humid as only Chennai can be, but this was hotter and more humid than even Chennai usually was. Jones lost fluids and minerals at an alarming rate as his body began to shut down during the eight hours at the crease. He had to deal with dehydration and cramps. In the words of his countryman, the journalist Mike Coward, his innings defied all reason. “His pupils were dilated, his lips swollen, his face red and his whole body weak and racked with pain,” Coward wrote. In the dressing room, Jones lost consciousness and had to be rushed to hospital. Epitome of fighting spirit He was 25 then; his youth and fitness probably saved him. He had wanted to come off, but his captain Allan Border goaded him into staying at the crease when, at 174, he had pleaded with him. At tea, he was on 202, but could barely walk and had to be undressed by teammates and held under a shower. This time he was given the option of retiring, but this time he decided to go on. He was sent out by admiring mates so struck by his courage that they forgot to equip him with either his abdomen protector or thigh pad. It was that kind of day. It was Jones’s fifth innings, and would stand as the epitome of his spirit. In an era that contained Viv Richards and Javed Miandad, Jones still stood out as an ODI original, with his running between the wickets that saved time and added runs, and his ability to play strokes that didn’t exist till he had conjured them up. He brought to the task of scoring runs or saving them a delight that communicated itself to the spectators. When, a year later, Australia returned to Chepauk for a World Cup match against India, they won by a single run; Maninder Singh was again the last man out. My abiding memory of that finish is an exuberant throw from the field by Jones into the crowd that mixed relief, joy and danger. Years later, he was a mixture in the commentary box too. Garrulous and thoughtful, straightforward and capable of startling pronouncements. That line of Keating’s sat well on Jones too: “Relishing the day like mustard…”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jones-seemed-to-carry-his-countrys-flag-to-the-batting-crease/article32727428.ece
30 September 2020||CHENNAI,||M.A.M.R. Muthiah elected MRC chairman||M.A.M.R. Muthiah was unanimously elected chairman and senior steward of the Madras Race Club (MRC) for 2020-21, at the annual general meeting of the club, here on Tuesday. Ramesh Rangararajan will be the chairman of the Board of Appeal. All the office-bearers were elected unanimously.  The office-bearers:   Committee of Management: M.A.M.R. Muthiah (chairman), Arun Alagappan, Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs, T. Dhevanathan Yadhav, K. Kaliyaperumal, SP Lakshmanan, Paul Antony, RM. Ramaswamy, Ramesh Rangarajan, P. Ravi, K. Shashabindu Das, M. Senthilnathan, Atulya Misra, IAS, Ka. Balachandran, IAS, Dheeraj Kumar, IAS, and S.K. Prabhakar, IAS.   Stewards: M.A.M.R. Muthiah (senior steward), Arun Alagappan, Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs, T. Dhevanathan Yadhav, Paul Antony, and K. Shashabindu Das.   Board of Appeal: Ramesh Rangarajan (chairman), K. Kaliyaperumal, F.R.A Nathan, RM. Ramaswamy, and M. Ravi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mamr-muthiah-elected-mrc-chairman/article32727540.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The three sariras||Scriptural texts adopt the method of elimination to explain the nature of the atma. In the text Laghu Vasudeva Mananam, the author discusses the gross, sthula, subtle, sukshma, and causal, karana sariras to establish the nature of the atma as distinct from all else, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. It is shown that all creation is constituted of both the gross and subtle aspects. This combination is the basis of all activity in the individual too. The bodies are known as ‘sarira’ meaning that which is subject to change, that is, growth, decay, death and so on. The gross body is tangible and easily recognisable. For instance, the hands, legs, eyes, etc, are obvious to all. The subtle body is explained as the five jnanendriyas, the five karmendriyas, the five pranas, the mind and buddhi. According to some sruti texts, the mind is subdivided into ahamkara and chitta. The causal body is shown to be avidya or maya. Change in the three sariras is a constant feature. While the changes in the physical body are visible, they are manifest in the subtle bodies when the jiva comes under the sway of emotions or desires. In the absence of such feelings, the subtle body is calm. Likewise the causal body is active when the jiva is aware of his individual entity as a person with a name and special characteristics. But when the jiva understands that the self is not connected with the body, these changes are irrelevant. So, the causal body is non-existent in the awareness of the realised soul. The bodies are also known as ‘deha’ meaning that which can be burnt in fire and is pertinent to gross bodies. But it is also applicable in the case of the subtle and causal bodies when they feel the heat of internal agitations such as sorrow, anxiety, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-three-sariras/article32727437.ece
30 September 2020||Dubai,||Can KKR check RR’s charge?||Kolkata Knight Riders will have a job at hand to stop a marauding Rajasthan Royals here on Wednesday. In their two wins from two matches, Royals have got past the 200-mark with ease. Sanju Samson and Rahul Tewatia have been outstanding. Skipper Steve Smith has also posted two half-centuries. Having started off with a defeat to Mumbai Indians, Knight Riders bounced back against Sunrisers Hyderabad. Opener Shubman Gill’s unbeaten half-century and Morgan’s late fireworks helped it overtake SRH’s below-par 145.  It may well be a run feast with no target ‘safe’ against the Royals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-kkr-check-rrs-charge/article32727430.ece
30 September 2020||London,||Liverpool maintains its perfect start||Liverpool came from behind to maintain a perfect start to its Premier League title defence as goals from Sadio Mane, Andy Robertson and Diogo Jota saw off a resilient Arsenal 3-1 at Anfield. Manchester City, Chelsea, Manchester United, Tottenham and now Arsenal have all lost in the opening three weeks of the new campaign.  The results:   Premier League: Fulham 0 lost to Aston Villa 3 (Grealish 4, Hourihane 15, Mings 48); Liverpool 3 (Mane 28, Robertson 34, Jota 88) bt Arsenal 1 (Lacazette 25).   Serie A: Bologna 4 (Soriano 16, 30, Skov Olsen 56, Palacio 90+1) bt Parma 1 (Hernani 67).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-maintains-its-perfect-start/article32727438.ece
30 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Chat with Kohli changed me: Sanju Samson||Sanju Samson revealed how a chat with Virat Kohli at the gym changed his perspective. “I asked him about his training routines and why he put so much energy into his fitness,” said Samson. “He then asked me how many years I was going to play cricket. I replied that I could play for 10 years. He said I could do whatever and eat whatever my heart desired after these 10 years.”  Rahul Tewatia said he owed his growth as a player to Haryana cricket. “I played with three spinners (Yuzvendra Chahal, Jayant Yadav and Amit Mishra) in the shorter formats and that helped me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chat-with-kohli-changed-me-sanju-samson/article32727435.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 08:33 IST,||Sudoku - September 30, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-30-2020/article32728289.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying alive||“I never imagined working with a creature like an ‘empty’, as we call them on World Beyond ,” says Aliyah Royale over phone ahead of the launch of AMC’s The Walking Dead: World Beyond . The series follows a new generation of young survivors — following Rick and company — on its journey to find a haven away from zombies and the decaying world. “To be on a show where that is my reality was frightening at first but that’s what gave me a lot to pull from, maintaining that level of naivety because Iris is younger than I am in real life,” says the 20-year-old Maryland native. “At the same time, the strengths that I have as Aliyah helped me find the balance between what’s curious and what’s naive, what’s a power move and what’s rebellious.” Iris and her sister Hope (Alexa Mansour) are leader figures in this terrifying new world; jumping into that powerful role in her community was inspiring and deeply personal for Aliyah. “Iris was fearful when the apocalypse happened,” says Aliyah of her character Iris from The Walking Dead: World Beyond . “This is a weird thing to say about a five or six-year-old [character] — I’m so disappointed in how afraid Iris was.” Yet, from a young age, Iris understood responsibility and accountability, she adds, “She just wanted to take care of people around her, including her sister — I’m accountable for several of the really important people in my life and Iris taught me that even when you are afraid, there’s a way to come out on top and still make choices that seem hard to make at that moment. I also love that World Beyond is led by two young women of colour, two sisters navigating this world. Life is crazy with trauma and heartbreak along the way but we’re better in numbers.” Into the fire Aliyah laughs when asked about the surely exhaustive scenes she had to shoot. She says, “I’ve been a relatively physically inactive person; I understand the concept of exercise but my body disagrees with it. The show has such vigorous physical components to it where we did hard stunt training and hand-to-hand combat training the first week we were in Virginia. I’m so grateful to have had that experience and be ready to fight!” Speaking of the first day she stepped on set. “I was immediately in love! As Aliyah, I pictured frightening bugs and anything that crawls… and then to be thrown in 105 degree Fahrenheit weather in the forest? I had to make a choice: was I going to be Aliyah or just dive into Iris’ world?” The first night shoot Aliyah and her fellow cast had was quite early on in production and happened to also be the first introduction to the walkers of which she had been afraid for the longest time. “I just remember walking on set and opening this door to get some food and 20 or 30 walkers in costume come out in the single file. They didn’t realise I was there, hiding behind the door. I just ran back to my trailer and called my mom, thinking ‘oh, baby, you’re in it now!’”  Season 1 of ‘The Walking Dead: World Beyond’ will stream on Amazon Prime Video from October 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/staying-alive/article32727736.ece
30 September 2020||September 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The apolitical politics||“Trump says Comey is a liar. The Comey Rule is the other side to the story. Now go vote!” smiles Jeff Daniels. The US presidential election 2020 might be unfolding in a few weeks, but before that, it is up to two of the most decorated actors of our times — Jeff Daniels and Brendan Gleeson — to take us back to the turbulent events surrounding the 2016 presidential election and their aftermath in the recently-released TV show, The Comey Rule . The duo stars as the former FBI director James Comey and President Donald J Trump respectively, and the series details the relationship between the men, and is an insider’s account of the corridors of power. Based on Comey’s bestselling book, A Higher Loyalty , the two-episode series, directed by Oscar-nominated screenwriter Billy Ray, delves into how different personalities put the two influential political figures on a controversial collision course. Running two marathons Over a Zoom call from the US, Daniels reminds us of Will McAvoy, his now-memorable character from Aaron Sorkin’s The Newsroom . “I did To Kill a Mockingbird on Broadway (adapted for the stage by Aaron Sorkin) for a year before this; eight shows a week, 415 shows straight. I went into The Comey Rule nine days after the last show; it was like finishing a marathon, and then someone hands you a glass of water and asks you to go run another one,” begins Daniels, adding, “Doing this project was risky; it was a challenge where it mattered and I could fail. You don’t walk away from things like that.” Part one of the series examines the earliest days of the Russian investigation, the FBI’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails and their impact on Election Night 2016, when Donald Trump was elected President. Part two is a day-by-day account of the tempestuous relationship between Comey and Trump, and the intense, chaotic first months of the latter’s presidency. “The details are in the writing; Billy Ray who wrote and directed it set up the story so that global audiences can follow it too. But when you peel the stuff away, the tale essentially comes down to one emotion: power. It’s all about taking on power, which is an universal story. One man takes on the President of the United States,” explains Daniels.    The Comey Rule premiered on September 27 on Voot Select and will air on Zee Cafe in November||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-apolitical-politics/article32727727.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 3,227 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 3,227 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 2,76,325, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 48 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,320. Of the total cases, 2,43,481 people have recovered and there are 27,524 active cases. Out of the total 15,833 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 58.8% were vacant, as per government data on Tuesday. But 61.3% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 74.7% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.4% — which is low compared to the month’s average. The overall positivity rate till now is 9.15 %. The number of containment zones in the city on Thursday jumped to 2,505, the highest till now. “Chief Secretary, Delhi, took a review meeting of all district magistrates on COVID-19 management,” the bulletin said. The number of people admitted in hospitals and people under home isolation has decreased on Tuesday compared to Monday. In a related development, the Delhi government, following a High Court order, uploaded maps of testing centres online. The district-wise maps of all 11 districts have been uploaded on “www.dshm.delhi.gov.in”, the website of Delhi State Health Mission. In most cases, the mobile phone number of the in-charges of these testing centres were also available. The maps can be accessed under the “News/Updates” section on the website. The public can see these maps also at the metro stations in the city from later this week, according to officials. Sisodia discharged Meanwhile, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia was discharged from hospital after he tested negative for COVID-19. He had tested positive for the virus on September 14 and later he was also diagnosed with dengue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-3227-fresh-covid-19-cases/article32727626.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||DJB issues notices to govt. depts. over Rs. 6,811-crore dues||Seven government bodies, four under the Central government and three municipal corporations ruled by the BJP, have not paid dues of Rs. 6,811 crore to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) for water, sewage, and other services, said AAP MLA and DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday. “Central government agencies and municipal corporations of Delhi have to pay huge outstanding dues [to the Delhi Jal Board]. The total such dues is Rs. 6,811 crore,” Mr. Chadha said while addressing a press conference. “Indian Railways owes Rs. 3,283 crore to the DJB, Central Public Works Department owes Rs. 190 crore to DJB, DDA [Delhi Development Authority] owes Rs. 128 crore, Delhi Police owes Rs. 614 crore, East Corporation owes Rs. 49 crore, North Corporation owes Rs. 2,466 crore and South body owes Rs. 81 crore,” he said. Mr. Chadha said that of these seven bodies, four are under the Central government and three are under municipal corporations and the bills were for water, sewage and other services. 30 days’ time “In the first half of this month, we have sent show-cause notices and recovery notices for recovery of this amount to departments and have given them 30 days’ time. These are unprecedented times and the Central government and municipal corporations should pay the dues,” he added. He said that Delhi is reeling under the aftermath of an “extraordinary situation” of the pandemic. “We cannot ignore the most fundamental means of coping with financial challenges that we face today. Therefore, it is incumbent for the aforementioned Central government-run bodies as well as the municipal corporations to expeditiously respond to our requests and cooperatively work for the benefit and welfare of our society,” said Mr. Chadha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/djb-issues-notices-to-govt-depts-over-rs-6811-crore-dues/article32727628.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows early 2G case appeal hearing||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday allowed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) appeal for an early hearing on its leave to appeal against the 2G case verdict acquitting former Telecom Minister A. Raja and others. Justice Brijesh Sethi said the petitions filed by the CBI and ED be listed on October 5 for hearing on day-to-day basis till further orders. Leave to appeal is a permission granted by a court to a party to challenge a decision in a higher court. Justice Sethi, who is set to retire on November 30 this year, rejected the argument raised by the counsel for the accused in the case that the court is short of time to hear the leave to appeal. Counsel submissions The counsel for the accused had argued that no urgency has been established by the agencies to hear their petitions out of turn. They also contended that the record of these cases is quite voluminous and it will not be possible to advert to the entire evidence and papers through videoconferencing, the method adopted by the HC for hearing during the pandemic. Justice Sethi, however, rejected the submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-allows-early-2g-case-appeal-hearing/article32727623.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA proposal bats for ‘housing for all’ in city||In a bid to facilitate the development of JJ colonies in the city, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday approved a proposal to allow a maximum floor area ratio (FAR) of 300 on the remunerative component with a flexible mix of uses irrespective of the land use of the particular pocket. The existing provisions in the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2021 provide for the minimum residential component of the land area for rehabilitation of squatters to be 60% and maximum area of remunerative use to be 40%, officials said. “As on date, the remunerative component could only be developed as per the land-use and the FAR permissible under that category. The approved proposal will pave the way for the development of JJ clusters and help in achieving the goal of housing for all in Delhi. The approved proposal will now be sent to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for approval,” a senior DDA official explained. Change in land use In an authority meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDA chairman, the urban body also approved the change of land use at the Integrated Freight Complex, Ghazipur from commercial to utility to facilitate setting up of a waste processing plant. The land-owning agency also approved a proposal to give homebuyers the option to choose preferred flats under the DDA housing schemes. “Homebuyers will be given this option on modest preferential location charges. This will be based on the unit’s floor location, corner location, facing green area of facing main road. No preferential location charges will be charged for allotment of ground floor flats or preferred floor to persons with disability,” the DDA said. Additionally, group housing plots will be disposed of through auctions following requisite approvals from the Centre. To facilitate the expansion of essential facilities at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences Hospital in Vasant Kunj, the DDA has changed the land use of around 5.7 acres from residential to public and semi-public. Operational structures The urban body further added, “Other modifications in the MPD-2021 which were approved were to incorporate operational structures relating to Regional Rapid Transit System corridors similar to exemption given to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). Relaxation of parking norms for State Bhawans and guest houses were also approved.”  Homebuyers will be given the option to choose preferred flats under the DDA housing schemes on modest preferential location charges DDA official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dda-proposal-bats-for-housing-for-all-in-city/article32727633.ece
30 September 2020||Gurugram,||Student turnout still poor in Haryana schools||Sixty-eight students attended the special guidance classes at Chhakarpur Government Senior Secondary School on Golf Course Road here on Tuesday. Almost a week after the government schools in Haryana began guidance classes for Class IX-XII students, the school has been holding classes in a staggered manner — gradually increasing the daily intake. School principal Anjana Dhingara told The Hindu that around 350 parents had given their consent in writing for their wards to attend the classes. The school has around 1,100 students for Classes IX-XII. “Though 30% parents have given the consent, initially the classes were held only for two sections each for Class X and XII. Now Class XI students are also being called. Only 15 students are allowed in each section to maintain social distance and the classroom is sanitised during the 15-minute gap between the two classes. Each class has a duration of one-and-a-half-hour. The students are not allowed to go to wash rooms and the drinking water area,” said Ms. Dhingara. Kiran Bala, a Class XI teacher, said the parents of Class IX and XI students were less inclined to send their wards. “My section has 80 students, but only 10 parents have given the consent,” said Ms. Bala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/student-turnout-still-poor-in-haryana-schools/article32727612.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP slams BJP over councillors’ suspension||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday attacked the BJP for allegedly suspending AAP councillors in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for the next three months in an “undemocratic way”. The party will hold a protest outside the North Mayor’s office on Wednesday. ‘Undemocratic step’ “In a democracy like India, the Parliament, State Assemblies and Houses of municipalities hold very respectable positions. Today, the BJP in North Corporation has taken a very undemocratic step inside the House. While the House was on, the AAP councillors wanted to raise some issues. But the BJP did not allow us to and when the AAP representatives tried to raise their voice again, the BJP decided to suspend all our councillors for the next three months,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said. He said that the BJP in the municipal corporations is doing “rampant corruption” and the AAP just tried to raise questions. “Tomorrow the AAP councillors will hold a day-long sit-in protest outside North MCD mayor’s office demanding the rollback of the suspension order,” Mr. Pathak said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-slams-bjp-over-councillors-suspension/article32727624.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tractor incident: Punjab Youth Cong. chief held||The Delhi police on Tuesday arrested four more persons, including Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Brinder Singh Dhillon, over the tractor-burning incident near India Gate during a protest against farm Acts. “Four more persons have been arrested on Tuesday in a case registered at Tilak Marg police station. “They have been identified as PYC president Birender Singh Dhillon, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) national general secretary Harish Panwar, IYC national general secretary Abraham Roy Mani and IYC secretary Bunty,” a senior police officer said. A total of 10 people, including six on Monday, have been arrested in this connection. The Congress’ youth wing activists on Monday set a tractor ablaze near India Gate, a few hundred metres from the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament, to protest the contentious farm laws. Six of the PYC activists were arrested on Monday and police had also seized two vehicles in the matter. The police had said that around 20 people carried a tractor on a truck to Rajpath, Man Singh Crossing, unloaded it from the truck and set it on fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tractor-incident-punjab-youth-cong-chief-held/article32727632.ece
30 September 2020||Guwahati,||Mizoram remains only State without virus fatality||Mizoram remains the only State in India without any COVID-19 fatality, as the death count in the country nears the 1,00,000 mark. Chief Minister Zoramthanga attributes the zero fatality to the “community discipline” besides the medical fraternity that has been up to the challenge despite limitations. Microbiologists at Zoram Medical College, the State’s only COVID-19 hospital 15 km south of capital Aizawl, said the factors behind Mizoram’s ability to buck the trend merited research. But they agreed that the community engagement in the State played a major role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mizoram-remains-only-state-without-virus-fatality/article32727613.ece
30 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 300 B.Tech students offered internships: IIT-D||IIT-Delhi on Tuesday said over 300 B. Tech students were offered internships in the first phase of internship placements that began on September 6 for the academic year 2020-21. In the first phase, 230 students got at least one offer each that included international training from Hong Kong, South Korea and the US. Last year, during the same period, 170 students were offered internships. “All the selection processes for internship hiring were conducted seamlessly in an online mode using multiple e-resources from registrations, students’ orientations and trainings, company presentations, company pre-processes like tests, group discussions to selection interviews,” the institute said. Anishya O. Madan, head of the Office of Career Services, IIT-D, said the number of selections has been quite impressive for the undergraduate students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-300-btech-students-offered-internships-iit-d/article32728015.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP govt. conspiring to privatise DJB, claims BJP||The Opposition BJP on Tuesday alleged the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government was conspiring to hand over the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to private companies. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta argued that the Arvind Kejriwal government had brought the DJB to a miserable condition due to its failures. “Before the Kejriwal government came to power, the Delhi Jal Board was in a profit of about Rs. 176 crore and after it came to power there has been a loss of about Rs. 800 crore,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “The Kejriwal government has pauperised the Delhi Jal Board and is now conspiring to privatise the Delhi Jal Board in collusion with private companies,” he alleged. Mr. Gupta alleged the Kejriwal government owes crores of rupees to the municipal corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-govt-conspiring-to-privatise-djb-claims-bjp/article32727630.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP MLA Chadha’s laptop stolen from car||Two men allegedly stole Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha’s laptop from his parked vehicle outside his staffer’s house in west Delhi’s Naraina Vihar area, the police said on Tuesday The car was registered under Mr. Chadha’s name, the police said. The incident place took place on Monday night and a case of theft was registered at Naraina police station on the complaint of Shivam Agarwal, an executive of the AAP MLA, the police said. A security guard in the area noticed that the car window pane was broken and he alerted a man who then informed Mr. Agarwal. Mr. Agarwal found the laptop missing and immediately made a PCR call, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-mla-chadhas-laptop-stolen-from-car/article32727631.ece
30 September 2020||New Delhi,||North body to auction mobile towers, vacant properties to generate revenue||In response to questions over efforts being made to generate revenue by the North Corporation in the face of non-payment of salaries of employees for the last five months, officials reported various projects such as auctioning of mobile towers, vacant properties and other schemes for revenue generation. Th employees have been assured by the Mayor of a permanent solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-body-to-auction-mobile-towers-vacant-properties-to-generate-revenue/article32727634.ece
