01-12-2021||Jalandhar||Fancy Dress and Dance Competition||Slogan writing contestA slogan writing and essay writing competition was held at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, to make the students aware on Right to vote. Principal Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa addressed the students saying that voting is the fundamental basis of democracy ‘Of the people, for the people and by the people’ slogan. A citizen should actually not need to find any reason to vote. It must be done as a compulsive duty although there is no legal obligation to vote. Voting is a highly effective medium to have the change that we want in government. We must honour the right of voting given by the constitution of India. The feeling after having cast a vote infuses a sense of pride for being a responsible citizen, she said as she further added that a greater awareness is required to make the people aware of the representatives they are electing.Kickboxing contestSanskriti KMV School hosted the district-level kickboxing competition organised by Jalandhar Kickboxing Association for the selection of Jalandhar team for the forthcoming state and national championships. Rachna Monga, Principal, inaugurated the event and congratulated the school sports department and designated event officials for an encouraging event. She appreciated the overwhelming spirits of the young players and wished them to rise up as future Olympic players. Opening event is a competitive platform for 10 schools with nearly 100 participants. The Principal awarded the winner players.Webinar on wireless technologyThe Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering at the School of Engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, organised an international webinar on “Wireless Communications: Trends and challenges”. Now days everyone is surrounded by endless wireless devices, thus making the knowledge of wireless communications significant in everybody’s life. With this objective, an online webinar was organised for the students of ECE and CSE department. The resource person for the webinar was Dr. Mohamed El Bakkali, faculty of Sciences and Technologies of Fez, Morocco. Students appreciated the information perceived during the webinar.Self-Defence TechniquesKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a two-day workshop on self-defence techniques under the Gender Sensitisation Programme running under the aegis of Women’s Studies Centre. Rama Sharma, 4th degree from Northern Karate School, Canada, was the resource speaker. During her address, she imparted extensive training to the students on the importance of self-defence and martial arts techniques. The students from BA, B. Com (Hons), B.Com (Regular) BBA, BAJMC & BA (Hons.) English semester III participated in this workshop. Principal Prof. Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Director, Centre for Women’s Studies, encouraged the students to take active part in such important events.Poster making competitionThe Nobel School , Kartarpur, held a slogan writing and poster- making competition to mark the “Constitution Day” of India. Slogan writing competition was organised for the students of Grade III to V while the students of Grade I & II participated in art and craft competition. The students wrote slogans like “Truth alone triumphs”, “Equality is the soul of liberty” etc.Poster making competition was organised for Grade VI to IX. For poster making the students participated of grade VI to IX were given on the spot topics to check their imagination and creativity. Yoga activity was also conducted for pre-wing in the school premises.Inter-house play at dipsDIPS School organised an inter-school English play competition in which all the four houses highlighted the value of love, compassion, sympathy and social sacrifice for the betterment of the human kind. A play was screened under the guidance of Ritu Sharma and Navroz Kaur. Students express the ways in which empowerment can be brought in society by adopting values of compassion, sympathy and tolerance. Participants gave thought provoking messages by medium of stories. Ivory house participants Gurtez Singh, Amrozpreet Kaur, Nehadeep Kaur, Gurnoor Kaur, Ishika, Jasnoor Singh, Rupinder Singh, Gursharan Singh secured the first position.Deepika shines in BBA examsDeepika of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged fifth position in the University exams of BBA-II Semester by getting 317 marks out of 350 whereas Adit Nar, Arshdeep Kaur and Navneet Kaur bagged 7th, 9th and 12th positions by getting 314, 311 and 308 marks respectively in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fancy-dress-and-dance-competition-344774
01-12-2021||Our Correspondent||4-hour ordeal for commuters on Sutlej bridge||Phagwara/Phillaur, Nov 30Commuters had a tough time due to the four-hour traffic jam as around 500 contractual government employees sat on a dharna in the middle of the Sutlej bridge in support of their demands here on Tuesday.Around 300 vehicles were stranded due to the blockade on the bridge. Several patients, including pregnant women, got stuck in the snarl leading to chaos among people. Jalandhar Superintendent of Police Kanwalpreet Singh Chahal, Superintendent of Police (Investigation) Manpreet Dhillon, along with heavy police force headed by Phillaur Deputy Superintendent of Police Harneel Singh, rushed to the site to pacify the protesters who were demanding regularisation of their jobs.Commuters, including women, children and elderly commuters, raised strong objection against the protesters for harassing the commuters unnecessarily. Phillaur Subdivisonal Magistrate Amarjit Singh Malhi later succeeded in pacifying the protesters and the blockade was lifted after assurance for justice given by the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-hour-ordeal-for-commuters-on-sutlej-bridge-344775
01-12-2021||---||Robot-assisted surgery: Doctors learn latest tech in treating bladder cancer||Jalandhar, November 30The Jalandhar Urology Society has joined hands with Intuitive India, a global technology leader in minimally invasive care and the pioneer of robotic-assisted surgery (RAS), to conduct a two-day conference to familiarise surgeons with the latest techniques in the treatment of bladder cancer. The conference, organised at Patel Hospital, was inaugurated by Dr RS Chahal, president, Punjab Urology Association, in the presence of Dr Jasmine Kaur Dahiya, member, Punjab Medical Council.The organising committee had formulated a comprehensive programme to ensure extensive learning for the attendees. There were detailed sessions on muscle invasive bladder cancer, cystectomy and nodal dissection, bladder preservation and neo-bladder surgery. There were dedicated sessions on robotic-assisted neo-bladder surgery and robotic assisted anastomosis as well.Commenting on this joined effort, Dr Swapan Sood, Uro-cancer expert at Patel hospital, said: “As the new medical and surgical technologies have the potential to improve patient outcomes, we need to enhance the adoption of latest technologies.”Dr Sood also shared ideas about better treatment of bladder cancer by using latest robot-assisted surgery technologies. “If the bladder gets damaged during the treatment of cancer, then we can make a new bladder by using the latest techniques,” he added.Experts of urology from Punjab as well as other states including Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, UP and Haryana were a part of this conference called ‘Master class on bladder cancer.’Dr Atul Mittal, Head of Jalandhar Urology Society, said, “Adopting new technologies like robotic-assisted surgery will go a long way in overcoming the current challenges we face in the treatment of bladder cancer.”Dr TB Yuviraja, who is an expert in the Urology department of Kokilaben Hospital, Mumbai, said: “Bladder cancer is more common in men than women. Although, studies suggest that this cancer mostly occurs in men above 60 years of age, it can happen at any age. If it is identified in an early stage, it can be treated well with the new surgical technologies like robotic assisted surgery (RAS).”Dr Sudhir Rawal, a cancer expert from Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital, who was also the programme director of this conference, said cancer occurs in the bladder when abnormal tissue begins to grow in its inner layers. This cancer begins due to the accumulation of blood clots along with the tissue of the bladder wall being infected. Some people get cancer in the bladder, which takes them to the door of death. But, in the modern era, we can save them by using newer techniques.”Patel Hospital’s Medical Oncologist Dr Anubha Bharthuar and Radiation Oncologist Dr Anchal Aggarwal also talked about the importance of chemotherapy and radiation therapy in the treatment of bladder cancer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/robot-assisted-surgery-doctors-learn-latest-tech-in-treating-bladder-cancer-344776
01-12-2021||Jalandhar||For Manpreet Kaur, no dream is heavy to lift||Manpreet Kaur (32), a resident of Taddeyan village, Phagwara, today qualified for the next paralympics. The 12-day qualifying tournament for the para-players is being organised at Tbilisi, Georgia. Kaur, a powelifter said, she qualified in the 41 weight category by lifting 83-kg weight and bagged position among top 10 players. The tournament kicked off on November 25 and will end on December 6. Along with Manpreet, 11 others from India are participating in the tournament. Crippled due to polio, Manpreet is receiving training from the Sports Authority of India, Ahmedabad. She represented the country in several international para powerlifting championships.Physically disabled people meet Chief MinisterMembers of the Physically Disabled and Blind People’s Union met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and submitted a memorandum regarding their pending demands. Lakhbir Singh Saini, president, said, after months of appeals, they were finally able to meet the CM. Apart from demanding regularisation of jobs for the physically-disabled people, the union demanded ration cards to be issued from the Food Supply Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-manpreet-kaur-no-dream-is-heavy-to-lift-344777
01-12-2021||---||Historian gives insight into Guru Nanak's Odisha visit||Jalandhar, November 30Noted historian Anil Dhir (60) gave a presentation on the topic ‘Guru Nanak Dev’s visit to Jagannath Puri and its impact on Odisha’ at Virsa Vihar here recently.The historian showed a presentation in which he had put up photographs of various items that he used and places visited during his stay there. He showed pictures of historic gurdwaras in Puri and Cuttack associated with him.Hailing from Cuttack, he laid stress on popularising these places so that the community could come together and keep all these places safe from any demolition. He said he had only visited 2% of the stretch travelled by Guru Nanak in his life and felt much enlightened about his thoughts and ideas.“While the guru covered 28,000 km in his four Udasis in those difficult days with no roads and means of transport, I have so far managed to cover only 512 km on those routes,” he said.A fellow of Philatelic Congress of India, Dhir said he had put up the videos and still pictures of his findings about the guru on his YouTube channel ‘Anil Dhir on Sikh History’ for anyone to see. He said he would also come up with a book on his findings about the first Sikh guru soon. “It is in final stages,” he told the gathering adding that it was for the guru that Jagannath Puri became popular even in the northern India in those days.On the occasion, students from Apeejay College of Fine Arts gave an impressive music concert. They enthralled the audience with the play of sitar by Sehajdeep Singh, tabla by Amandeep Singh and folk orchestra by Sumit Padam. Gurdev Kaur from the LPU gave her performance on flute and Jaskaran played tabla. The event was organised by Maj Gen Balwinder Singh, vice-chairman of Virsa Vihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/historian-gives-insight-into-guru-nanaks-odisha-visit-344778
01-12-2021||---||Banwari Lal Purohit visits Khatkar Kalan, pays tribute to Bhagat Singh||Nawanshahr, November 30Punjab Governor Banwari Lal Purohit today paid rich tributes to legendary Bhagat Singh at his ancestral village Khatkar Kalan.Accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur, the Governor also paid homage to martyr’s father Kishan Singh at his samadhi at Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh Museum and Memorial.We are indebted to the sacrifice and martyrdom of the country’s greatest icon, who laid down his life at the age of just 23. Banwari Lal Purohit, Punjab GovernorWhile taking a round of the museum, the Governor visited various galleries in the museum and said: “We are indebted to the sacrifice and martyrdom of the greatest icon of country who laid down his life at the age of just 23.”He said the life and philosophy of Bhagat Singh and other martyrs would always remain a source of inspiration for the people. The Governor said the visit at the museum has enlightened him as several unknown certain facts about Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s life had come to his notice. He expressed satisfaction saying that all the articles were scientifically preserved in the museum.Prominent among present on the occasion included ADC Urban Development Harbir Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh, ADC to Governor PBS Parmar, SP Banga Pirthipal Singh, DSP Gurpreet Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banwari-lal-purohit-visits-khatkar-kalan-pays-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-344779
01-12-2021||Garhshankar||Burglars strike in broad daylight||Probe sought into recruitment ‘scam’Hoshiarpur: Jaspal Chechi, president, district trade wing of Aam Aadmi Party and councillor, demanded a high-level inquiry into the alleged scam in the recruitment of constables in Punjab Police. He said due to the malpractices in the recruitment process, many deserving candidates have been deprived of jobs and this is an injustice to them. He said for strict action against the officials involved in this case, it is necessary that there should be a fair investigation. He appealed to the Governor of Punjab to ensure justice for the youth after getting the matter investigated and the recruitment process to be conducted again. OCFree medical camp organisedHoshiarpur: Under the health awareness campaign by Shri Bhagwan Parashuram Sena and Akhil Bharatiya Brahmin Ekta Parishad with the support of NHS Hospital, Jalandhar, the 79th Free Medical Camp was held in Pale Da Mandir in Nai Abadi under the chairmanship of state in-charge Ashutosh Sharma. The camp was inaugurated by Mayor Surinder Kumar Shinda. In the camp, Dr Jugbadal Singh Nanuan (MD), Dr Moin Khan, Dr Geetedar Kaur conducted free checkup of patients and gave information related to heart care to the heart patients. Medical team in-charge Hitesh Bansal informed that 107 ECG, 258 blood tests, 185 sugar tests were done free in the camp. About 526 patients were examined in the camp and they were also given free medicines. Hospital’s CEO Romsha Vashisht informed that 27 angiography tests and 36 echo tests have been advised to the patients in the camp which will be done free of cost by the NHS Hospital, Jalandhar. OC1 dead, 15 hurt in bus-truck collisionJalandhar: One person died and 15 passengers were injured as a PRTC bus going from Jalandhar to Amritsar collided with a truck here on late Tuesday evening. The incident occurred around 9 pm at Kartarpur. The impact of the collision was so much that one side of the bus got completely damaged. The driver of the bus died on the spot. The injured were taken to Jalandhar Civil Hospital. Kartarpur DSP Sukhpal S Randhawa arranged rescue operation and rushed the injured to the hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/burglars-strike-in-broad-daylight-344780
01-12-2021||Jalandhar||Woman dies in factory mishap in Jalandhar||A 30-year-old migrant worker died on Tuesday after her scarf got stuck into a machine in a factory she was working in. The incident was reported around 10 am at Venus Plywood Factory in Punjabi Bagh.The woman has been identified as Vimla Devi, wife of Vinod Kumar. The police reached the spot as soon as the incident was reported. ASI Satnam Singh said the woman received severe injuries after her scarf got stuck in machine and it pulled her towards it. She received injuries on her face and neck. Afterwards, her coworkers rushed her to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.The body of the woman has later taken for postmortem. Inquest proceedings have been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-dies-in-factory-mishap-in-jalandhar-344781
01-12-2021||---||Couple shares their Tryst with Sultanpur Lodhi||Jalandhar, November 30A Mohali-based couple, including retired IAS officer of Punjab cadre Satinder Pal Singh (SP Singh for short) and his wife and retired professor Indu Bala Singh, have jotted their memories related to their stay in the holy town of Sultanpur Lodhi in the book “Tryst with Sultanpur Lodhi”. The couple is set to come up with the release of their book on coming Sunday at Sultanpur Lodhi.SP Singh says he was posted as SDM in Sultanpur Lodhi in the turbulent days of Punjab from 1983-85. He says the idea behind writing a book came from his wife, who has been into making documentaries. He said that he and his wife feel that their stay in the pious place made them more devotional, good fearing and better persons.He goes on to tell that there are two sections in the book, one penned by him and the other by his wife. “My wife served at SD College in the town during our 2.5 years of stay here. The only place for us to spend our weekends and free time was to visit the gurdwaras in the town. We spend a good time at all the gurdwaras knowing their historical importance and seeing various relics associated with the guru. Since those were also the days or terrorism, it was not safe to venture out much with families after darkness”.Born in 1950, SP Singh tells that he first came and stayed in the town in 1958. “I have faint memories of those days. My father was posted here and we used to roam around the town in baghis. There used to be no electricity at that time. My childhood memories too are a part of a chapter of the book.” The book partly also includes the history of various gurdwaras that the couple had gathered.SP Singh tells that the book has some contribution by his two daughters as well, “The cover page of the book has an illustration readied by our younger daughter Sara Pearl Kazi, who is an artist settled in London, and a foreword by our elder daughter Shireen Saluja.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couple-shares-their-tryst-with-sultanpur-lodhi-344782
01-12-2021||---||AIDS 'monsters' get creative, raise awareness among masses||Jalandhar, November 30A day ahead of the World AIDS Day, falling on Wednesday, a creative awareness programme was organised at the St Soldier Group of Institutions.The students got their faces painted and sent messages of ‘Say no to AIDS’ on it. They depicted themselves as AIDS monster that destroys life. The students also wore a red ribbon symbolising their campaign against AIDS around their neck. Students were also holding banners, posters on AIDS awareness, in which they gave information on the causes, symptoms, precautions, importance of life, treatment etc.Sangeeta Chopra, Vice Chairperson, St Soldier Group, appreciated the efforts of the students and said they have tried to spread awareness in a unique way. She said it was need of the hour to take the youth along in the campaign so that they can make the society aware.Likewise, the Red Ribbon Club of Mehr Chand Polytechnic College organised an awareness rally against AIDS. A total of 120 students of the Department of Pharmacy took part in the rally. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh flagged off this rally. Speaking on this occasion, Dr Jagroop Singh said, “Students can play a vital role to aware the people about AIDS.”President of Red Ribbon Club Prof Sundip Kumar said, “There are about 24 lakh HIV patients in the country. Contaminated needles and syringes were main cause of AIDS and hepatitis.” Students distributed pamphlets to spread awareness about the disease among people.WORLD AIDS DAY TODAY||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aids-monsters-get-creative-raise-awareness-among-masses-344783
01-12-2021||---||Regulatory authority for technical education on cards||Kapurthala, November 30Punjab Technical Education Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Tuesday announced that the Punjab government would soon set up a regulatory authority to ensure quality in technical education.Addressing students here at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala during the mega job fair, the minister said: “The focus of the department is to provide the best technical and practical education to the youth which would not only make them the competitors at globe level but also the industry to get the skilled force. We want to provide you the best skills to enable you to become enterprenures instead of job seekers.” He talked of setting benchmarks on number of seats for various courses, qualification of staff and provision of proper infrastructure in the technical institutes of the state.The minister said the government would organise a seminar on how to provide the best employment opportunities abroad to the Punjabi students besides avoiding any fraud with the students.Earlier, the minister also visited the placement cells of renowned 56 companies where he exchanged his views with the employers and job seekers. The minister also distributes appointments letters to 11 candidates of IKGPTU besides giving loan sanctioning certificates to the youth for self employment.In the mega job fair, 1,284 youth took part out of which 432 selected for jobs by more than 29 companies. He also announced to make Simranjeet Singh, a youth, as a brand ambassador for Kapurthala district in the war against drugs under the Red Sky Mission of Punjab government. His selection had come as he shunned the drugs and got selected for a job.He also made a promise to a girl, Deepakjot Kaur, from Kapurthala to visit her house soon to share his ideas for successful entrepreneurship as she had expressed her desire to start her own unit.Speaking on the occasion, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said Kapurthala has got the first position in providing employment to the youth under medium district category. Besides that since 2018 after establishment the bureau, they have made 189 placement camps and 15,204 jobs were provided to youth.Earlier, Registrar of IK Gujral PTU Jaspreet Singh welcomed the minister. Prominent among those present on the occasion included ADC D SP Angra and SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regulatory-authority-for-technical-education-on-cards-344784
01-12-2021||Our Correspondent||8 Congress councillors rebel against nagar panchayat president||Talwara, November 30Unhappy with the working style of Monica Sharma, president, nagar panchayat, Talwara, eight Municipal Councillors (MCs) of the same party challenged her to prove her majority in the House. The Congress councillors have written a letter to Navneet Kaur Bal, SDM, Mukerian, demanding that a meeting of the nagar panchayat should be convened to prove the majority. In the absence of the SDM, the letter was handed over to her reader Lakshmi Devi.There are a total of 13 councillors in the nagar panchayat. Of these, one is from the BJP, one is independent and remaining 11 are of the Congress party. The councillors had held two-three rounds of meetings with the MLA of Dasuya to remove the president from the post, but no result could be achieved.The eight MCs were Vikas Chander Goga, Suman Dua, Shaili Anand, Munish Chadda, Deepak Arora, Taranjit Babi, Parminder Kaur and Surinder Kaur. In the letter to the SDM, they alleged that the president had been ignoring the members for development works. They alleged that the meetings of the House are not held for several months nor are they informed about the development works in the House. Therefore, they do not have faith in the president of the nagar panchayat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-congress-councillors-rebel-against-nagar-panchayat-president-344785
01-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Charanjit Singh Chann, Arvind Kejriwal dot Jalandhar skyline||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 30An intense hoarding fight seems to be on between Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal.The hoardings of both the leaders in the same size and almost the same pattern can be spotted all across the city put up exactly on adjacent unipoles. The hoardings of Channi as well as Kejriwal have their mugshots again in almost the same size on a dark blue or black background. Such hoardings have been put up at railway station, Model Town and Masand Chowk.All those observing these hoardings for the first time can be heard commenting that both the Punjab Government and AAP have either hired the same outdoor publicity company or at least one of them has been following the other as such stark similarity in hoardings between two rival parties cannot be a sheer chance.Similar hoardings have come at a time when there already is a talk over similar promises and doles being announced by both the ruling Congress in Punjab and AAP. Kejriwal has been calling Channi a fake aam aadmi (common man) as the Punjab has been adopting a working style similar to Kejriwal. If Kejriwal has promised 300 units of free electricity to each household, Channi has already reduced the power tariff by Rs 3 per unit of those having less than 7 KW connection, besides waiving off the pending bills of all defaulters of 2 KW connections. Both of them have been wooing autorickshaw drivers. If Channi had tea with auto walas, Kejriwal had dinner at an auto driver’s place.The only difference in the hoardings is in the message. Most hoardings of the CM have various one-liners telling about the works he is doing like ‘36,000 kache mulazim pakke’ (meaning jobs of 36K contractual employees in Punjab are being regularised) or ‘2KW tak bijli billan de bakaye muaff (meaning pending dues of power bills for 2 KW connection holders waived off). On the contrary, most hoardings of Kejriwal have the message, “Hun ik mauka Kejriwal nu”. His hoardings have the party symbol broom on a yellow band at the bottom.AAP leader Atam Parkash Singh alleged: “The government has been aping us everywhere. They have even copied our hoardings.”The Public Relations Department officials have said all their hoardings had come up before mid-November and AAP leadership perhaps followed them going to the extent of even ensuring that their hoardings appeared just neck and neck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/charanjit-singh-chann-arvind-kejriwal-dot-jalandhar-skyline-344786
