02-12-2021||Jalandhar||Seven new cases, 1 death in district||Self-employment fair from todayHoshiarpur: Under the door-to-door employment mission of the Punjab Government, a self-employment fair will be organised on December 2 and 3 by the District Employment and Business Bureau. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said the interested candidates should arrive at the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise at 9.30 am with the necessary documents to participate in this self-employment fair. She said many schemes were being run by the government to provide self employment to the unemployed youth. These schemes include the PEGP, Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana and Stand-Up India etc. Apart from this, unemployed candidates can apply for loans for self-employment from loan agencies of other departments. She said the unemployed candidates, who want to start their own business, or want to further extend their ongoing work, can also take part in this fair. She said aspiring candidates can participate in self employment fair by bringing along their Aadhaar Card, certificates of study, caste certificate, bank copy, hard copy and two passport size photos. OC25-yr-old man run over by train, diesJalandhar: A 25-year-old man died after being run over by the Howrah mail train near Dakoha railway tracks on Wednesday morning. The victim has been identified as Deepak Kumar, a resident of Babbiyanwal village. The accident occurred when the deceased was trying to cross the railway tracks. After receiving information about the incident, Railway Police Chowki, Jalandhar Cantt in-charge, Inspector Sukhwinder Singh and ASI Manjit Singh reached the spot and took the body in their possession. ASI Manjit Singh further stated that the deceased had been identified as Deepak Kumar. After contacting the family members and receiving statements of father Ashok Kumar, inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of the CrPC. After postmortem, the body was later handed over to the family members for cremation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-new-cases-1-death-in-district-345389
02-12-2021||---||College teachers launch 'education bandh' in Jal||Jalandhar, December 1Teachers of 17 colleges in Jalandhar today remained on strike as they sought implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission in the state. In solidarity with statewide strike of PFUCTO (Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation), teachers, and professors struck work in 17 colleges of Jalandhar. They held dharnas outside their respective college gates and declared that the dharna would go for an indefinite period until their demands were met.Teachers of the DAV College, HM College, Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar held a dharna outside their colleges for hours here today in protest against the delay in implementing the Seventh Pay Commission and the delinking of new teachers with the pay grades of the UGC by the Punjab government.Protesting teachers said the Seventh Pay Commission had been implemented everywhere except the state. They said in the past one month, 196 professors sat outside the main guest house of Panjab University, Chandigarh, on hunger strike demanding implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission for the state’s teachers and professors.Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union General Secretary Prof SS Randhawa said the entire issue had been raised before the state Finance Minister, speaker and even the CM. But so far, they have received only assurances. Randhawa said the teachers’ meeting with the high education secretary also remained inconclusive. They said the officials were given directions but no one paid any heed. They said professor demand that state CM himself addressed the issue on a priority basis. They also warned the state government that due to the repeated ignorance of these demands, teachers had been forced to proceed on an indefinite strike. They said they had no other option but to suspend education. District President Dr Sanjeev Dhawan said they would continue with their protests. He said a delegation of teachers also met Education Minister Pargat Singh recently but no conclusion came out eventually.Tejinder Singh Virli, State Executive Member PCCTU, said, “Since the principal associations are in solidarity with teachers on these issues, students were sent home by many principals in solidarity with the protests. The state government also passed the Security of Service Act in the Vidhan Sabha recently but the governor hasn’t signed it yet. This is a protest about teachers fight for their services and for their job security. The protests will go on until the demand of teachers is met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-teachers-launch-education-bandh-in-jal-345360
02-12-2021||---||Employees go barefoot in their fight for their rights||Jalandhar, December 1Members of the Sarva Sikhiya Abhiyan and Mid-Day Meal Office Employees Union today held a ‘barefoot protest’, holding a march up to the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh. They said they chose this mode of protest as people walk barefoot to religious places. They said they held such a march as they hoped that their demand for regularisation will be fulfilled by the minister.Union members said there had pinned hopes on Pargat Singh but they were all dashed. Even after 6-7 meetings of the Sarva Sikhiya Abhiyan and Mid Day Meal Office Employees with the minister, their issues reained unaddressed. Hence, they decided to hold the protest today.Unemployed teachers' protest on Dec 3After holding the march to his residence, they said they had been assured of a meeting on December 3 at 10 am with the minister.Union members reiterated if their demand was not addressed on December 3, then they will hold a strike on December 6. They said the state government had made several announcements but they were not being addressed practically. The government’s notices and declarations were proving to be white elephants, they added. The said one of these recent announcements also included regularising 36,000 contractual employees. They said like former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the new CM was also making committees and delaying works. The cabinet sub-committee made by the Channi government met on Monday but no minister is ready to speak anything, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/employees-go-barefoot-in-their-fight-for-their-rights-345361
02-12-2021||---||Phulkari WOA comes to city||Jalandhar, December 1Phulkari — Women of Amritsar launched its first chapter in Jalandhar at The Space, Library and Experiential Centre in Urban Estate here on Wednesday.Phulkari WOA is an organisation that has been working to strengthen women’s participation in civil society, especially in the cultural, economic and social fields since 2017. The member body comprises women from diverse professions and walks of life.It provides women a platform for exchange of ideas which leads to enrichment of every stakeholder at various levels. It has undertaken several projects in the fields of art, literature, health, ecology, music, philosophy and spirituality. Their projects have had an impact on the socio-cultural fabric of Amritsar.Present at the today’s launch were the members of the Phulkari management team from Amritsar and the newly formulated team of Phulkari - Women of Jalandhar.Brimming with optimism, Deepa Swani, president, Phulkari — Women of Amritsar said: “The opening of the Jalandhar chapter marks a new era of expansion for us. Phulkari remains committed to contributing to society and aims to make a greater difference with increase in its outreach.”Praneet Bubber, founding member and past president, expressed her joy. “I am elated to share this milestone in our journey. We welcome the women of Jalandhar to our tribe,” she said.Phulkari — Women of Jalandhar has a team that includes Simran Paintal as president, Dr Snigdha Mahajan as vice-president, Reema Sodhi as secretary and Neerja Mahajan and Pritika Thukral as treasurers. This core team is supported by several other members who have joined Phulkari- WOJ as executive members and will spearhead meaningful projects in the coming year.Simran Paintal expressed: “We are excited to bring this first of its kind, think-tank for women to Jalandhar. Phulkari WOJ will be working with like-minded individuals and organising events for meaningful exchange of ideas, women empowerment, community building and contribution to society.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phulkari-woa-comes-to-city-345362
02-12-2021||---||Truck driver booked for driving on wrong side||Jalandhar, December 1The Kartarpur police on Wednesday registered a case against the truck driver, who rammed his truck into a PRTC bus near Jang-E-Azadi war memorial, on Tuesday night. The incident was reported after the commuters raised hue and cry and rushed to rescue the injured passengers on the bus. The intensity of the collision was such that the roof of the bus blew off with in seconds and the conductor fell on the road from the windshield of the bus.The also accident left the driver of the bus dead and 15 passengers injured. The victims were immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared the driver brought dead. The deceased was identified as Kuldeep Singh (43), a native of Patiala. Survived by his wife and two children, he was the sole breadwinner in his family.The SHO said it took them over an hour to safely evacuate passengers from the damaged bus. The injured truck driver, identified as Harpal Singh, a resident of Sangrur, was also taken to the hospital.Investigation Officer (IO), ASI Kulbir Singh, said: The truck driver was coming from Amritsar and was in an inebriated state. He reportedly took the wrong side after failing to find any cut on the highway.“While the passengers with minor injuries were discharged from the hospital late in the night, around five victims were referred to NHS hospital for further treatment,” added Kulbir.As per the reports, there were 20 passengers in the bus and it was heading towards Gurdaspur from Jalandhar city bus stand. The IO said the bus was within the speed limit as it left the city bus stand at 7.19 pm and reached the accident site around 7.50 pm.As the truck driver is still receiving treatment at the Civil Hospital, he will be presented in the court after recovering. A case under Sections 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC has been registered against the truck driver at the Kartarpur Police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/truck-driver-booked-for-driving-on-wrong-side-345363
02-12-2021||---||82-yr-old celebrates his birthday with a new book||Jalandhar, December 1Today, a retired additional general manager from the Indian Ordnance Factories Services AK Goswami turned 82. He chose to celebrate his birthday differently by announcing his third book ‘Life is a game of Twenty-Twenty’.Having started writing since the pandemic, Goswami is really excited about his new found passion of writing motivational books. He had written three books ‘Ignite a Spark to Excel in Life’ and Happiness-nectar of life’. “My latest book will be useful for those who want to win the game of life in shortest possible time. My books are also available on Amazon Kindle,” he said.A PG in Industrial System Engineering, he chose not to relax even post his retirement in 2000. “I took up the challenge to teach management subjects to MBA and M Com students. I used to share practical examples from professional life gained over 40 years which made the lectures interesting and educative,” said Goswami, who is an empanelled for some companies, adding that eight units of MSME unit could save 2.5 crores by his consultancy.More recently, he started a society for senior citizens named ‘Gulistan’ in Urban Estate Phase-2, which is serving the society by running a charitable dispensary, physiotherapy centre and a tailoring school for the girls. “The tailoring school is recognised by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. In our dispensary, nearly 100 patients are getting treatment at charitable rates every day”, he proudly shared.Even at the age of 82, there is a lot of spark in him and there is no stopping him. He is thinking of starting a finishing school for young professionals coming out of the colleges to provide them training to make them competent and employable so that they start their career by getting a reasonably good job in the industry.Asked how he keeps himself so fit physically and mentally, he said, “I take care of my body and spend 1.5 to 2 hours every day by doing yoga, pranayama and meditation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/82-yr-old-celebrates-his-bday-with-a-new-book-345364
02-12-2021||---||Students observe World AIDS Day with awareness sessions||Jalandhar, December 1On World AIDS Day on Wednesday, various schools and colleges in the city organised awareness programmes to make the younger generation aware about the causes, symptoms, tests and treatments for treating HIV infection. The campus authorities organised rallies, poster making and essay writing contests, showed videos and pinned red ribbons on students and staff.Innocent Hearts College of EducationThe NSS unit of Innocent Hearts College of Education observed World AIDS Day to spread awareness regarding AIDS, call for an increased response to move towards and speak out against HIV stigma following the theme of World AIDS Day 2021, which is “End inequalities, End AIDS”. The NSS volunteers shared facts and medically accurate information about HIV and AIDS. NSS volunteer Pooja Ghosh elucidated the symptoms of HIV and treatment of AIDS in her speech. She highlighted medical facts with the help of a flex and achieved first prize in demonstration. All the student-teachers and faculty members wore red ribbons to raise awareness about AIDS. AIDS awareness slogans ‘Let’s Stop HIV Together’, ‘Open your eyes before AIDS closes them’ etc resonated through the air. A poster-making competition was also organized in which the student-teachers prepared descriptive posters and made videos demonstrating their posters. These videos were shared through online modes in order to spread knowledge about HIV myths and promote its prevention. Nidhi Gupta achieved first prize in Poster-making competition. Principal Dr Arjinder Singh highlighted the fact that the world is facing new diseases each day. He further said that “we all should take constructive steps to eliminate chronic diseases for making our planet safe and spreading awareness about AIDS disease in communities is must, which our NSS unit volunteers are doing to a great extent.”Special events at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya observed World AIDS Day by organising special series of events. The event was organised by the Red Ribbon Club under the aegis of Department of Student Welfare, PG Department of Zoology and PG Department of English. During the event, students from all streams made posters, slogans depicting the importance of AIDS awareness. Students through the help of posters and slogans highlighted the causes and prevention of this disease and also gave a message to stop all kinds of prejudices associated with AIDS so that a patient suffering from this disease should not feel outcast but should be consider as a respectable member of the society. On this occasion, students also presented their PowerPoint presentation in order to give message about AIDS awareness. Badges were also distributed during the event in order to spread awareness about this disease. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi appreciated the efforts of the students and faculty members for organising such social awareness events. She averred that KMV always organise various health awareness activities for the students in the form of health camps organised at campus, expert talks from renowned doctors of the city, free medical check-up camp for the students, blood donation camps, counselling sessions and yoga camps for the students etc. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, head, PG Department of English and Dean, Department of Student Welfare and Sadhna Tandon, head, PG Department of Zoology for organising the event.Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical CampusSchool of Management, lT and Hotel Manager of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised an event on World Aids Day today. The programme was held on the theme given by the World Health Organisation for the day this year – End inequalities, End AIDS, End pandemics. Red ribbons were pinned to all faculty members, staff and students. Faculty members highlighted the need to raise every voice and every action that impacts the global efforts to stop the HIV epidemic. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs), Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC), Dr RS Deol (Deputy Director), Dr Inderpal Singh (HOD-Management), Nidhi Chopra (HOD-IT) admired the efforts of faculty members, staff and students .Hindu Kanya CollegeNSS Unit and Red Ribbon Club of Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, organised a seminar under the patronage of College Principal Dr Archana Garg on the theme “Aids Awareness” in which Dr Arashbir Kaur from Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, delivered a talk on Aids awareness on World Aids Day. On this occasion Jaswant Kaur (Convener, Red Ribbon club), Sarika, NSS Programme Officers Dr Aman Jyoti, Suvit Das, Ramandeep Kaur and Hardeep Kaur were especially present. Poster making competition was also organised by Red Ribbon Club.DIPS CollegeDIPS College, Tanda, organised seminar on the occasion of World AIDS Day in various schools. Students made posters, presented speech and organised a play to give an awakening on AIDS and spread the message of caution in society. Students and staff began the awareness through a red ribbon and participated in the programme. Meenu and Mandeep together with other students highlighted that this diseases does not spread with mosquitoes bite, hugging each other or by eating food together. HIV virus enters in the body of man which obstructs the body to fight against the virus and result in the cause of AIDS in the future. Hence, it is of utmost importance to keep people aware. They also propagated that red ribbon as an awareness ribbon is used as the symbol for the solidarity of people living with HIV-AIDS, and for the awareness and prevention of drug abuse. Principal Jyoti Gupta remarked that AIDS day is observed every year on December 1, which is an opportunity for the community to unite in the fight against HIV aids, to show supports for those who have been diagnosed and to remember those who have been lost the to the disease.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraWorld AIDS Day was celebrated at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr. Kiranjeet Randhawa . An awareness seminar on the theme of AIDS was conducted for students in which informative talk related to the specified themes was delivered to students. Dr. Randhawa familiarised the young learners about AIDS – its causes, impact and evils. “The immune system of the person suffering from the disease gets damaged and also reduces the disease fighting ability of the body. There is no cure for HIV infection. However, with increasing access to effective HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care, HIV infection has become a manageable chronic health condition, enabling people living with HIV to lead long and healthy lives. HIV can be transmitted via-the exchange of a variety of body fluids from infected people such as blood, breast milk, semen and vaginal secretions. The preventive measures against HIV AIDS include, using protection during sexual intercourse, avoid sharing needles, blades etc. with other people and building good body immunity”. During seminar, students gave speeches and participated in essay writing competition. At the end, students pledged to remain away from this disease and follow all the useful instruction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-observe-world-aids-day-with-awareness-sessions-345379
02-12-2021||---||EVM/VVPAT demonstration centres set up||Nawanshahr, December 1Elaborate preparations have started at the level of the district administration in view of ensuing 2022 Assembly elections. On Tuesday, the administration established EVM/VVPAT demonstration centres in district and assembly levels to sensitise the voters about these machines used in elections.Four demonstration centres have been set up in the district - one at the district administrative complex and others at SDM offices. Deputy Commissioner -cum- District Election Officer Vishesh Sarangal appealed to the residents of district to visit these demonstration centres to get basic information about working of the EVM and VVPAT machines.Voter awareness on wheelsHe said mobile vans carrying EVM/VVPAT machines would also be started in the coming days to cover each village and ward of the district under this awareness drive. He added that adequate polling staff would also be deputed with the vans who would educate the people about the functioning of these machines.Sarangal said the district has 614 booths and the EVM education and awareness drive would cover all the booths in coming days by conducting mock poll exercise. He said supervisors and booth-level officers have been asked to ensure the maximum reach of these mobile vans to the people so that we can complete this exercise well in advance.The Chief Electoral Officer has already asked all districts to start campaign under SVEEP to surpass the state average polling figure of 77 percent recorded last time. “We are targeting those villages particularly where the percentage of polling was witnessed below state average”, added District Electoral Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/evm-vvpat-demonstration-centres-set-up-345381
02-12-2021||Phagwara||Aerospace Engg student honoured||Webinar on Punjabi LanguageHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Bhasha Vibhag, Punjab, organised a webinar under the Punjabi Month 2021 celebrations on ‘Punjabi language and radio’. Bhasha Vibhag is also devoted in the service of Punjabi Language and celebrates November as Punjabi month every year. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen and Dr Veerpal Kaur, Deputy Director, Bhasha Vibhag, accorded a warm welcome to Ramanpreet Kaur, Shamsheer Production, Shameel Jasvir, Radio Red FM, Toranto, Canada, Gurdishpal Kaur Bajwa, Chief Editor, Media Punjab, Germany, Harjinder Kang, Radio KBIF, California, Harjit Kaur, Radio Spice, Auckland and Navjot Dhillon, Radio Sher-e-Punjab, Vancouver, Canada. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen elaborated on the role of media and radio in our lives by saying that radio belongs to all ages and our day breaks amongst the soulful melodies and news upon the radio. Dr. Veerpal Kaur appreciated the efforts of the institution for promoting Punjabi language. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aerospace-engg-student-honoured-345383
