03-12-2021||Jalandhar||Ideation Workshop at KMV||World Computer Literacy DayWorld Computer Literacy Day was observed at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, by the Computer Department under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of the college. A seminar was organised for the students and their parents also to inspire them to learn more and make their work easier by the use of computers. Important information was given to the parents about how to use online banking, social media, online business etc. Chairman Vikas Uppal said since computers are omnipresent and digital literacy is requisite, it is curial to improve our computer skills with time. Dr Randhawa addressed everyone that computers have become an essential part of human life due to rapidly increasing technology and the digital revolution in today’s modern era.Mega Parenting WorkshopKeeping in view the psychological issues faced by the parents in relation to the academic growth in Pandemic times, CT World School in collaboration with team Mind Movers held a mega parenting workshop wherein a good number of parents showed up with much enthusiasm. Kavardeep Singh Bhatia, MD, Manoj Verma, Director, and Ruhi, HR head from Mind Movers, held the session with zeal and fervour. Kavardeep interacted with the parents and threw light on anger control management, concentration empowering skills, instilling good habits via a series of brain rattling games. From showcasing the kinds of parents in the society to tips of healthy parenting, he helped the parents with the ongoing concerns of teenagers. The session was followed by one on one interaction with Charanjit Singh Channi, Chairman, CT Group, who graced the occasion as the guest of the day.Workshop on Xmas cake bakingGNA University organised two-day workshop on ‘Traditional Christmas breads and cakes’ by Hitesh Shakya; Pastry Chef, Hotel Hyatt Regency Chandigarh. The key objective behind organising the workshop was to strengthen students’ core concepts in bakery and assist them in learning and practicing French and European styles of bakery products. The session focussed on menu planning, development, execution, and evaluation of final products in terms of creative presentation and sensory evaluation. The session was well-received by the students, wherein their queries were also taken and duly answered by the expert, other than the hands on practice done by the students.Top University PositionsStudents of Bachelor of Fine Arts Sem-2nd of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got top positions in the Guru Nanak Dev University examination. Bhavya bagged 5th position in the university by scoring 367 out of 400 marks, Naiya Sharma bagged 7th position in the university with 364 marks and Bhawna bagged 10th position in the university with 360 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Head of the Department Dr Neeru Bharti Sharma and Dr Shailender Kumar. Students of B.Sc. Sem-II (non-medical) of the college have also outshone in the GNDU examinations by bagging five positions. Harleen Kaur bagged 3rd position by scoring 379 marks out of 400, Jobanveer Kaur bagged 4th position by scoring 376 marks, Sahibpreet Kaur stood 5th by scoring 375, Manveen Kaur stood 6th by scoring 374 and Harpreet Kaur stood 7th by scoring 372 in GNDU Examinations.Role play contestDayanand Model Senior Secondary School, Dayanand Nagar, organised a role play contest for the students of the pre-primary wing. Children played the role of various community helpers like teacher, doctor, gardener, barber etc. Children emphasised on the fact that community helpers are the ones who live and work in our community and ensure that community stays healthy, safe and happy. Qudrat Noor Kaur came first, followed by Manvi and Khevna. Monalika won the consolation prize. Principal Dr S.K Gautam congratulated all the participants and appreciated the efforts put in by the students and the faculty members.Students get jobsFour students of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology have been placed with JARO Education at a pay package of Rs8.5 LPA. The names and branch of the selected students are Muskan (B.Tech-ECE), Shivani (BCA), Omanshu (B.Tech-CSE) and Rishika (B.Tech-IT).These selected students shall join Jaro Education after completion of their degree in June. Vishav Kapoor, Manager (Industry Interface), along with Ratish Bhardwaj and Kalpana Sharma appreciated the hard work put in by students and highlighted that special efforts were done to make them ready for interviews. He also thanked the Principal for his constant support and guidance. Dr Manoj Kumar,Principal DAVIET congratulated the students on their success. He wished them the best of luck for all their future endeavors’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ideation-workshop-at-kmv-345644
03-12-2021||---||Cricket league kickstarts in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 2Additional Commissioner Income Tax Girish Bali and Inspector General of Police GS Dhillon on Thursday called upon the NGOs to play a proactive role for promoting sports to wean away youth from menace of drugs.Addressing the gathering after inaugurating Jalandhar Heights Cricket Premier League here today, the Additional Commissioner IT and IGP said that sports acts as a catalyst for using the energy of youth in positive direction. They said the youth are blessed with unbounded energy and that need to be channelised in a positive direction. Bali and Dhillon unequivocally said sports is the best medium through which the youth can be motivated towards the right direction.Lauding the efforts made by organising committee ‘Warrior Groups’ for taking this path breaking initiative, the Additional Commissioner IT and IGP said that such efforts must be replicated by other NGOs too for the betterment of society.Meanwhile, the president of NGO Warriors groups Varun Kohli said the tournament was organised annually by them. He said this year four teams are participating in the tournament which is being organised on league basis. Kohli also thanked Sukhdev Singh from AGI Infra for providing requisite logistic help to the NGO for smooth conduct of the event.Earlier, organising committee of Warrior groups led by Varun Kohli, Rajinder Raja, Ankur Dhuria, Nitin Puri, Davinder Saini, Anudeep Bajaj, Vikas Sharma, Ankur Sehgal, Sanjeev Ahuja and others welcomed the dignitaries on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cricket-league-kickstarts-in-jalandhar-345645
03-12-2021||---||2 to get Kewal Vig Award||Jalandhar, December 2Noted agricultural economist Dr SS Chhina and prominent slogan writer Lal Athouli Wale will be honoured with Kewal Vig Award-2021 for their contributions this Saturday.Sharing about their contribution, Jatinder Mohan Vig, Chairman of Kewal Vig Foundation, said Dr Chhina is PhD in agricultural economics and has authored number of books. “He is regular contributor to the popular newspapers on agro-economics issues. His book of Punjabi short stories ‘Waghe wali lakeer’ illustrates the emotional relation and pain of Partition,” he added.Lyricist Lal Athouli Wale has penned down many cultural, family binding songs, especially sufiana, religious bhajans sung by famous singers. His song ‘Na jaio pardes-uthe ni maa labhni’ and Lord Krishna’s bhajan ‘Krishna teri murli te bhalla kon ni nachda’ are among his all popular songs.Kewal Vig Award were instituted in 1994 in the memory of the founder editor of Punjabi Magazine ‘Janta Sansar’. On the 29 death anniversary of Kewal Vig falling on December 4, these awards will be presented at a function to be held Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall, Jalandhar.Former IG and AAP leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh would be chief guest and function will be presided over by Kulwant Singh, Deputy Commissioner, Tarn Taran, SK Kalia IG, PAP, and Ramesh Chander, retired IFS officer, would be special guests of honour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-to-get-kewal-vig-award-345646
03-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Dhamai beat Garhshankar to win football championship||Garhshankar, December 2The team of Dhamai village won the 12th Shaheed-a-Azam Bhagat Singh Football Tournament by beating the Garhshankar team. The tournament was organised by Shaheed-a-Azam Bhagat Singh Football Club, Garhshankar, under the chairmanship of Advocate Jasveer Singh Rai at Senior Secondary School, Garhshankar. The tournament held in collaboration with the ex-Serviceman Social Welfare Trust Garhshankar, was dedicated to the martyr farmers of farmers’ struggle.In the final match held last evening, the team of Dhamai village defeated Garhshankar’s team by 1-0 and won the tournament. Athletics competitions were also organised by the club for students of different schools of under-17 and under-19 age groups, which were inaugurated by the chairman of the market committee, Mohan Singh Thiada. Also, a show match of Kabaddi World Cup winners Punjab and Haryana girls was organised. SDM Arvind Kumar and Arjun Awardee Gurdev Singh Gill participated as special guests during the matches. Former MLA and general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Love Kumar Goldie attended the prize distribution ceremony as the chief guest. Rai thanked all personalities who contributed in making the tournament a success. The winning teams were awarded with trophies and cash prizes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhamai-beat-garhshankar-to-win-football-championship-345647
03-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Awareness rally on Pollution Control Day in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, December 2An awareness rally was organised by the District Legal Services Authority on National Pollution Control Day, in collaboration with Punjab National Bank Regional office. CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi said the main objective of the rally was to motivate the general public to stop pollution and to make them aware about the harms caused by pollution. She said for the prevention of pollution, use of plastic should be minimised, keep the water clean and avoid the smoke of the industry. She said everyone should cycle and walk more and more to keep themselves healthy and environment safe. Leaflets were distributed to the general public regarding the National Lok Adalat to be held on December 11. She said every person, whose case is going on in a court, can bring it to the lok adalat by giving an application to the judge so that they could settle their case with consent.She informed that the domestic disputes, land and property disputes, civil cases, injunction matters, land acquisition cases, traffic challans, cheque bounce cases and compoundable criminal cases can be settled in lok adalats. She said prelitigative cases can be resolved by giving an application in the office of the District Legal Services Authority, Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-rally-on-pollution-control-day-in-hoshiarpur-345648
03-12-2021||---||1st sports university to promote sports science in Punjab: Vice Chancellor||Jalandhar, December 2Emphasising on the need for incorporating sports with academics in the state, Vice Chancellor of the Punjab’s first sports university Lieut Gen (Dr) JS Cheema today asserted that Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Sports University was all set to emerge as the centre of excellence for promotion of sports science in the state.The VC was presiding over an event held here at local Government Sports and Arts College to mark the culmination of inter-college volleyball championship. While interacting with the mediapersons, the VC said this sports-based academic infrastructure would further empower youths to get job opportunities.Throwing light on the curriculum of sports university, the VC said it was working round the clock to provide best of the courses the colleges affiliated with the sports university. He also said that the requisite infrastructure and manpower was also being ensured here adding these sports institutions would serve as catalyst in providing sports eco-system in Punjab.Revealing university’s plan to further promote sports culture at educational institutions, Lieut Gen Cheema said Jalandhar being a sports hub, special focus was being laid on the Government Arts and Sports College, Jalandhar, where new courses would be kickstarted soon. He also stated that the university was also contemplating its collaboration with foreign institutions to ensure latest and top-class coaching and facilities here.He categorically said the scientific sports coaching was the key to develop the best of the players who would bring laurels to country at international arena. He called upon people to get their children the sports-based education so that they can achieve rare feat in their professional career as this sportsmanship would infuse a sense of confidence and discipline among them.Meanwhile, the VC interacted with the players participated in the event besides distributing prizes among them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1st-sports-university-to-promote-sports-science-in-punjab-vice-chancellor-345649
03-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Seven booked for demanding dowry||Fraud: Travel agent bookedHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have registered a case against a travel agent for allegedly duping a Terkiana village resident of Rs10.67 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. The complainant, Surinderpal, alleged that Vikrant Dhiman, a resident of Sunder Nagar, Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, took Rs10.67 lakh from him on the promise to send him abroad. After that the accused neither sent him abroad nor returned his money. On the orders of the SSP, the police have registered a case. OCThree arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The police have arrested three accused, including a woman, and seized intoxicants from them on Wednesday evening. The Chabbewal police have recovered 42 gram of intoxicating powder from Gurjit Singh alias Happy, a resident of Ajnoha village during a naka in the area. Similarly, the Tanda police have arrested Seema and seized sedative capsules from her. Meanwhile, the Hajipur police have arrested Dhamian village, a resident Satnam Singh, and recovered 10,500 ml of smuggled liquor from him. OCOne booked for embezzlementHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have registered a case against a Amritsar resident for embezzling Rs10 lakh while putting cash in the ATM on Wednesday. The complainant, Gurharpreet Singh, manager of CMS Infra System and a resident of Amritsar, told the police that the accused Vivek Bedi used to working in their company. He told that Rs17 lakh were issued to Vivek from the Punjab National Bank, Dasuya, to put in PNB ATM in Darapur. After this, when the company audit team from Mohali conducted an inquiry, the cash turned out to be short of Rs10 lakh. OCOne booked for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have seized a sand-laden trolley near the bridge on the charge of illegal mining. The driver, Shambhu, could not produce any document related to the vehicle. The police have registered a case and the trolley has been seized. OCMLA lays stone of road workHoshiarpur: Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar on Monday laid the foundation stone of 18-km Kot Fatuhi-Mehtiana Road being constructed at a cost of about Rs 10.28 crore. Dr Raj Kumar said due to the pre-mature failure of the road, commuters used to face a lot of difficulties. Since, the road could not even survive for half of its expiration date, approval for its reconstruction was not being given but he got a special case for approval prepared for its reconstruction and funds were approved for it. He said a Rs 75 lakh contract for the maintenance of the road for next five years has also been approved. OCDev work worth Rs57L inauguratedHoshiarpur: Local MLA Sunder Sham Arora addressed the villagers at the inauguration of development works at a cost of Rs 57 lakh at Bajwara. He said the said amount would be used for the construction of bridges, drainage and construction of roads in the village. The MLA said every problem of the people of Bajwara has been solved on priority basis and all basic amenities have been provided to the people of the village as per their requirement. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-booked-for-demanding-dowry-345650
03-12-2021||Jalandhar||Covid-19: Five new cases in Jalandhar district, no death||Five new Covid cases were reported from Jalandhar on Thursday, taking the district tally to 63,499 cases. No new Covid death was recorded, keeping the district deceased tally at 1,499. As many as 61,964 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 36. Of the 18,323, 13 samples collected in the district, so far, 16,96,827 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,223 samples is yet awaited.No case, death on K’thalaNo new case of Covid nor death was reported from Kapurthala on Thursday keeping the Covid tally at 17,868.One case in HoshiarpurOne fresh case was reported from Hoshiarpur on Thursday, taking the total number of positive patients to 30,950. No death due to Covid was recorded as the death toll remained unchanged at 993. The number of active cases is 58, while the number of cured patients is 29,899. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said with the receipt of 1,991 new samples from the people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples of Covid-19 has reached 9,63,701. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-five-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-345651
03-12-2021||Ajay Joshi||Arjun Thakur is beating the disability blues with cycling||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 2From pedaling bicycle to reaching his work to running his own bicycle store, Arjun Thakur has come a long way. However what’s more special about him is his ‘never quit mindset’, despite having 60-70 percent disability.Thakur (27), born with a congenital problem, that results in stunted growth of legs, is also a renowned para-cyclist. He is notably the country’s first para-cyclist ‘Super Randonneur’ who finished cycling brevets of 200 km, 300 km, 400 km and 600 km within one year. Unlike any normal kid, he took his first unsteady steps, when he was eight.“Like my twin brother, I wasn’t able to move anywhere without someone else’s help. Even to use the washroom, someone had to carry me on his shoulders. But with the support of my family, I started walking, with my weak legs. Around 6-8 surgeries in Jalandhar and one in Delhi, helped me develop some strength in my legs. After almost half a year of bed rest, I started moving slowly using a pair of crutches; I was given after the treatment. Somehow, I finished my high school. I used to experience extreme tiredness after even walking for 100-200 meters. Hence, my father bought me an Atlas bicycle. To support my family, I used to cover a distance of around 10 km to reach a medical store, where I used to work. Using the same cycle I used to go to my school at Ladowali road,” said Arjun.Before he could pedal on his own, his brother used to carry him around on a cycle as a pillion rider. “This is one of the most exuberating experiences of my childhood,” says Arjun. A resident of New Jawahar Nagar, Maqsudan, Thakur is a native of Hoshiarpur. But before he was born, his father came to Jalandhar to work in a factory.Cycling journey“I was 16, when I first started earning. Seeing me cover kilometres on cycle, Rakesh Sharma, my boss at medical store asked me to join him for cycling on day offs. One weekend, two of us rode around 48 km from Jalandhar to Kapurthala and back. It was a big confidence boost. After that journey, every weekend, I would ride 40-45 km. Meanwhile, on June 13, 2015, I participated in my first 200 km brevet event, which was organised by Punjab Bikers Club, Hoshiarpur. While everyone was riding bicycle with gears, I had a normal cycle. Considering my disability, the organisers suggested me not to participate, but I insisted and finished the brevet from Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur in the scheduled time. After that, there was no looking back, the Garrari Riders of Ludhiana also gifted me a mountain bike, which helped me complete all four brevets – 200 km, 300 km, 400 km and 600 km — between November 2015 and October 2016 to become a Super Randonneur. Along with Sharma, we also formed Hawk Riders Club and conducted various events,” Arjun added.First interstate voyageAlong with British cyclist Adam Paxtom, Thakur finished around a distance of 2,334 km from Wagah Border to Bangladesh Border in 30 days in 2017. Adam was on his India tour when, the Punjab Bikers Club chose Thakur to cycle with Paxton. After working with various sports and cycling companies, Thakur now runs, The Bike Masters store in partnership with Jaswinder Singh Pawa, a fellow cyclist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arjun-thakur-is-beating-the-disability-blues-with-cycling-345652
03-12-2021||---||Dr Arora is PIMS Director Principal||Jalandhar, December 2Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) today got Dr Rajiv Arora (MD, Physiology) as the new Director Principal.Amit Singh, Resident Director, PIMS, said Dr Arora is an able administrator. “We hope with his rich experience and strong vision in academics, PIMS will scale newer heights not only in medical education but also patient care,” he said.Dr Arora is from Jalandhar. He passed out from Apeejay School and graduated from AFMC, Pune. He did PG from CMC Ludhiana and was working in PIMS since 2009. Dr Arora brings 30 years of experience in medical education and healthcare.He has keen interest in research and has nearly 40 publications to his credit. On his taking new responsibility, Dr Arora said: “My priority will be to set even higher standards in medical education and make PIMS a hub for medical treatment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-arora-is-pims-director-principal-345653
03-12-2021||---||Nawanshahr DC forms 40 Covid sampling teams||NAWANSHAHR, DECEMBER 2With the emergence of Omicron as the new Covid variant, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal has set the target of collecting 2,500 samples daily in the district to keep strict surveillance on the situation in the district.Chairing a meeting with health officials to discuss Covid-19 situation, the DC asked the Health Department to constitute 40 new sampling collection teams. He said new sampling teams would collect sampling in the areas witnessing high footfall, markets, bus stand and other places. He said the only way to keep the virus under-check is to do more testing.Besides, Sarangal also told the health officials to ensure administrating 5,500 doses of vaccine daily in the district especially laying special focus of giving second dose. He also asked them to make dedicated efforts to cover all eligible beneficiaries under the vaccination drive as soon as possible.He appealed the people to inform the district administration in case of any person had recently arrived from countries at risk category including UK, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Brazil, Bangladesh, Israel and others. He said the district administration was fully geared up and prepared to tackle any situation arising from the new variant of Covid pandemic. He also asked the people to strict follow safety precautions that include wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands regularly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-dc-forms-40-covid-sampling-teams-345654
03-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Omicron: Wedding season poses fresh challenge for Jalandhar Health Department||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 2As many as 157 patients from high-risk countries have arrived in Jalandhar between November 23 to 30. With two cases of Omicron reported in the country, caution has been advised to all citizens, especially in terms on new international arrivals to the country. The health authorities in Jalandhar are also on their toes to prevent spread in the NRI-rich Doaba region.The ongoing wedding season has posed a big challenge for the Health Department with so many NRI arrivals.The 157 new international arrivals include patients from the UK, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, Singapore among other countries. While none of the arrivals have tested positive for Covid so far ever since Omicron was flagged as a variant of Covid, as per state protocol, home-quarantine has been advised to all international travellers, especially from high-risk regions.However, despite stringent Covid safety and screening guidelines in place to screen international travellers, there are some ground level problems which make it impossible to ensure 100 per cent effectiveness in screening.Sources in the Health Department said, “All airport passengers from high-risk countries are screened on arrival. But many come in through connecting flights. With the existing health teams it is also impossible to check which ones are abiding by home-quarantine. Many of the NRIs arrive here for weddings. While they are advised seven-day quarantine, many go and attend functions. Its not possible to keep tabs on all activities. One the eighth day another sampling of these passengers is done. But it is not possible for the health mechanism to confirm 100 per cent quarantine of NRIs until then.”Caterers and wedding organisers said there are so far no Covid-related instructions and many NRIs were attending weddings within days of arrival amidst large gatherings.One of the organisers said, “There are many weddings slated for consecutive days in December. Many involve NRI guests. Those coming for a week cant spent the entire time here sitting at home. They mingle and spend time with relatives often without masks.”Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said, “All travellers are screened at the airport. Those positive are placed in institutional quarantine.There are fool proof arrangements in place. In this region, there has been no positivity reported in international travelers so far. All arrangements are also in place for level 2 and level 3 Covid facilities at the Civil Hospital. To prepare for the foreign arrivals, a separate 10-bedded Covid unit will be created in a Covid care ward in city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-wedding-season-poses-fresh-challenge-for-jalandhar-health-department-345655
03-12-2021||---||Jalndhar: Dharna at BSF Chowk brings entire city to a halt||Jalandhar, December 2Youth, who had appeared for recruitment for the post of constables in the Punjab Police and are alleging anomalies in the screening of candidates after the written test, sat on dharna at BSF Chowk on Thursday putting the residents of the entire area into a huge traffic mess.We cannot use force against the youth owing to directions from the top on remaining soft till the elections. Since the resentment of the youth is specifically over police recruitments, our bosses are extremely cautious. But we are trying to look for ways and means to get the dharna lifted. They are adamant that the previous bar of selection be taken into account for making a merit list. Senior police officialsAbout 50 youth who sat on the dharna at 11 am continued squatting on the Old GT Road till late evening. The dharna caused massive inconvenience to the commuters who were to head towards Amritsar, Ludhiana or Chandigarh as they got stuck in long jams and were put on diverted route, which made them go around the entire city before eventually reaching their destinations. Schoolchildren, bus passengers, ambulances and government vehicles – all got caught up waiting for hours to be rescued.The youth alleged that they had applied for the posts of constable in the Punjab Police. They said they appeared for the written test and were told that all those general candidates who would score above 30 and SC candidates who would score above 25 marks would be called for appearing in the physical fitness test.Deepak, one of the protesting youth, alleged that after the test, the Punjab Police Recruitment Board changed the conditions. “We were told that since majority of the students had scored above 25, they had changed the criteria. They said they would call all general candidates scoring above 70 marks for the physical fitness test. Likewise, SCs, who have scored above 65 marks and women who have scored more than 60 marks, were to be called up. But we have found that there are huge anomalies in screening the candidates at this stage. Some candidates who have scored just 34 marks have been called in while those who have scored above 70 marks have been left out. We will not tolerate this injustice,” the aspirants alleged.Deepak said: “The administrative and police officials came to request us to vacate the site but we told them that we will not move till our demands are accepted. In the evening, we lifted the dharna for some time as the officials of the Punjab Police Recruitment Board had called us for talks at PAP complex. We went there, but our issues remained unresolved. So, we again sat on dharna and intend to continue the night through and may be indefinitely till our demands are accepted. We want all the anomalies to be removed before the process is taken further.”The traffic congestion because of the dharna spilled across on all directions with Chugitti, Domoria ROB and Guru Nanakpura localities getting huge streams of vehicles that could ply only at a snail’s pace. Even as the youth had closed only one side of the road, the other one got clogged due to the poor management of the traffic police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalndhar-dharna-at-bsf-chowk-brings-entire-city-to-a-halt-345656
