04-12-2021||---||Jalandhar police 'lathicharge' youth protesting against 'anomalies' in Punjab Police recruitment||Jalandhar, December 4The youth protesting against the alleged anomalies in the Punjab Police recruitment for the past two days were lathicharged by the police here on Saturday.They had come to block the NH1 at the PAP flyover.Some girls were said to be injured and they had been hospitalised.Jalandhar DCP Jagmohan Singh denied any lathi charge. He said the protesting youth who had come from Moga, Bathinda and other towns had tried to obstruct the entry of eligible aspirants for physical trials at the PAP Complex and were not ready to move and hence they had to be pushed aside. An FIR against 60-odd youth is being lodged at Navi Baradari Police Station. A few of them have been detained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-lathicharge-youth-protesting-against-anomalies-in-punjab-police-recruitment-346215
04-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman immolates self, 3 booked||Gymkhana Club poll on Dec 15Jalandhar: Elections of the prestigious Jullundur Gymkhana Ladies Club have been fixed for December 15. Nominations can be filed on December 6 and 7 while scrutiny of papers will take place on December 8. SDM Nakodar-cum-Returning Officer Jullundur Gymkhana Ladies Club Poonam Singh said the nominations would be accepted at Administrative Building Treasury Office in the club from 11 am to 3 pm on the given days. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on December 8 whereas the nomination papers can be withdrawn before 3 pm on December 9, added the SDM. The voting will start at 9 am and continue till 4 pm at the club premises, said the SDM adding that the counting will also be held on same day subsequently announcing the result. She also pointed out that those members, who have their dues pending, should deposit the same till December 6. The elections will be held for the positions of honorary secretary, joint secretary, entertainment secretary, treasurer, 10 members of executive committee and joint entertainment secretary. TNSTipper set on fire, 3 bookedHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have registered a case against three persons on the charge of setting afire a tipper parked in a cattle shed. Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Dasuya Road, told the police that Narinder Singh, a resident of Hariana, Paramjit Singh, a resident of Kabirpur and Ravinder Singh, a resident of Dallewal allegedly, along with his other associates, broke the glass of his tipper standing in the mansion, sprinkled oil over it and set it on fire. When he raised an alarm, they ran away, he said. The police have registered a case. OC13 boxes of liquor seizedHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have seized 13 boxes of smuggled liquor from a car during a naka in the area on Thursday night. The police have registered a case against unidentified accused under relevant sections of the Excise Act. The accused tried to run away after being signalled by the police to stop their vehicle. After taking possession of the car, the police recovered 13 boxes of liquor from it during search. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-immolates-self-3-booked-346186
04-12-2021||---||Candidates continue stir, shift venue to PAP flyover in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 3Nearly 40-odd aspirants for the post of constable with the Punjab Police from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and adjoining cities continued their dharna on the GT Road for the second day on Friday.The protesters, who had yesterday blocked the BSF Chowk, chose to move to PAP flyover this morning. As the cops saw them trying to further create traffic chaos, they got into action. A huge police force was deployed to ensure that there was no blockade for the residents like Thursday. Water cannon-mounted vehicles, too, were pressed into service and they were finally convinced to move to a service lane along the PAP flyover.The cops asked the Punjab Police aspirants to show their roll numbers and marks list or move off from the site. The cops managed to figure out some youth who were actually not candidates and were still trying to give the protest some strength and asked them to leave the site.Meanwhile, a second round of talks was held in which ADGP-cum-Chairman of the Punjab Police Recruitment Board Gurpreet Deo talked to the disgruntled candidates. The students came out unconvinced and said they wanted an inquiry by a three-member committee of civil services officials into their allegations of anomalies in the recruitment.The agitating students have said that they had appeared for the written test and were told that all those general candidates who would score above 30 and SC candidates who would score above 25 marks would be called for appearing in the physical fitness test but later changed the criteria.They said they were now calling all general candidates scoring above 70 marks for the physical fitness test. Likewise, SCs who have scored above 65 marks and women who have scored more than 60 marks are being called up. They further alleged that some candidates who have scored just 34 marks have been called in while those who have scored above 70 marks have been left out.They then met ADC Amarjit Bains, who assured them of taking their complaint to a higher level. After a meeting with the ADC, the aspirants said: “We have put off our protest for two days. We have given the administration some time to form a panel. If no panel is formed till Sunday, we will re-start our dharna again.”On the issue, Deo said: “The entire recruitment is being held in the most transparent manner. We received 4 lakh applications for 4,383 posts of constable. We were to screen the top 20,000 applicants for which we set a new cut off. We only said the general category candidates scoring about 30 marks and SC candidates above 25 marks would be considered qualified. It was not our cut-off point. Our cut-off is different for different categories, which these students are taking as anomaly. I assure that there was no anomaly of any sort in the recruitment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/candidates-continue-stir-shift-venue-to-pap-flyover-346168
04-12-2021||---||Omicron: Civil Surgeon reviews preparedness||Jalandhar, December 3“Do not get out of your homes without reason” and “wear masks”, were two of the many advisories that the Kapurthala Civil Surgeon meted out to the district’s citizens today. With the surfacing of the new variant of Covid, Kapurthala Civil Surgeon, Dr Gurinderbir Kaur, on Friday visited and reviewed arrangements at various health centres in the district.She visited the hospitals’ ICU centres, isolation wards, three oxygen plants running in the district and also looked into the medicines available at various government centres.Dr Gurinderbir Kaur said the Health Department was on guard about the Omicron variant of Covid and health teams are working to tackle it at their own level. She appealed to people to abide by Covid appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks and not to go out without reason.Issuing a warning about the new Covid variant, the Civil Surgeon told people that with the coming of new cases of Omicron worldwide, getting vaccinated with both the doses of Corona and abiding by future government directions was necessary.She asked people with persistent symptoms like fever, cough, difficulty in breathing, body ache, fatigue and nausea to contact local government health centres and get sampling done. She also asked citizens to exercise caution in little things like placing a handkerchief over their mouths while sneezing.Meanwhile, Dr Gurinderbir Kaur said people coming from 11 countries will be tested upon arrival in India. These countries include United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. She said those coming from these countries will be tested on the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-civil-surgeon-reviews-preparedness-346170
04-12-2021||---||Contractual NHM employees burn copies of appreciation letters||Jalandhar, December 3Over a month into their agitation against non-regularisation, members of the National Health Mission on Friday returned and burnt copies of their appreciation letters received from the state government as a mark of protest. Returning their appreciation letters to the DC office, they also burnt letters during a protest held outside the civil surgeon’s office here today.The agitation was part of the statewide agitation of the NHM against the state government. Agitating employees said, “For the past 12 years, nearly 12,500 NHM workers have been working on meagre salaries with the Health Department on contractual basis. During the Covid pandemic, workers without caring for their lives worked for the welfare of patients and needy. But despite this our demand of regularisation remains unfulfilled.”Workers said as per the Act made to regularise 36,000 contractual workers, none of the National Health Mission employees had been included even though the neigbouring Haryana government was paying full salaries to its NHM workers from 2018 onwards.While NHM workers and employees in various district returned their commendation and appreciation letter to the state government in protest against their regularisation, in Jalandhar workers heaped up their appreciation letters outside the Civil Surgeon’s office and set fire to them.Workers said they be either regularised or be paid increased salaries on the lines of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contractual-nhm-employees-burn-copies-of-appreciation-letters-346171
04-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur corona warriors on warpath||Hoshiarpur, December 3Continuing the ongoing indefinite strike, the health workers working under National Health Mission in the Health Department, on Friday returned the commendation certificates given to them for providing best services during the Covid pandemic as ‘Corona Warriors’ to the Deputy Commissioner, Hoshiarpur. On the occasion, district vice president of the NHM Emplyees Union, Sumit Sharma, said the strike was being carried out by the employees working under the National Health Mission for their rights and would continue till their demands are met. “These health workers have been performing their duties diligently for the past 15 years on meagre salaries and are constantly exploited by every government. All the announcements made by the Channi government are pure lies and our legitimate demands were not being heeded which is a great betrayal of the employees,” he said.He said in the Covid pandemic, these employees did risk their lives to serve the humanity and now but the government completely ignored the legitimate demands of the workers, which forced the Corona warriors to return their letters/certificates of commendation to the government today in protest. Meanwhile, Azad Kisan Sanghrsh Samiti Lachowal also extended their support to the NHM Union. All workers raised anti-government slogans and said that if their demands were not met, the struggle would be intensified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/corona-warriors-on-warpath-346172
04-12-2021||Life of Surinder Kumar (32) is an ordeal. Eldest of the four siblings residing at Sahaura Dadial village in Mukerian||World Disability Day has no meaning for this family||Surinder has no regular job. He does whatever labour work he gets on daily basis. “While on some days, I get to wash utensils at a marriage function or any other such work, there are days when there is no work,” he says as he dedicatedly looks after every family member.He shares his routine. “I start waking up by siblings early morning as they are physically dependent on me completely. Neither my wife nor my mother can bear their weight and carry or them around much. So I take them to the washroom one by one and freshen them before I leave for work. My wife Rekha Rani and my mother Suhag Rani cook food for them. On some days they can eat food themselves but many times they have to be spoon-fed.”Adds Kumar: “All three of them were in this condition right from their birth. My parents tried to get them treated from various hospitals, including PGI in Chandigarh, but they were told that there is no treatment available for them. My father Sarwan Kumar used to took care of them all his life till he expired in January this year. He was an additional earning hand in the family too. After his demise, their responsibility fell on me completely. My mother, too, has become weak owing to heart ailment”.Kumar has a pucca house. “The villagers are quite compassionate for us. Our previous house structure was weak and rainwater used to seep in. They helped us financially so that we could rebuild the house and make a verandah of concrete as well. But the real problem as of date is of the daily struggle to earn as much to feed my family and fulfil their basic needs.”They get four monthly pensions of Rs 1,500 each as old age allowance for Surinder’s mother and three disability allowances for each of his sibling. “But Rs 6,000 and my meagre daily income is not enough to feed eight mouths, pay fee of my school-going children and buy daily dose of medicines for all four of them,” he rues.Despite its poor financial condition, the subisidised ration scheme for the family got cancelled about 1.5 years back. “Our names were deleted from the list of the beneficiaries under the Blue Card scheme. I have met the officials and local politicians a number of times. Every time I go, they make me fill up a form. But nothing happens after that. But till date the supply of atta-dal has not come to us,” he rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-disability-day-has-no-meaning-for-this-family-346174
04-12-2021||---||A day dedicated to differently abled||Jalandhar, December 3On the occasion of International Day of Disabilities Orthopaedician Dr Saurabh Lange and his team check and treated patients at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra and Medical Superintendent Dr Seema also handed out disability certificates to patients during a health camp here on Friday.Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Varinder Kaur Thind, Orthopaedician Dr Saurabh Lange, Dr Satinderjit Singh Bajaj, Dr Kamraj, District Mass Media Officer Kirpal Singh Jhalli, Deputy MEIO Dr Paramjit Kaur, District BCC Coordinator Neeraj Sharma, Manpreet Kaur, Jaspreet, Miloni, Harmilan among others were present on the occasion.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra while speaking on the occasion said the International Day for Disabilities is aimed at spreading awareness about the rights of the disabled, and the need for their welfare as well as to highlight the political, social, economic, and cultural aspects of their standing and rights in society. It is also aimed to sensitise people to uphold the protection and strengthening of the rights of the disabled. He said mainstreaming the disabled so that they can live shoulder to shoulder with others and removing bias about their condition from the minds of the rest of the populace were among the key aims which which the day is celebrated.He also said vaccination camps were being held for the disabled. Medical Superintendent Dr Seema said the Health Department was committed to prove better health services for the disabled.Meanwhile, Jalandhar-based NGO Edu Youth Foundation (Regd) observed International Day of Persons with Disabilities at Guru Nanak Mission Netarheen Birdh Ashram near Phagwara. Langar sewa including High tea, refreshments were served to over 100 children and adults with lack of eyesight. Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, president of NGO, told that a cake was a also cut by our NGO in order to celebrate birthday of all residents of ashram. All members and volunteers are working tirelessly to serve society. We will be performing many other activities in coming days to serve society.Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, Sunny Lally, Parampreet Gill, Dinkar Dogra, Harsimran Tiwana, Preet Inder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Sandeep Singh, Gurkirat Sandhu, Jaskirat Sandhu, Ricky Badhan along with management and sewadars of ashram were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-day-dedicated-to-differently-abled-346176
04-12-2021||---||Educational institutions hold debates, plays||Jalandhar, December 3World Disability Day was observed in some educational institutes on Friday.Students of St. Soldier Group of Institutions observed ‘World Disability Day’ at Apahaj Ashram. The students made people aware by making posters of ‘See the person not wheel chair’, ‘These people can do anything’, and ‘Ability is stronger than my disability.’ The students showed their respect to disabled people by presenting motivational play. During this, Chairman Anil Chopra and Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra distributed tricycles, blankets, and fruits to the inmates of Apahaj Ashram. All the students took pledge to always stand by the handicapped people for their good health and other facilities.Shiv Jyoti Public School also observed the day by organising a one-act play. The play was organised to sensitise the students regarding the emotional needs of the physically challenged persons.An inter-school online Hindi debate competition was also organised on the topic. The event was organised under the guidance of their Hindi teachers Suman Narula and Palwinder Kaur and activity coordinator Bhavna Sabharwal to show their best potential. Paridhi Sharma was declared the winner. Krishna Jyoti (Chairperson), Dr Vidur Jyoti (Chairman Trust) and Dr Suvikram Jyoti (Manager, Managing Committee and general secretary Trust) Principal Neeru Nayyar, Vice Principal Parveen Saili applauded her efforts and congratulated her parents and guide teachers for this achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educational-institutions-hold-debates-plays-346177
04-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||DLSA organises seminar on International Disability Day||The District Legal Services Authority organised a seminar on International Disability Day at Asha Kiran School, Jahankhelan, under the leadership of CJM-cum-Secretary Aparajita Joshi. During the seminar, divyang children were made aware of their rights. Various activities were also carried out by various divyang children on the occasion. During the seminar, panel advocate Malkit Singh Sikri observed the activities of the children and encouraged them to go further. Advocate Gurpreet, para-legal volunteer Anita Kumari were also present on the occasion. Joshi said in addition to this a seminar was organised by the authority in connection with the National Lok Adalat to be held on December 11, in which awareness pamphlets were distributed to the people and motivated them to file more cases in the Lok Adalat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dlsa-organises-seminar-on-intl-disability-day-346178
04-12-2021||Jalandhar||Inter-school group dance competition||Nail art competition organisedTo acquaint students about a new trend and fashion in nail art, DIPS College (co-educational) Dhilwan organised competition in nail art. During the competition, students painted the nails of their friends beautifully with nail paint, gel and colours. Teachers gave knowledge about national and international fashion trends. In the competition, Jaswinder of BA secured the first position, Amandeep Kaur came second and PG cosmetology student Simranjeet Kaur bagged the third position. College coordinator Harpreet Kaur remarked that long and trendy nails have always remained in fashion and now-a-days this has become a status symbol. Students can invest very little and start earning. This work doesn’t require much space to start own business even in a small room, he said.Book Donation Camp organisedTo extend support towards the economically poor students around the campus, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a book donation camp. The students and faculty members across the campus participated in the noble cause and donated gently used books of different streams like Banking, Business Studies, IT Tools, Mathematics, Programming, Operating System, and Communication Skills. This activity sensitised the campus students for providing support to the unprivileged students for their education. Dr. Shailesh Tripathi (Group Director) presented a token of gratitude towards students and faculty members who contributed for this admirable goal. He stated that Institution frequently endorse social programs like Go Green, Swachha Bharat Mission, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Say no to drugs, Say no to plastic, Go Paperless and Digital Awareness and also arrange medical camps under Disha- An Initiative to ensure contribution for making a developed society.Computer Literacy Day observedEklavya School observed World Computer Literacy Day. The objective of observing this day is to make the students understand the role of technology in the society. As we are living in a tech savvy world so it’s mandatory for everyone to have the knowledge of atleast basic knowledge of computer. Gaurav Mehandiratta discussed the role of computer and technology with the students. He said almost every workplace requires computers to complete at least a small portion of daily tasks. Employees can easily connect with clients via email to share documents and important resources, he said. Dharamvir Chopra gave tips to the students about creating an online account on gmail, how to protect gmail or any other account from hackers.Ritika shines in ma examsRitika Sharma of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged 13th position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MA-economics semester-II by getting 445 marks out of 500. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra.Farm fresh outlet inauguratedDAV University inaugurated a farm fresh outlet in the premises. It was inaugurated with a ribbon cutting ceremony by Vice Chancellor, Dr. Jasbir Rishi. The outlet was established to sell out the farm produce to university staff as well as students. Sale was initiated with the purchase of maize flour by Dr Rishi. Registrar, Dr K N Kaul and Dean Academics, Dr RK Seth congratulated the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences for the initiative. Teaching and non-teaching numbers along with the students purchased the packets of maize flour and radish available for sale at the counter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-school-group-dance-competition-346180
04-12-2021||---||Raj Kamal Chaudhuri takes charge as IKGPTU V-C||Kapurthala, December 3Senior IAS officer Raj Kamal Chaudhuri (1996 batch) has taken over the charge as 15th Vice Chancellor of I.K.Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU). He got the charge as the V-C owing to his recent transfer as the Principal Secretary, Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training, Punjab.As per the notification issued by the Punjab Governor, the charge of Vice Chancellor, IKGPTU, is to be taken over by the Principal Secretary, Technical Education Department, till the permanent Vice Chancellor on tenure is not appointed.On his arrival at the university campus on Friday, he was given a warm welcome by the officers and faculty members led by Registrar and IAS officer Jaspreet Singh. During the first visit, Vice Chancellor Raj Kamal Chaudhuri reviewed the functions of various departments of the university and also listed various important works related to the university. He directed all the department heads to take up the urgent matters especially the work related to the students on priority basis and move forward with transparency.After the first meeting of all the department heads, the Vice Chancellor directed to issue date sheets of examinations to be held in December-January and to determine the method of examinations, to form a high level committee under the chairmanship of the Registrar and in association with the colleges to take early decision. He also focused on appointing the required guest faculty, and next year’s admission process was taken up too. He suggested making the admission process easier and complete on time by looking at the ongoing construction projects in person. He also directed the department heads to keep a close watch on the employees, faculty members and other staff working in the rest of the campuses of the university so that no one is getting government salary without coming to work. Vice Chancellor Raj Kamal Chaudhuri said he appreciates the staff members who have dedication and seriousness towards his work, but strongly opposes those who are working with negligence, carelessness or without taking responsibility in work.On this occasion, Dean Prof (Dr.) Yadwinder Singh Brar, Dean Prof (Dr.) Vikas Chawla, Controller Examinations Dr. RPS Bedi, Finance Officer Dr. Sukhbir Singh Walia, Director College Development Dr Balkar Singh, Dr Harmeen Soch, Deputy Controller Examinations Sandeep Kajal and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raj-kamal-chaudhuri-takes-charge-as-ikgptu-v-c-346181
