06-12-2021||---||Aspirants ?lathicharged?, policemen deny claim||Jalandhar, December 4About 60 aspirants from Moga, Bathinda and other districts of Punjab, who had come to the city to lodge a protest over the alleged anomalies in the Punjab Police recruitment, faced police action as they tried to obstruct the entrance of the PAP Complex on Saturday.While the youth alleged that they had been lathicharged, the police officials have denied using any force on them. Two girls – Charanjit Kaur from Bathinda and Gurpreet from Mohali - were among few boys who got injured. The girls were immediately shifted to the Civil Hospital here for treatment. Four youth, who reportedly tried to oppose the police, were detained for the whole day at the New Baradari police station.The local candidates, who had been lodging the protest for the past two days, had yesterday announced that there would be no agitation for Saturday and Sunday and that they had given the district administration two-day time to form a three-member committee of civil services officials to look into the anomalies in the police recruitment.Charanjit said she had been a part of protests in Bathinda and thought that lodging protest in Jalandhar would be more effective. “So we came here this morning and decided to lodge a protest outside the PAP Complex where physical fitness trials were being held for the youth since yesterday. It had been just 15 minutes since we sat down that there that the cops gathered in large numbers and started pulling, shoveling and canecharging us to remove us from the site. They left us and three-four boys badly bruised”, she rued.DCP Jagmohan Singh denied any use of cane on the youth. “They were obstructing the entry of the eligible aspirants inside the PAP Complex for the trials. We could not allow any dharna at the gates and hence we got them lifted. Since they have violated law by obstructing the process of recruitment, we will also lodge an FIR against them,” he said.The Punjab Police is in the process of recruitment of constables. The agitating students have said that they had appeared for the written test and were told that all those general candidates who would score above 30 and SC candidates who would score above 25 marks would be called for appearing in the physical fitness test but later changed the criteria. They said they were now calling all general candidates scoring above 70 marks for the physical fitness test.Chairperson of the Punjab Police Recruitment Board ADGP Gurpreet Deo has denied all allegations of anomalies being levelled by the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aspirants-lathicharged-policemen-deny-claim-346899
06-12-2021||Ajay Joshi||Improvement Trust to pay Rs 6.23L to resident||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 4The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in its recent judgment directed the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) to pay Rs 5,87,942 to a resident for not providing LIG flat under the Bibi Bhani Complex Scheme.JIT was further directed to pay a compensation of Rs 30,000 for causing mental agony and harassment to the complainant, litigation expenses of Rs 5,000.After filing a complaint, at the commission in May 2019, Sandeep Bhagat, a resident of the Modal House, alleged that in 2009, JIT, had published an advertisement to provide shelter to the public with ulterior-modern facilities with quality and standard of construction and accordingly, attracted and allured the general public to apply LIG flat in the scheme of Bibi Bhani Complex. Following which, he was allotted LIG Flat No.55-A, First Floor, Vikas Scheme 51.5 acre, Bibi Bhani Complex, Guru Amar Dass Nagar, Jalandhar, on August 16, 2009, in a lucky draw at Red Cross Bhawan, Jalandhar. The information regarding the allotment of LIG Flat was also given through an official letter.Bhagat had deposited all requisite papers for the registration of the application with the necessary fee and other formalities were completed within the stipulated period. He paid the whole purchase price of flat; Rs 5,87,942 to JIT. However, he failed to get the possession of the flat even after protracted follow-up and lapse of more than eight years from the date of allotment.Subsequently, due to the delay, Bhagat filed a complaint against JIT under the provision of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, at the commission and demanded compensation. To this, the JIT contested the complaint by taking preliminary objections that the present complaint is hopelessly time barred under the provision of the Limitation Act and hence, liable to be dismissed on this score only. Consequently, after hearing arguments of both the parties, commission president Harveen Bharadwaj and members Jyotsna and Jaswant Singh Dhillon concluded that the JIT failed to handover the possession even after 10 years of allotment and after eight and a half years of depositing the entire price money of the flat. Though JIT offered the flat to the complainant, but it was not fully constructed with all amenities and ultra-modern facilities.Subsequently, JIT was directed to refund the price of the flat, Rs 5,87,942, along with interest rate of 6% per annum from the date of deposits, till realisation, compensation of Rs 30,000 for causing mental agony and harassment and litigation expenses of Rs 5,000. The entire compliance should be made within 45 days from the date of receipt of the copy of order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/improvement-trust-to-pay-6-23l-to-resident-346904
06-12-2021||Sanjiv Bakshi||Sarpanch takes social media route to divert CM’s attention towards drug trade||Garhshankar, December 4Pained over the rising drug menace in village, Jatinder Jyoti Numberdar, Sarpanch, Basti Saisian village, has released a video urging CM Charanjit Singh Channi to provide employment opportunities to keep youth away from drug trade.While releasing the video clip, he said the only solution is to provide employment to those involved in the ‘chitta’ business. In the video, Jyoti said many youths have become victims and died due to the menace after buying ‘chitta’ from their village. Over a hundred inhabitants of the village are involved in the business of selling drugs and most of them have 10-20 cases registered against them. Despite cases being registered again and again, and repeated arrests, these people get involved in this work as soon as they come out of jail.He said, “A large number of people in our village are indulged in drug trade. There is a stigma in our village due to it. Many governments have come and go, but the situation has not changed. The government should make arrangements to provide employment to all people involved in drug trade so that they can leave the drug business.”He said if someone does drug business even after this, then he or she should be put in jail and the government should also make a provision that such people don’t get bail. Expressing concern, he said the families of drug addicts are being ruined. “Youths buy drugs from here and consume, their families have ruined and are humiliated socially as well,” he said, adding that even before this, many letters were written to the police and administrative officers demanding steps to stop the drug trade in the village, but no one has taken any meaningful step so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sarpanch-takes-social-media-route-to-divert-cms-attention-towards-drug-trade-346910
06-12-2021||---||Unemployed teachers again gherao Pargat’s residence||Jalandhar, December 4Unemployed BEd-TET pass-unemployed teachers again gheraoed the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh. At 6 in the morning, the unemployed teachers silently staged a sit-in in front of Pargat Singh’s residence. During this, the teachers, who were recording the videos, were thrashed by the police and some mediapersons were also stopped from covering the incident.Shortly after, the Education Minister came out of his house and met the unemployed teachers. He promised to release the vacancy advertisements by December 10. After the assurance of the Education Minister, the unemployed lifted the dharna and warned that if the Education Minister did not fulfil the promise, then they would again stage a dharna in front of the Education Minister’s house. It is worth mentioning that this BEd-TET pass unemployed teachers are seeking to release an advertisement for 9,000 posts in Punjabi, Hindi and social education subjects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unemployed-teachers-again-gherao-pargats-residence-346912
06-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman held for duping man of Rs 1L||Three booked for demanding dowryHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have registered a dowry harassment case against the victim’s husband, mother-in-law and her father-in-law. According to information, Lavita, a resident of Sadarpur, Garhshankar, has complained to the police that she got married to Gagandeep Singh, son of Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Diyala village, on October 1, 2020. According to her, after marriage, her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law Manjinder Kaur allegedly harassed her, demanding more dowry. When she failed to do so,, the accused harassed her and threw her out of the house. The police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-held-for-duping-man-of-1l-346914
06-12-2021||---||Omicron threat: 32 samples sent for genome sequencing||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5As the Omicron variant is keeping health authorities across the globe on their toes, locals continue to throng markets and hold huge gatherings without following Covid protocols.Formally, there is no case of Omicron in the state. As far as gatherings in the markets or at weddings are concerned, people should act responsibly, when it comes to their own health — Dr Ranjit Ghotra, Civil SurgeonIn view of the new variant, the Health Department sent 32 random samples of residents, for genome sequencing to ascertain the variant.The health authorities confirmed that none of the samples sent were of international travellers, but only of locals.Meanwhile, huge crowds could be seen at Sunday market without wearing masks and practising social distancing. Even after considerable increase in positive cases in the last one month, the district administration has been quite slow in enforcing Covid norms.Ashok, a shopkeeper, said, “Me and my employees wear masks inside the shop. What can we say to customers? Majority of people do not wear masks. Throughout the day, I see only one or two customers with masks.”Neeraj, a local, said: “Covid-19 guidelines are for people’s convenience only. With cases going down, people have become careless. Moroeover, it’s a wedding season.’No new case in districtNo new covid case or death was reported in Jalandhar on Sunday. The Covid tally remained at 63,514. The toll stands at 1,499. As many as 61,977 people recovered from Covid while the district has 38 active cases. Of the 18,41,283 samples collected in the district so far, 170,40,44 samples tested negative.No fresh case in K’thalaNo new case was reported in Kapurthala on Sunday and the tally stands at 17,869.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-threat-32-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-346875
06-12-2021||---||Op Red Rose: 1.1L-kg lahan seized from island in Sutlej||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5On the directions of Rajat Aggarwal, Excise Commissioner, Punjab, under operation Red Rose of the state government initiated after last year’s hooch tragedy, a joint raid was on Sunday conducted by Jalandhar West Excise team, excise team Ludhiana and Jalandhar Rural Police under the supervision of Kamalpreet Singh SP (D) and Ranjit Singh AC (X), Jalandhar Range-2, on an island situated in the Sutlej near Mehatpur in the district.The raiding teams included Shahkot police, Mehatpur police, CIA Rural Jalandhar and Ludhiana excise team, Hoshiarpur excise team, Jalandhar excise team and excise police with the assistance of excise inspectors Resham, Ram Murti, Ravinder and Raman Bhagat under the supervision of Harjot Singh, Excise Officer, Jalandhar West, Assistant SP, Adampur, and Shamsher Singh Shergill, DSP, Shahkot.The raid was conducted at Dharme Diyan Channa village in Mehatpur, Jalandhar. During the raid, 1,11,000 kg of lahan was seized from underground pits dug in sand and six working stills consisting of 12 big drums with other illicit liquor manufacturing items like tubes, utensils and drums were confiscated.A case has been registered at Mehatpur police station. It is pertinent to mention here that liquor was being manufactured from poisonous water of the Sutlej.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/op-red-rose-1-1l-kg-lahan-seized-from-island-in-sutlej-346876
06-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Only 14 men turn up in comparison to 188 women at camps||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5Out of the 202 people who opted for sterilisation during recent camps by the district health department, a majority of them were women.NSVs vs TubectomyAs compared to 188 women who went for the invasive procedure of sterilisation (tubectomy) at the recently concluded Sterilisation Fortnight in the district, merely 14 men opted for sterilisation. Even though sterilisation among men involve non-scalpel, non-invasive procedures conducted without any cut and also heavily incentivised by the state government, women continue to bear the burden of family planning measures amidst prevalent myths and stigma.The Sterilisation Fortnight was held from November 21 to December 4 across camps at the district CHCs, PHCs and the Civil Hospital.Experts said persistent ignorance among the populace regarding maternity to post partum care and treatments extends all the way to the sterilisation process.Notably, the considerably lesser men turning up at sterilisation camps is in keeping with lack of awareness regarding sterilisation processes among men for decades.From 2016 until March 2019, as many as 11,578 women opted for tubectomy in the district while in comparison, a mere 1,120 men opted for vasectomies.In 2016-17, as many as 4,009 women underwent sterilisation surgery while only 316 men opted for the procedure. In 2017-18, 3,800 women underwent the procedure compared to only 318 men and in 2018-19 (until March), as many as 3,769 women opted for sterilisation while the number of men is only 486.Dr Indu Bala, in charge, PPE (Post Partum) Unit, Jalandhar, said: “This is the one surgery in a woman’s lifetime which men can easily volunteer for, relieving women of at least one task in the plethora of surgical child bearing or family planning procedures they undergo throughout lives. But this burden too, they leave for women even though the NSV (Non Scalpel Vasectomy) is a much more simpler, scalpel free, low risk and quicker procedure for men. The figures during the sterilisation fortnight are reflective of myth mongering and prevalent patriarchy among the populace. Men are considered bread-winners and kings of the house while women just sit at home and do housework. Women will just lie around the house for days, while we have to work. This is the reigning thought. So they do not want to share this miniscule family planning responsibility either.”She added, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, very few men turned up for the procedure. Since RTPCR tests are mandatory before the NSVs, men shy away from that too. We have been motivating men the best we can and even counselling men on the procedure, answering many questions they have. Yet it is difficult to break age-old perceptions. Of those turning up, many are labourers or addicts coming in for money. Only a few educated are truly aware.”Dr Gurmeet Kaur, gynaecologist, Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “From highly prevalent anaemia among expectant mothers to only women volunteering for the tedious tubectomy procedures, these are mere reflections of societal mindset. There are myths like it will cause weakness or impotence among men. In many homes even women do not want to allow men the same.”Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Gotra said, “We have been trying our level best to help dispel persisting myths but the response is dismal. Somehow the myth persists that sterlisation will compromise the potency of a man. In some households, women also side with men in this illogical belief. The affect is seen in such camps. Despite incentives, men shy away from the procedure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-14-men-turn-up-in-comparison-to-188-women-at-camps-346877
06-12-2021||---||Alumni visit alma mater, relive bygone era||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5A bygone era was relived as alumni of Sainik School, Kapurthala, returned to their alma mater to take part in the old students’ meet here on Sunday. Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd), PVSM, UYSM, AVSM, VSM, who is at present the Governor of Uttarakhand, also visited his alma mater Sainik School. He was received by Col Prashant Saxena, Principal, Sainik School, Kapurthala.The Governor said he was proud to be part of the school where each cadet was nurtured, cared for and his persona sculpted to make him a confident person, ready to explore diverse opportunities offered by the world. He further said Sainik School had been instrumental in producing innumerable intellectuals and warriors who reached the zenith of their career across diverse professions. Besides, the school’s contribution to the defence forces was huge, he said.He said it had played an important role in shaping the character of youth by instilling in them the value of patriotism. He congratulated and applauded the school authorities and staff for achieving excellent results in the CBSE examinations and NDA intake during the last few years.He expressed satisfaction over the perceptible improvement in the NDA results and overall development of the school. He congratulated Col Prashant Saxena for bringing in change and leading from the front. The 1971-79 batch of the school paid their gratitude to the alma mater by presenting a tractor. The old boys interacted with young students and gave them tips on their bright future.According to the tradition, Col Prashant Saxena and other staff members extended a warm welcome to Old Saikapians, who remembered war heroes and paid homage by offering floral tributes at the Smriti Sthal. The Young Saikapians welcomed their elders in front of the place. The School Band presented brilliantly synchronised band display. Also present on the occasion were Wg Cdr Deepika Rawat, Vice-Principal, and Maj JBS Beg, Administrative Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/alumni-visit-alma-mater-relive-bygone-era-346878
06-12-2021||---||Labour unions corner govt over non-implementation of decisions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5Labour and farm unions on Sunday decided to increase the timings of their rail roko from 12 pm to 4 pm (earlier it was 3 pm) on December 12. The decision was taken due to non-fulfilment of demands by the state government.On November 23, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Agricultural Minister Randeep Singh Nabha had held a meeting with various outfits.The Sanjha Morcha leader Gurnam Singh Daud said they would burn effigies of the state government on December 8, 9 and 10.Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union president Sanjeev Mintu said CM Channi has not released any letter regarding the demands of farmers and labourer.Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha’s senior leader Gulzar Gaurian said the CM should release a notification on demands agreed during the meeting, including disbursal of plots to homeless, restoration of uprooted electricity meters along with exemption of pending dues, surcharge and fines levied on power bills, ensuring 25 per cent share of homeless pesants in the Cooperative Societies, extending loans of Rs 50,000 to landless farmers, provision of pulses, sugar and essential items at ration depots at controlled rates.Makkhan Singh Ramgarh of Mazdoor Mukti Morcha and Pargat Singh Kalajhar of Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union said the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has installed huge hoardings regarding residential plots and bill waivers among others, but there was a huge gap between what was being claimed and what has been implemented on the ground level.Lachman Singh and Kashmir Singh Ghugshore, both associated with labour unions, said a high-level SIT should also be constituted to look into the issues of atrocities against the Dalits. Other leaders said it was declared that the report of SIT related to murder of Lakhvir Singh at Singhu Border would be released within a couple of days, but nothing has happened so far.Bhagwant Singh Samao and Devi Kuamri said the CM’s decision regarding cancellation of dummy auction at Masania village in Gurdaspur has not been implemented to date.Irked union leaders said Congress looks to retain the power by playing the Dalit CM card and empty promises. Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union chief Zora Singh Nasrali, Pendu Mazdoor Union president Tarsem Peter and Dehati Mazdoor Sabha chief Darshan Nahar were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-unions-corner-govt-over-non-implementation-of-decisions-346879
06-12-2021||Break the nexus of politicians & police||Open House: Is fixing sand price enough to address this age-old mining menace without reining in mafia?||It is worrisome that Punjab has been plagued with the perennial problem of illegal mining of sand and gravel. Due to their negligent and lackadaisical approach in the implementation of land mining rules and regulations, successive state governments have failed miserably in eradicating this all-pervasive menace. As a result, this unregulated and unhindered lucrative business is being carried on with impunity. It leads to environmental degradation, soil erosion and destruction of crops, clashes between sand mafias, criminalisation and even loss of precious human lives. Moreover, it breeds corruption and causes a humongous loss to the state exchequer every year. In a landmark judgment, the apex court has directed the states to adopt a balanced approach of sustainable development ensuring environmental safeguards while dealing with the issue of sand mining. After it was repeatedly accused of giving sand mafia a free hand, the ruling Congress party has recently introduced a new mining policy, slashing the sand rates and giving ample rights to landowners and possessors to level their fields. Dubbing it as a populist gesture for gaining political mileage in the ensuing Assembly elections, various villages still complain against riverbeds being ravaged with more than 40-feet deep craters. The government should break the existing unholy alliance between the police, politicians and the sand mafia. Along with the fixing responsibility of the officials concerned, a stringent penal action should be taken against the obdurate perpetrators engaged in unlawful mining activities. It will help the consumers get these minor construction minerals at cheaper rates and considerably ramp up the state’s revenueSimran & Tajpreet S KangOnly a gimmick to reap electoral dividendsOver the past many years, rampant illegal sand and gravel mining near riverbeds across the state has been a major cause for concern. Besides disturbing the ecological balance, eroding land and spoiling its quality, it causes a huge loss to the public exchequer and damages temporary bandhs, roads, bridges and electricity poles. Despite the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court’s directions, the state government taking various remedial measures, such as registering cases against the unscrupulous people and confiscating their vehicles and using drones to assess the extent of excavation, this unlawful activity has been going on unabated, courtesy police-politician-mining and the transport mafia. In a welcome move, the Punjab dispensation has recently formulated a new mining policy to cap the daily-growing prices of these construction materials in the public interest. It will not only make these available to the consumers at affordable rates and help farmers and panchayats to level agricultural fields, but also augment the state’s sources. Moreover, officials and contractors violating these rules without any valid reason and charging increased rates will be strictly dealt with. Whether this much-hyped new policy is a tactical move to reap electoral dividends or it is legally and practically feasible, only time will tell. A strong political will, a comprehensive policy and its proper implementation, and tightening the noose on unscrupulous elements are the last resort to curb this illicit activity.D S KangFor how long will this rule stay?Administration has all the powers to deal firmly with all those responsible for illegal activities. Every year, millions of tons of sand is evacuated from the river beds and choes and similarly boulders are lifted from the rivers. Government frames a new policy for sand mining, but due to the development works of multistory buildings, bridges, cemented roads, cement blocks for houses the demand for sand has increased manifold. The sand mafia has also expanded its areas to fulfill the demand of sand, here a question arises of demand and supply. At present the sand mafia lifts the sand from different areas of river beds. Whenever the monsoons hit badly, it creates havoc at these sensitive points, causing a great loss to the agricultural land. New Chief Minister S Charanjit Singh Channi has announced the new rates of sand but for how long can it be expected to last? Until and unless strict punishment is implemented against the theft of the natural resources, illegal sand mining will keep going on.RAJAT KUMAR MOHINDRUSand mafia will remain dominantGovernment tried to provide sand at cheaper rates to the consumers but sand mafia is dominant with their illegal network. It is an age-old menace of violent conflicts. They are bribing local politicians and law enforcement officers. Politicians are hands-in-glove with the sand mafia, without their support it is not possible. These illegal sand mining have taken a toll on rivers. They work under the cover of darkness, excessive sand mining has altered river beds and even forced waterbodies to change their course, resulting floods, every now and then people and media persons are raising this issue about illegal activities but no action is taken because of the powerful and violent goons. Punjab is blessed by three rivers, which contribute sand and gravel abundantly Government should think about it seriously to stop this illegal mining and protect rivers. They should take strict actions against those found engaged in mining operation at night. Strict vigil and will power is required. Stringent action should be taken against violators, including officers and the police personnel found conniving in the illegal sand mining. Additional man power should be deployed to check night mining, even vehicles should be confiscated.SHASHI KIRANMarkets fail to implement new pricesIt’s unfortunate that Punjab is beset with many mafias — sand mafia, drug mafia, illicit alcohol mafia and many more. The sand mafia is harming the river beds of Punjab. Many bridges are in danger of collapsing. Those mining the riverbeds are just labourers who are controlled by their bosses and big fish, political or big government officials or their relatives. The price of the sand has skyrocketed in the last many years. Though the government has fixed the price of the sand but the market has not complied with the order of the government. Some harsh steps have to be taken to control these sand mafias.Incidentally the word mafia is the structured secret organisation engaged in smuggling, racketeering, trafficking and other criminal activities in the U.S; Italy and elsewhere.In Punjab these mafias are roaming free and are not afraid of the law enforcement agencies who may be cahoots with these smugglers. So who will catch them? If the judiciary intervenes to pull the government and the police for controlling these mafias, things may improve. These mafias must be put behind bars and suitably punished so that they must fall in line and public gets some relief from high prices of sand and gravel.Dr JS WadhwaInfluential people making quick bucksSand and gravel are the basic construction material other than bricks, steal & cement. These ingredients are available in plenty almost all across the river basins. In earlier days, when the auction of quarries was not in place, people used to draw sand from these sources as per requirements, at a meagre price. In the last few decades, due to the acceleration in building activity and large scale infrastructure development, the demand for sand has increased and its prices raised manifolds. Finding it an emerging source of lucrative business, many influential persons, including some politicians, got involved in the trade, to make quick bucks. Such powerful groups openly flouted norms and resorted to illicit mining even at prohibited places, causing a dangerous threat to the safety of residents settled nearer to riverbeds apart from creating serious environment and ecological problems. Various nearby villagers are complaining against the riverbeds being ravaged, yet the illicit mining goes on unabated. Under the Mining Act, the government tried to regulate the trade by auction of potential khudds but the large presence of powerful mafias manipulate the instructions by indulging in all kind of violations and unfair practices. Not only they charge heavily from consumers, but dig up sand illegally much more than the permitted allocation, thus duping the state exchequer. Currently, mafias are in complete command of this business and sell sand at rates determined by it. Consequently, the end consumers are fleeced as the price of sand runs as high as Rs 30-per cubic feet. Upon hue and cry from the public, the Punjab CM made a declaration under ‘Mission Clean’ to take stern action against the sand mafias and put the violators behind bars. Despite announcement of pegging sand price @Rs 5.50 cft, it is still being sold at very high price and the menace of illicit mining goes on. Indeed, it is denting the government image as the people are now aware and well informed by sharp lenses of media. They cannot be be-fooled by mere rhetorics and populist announcements to allure voters for the forthcoming elections will not suffice until effective action is taken to nail the culprits. Only workable and credible declarations sound well, while the false and ludicrous promises vitiate the public order. The government and the officials concerned cannot escape the responsibility to provide good governance. In all, people expect politicians to be fair and deliver what they commit to retain power.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathPresent govt not keen to fight mafiaI clearly remember the long period when all production of cement factories was regularly gulped by our civil engineering projects like Bhakhra Nangal project and cement bags were rationed for the general public. The Department of Civil Supplies would inform applicants of their turn for two bags through their self-addressed post cards. The price of a bag of cement those days was Rs2.5 and that of sand and concrete a pittance. Then came ‘development’, which in our country is a close cousin of graft. We now have to pay more for concrete and sand than for cement. The sand mafia had learnt a simple lesson that they could dig up any amount of sand from any part of a river, free of cost, and then market the same on their own terms, courtesy links with the minister and apathy of the government. Thus, they have already mined millions of cubic feet from various sites in the state, never mind if their reckless digging has caused irreversible damage to our environment. Most of our bridges are exposed to risks of getting washed away during heavy rain. As a rule, well-marked sections of a canal or river are allotted and the allottee permitted to mine only up to sanctioned depth, and leave proof in the shape of unmined pyramidical pillars of sand. The height of hypocrisy is that cities are dotted with billboards announcing government rates of Rs5.5/cubic ft inviting only ridicule because sellers care two hoots. The loot goes on.MOHAN SINGHRivers damaged beyond redemption QUESTIONPolitical parties offering freebies to people ahead of the elections is common. Instead of promising good governance or welfare measures, the parties prioritise giving sops to lure voters. Don't you think this freebie culture is against the basic principles of democracy? What is your opinion and how can we stop this practice?Suggestions in not more than  200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 9)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-is-fixing-sand-price-enough-to-address-this-age-old-mining-menace-without-reining-in-mafia-346880
06-12-2021||---||'NCC plays crucial role in wiping out social maladies'||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5Punjab Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh today called upon the National Cadet Corps (NCC) volunteers to play a proactive role in wiping out the social maladies in the state.Interacting with the NCC cadets during its raising day here at the local Lyallpur Khalsa College, the minister said since NCC was a premier organisation that is channelizing the productive energy of youth in positive direction, so its cadets can play an important role in galvanising the youth against several social maladies. He said during the camps, NCC cadets imbibe the ethos of patriotism, nationalism and service to mankind in their lives which can play an important role in construction of a harmonious society. Pargat Singh said the NCC cadets must inspire their peers in schools/colleges for waging a war against social maladies and contribute immensely in nation building.Accompained by group commander Brigadier IS Bhalla, Additional Director General (ADG) NCC JS Sandhu, Secretary Governing Council of Layalpur Khalsa College Jaspal Singh, giving a clarion call for wiping out the curse of drugs from the state to make it completely drug free, the Education Minister said being a border state Punjab is fighting nation's war against drugs and participation in youth in general and NCC cadets in particular is must for eliminating this curse. He said the Punjab government had already snapped the supply line of drugs through effective measures but the need of the hour was that youngsters must come forward for creating massive awareness to check its demand.Pargat Singh said here the role of NCC was a huge one as there is a huge scope for harnessing the massive potential of the disciplined NCC cadets in the government's fight against drug abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-plays-crucial-role-in-wiping-out-social-maladies-346881
06-12-2021||---||Kewal Vig Award for Dr Chhina, Lal Athouli||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5On the 29th anniversary of former journalist Kewal Vig, noted agricultural economist and story writer Dr SS Chhina and prominent lyricist Lal Athouli Wale were felicitated with Kewal Vig Award -2021 as best writer and best lyricist, respectively. The award function was held at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall here.Noted singers Bhai Harjinder Singh, Jagdish Kataria,Tanmanjit Kaur, Jarnail Singh, Surinder Gulshan, Amarjit Singh, Balwinder Dildar and Dalwinder Dyalpuri presented songs of Lal Athouli Wale.Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, an AAP leader, was the chief guest. He paid homage to Kewal Vig and said he provided right direction and thinking to society through his pen. Dr SK Kalia, IG,PAP, said Kewal Vig’s services towards the field of journalism could not be forgotten and he was a pioneer of Punjab, Punjabi and punjabiyat.Former ambassador Ramesh Chandra, who was the special guest, said Kewal Vig was a far-sighted journalist. Congress leader Satnam Bitta paid homage to Kewal Vig, calling him a great personality, whose anniversaries are important to be celebrated every year as an award function. Khemkarny, member, Press Council of India, former SSP Dilbagh Singh Gill, Kamal Sehgal, former district president of the Youth Congress, Rajinder Gill, former councillor, and Shiv Kanwar Singh Sandhu were present. Jatinder Mohan Vig, chairman of the Kewal Vig Foundation, welcomed guests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kewal-vig-award-for-dr-chhina-lal-athouli-346882
06-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||3 held with 2-kg opium, intoxicants||Four booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The Mukerian police have booked four persons, including a woman, for luring a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. A resident of Khanpur village told the police that his daughter had gone to to bring milk at 6 am, but did not return. The complainant said he came to know that Yakub Ali, a resident of Bahiram, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Makhandin and his wife Shaiti, both residents of Kalra in Jalandhar and Sher Ali, a resident Mani Majra in Chamkaur Sahib, allegedly lured his daughter on the pretext of marriage. A case has been registered. OC3 booked for seeking dowryHoshiarpur: The police have booked three persons, including the husband for allegedly demanding dowry. Simrandeep Kaur, a resident of Giganowal village, said she got married to Pankaj Mehra, a resident of Delhi, on September 29, 2017. She said after the marriage, her husband, brother-in-law Deepak Mehra and mother-in-law Vijay Laxmi started harassing her and demanded dowry. A case has been registered. OC1 booked under Gambling ActHoshiarpur: The police have arrested a person for indulging in betting and recovered Rs 8,360 from his possession. The accused has been identified as Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Bhim Nagar. He has been booked under the Gambling Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-held-with-2-kg-opium-intoxicants-346883
