07-12-2021||Kanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Senior Secondary School||Extension lecture on Drug Abuse||Counselling Session organisedJalandhar: An informative and interactive Counselling Session was conducted at HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar, for the collegiate students who aspired to adopt career in Civil Services under the guidance of the Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. The Resource Person of the session was an inspiring young officer, Lakshit Sareen IAS. He was welcomed with the green planter as per the tradition of HMV by the School Coordinator Meenakshi Syal. The session was meant to provide the gateway to young aspirants about Civil Services Exam. The resource person, shared comprehensive details about how to commence the preparation, which subjects are to be chosen in graduation for better results, marks weightage of various subjects and each and every aspect of preparation in elucidated manner. The students gained much knowledge and interacted avidly with the resource person and got answers of their queries from him related to Civil Services. The school coordinator Meenakshi Syal said these sessions are immensely beneficial for the students as they show them with correct path which leads them to the destination of success. The stage was conducted by Sukriti. Overall, the session proved to be highly successful.Kirtan at CT GroupIn order to seek blessings from Almighty on the occasion of 552nd Birth Anniversary of Sri Guru Nanak Dev, CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur, solemnised the Bhog ceremony of Sri Akhand Path in which the students, faculty and staff of the CT Group paid their obeisance. On this occasion, the kirtan was performed by Bhai Jagdev Singh from Bathinda and was then followed by guru ka langar.On the occasion, CT Group Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi, Managing Director Manbir Singh, Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh and Campus Director Dr Rahul Malhotra were present along with staff and students.‘We Care Week’ observedThe NSS Wing of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, observed “We Care Week”. NSS volunteers along with Dr Simkee Dev, Dean, NSS, donated the groceries at Apahaj Ashram in which the staff and students of college had contributed as per their will. Tarsem Kapoor, Chairman, Apahaj Ashram, expressed his gratitude towards ACFA for such noble act. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra put forth that ACFA never lags behind to fulfil it’s social responsibilities and it instills the same values in its students as well. The NSS wing of the college is the epitome of connecting the students with the social wellbeing of the nation and to inculcate values in them which will make them a good and responsible citizen tomorrow. She appreciated Dr Simkee Dev and Komal for successfully managing the entire work.Workshop on Entrepreneurshipinter-school competitions in Jalandhar. Tribune photoLyallpur Khalsa School of Management and School of CSE organised a one-day “Workshop on Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Startups” organised for the students of management and CSE. Mandeep Sidhu (CEO, Simbha Quartz) and Dr Aashish Arora (HoD, GNDU, Regional Campus, Ladowali) graced the occasion as resource persons. They were presented token of gratitude by S. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, AA), Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC), Dr Ramandeep Singh Deol (Deputy Director, AA), Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) and Dr Pooja Dhand (HoD, CSE).S Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) stated that as globalisation has reshaped the international economic landscape and technological changes have created greater uncertainty in the world economy, youth entrepreneurship is believed to offer new ways to meet economic, social and environmental challenges. Dr SK Sood (Director) welcomed the guest and highlighted the importance of entrepreneurship in current scenario. He stated that it gives immense pleasure in becoming job giver instead of becoming job seeker. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extension-lecture-on-drug-abuse-347106
07-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Pendu Mazdoor Union up in arms against sarpanch, block officials||The Pendu Mazdoor Union (PMU), Punjab, organised a protest outside the Janta College gate at Kartarpur against the sarpanch and block-level officials. Members of the union alleged said the sarpanch was not willing to implement the CM’s promise of 5-5 marla plots to landless and dalit peasant labourers. They said gram sabha meets were called at villages Mallian and Fateh Jalal on Monday for handing over residential plots, but sarpanch and block official jointly decided not to attend the meet.They demanded recognition be given to resolutions passed during gram sabha meetings today. They also demanded action against sarpanches and block office officials who failed to turn up at the meetings.They said CM Channi’s photos on boards with lofty promises of residential plots, debt waivers, exemption from pending power bills, restoration of severed power connections, restoration of suspended blue cards, etc. were all far from reality.Union members reiterated declaration of the December 12 rail roko and exhorted heavy participation of people in it. State press secretary Kashmir Singh Ghugshore, Gurpreet Singh Chida, president, Youth Wing Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab, among others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pmu-up-in-arms-against-sarpanch-block-officials-347107
07-12-2021|| Jalandhar||Nawanshahr gets road infrastructure projects||Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Angad Singh on Saturday dedicated three road infrastructure projects worth Rs 98.78 lakh in various localities of the Nawanshahr. The inauguration projects include Kulam road to Durgapur road, Mohan Nagar and Master Lambar de Gali, opposite Rajpal building in Ward No. 9.Addressing the gathering, MLA Angad Singh said these projects would give an impetus to the growth of the city, thereby facilitating the residents. He said the government was committed to ensuring all-around and holistic development of Nawanshahr.He said he would leave no stone unturned to make Nawanshahr the most developed district of the Punjab. The MLA said the special emphasis was being laid to time bound completion of remaining ongoing development works worth multi-crores by ensuring quality control and making the officers accountable for it. He said the Punjab Government led by CM Charanjit Singh Channi had been working overtime to realise the dreams of people by fulfilling all the promises made to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-gets-road-infrastructure-projects-347108
07-12-2021||---||Zero pendency: Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam  Thori speaks on good governance at Bhubaneswar||Jalandhar, December 6The ‘zero pendency’ of Jalandhar district in providing citizen services was at centre stage in Bhubaneswar during the 2-day regional conference on the ‘Replication of Good Governance Practices’.DC Ghanshyam Thori gave a detailed PPT on ‘zero pendency’ besides sharing his views that how the administration made it possible to achieve this task thus enabling citizens to get requisite services from public institutions. The conference, which was presided over by Union Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions Dr Jitendra Singh, was apprised of the ‘zero pendency’ mechanism of Jalandhar district.During his address, he stated that setting a new example the Jalandhar administration has been ensuring that the citizens will receive government services whenever they need without any hindrance or third-party intervention. Thori also pointed out that they had also utilised ‘Digital Era Governance’ to facilitate citizens with efficacious delivery of public services at the last-mile. These efforts have also ensured fairness, accountability, and transparency in public service delivery.Speaking about the implementation of eSewa platform operationalised in 2018, Ghanshyam Thori said this system also helped in monitoring and streamlining public service delivery to every citizen within set timelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/zero-pendency-jalandhar-dc-thori-speaks-on-good-governance-at-bhubaneswar-347109
07-12-2021||---||Jalandhar social worker Tarsem Kapur feted for serving humanity||Jalandhar, December 6Jalandhar-based social worker Tarsem Kapur has been honoured with the state award for his services to humanity. Tarsem Kapur, chairman, Apahaj Ashram, served disabled persons in the ashram and the surrounding areas.Tarsem Kapur was felicitated with the award during a state-level function, which was held in Malerkotla on December 3 to celebrate International Day of Disabilities. The event was presided over by Cabinet minister Razia Sultana.For the past 25 years, Kapur has been serving at the Apahaj Ashram. On International Day of Disabilities, Kapur was honoured by the Social Security and Women and Child Development Department at an event organised at the Urdu Academy, Malerkotla.Worthy of honour||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-worker-feted-for-serving-humanity-347110
07-12-2021||Jalandhar||Theft at wholesale grocery shop in Jalandhar||A wholesale grocery store in the Gujjanpeer area was reportedly burgled in the wee hours on Monday. Cash and goods worth lakhs were taken away by miscreants. The incident was reported when the area residents informed the shopkeeper about the broken shutter.This is reportedly the fourth such major theft incident in the areas falling under police division number-8. The grocery store owner, Sanjeev Modi claimed a loss of nearly Rs 2.5 lakh. He said when he reached his shop at around 8.15am, he found the grocery items scattered and the shutter of the shop broken. Following which he called the cops. The burglars entered the shop after breaking open the locks and decamped with cash of Rs 85,000 and karyana goods worth Rs 1,80,000. The police have registered case in this regard. However, there is no trace of the accused. CCTV footages are being checked to trace the burglars. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theft-at-wholesale-grocery-shop-in-jalandhar-347111
07-12-2021||---||Punjab Roadways contractual staff to go on strike from today||Jalandhar, December 6Angered over the unfulfilled demands, the Punjab Roadways Punbus/PRTC Contract Workers Union, on Sunday held a meeting at the city bus stand to make an announcement of indefinite strike to be launched on December 7.State president Resham Singh Gill, general secretary Baljit Singh Gill, Garpreet Singh Pannu, Harkesh Vicky, Jagtar speaking at the meeting at Jalandhar bus stand said the Punjab Roadways Punbus PRTC Contract Workers Union Punjab Singh said when the employees were protesting against the policies of the Punjab government, the Transport Department was resorting to filing criminal cases against the union leaders and trying to suppress the protests instead of accepting their long-pending demands.The depot principal secretary announced in the meeting to go on a complete strike as the government has not been accepting the demands of contractual employees of the Transport Department for a long time. “On December 3, after observing a chakka jam strike, we were assured by the government that our matter would be taken up in the Cabinet meeting, however, the Transport Minister failed to raise our demands. Besides, in a meeting with the minister on the issue of the three-year contract, employees, the minister again assured the PUNBUS and PRTC staff, but no solution has worked out in the meeting, which has made it clear that the government is pursuing a policy of evasion,” added Resham Singh Gill.Apart from the regularisation of as many as 8,000 contractual workers, the union demanded to include around 10,000 buses in the PRTC and the roadways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-contractual-staff-to-go-on-strike-from-today-347112
07-12-2021||Jalandhar||Woman's body found dumped||Three held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers, recovering intoxicants from them on Sunday evening. According to the information, the Bullowal police have recovered 42 grams of intoxicating powder from Barial village resident Divir Singh and Pandori Fangude village resident Rajinder Singh. Also, the Hariana police have arrested Karan, alias Kanna, a resident of Kashmiri Mohalla, Hariana and recovered 55 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. OCDistrict reports three new casesJalandhar: Three new Covid cases were reported in Jalandhar on Monday. The Covid tally reached 63,517 in the district. No new Covid death was reported, with which the toll stands at 1,499. As many as 61,979 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 39. Of the 18,42,583 samples collected in the district so far, 17,05,379 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 491 samples is still awaited. No new case, death in Kapurthala: No new Covid case was reported in Kapurthala on Monday and the tally remained at 17,869. No death from Covid was reported either. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/womans-body-found-dumped-347113
07-12-2021||Jalandhar||Int’l conference dwells on challenges in computer science||Marking the 100th birth anniversary of all-time great Irish-American computer programmer Kathleen (Kay) McNulty Antonelli, the School of Computer Science and Engineering at Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised its 5th International Conference on Computing Sciences (ICCS)–“Kathleen 100”. Julius Pranevicius, Ambassador of the Republic of Lithuania to India, inaugurated the conference by paying homage to the great programmer, and anticipated grand outcomes through its conduction.  LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated all teachers and students at the CSE School for conducting a globally beneficial conference. The conference was aimed at facilitating scientists, researchers, academicians, industrialists, and students across the globe. International and national keynote speakers at the conference shared illustrious advancements and challenges in diverse aspects of computer science and engineering (CSE).  While initiating the event, it was briefed by Senior Dean at LPU School of CSE Prof Dr Rajeev Sobti that Kathleen was recognised as one of the first six women programmers of the first programmable general-purpose electronic digital computer- ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer). She was selected by the US Army during World War II to work for performing ballistics calculations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-booked-for-assault-347114
07-12-2021||---||Heavy fine on teachers, students in Punjab condemned||Jalandhar, December 6The Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) on Monday condemned the state government’s decision to levy Rs 1,000 per student fine (Rs 10,000 per school) on schoolteachers failing to ensure generation of zero fee challan for students of Class V and VIII.On the one hand the board charged and pocketed hefty fee from students during the pandemic despite no board exams and on the other, heavy fines were imposed on schools this year, which have failed to generate zero challans for students from Class V and VIII. The shortcomings in the online registration process of PSEB are responsible for this. Members of Democratic Teachers' Front Terming this a one-sided decision taken by the government, the front termed it similar to fee and fine levied on students or teachers on one pretext or the other due to the Punjab Government’s inability to release grant in aid to the Punjab School Education Board.DTF members elaborated that education for students of Classes V and VIII was free as per the Right to Education Act. But every school was supposed to submit a form called zero-fee challan to the Education Department, which states that no fee has been charged from students of these classes in the school. Teachers said the completion of this simple procedure was inviting charges of Rs10,000 per school in the name of fine.They said the faulty website of the department was making it difficult for teachers to do the needful, rather they were being fined for the same. Teacher leaders said the Punjab School Education Board was proving to be a hub of loot.DTF state president Vikram Dev Singh, general secretary Mukesh Kumar, and finance secretary Ashwani Awasthi demanded from Education Minister Pargat Singh to fulfil his promise with the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha and ensure completion of all board classes’ registration without any fine.They said on the one hand the board charged and pocketed hefty fee from students during Covid pandemic year last year despite no board exams and on the other, heavy fines have been imposed on schools this year, which have failed to generate zero challans for students from Class V and VIII. They said the shortcomings in the online registration process of the Punjab School Education Board were actually responsible for this.DTF leaders said imposition of financial burdens on state schoolteachers already burdened with Punjab School Education Board’s clerical works, was a proof of the apathy prevalent among board’s higher officials. DTF called on all teachers facing similar burden across the state to gather in large numbers during the state-level protest to be held near the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh on December 8 under the banner of Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heavy-fine-on-teachers-students-condemned-347115
07-12-2021||---||Minorities' body declares war against private school 'mafia'||Jalandhar, December 6The Ghat Gintian Lok Bhalai Sanstha (regd) declared the starting of a jan andolan in a series against the private school ‘mafia’ and possible changes in private school education.During a press conference, president of the organisation Satnam Singh Gill, chairman Jaspal Singh Bal, general secretary Kawaljit Kaur Gill, chairperson Mahila wing Punjab Harpreet Kaur Hambowal, Bhupinder Singh Sonu and Gurpreet Singh Khalsa said they would work on freeing parents from the unnecessary fee being charged in the name of pending dues from hapless parents by private schools. They said private schools which had been earning big profits by selling quota seats and free admission seats were under suspicion. They said they would ensure return of fee, which had been charged from parents in exchange of seats sold to them.They said in the garb of free recovery, stopping admissions of students from weaker sections was unfair. They said a committee had also been formed under their organisation to collect details of parents in this regard.They said the list of defaulter schools would be made so that legal inquiry may be conducted. They said legal recourse would also be taken to initiate action against district education officers and admission supervisory committees, which make recommendations for schools that have been unable to abide by the Education Department’s during the renewal of school recognitions.Members said their team would ensure the implementation of Section 21 of the Constitution and Section 21 (1) of the RTI Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minorities-body-declares-war-against-private-school-mafia-347116
07-12-2021||---||'Navjot Sidhu's support to Delhi teachers mere drama'||Jalandhar, December 6Demanding the regularisation in the Education Department as per a 2018 notification, the Meritorious School Teachers’ Union, along with their families, will march towards and gherao the Patiala residence of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu on December 8.Members of the Meritorious School Teachers’ Union, along with their families, will march towards and gherao the Patiala residence of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu tomorrowThe decision was taken during a meeting of the union held here last evening. The decision was unanimously taken by union members who said it would ensure that the notification was implemented soon.Union members termed PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s solidarity with Delhi’s contractual teachers a drama as the demands of his own state’s teachers for regularisation remained pending despite repeated assurances.They took on Navjot Singh Sidhu for participating in a dharna of contractual workers in Delhi exhorting the Delhi CM to regualrise the services of those teachers. However, their own union had met Sidhu twice and the Congress president had also agreed that their demand was valid. But, so far no decision has been taken on it.They said CM Channi also promised to fulfil their demand when he took over as the CM. He said this government was of the common man and he would pay special attention to the education and health sectors, but even after the formation of the new government, teachers were forced to take to the streets over their demands.They said the meritorious schools were made in 2014 to increase the level of education and about 260 teachers in 10 such schools were highly qualified with degrees like M Phil, UGC NET and PhD who had been serving for the last seven years.The teachers said while SSA and RMSA teachers had been regularised as per a special policy, the meritorious school teachers were also given an option to click. While meritorious school teachers opted for regularisation, they were not regularised even though they went through the most difficult recruitment process for their appointments.Meritorious School Teachers’ Union leader Daljit Kaur said present Deputy CM OP Soni was then Education Minister in 2018 when the policy to regularise SSA and RMSA teachers was implemented. But even though 8,886 teachers were regularised in the Education Department, meritorious school teachers were left to languish in contractual jobs.Union state president Kulwinder Bath said a meeting of the education minister, the education secretary, the DPI and higher officials was held on October 12 in which the education minister and the secretary conceded to the demands. During the November 27 meeting with the education minister, the union got only assurances.So, the union has decided to gherao the PPCC president’s residence on December 8 on the martyrdom anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.General secretary Balraj Singh, vice-presidents Amrish Sharma, Daljit Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur, Sakshi Sehgal, Jagbir Singh Puri, Amrita Singh among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sidhus-support-to-delhi-teachers-mere-drama-347117
07-12-2021||---||Canecharge on students in Jalandhar: Action sought against cops||Jalandhar, December 6Two days after the youth protesting against the alleged anomalies in the Punjab Police recruitment were cane-charged, Akali Dal leader Chandan Grewal on Monday visited Deputy Commissioner’s (DC) office demanding action against the police action on students.Also read: Aspirants 'lathicharged', policemen deny claimWhile the DC had gone for a meeting, we met ADC general and urged him to take action against the cops who lathicharged the protesters. Besides, a memorandum was submitted to withdraw cases registered against students. — Chandan Grewal, Akali Dal leaderGrewal, along with party workers and student leaders, condemned the action on students and raised objections on the unavailability of women cops while beating up agitators.The also alleged poor arrangements in the treatment of girls hurt during the incident. Grewal said: “While the DC had gone for a meeting, we met ADC general and urged him to take departmental action against the cops who lathicharged the protesters. Besides, a memorandum was submitted to withdraw cases registered against the students.”The medical superintendent at the Civil Hospital was also asked to ensure proper treatment to the injured students.On Saturday, the protesting youth had come from Moga, Bathinda and other towns to obstruct the entry of eligible aspirants for physical trials at the PAP Complex. The protesters also tried blocking the NH1 at PAP flyover. After canecharging, an FIR against 60-odd youth was reportedly lodged at Navi Baradari police station. Some of them were also detained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/canecharge-on-students-action-sought-against-cops-347118
07-12-2021||---||Loot, murder case solved, kingpin among 3 arrested in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, December 6With four fresh arrests, the Kapurthala police claimed to have solved the loot incident at Sultanpur Lodhi’s Khalsa Super Store and the murder of an NHAI surveyor at Ibban village in Kapurthala.The mastermind of both crimes — Monu Dhapai — and all his gang members were arrested by the police on December 5.The twin crimes serve as a classic reference to lack of fear of law enforcement agencies among emboldened criminals, who think they can get away with anything.Notably, the case involves two separate crimes for which two sets of arrests were made on November 27 and on December 5.While the police arrested two persons on November 27 for the murder in Ibban, four fresh arrests of gang members hailing from Kapurthala and Shahkot were made for the Sultanpur Lodhi loot incident. While one of those arrested hails from Kapurthala, the remaining three are from Shahkot (in Jalandhar).Monu Dhapai is the only one among the four, who was involved in both crimes, in which a total of six arrests have been made so far.Those arrested on Sunday have been identified as Harkrishan Singh Monu, alias Monu Dhapai, of Dhapai village in Kapurthala; Ranjit Singh, alias Jitu, of Bahmania village in Shahkot; Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Saidpur village in Shahkot and Roopchand, alias Kaka, of Bahmania village in Shahkot.Addressing a press conference, SSP, Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, said a case was registered under Sections 302, 379-B and 34 of the IPC at Sadar police station, Kapurthala, regarding the Ibban village murder on November 20 on the statement of eyewitness Gurvinder Singh, brother of deceased Balwinder Singh.SSP Khakh said a major breakthrough in the case came when Khushwant Singh of Machijoa village, under Sultanpur Lodhi police station, reported a robbery at his general store in the same stolen Bolero on November 27.In his statement, Khushwant Singh said he was sitting in his store in Sultanpur Lodhi, when four men came in a white Bolero. Three of them, heavily armed, came to his store. One of the looters who had difficulty while walking, stood outside the store. The assailants threatened the store owner and looted Rs30,000 from the store, following which they fled in the Bolero.A case was registered under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Sultanpur Lodhi police station on Khakh said on December 5, the police arrested four of those who conducted the robbery at Khalsa Super Store from an empty house at Naseereval village. One of the robbers who was on the roof of the house tried fleeing on seeing the police and badly injured his leg after jumping from the roof. He has been admitted to the Sultanour Lodhi Civil Hospital for treatment.During raid at the house, the police recovered two country-made pistols (.32 bore), four magazines and 16 live cartridges. Monu and his associates confided to have committed the crime during the police investigation and Monu also admitted to murdering the surveyor.The accused claimed they fled to Hazoor Sahib after the robbery in the stolen Bolero. During this, the Bolero was badly hit in an accident with a tipper, due to which it was dropped at Jhansi Bypass. Ranjit Singh Jitu’s left arm was seriously hurt in the accident, due to which he returned to Punjab.The gang was trying to snatch vehicles again but were caught this time. The SSP said Monu was a hard core criminal against whom 18 cases, including that of a murder, was registered. The SSP said Monu also runs a drug business and admitted to have bought the pistols for Rs40,000 each from UP. The police said the accused would be presented to the local magistrate and following their remand, further investigation would be conducted.What happened and how||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/loot-murder-case-solved-kingpin-among-3-arrested-347119
07-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Month after moving to Canada, Jalandhar girl lands in ICU||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 4The dreams of a 23-year-old physiotherapy passout girl from a local college who made it to Canada nearly two months back have shattered.Barely five weeks after she landed in Toronto, Kanika met with an accident in which she suffered serious head injuries. Since she got unconscious, the doctors there conducted two brain surgeries immediately after the accident. After a month long treatment, she remains paralytic on the left side and the doctors have said the treatment could take several months.While the girl’s mother Anju is working in a private school, her father Paramjit Singh is in a government job. Ever since the accident occurred on November 5, both her parents kept making rounds to the Jalandhar visa office for a month. Even getting air tickets remained cumbersome owing to huge rush for Canada. They finally took a flight last evening, said Kanika’s maternal uncle HS Gill.Gill said, “Kanika has passed out in April this year. Since she has been a bright girl with more scope in career abroad, her parents had used all their savings and had even taken some loans to arrange for her immigration. It was just her first day to the job when she met with an accident. All the future plans of the family crashed there and then.”Asked how her hospitalisation was being managed, Gill said, “Her friends in Canada have been of great help. They organised a fund raiser for her realising that she would need funds for her care even though it would be partly done through her insurance. While she herself is a physiotherapist, doctors have told that she would have to take long sessions from an expert for full recovery. Ever since she got conscious and realised her state, she had been under depression. Her wait for her parents to reach her became too long. Now that they would be there for her, we expect some better results soon.”The fund raiser post mentions that she was hit by a car and has two clots in her brain leading to left side paralysis, multiple fractures, chest and liver injury. As per the doctors, the entire treatment for her to recover shall take 0.2 million CAD, it further reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/month-after-moving-to-canada-girl-lands-in-icu-346913
