08-12-2021||---||City witnesses symptoms of voter unease||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7With Assembly elections around the corner, dharnas and protests have become the order of the day in the city. While, the Punjab Nursing Association went on protest on Tuesday disturbing the normal functioning at the government hospitals, even the contractual staff of Punjab Roadways remained off work for four hours today seeking their regularisation.The members of Elementary Teachers Union, too, intensified their ongoing protest and resorted to effigy burning. Using loud speakers and pegging tents, they continued their protest outside the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh after 10 pm.If this was not all, the NHM workers and aspirants for the vacancies in the Punjab Police are already lodging their protests. Leaders of all parties, including SAD and BJP, have already stood behind the police aspirants, who were allegedly beaten up on Saturday last for blocking PAP gates.The Tehsil office staff, too, has been protesting against the alleged action of the Vigilance Bureau against a Tehsildar of Hoshiarpur. The clerical staff of government offices, safai karamcharis of the Municipal Corporation and PSPCL employees have all been waging war against the government for fulfilling their demands. They all seem to be in race against time for getting their demands fulfilled ahead of the imposition of the Code of Conduct for the Assembly poll in Punjab.The leaders of the Opposition parties are supporting the unions so that the failure of the ruling government gets exposed and they gain out of it. Arvind Kejriwal, who was on a tour to Doaba, too, chose to highlight the issue saying: “All across the Punjab, the government has put up hoardings mentioning that 36,000 contractual employees were being regularised. If it is actually so, why are teachers, safai karamcharis, doctors, nurses and transport staff all protesting? It means that CM Charanjit Singh Channi is lying to people with his false promises.” In any case, it is the commuters who are bearing the daily brunt as everyday highways and main roads of the city are being jammed and traffic in the entire city gets disturbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-witnesses-symptoms-of-voter-unease-347814
08-12-2021||---||Nursing staff on strike again, healthcare hit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7Upset over the non-fulfillment of their key demands, despite being given assurances last month, the Punjab Government Nurses’ Association on Tuesday boycotted all medical duties. The agitators, demanding regularisation of their services, and rise in salaries said, even after a meeting with the health minister, no action has been taken by the government. Major demandsThe union members said all medical services by the nursing staff would remain hit for an indefinite period, if their demands were not accepted.The key demands of the association include the regularisation of the services of the nursing staff, changing the name of the post — staff nurse to nursing officer. They demanded that while they were recently placed in the pay grade C as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, they should be provided grade B.They also demanded Rs 7,200 as nursing care allowance for the nursing staff. Additionally, they also demanded Rs 2,010 as travel allowance and Rs 1,800 as dress allowance as per the Central pay grade.They threatened that if the government did not give time to the joint action committee of nurses for a meeting soon, they would even go on leaves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nursing-staff-on-strike-again-healthcare-hit-347815
08-12-2021||---||Protesting teachers block DC office road||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7Primary teachers, under the banner of Elementary Teachers Union, Punjab, today the burnt effigy of Education Minister outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Blocking the road outside the DC office for nearly 40 minutes, the teachers demanded regularisation and hike in the salaries.Pawan Massi, general secretary of the union, said, for the past several months, teachers have been raising their demands and submitted memorandum to the Education Department and the state government but to no avail. Owing to the ‘unfavourable’ policies of the government, the teachers were forced to hit the roads.Neither the teachers were being promoted nor the contractual workers were being regularised, stated the agitators.Tarsem Singh, another union leader said, if the government failed to fulfil their demands, they would again gherao the residence of Education Minister on December 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protesting-teachers-block-dc-office-road-347816
08-12-2021||---||Punbus contractual workers go on indefinite strike||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7The Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union on Tuesday went on an indefinite strike against the Transport Department. Demanding regularisation of their services, hundreds of workers halted the movement of roadways buses.Upset over the non-fulfillment of their demands, the contractual workers held a protest at the entry point of the bus stand and the roadways depots. Apart from regularisation, the agitators demanded cases to be withdrawn against union leaders.Gurpreet Singh, district secretary of the union, said when employees were protesting against the policies of the state government, the Transport Department resorted to filing criminal cases against the union leaders and tried to suppress the protests instead of accepting their demands.Another union leader said, “On December 3, after observing a chakka jam, we were assured by the government that our matter will be taken up during the Cabinet meeting. However, the transport minister failed to raise our issue.”He said, “The minister had assured the employees of Punbus and PRTC that during the first Cabinet meet they will decide to retain contractual employees of the Transport Department, but no solution has been worked out in the meeting held on December 1.” Apart from regularisation of as many as 8,000 contractual workers, the union demanded to include more buses in the fleet of Punbus and PRTC.Seeking regularisation of service, members of the Contractual Workers’ Union of Punjab Roadways hold a protest in Jalandhar on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punbus-contractual-workers-go-on-indefinite-strike-347817
08-12-2021||---||Brahmin Sabha chief booked; SHO shifted||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, December 7The Garhshankar police have registered an FIR against Kulbhushan Shourie, chief, Brahmin Sabha (Garhshankar), on Monday, for illegally encroaching upon a plot.Various outfits alleged that the case was false and the police had registered the case under the political pressure. Members of these organisations handed over the papers related to the said plot to Garhshankar Deputy Superintendent of Police Narinder Singh Aujla. They demanded scrapping of the case against Shourie and transfer of the SHO concerned.Later, the DSP, held a meeting with members of the outfits and transferred SHO Balwinder Pal to the Police Lines in the evening.Ajaib Singh Boparai, general secretary, All India Jat Mahasabha, warned that in case the case would not be cancelled, then they would gherao police station on December 8. He said harassment of any person would not be tolerated in Garshankar.Councillors Deepak Kumar Deepa, Sumit Soni, Lekh Raj, Mohan Singh Thiada, sarpanch Kuldeep Singh Dhillon, sarpanch Jarnail Singh and sarpanch Jatindra Jyoti were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brahmin-sabha-chief-booked-sho-shifted-347818
08-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||No end to Cheema vs Rana in Sultanpur Lodhi||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 7The ongoing tussle between Congress leaders – Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh and Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema - has escalated in the past few days.The matter got further highlighted when Cheema’s supporters removed the tents and poles pegged at Sultanpur Lodhi grain market yesterday for the minister’s programme. Rana Gurjeet Singh, who holds the portfolio of Punjab Horticulture Minister, had announced to hold a state-level horticulture camp at Sultanpur Lodhi on December 10 for which preparations had started at the grain market. Cheema’s supporters alleged that they had already taken the grain market site on rent for holding a Congress workers’ meet and they would not allow the department to hold the camp.Cheema’s supporters also alleged that Rana had plans to use the event of horticulture camp to promote his son Rana Inder Partap Singh as the Congress candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi against the sitting MLA. They said Rana’s plans were to use the state machinery to win over nearly 1,800 farmers who were expected to visit the camp. They further said that the venue and date which they had announced for the workers’ meet had been given for the camp too so as to sabotage the plans for Cheema’s meet.The matter got flared so much that Cheema even today reportedly went to meet CM Charanjit Singh Channi to take up the matter against Rana. He demanded that the venue of the camp be shifted outside Sultanpur Lodhi. Senior officials of the Horticulture Department also got dragged into the controversy who even suggested that the venue be moved to IK Gujral Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala but Rana remained adamant on keeping venue in Sultanpur Lodhi.Since Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi areas are largely used for growing vegetables, Rana has been reportedly claiming that his idea was only to support the farmers in the region by educating them and telling them about new schemes and technologies which would help them increase production. Experts from the field of horticulture are also expected to be called in.The controversy went a step ahead as Rana’s supporters alleged that owner of a rice sheller in the mandi had been beaten up by Cheema’s men. Rana Inder Partap Singh and his supporters staged a dharna outside Sultanpur Lodhi police station and managed to get an FIR lodged against two of Cheema’s close aides.While minister Rana Gurjeet Singh chose not to comment, his supporters said that they would organise the camp on the same day but would change the venue to another one in Sultanpur Lodhi itself.Meanwhile, amid the controversy Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal has proceeded on leave till December 10 leaving everyone to guess if the timing of her leave coincided with the ongoing spat between Rana and Cheema over organising the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-to-cheema-vs-rana-in-sultanpur-lodhi-347819
08-12-2021||---||A deeply-rooted gardener indeed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7Ranjit Kaur Minhas hails from a family rooted in farming but never got time to connect with nature in true sense until the health issues in her family became a major turning point wherein she decided to grow her own veggies and fruits.Residing at Greenwood Avenue, Phase-2, Minhas has sown all winter vegetables in plenty including spinach, radish, mustard, turnips, fenugreek, carrots, cauliflower and broccoli. Since she did not have enough space at her place, she has even got a vacant plot in front of her house cleaned up, where she is growing everything organically.She tells, “I started it all in 2013-14 when my husband was diagnosed with cancer. Doctors advised us to grow pesticide-free vegetables in our own small space. Since we were not to use chemical fertilisers, we started preparing our own manure from the kitchen waste. We never throw any peals or dry leaves in the garbage and instead keep on dumping them in our compost pit from where we are able to generate a good amount of organic manure every month.”Besides, the vacant plot Minhas has kept a number of grow bags on her terrace for growing fruit trees, lemons, lettuce, mint and more stock of the winter vegetables. “I am using coco-peat in the growbags as it has less weight and growth of plants remains good. The terrace also gets a lot of sunshine which makes vegetables grow faster,” she tells as she shows her trees, including those of mangoes, pomegranate, fig, apple and almond. “These are all hybrid varieties and I am told that they would grow well in Punjab,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-deeply-rooted-gardener-indeed-347820
08-12-2021||---||Expedite disbursal of relief to Covid victims' kin: DC||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7To disburse Rs 50,000 compensation to those families, who lost their kin members due to Covid-19, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshayam Thori on Tuesday directed officials concerned to fast track the process of verification so that disbursal of monetary help could be ensured as early as possible.The DC also asked that none of the eligible family should be left out of the ambit of benefit besides providing the monetary help to all after completing the requisite verification. While participating in video conference being presided over by the Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari to review the status of compensation to such families, Ghanshyam Thori apprised that there were 1,499 cases in the district, of which 223 applications were received so far whereas verification of 120 cases had been completed. The process to verify the remaining cases is underway, which will also be accomplished within the next few days, he added.The DC also instructed the officials to speed up the process so the compensation announced by the Punjab Government could be given to the dependent family members of those, who had lost their live due to coronavirus. He also urged the people to submit their applications for getting compensation in the office concerned. Application form and other relevant documents have already been uploaded on the website of Jalandhar administration i.e. www.jalandhar.nic.in and people can get these downloaded from the website to get the monetary help, said Thori adding that the application could be submitted in room no 106, First Floor, Deputy Commissioner Office, DAC, Jalandhar. He said that the staff had already been deputed in this room to facilitate the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expedite-disbursal-of-relief-to-covid-victims-kin-dc-347821
08-12-2021||---||IKGPTU inks pact with Yorkville University||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 7IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) and Yorkville University, New Brunswick, Canada, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for academic advancement.After this agreement, the students of both educational institutions, especially the BBA students will be able to move to each other’s institute for academic partnership. This agreement has been signed by the Vice Chancellor IKGPTU and from the Yorkville University side signed by the Executive Director.Prof (Dr) Yadvinder Singh, Dean, Planning and External Programme (P&EP) of IKGPTU, shared that both the institutions will remain committed to each other to provide high quality academic programmes which complement the academic and professional goals of their students.“We will work together to move forward to provide maximum global opportunities to our students,” said the Dean. He shared that various educational programmes would be offered from both sides, in which necessary steps would be taken while fulfilling all the relevant jurisdictional laws.Dr Yadvinder Singh also said that Yorkville University would share the best international standard syllabus related to its BBA course for the students of IKGPTU BBA course. After getting a partial BBA degree from IKGPTU, students will be able to complete the rest of their studies in Canada too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-inks-pact-with-yorkville-university-347822
08-12-2021||---||Diploma engineers' strike enters Day 6||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 7Diploma engineers working in various departments, corporations and boards of Punjab staged a protest at the Hoshiarpur Circle Office of Water Supply and Sanitation Department, demanding rectification of errors of the 6th Pay Commission report. Addressing the zonal-level dharna on the occasion, zonal conveners Arvind Saini and Amaninder Singh said a JE’s salary was earlier fixed at 4,800 grade pay, but in the 6th Pay Commission, the salary has been fixed at Rs 3,800 grade pay.In addition, JE/AE used to get 30 liters of petrol per month for the fieldwork, which was being demanded to be increased to 80 liters per month, but the Pay Commission has even curtailed the existing petrol allowance.He said after a long struggle in 2011, it was decided that JE/AE would get the post of Assistant Engineer on the scale of Sub-Divisional Engineer after 10 years under 10/20/25 years’ ACP but this pay commission has abolished it. They also demanded restoration of the old age pension hike, increase in the promotion quota, discontinuation of outsourced recruitment and full-scale recruitment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/diploma-engineers-strike-enters-day-6-347823
08-12-2021||---||Webinar on World Soil Day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7A webinar on the occasion of World Soil Day was organised at ICAR-Central Potato Research Station through virtual mode. Experts, scientists, other stakeholders and many farmers participated in this programme.The Head of Crop Production Division, ICAR-CPRI, Dr VK Dua, welcomed all participants. The programme started with the inaugural address by Director Dr NK Pandey, ICAR-CPRI, Shimla (HP). Dr YP Sigh shared their views on urban waste management and its role in improving soil productivity. Dr SP Trehan told the farmers about role of nutrients and balance fertilisation in potato production for soil health maintenance.Dr Anil Sharma spoke on this occasion and informed the farmers about modern tools of nutrients management by mobile app. Dr Jagdev Sharma also delivered the lecture on soil health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-world-soil-day-347824
08-12-2021||Jalandhar||International conference dwells on challenges in computer science||Marking the 100th birth anniversary of all-time great Irish-American computer programmer Kathleen (Kay) McNulty Antonelli, the School of Computer Science and Engineering at Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised its 5th International Conference on Computing Sciences (ICCS)–“Kathleen 100”. Julius Pranevicius, Ambassador of the Republic of Lithuania to India, inaugurated the conference by paying homage to the great programmer, and anticipated grand outcomes through its conduction. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated all teachers and students at the CSE School for conducting a globally beneficial conference.The conference was aimed at facilitating scientists, researchers, academicians, industrialists, and students across the globe. International and national keynote speakers at the conference shared illustrious advancements and challenges in diverse aspects of computer science and engineering (CSE).While initiating the event, it was briefed by Senior Dean at LPU School of CSE Prof Dr Rajeev Sobti that Kathleen was recognised as one of the first six women programmers of the first programmable general-purpose electronic digital computer- ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer). She was selected by the US Army during World War II to work for performing ballistics calculations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-conference-dwells-on-challenges-in-computer-science-347825
08-12-2021||Jalandhar||Guru Tegh Bahadur remembered||The Nobel SchoolThe Nobel School observed the martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur with serenity. Students were apprised about the life events of the guru followed by melodious shabad gayan and poem recitation. Schoolteachers Amandeep, Gagandeep, Aarti Kapoor, Ashmeet also sang a holy shabad. Sahib of Class VIII presented a poem on the life of the guru. Sukhman of Class VII also expressed his ideas on the day. Chairman CL Kochher said one should follow the path shown by Guru Teg Bahadur and never accept wrongdoings. Managing Director Kumar Shiv Kochhar highlighted the lessons of brotherhood to be inculcated in our lives. Principal Amita Sharma asked the children to follow the path of truth and well-being.Seminar on chat bots at GNA varsityGNA University organised a seminar on ‘The brain behind Chat Bots’. Neeraj Sapra, Senior Technical Architect-Digital Workspace Services, BBC London, UK, was the keynote speaker. The objective behind the seminar was to offer a platform for aspiring engineers and enthusiasts to gain the current and upcoming trends in digital and social platforms. Sapra elaborated the technical details of chat bots along with its various types. He explained about rule based and artificial intelligence-based Chat Bots in detail. Dr Vikrant Sharma, Dean (Engineering) said: “Chat Bots make cost-effective solutions for the organizations and GNA University always organize such international seminars for enhancing the skills of the students.”Punjabi poetry recitation competitionMayor World School organised an Inter-House Punjabi Poetry Recitation Competition for students of classes VI to VIII. A total of 12 students, three from each house namely Wordsworth, Shakespeare, Dickens and Keats, participated in the competition. In Class VI, Gauransh Tiwari and Suhaan Jain bagged the first position. The second position was clinched by Anushka Kumari followed by Kritya Kohli at the third position. In Class VII, Rajveer Khanna bagged the first position. The second position was secured by Rehaan followed by Jasmeh Juneja at the third position. In Class VIII, Seerat Kaur Sidhu bagged the first position. Manroop Singh clinched the second position while Aravpartap Singh won the third position.Puppet show for kindergartenState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised puppet show for kindergarten. Tiny tots were delighted to watch the show. They were thrilled and overjoyed with the puppet show where the puppets were turned alive with the live performance of the teachers. They were told about the importance of healthy food and healthy diet. Narotam Singh, president, Group Of State Public Schools, along with Principal Savina Bahl, appreciated the teachers for efforts.Inter-college hockey tournamentIn the Inter-College Hockey Tournaments held at Guru Nanak Dev University recently, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women defeated the team of BBKDAV, Amritsar, by 4-0, HMV, Jalandhar, by 2-0 and Khalsa College, Amritsar by 2-0. Principal Dr. Navjot expressed her gratitude towards coaches Olympian Varinder Singh and Kulbir Singh. She also cheered the hard work of the college’s sports girls and appreciated the efforts of Parminder Kaur, Assistant Professor, Department of Physical Education.dav college wins Football c’shipThe football team of MLU DAV College, Phagwara, won the Guru Nanak Dev University Football (Men) Inter-College competition held on the GNDU Campus, Amritsar. The college team put up a splendid show and defeated Guru Nanak Dev University campus team by 5-1 and further qualified for league match. Principal Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa congratulated the young achievers. She encouraged other students also to add sports in their daily routine. Physical exercise is good for mind, body and spirit. Sports can help us to reach our fitness goals and maintain healthy lifestyle. However, sports encourage healthy decision making such as not smoking and not drinking. Dr Randhawa insisted the students to take part in sports activities in huge number.samriti 2nd in ba journalismSamriti Bhardwaj of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged second position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of BA Journalism and Mass Communication IV Semester by getting 408 marks out 450. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra. Dr. Samra added that the college has a policy of providing all kinds of support to the meritorious students of the college who excel in academics sports and other co-curricular activities. The President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.Hans raj college girls shineStudents of MA (Economics) Sem II of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got positions in Guru Nanak Dev University and brought laurels to the college. Tania got second position with 466 marks out of 500. Shivani got 7th position with 449 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated students, Head of PG Department of Economics Dr. Shallu Batra and faculty members Chandrika, Jyotika Minhas and Harmanu Paul.Cleanliness drive by studentsDIPS College of Education took up a cleanliness drive as instructed by Panjab University. Students of the NSS unit cleaned up the college and the areas around it. They also generated awareness among the people living around the college on how cleanliness is beneficial for them. Students explained how they could reuse water bottles, tyres etc. They also mentioned that bottles could be used for growing plants. Principle Dr Jyoti Gupta appreciated this initiative towards the environment and applauded the efforts of the students. Students can always take such little steps and encourage others to do the same for a letter and brighter future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-tegh-bahadur-remembered-347827
08-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Four booked for abducting minor||Two booked for killing dogHoshiarpur: Two persons were booked for killing a pet dog and threatening the owner with dire consequences. Investigating officer Kamaljit Singh said the complainant, Jasvir Kaur, a resident of Pajjoditta village, had alleged that her dog and the pet dog of another resident of the village, Sarvjit Singh, started fighting with each other. Later, Sarvjit Singh forcibly entered their house, along with Surinder Singh, and killed her dog with a sharp weapon. They also misbehaved with me and my daughter, she said. The police have registered a case under Sections 429, 452, 506, 34 of the India Penal Code. OCMan booked for demanding dowryHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police have registered a case against a man for torturing his wife for dowry. Heena Kumari, a resident of Bahatiwal village, told the police that her husband, Yogesh Kumar, a resident of Harike Pattan, used to harass her for dowry. She told that not seeing the demand being fulfilled, the accused threw him out of the house. The police have registered a case. OCSmuggler held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police arrested a smuggler and recovered 20-gm intoxicating powder from him on Monday. The accused has been identified as Jaimal Singh, a resident of Talwara. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-booked-for-abducting-minor-347828
