09-12-2021||---||Kapurthala: 'Sankalp' to bring jail inmates into mainstream||Kapurthala, December 8Aiming to bring the jail inmates into the mainstream and channelising their energy for productive works, training courses are being started for them under the recently launched ‘Sankalp’ project of the state government.The project was today launched at the Central Jail, Kapurthala, by Punjab Technical Education, Employment Generation and Horticulture Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh. Since Kapurthala jail has many women inmates, the minister also inaugurated the course of Assistant Beauty Therapist for women prisoners for which high-end equipment has already reached the jail premises.‘Galvakari’ from Dec 13Under the project, the inmates in eight jails of the state would be given vocational training. In the first phase, inmates of Amritsar, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Faridkot, Bathinda, Nabha and Patiala and Ludhiana (women’s jail) would be imparted 400-hour training course. Under the training, the prisoners would be trained as masons, carpenters, beauty therapists, painters, electricians and plumbers. After completing the course, the inmates will be given employment in the jail as per their qualifications.The minister called upon the inmates to start a new life by taking advantage of the skills development courses offered by the Punjab Government. He added that the the government has set up a ‘Punjab Prison Development Board’ to bring the inmates into the mainstream by further improving the jails. Apart from this, the government had signed four MoUs with various companies for the goods manufactured by the prisoners under which the entities will purchase and brand the goods manufactured by the detainees.Rana also asked ADGP Jails Praveen Kumar Sinha to liaise with the GM of Railway Coach Factory to make the training arrangements at Central Jail, Kapurthala, and also to ensure arrangements for the consumption of prepared goods.He also addressed the problems of the detainees and recorded his message in the visitor’s book. He also inspected the swings, sanitary ware, pot stand, parlour equipment etc. made by the prisoners.Rajesh Tripathi, Additional Mission Director, also briefed the inmates about the courses being run in the jails. On this occasion, bhangra and giddha were performed by the prisoners while performing their art which enchanted everyone.The minister was welcomed by Jail Superintendent Gurnam Lal. On this occasion, Roop Kumar Arora, IG Jails, Sukhminder Singh Mann, DIG Jails, Amneet Kondal, DIG Jails, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh and Additional Deputy Commissioner Development SP Angra were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sankalp-to-bring-jail-inmates-into-mainstream-348171
09-12-2021||---||Wanted to double their money in four years, but lost life savings||Jalandhar, December 8Hundreds of low income group residents of Tilak Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Uday Nagar and other localities of the city, who had invested with a local finance company, have alleged that they have been duped of all their life savings. Unable to trace any of the three directors of the company, Jeevan Prabha Nidhi Ltd, for the past few weeks, they have finally lodged a complaint against them with the Jalandhar Police Commissioner.Led by BJP councillor Varesh Mintu, the victims said 500-700 people had invested in the company after an assurance that their money would be doubled in four years. He said most of the victims were domestic maids who had invested their hard earned savings with a hope of good returns. Revealing details, he said the company based at Iqbal Plaza in Adda Basti Sheikh was owned by three directors, including two women – one from Preet Nagar on Ladowali road and another from Mohalla Manjit Nagar of Basti Sheikh, and a man from Basti Sheikh.Mintu said the victims had been trying calling on their phone numbers, too, but these were lying switched off. “We went to their places and found them missing. Their relatives at home said they had no clue as to where the directors had gone. So, we finally lodged the complaint with the police,” he said adding that they had been told that an FIR would be lodged after a preliminary investigation into the matter.Sudesh Rani, Usha Rani, Anima Gujjar, Sarabjit Kaur, Saroj Rani, Anita Rani, Harjinder Kumar, Rajni Bala, Balbir Kumar, Rahul, Gaurav Singh and Kamaljit Kaur said they all had deposited thousands of rupees in the ‘bank’ as the staff had approached them with offers of lucrative returns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wanted-to-double-their-money-in-four-years-but-lost-life-savings-348181
09-12-2021||---||Pargat Singh adopting dilly-dallying attitude, say protesting teachers||Jalandhar, December 8On a call of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, thousands of teachers from across the state held a state-level rally at Jalandhar Cantt on Wednesday following which they also held a protest march to the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh.Addressing the crowds on the occasion, the gathered teachers said the Education Minister has been adopting a dilly-dallying approach on various key issues of teachers, including promotions, transfers, regularisation of contractual teachers, new appointments, computer teachers’ shifting to the education department, imposition of department exam on promoted teachers and victimisation of teachers.Other issues and demands highlighted by protesting teachers included regularisation of all contractual teachers and non teaching, ODL teachers, meritorious and Adarsh School teachers without any condition; restoration of old pension scheme; implementation of all pending promotions of all cadres as per 75 per cent quota; dismissal of victimisation and police cases during protests; implementation of all transfers as per changed policy; provision of opportunity to teachers for transfer who lived away from their permanent residences; withdrawal of decision to implement central scale on new employees; ensuring pay parity among various sections of teachers; dismissal of the 15-1-2015 notification on basic pay and appointment; implementation of previous services benefits and Punjab pay scales on 180 ETT TET-Pass teachers; ensuring due appointments of primary and pre-primary teachers; release of advertisements and appointment letters on PTI, DPE, Art and Craft etc. subjects; restoration of border area/handicapped among other allowances; return of forcefully shifted PTIs to parent schools; withdrawal of decision of closure of 800 primary schools; withdrawal of decision of removal of head teachers’ posts from various schools among others.Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha leaders, Balkar Singh Valtoha, Vikram Dev Singh, Sukhwinder Singh Chahal, Harjit Singh Basota, Baaz Singh Khehra, Jaswinder Aulakh, Harvinder Bilga, Baljit Salana, Sukhraj Singh Kahlon and Sukhjinder Harika among others said the protest was being held in opposition to the educations minister’s inability to resolve some key issues of teachers in the state and for the state education’s steadily heading towards privatisation in keeping with the pro-privatisation Central Education Policy-2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-adopting-dilly-dallying-attitude-say-protesting-teachers-348186
09-12-2021||---||'36K mulazam labbho, Rs1,000 inam pao'||Jalandhar, December 8To protest against the non-regularisation of teachers even after 28 days of government’s assurance to regularise 36,000 teachers, members of the Sarv Sikhiya Abhiyan and Mid Day Meal Office Employees Association held a protest against the state government.SSA employees on Wednesday questioned the state government saying they were having trouble finding the teachers the government claims to have regularised.Mocking the state government in their protest, teachers launched a new ‘scheme’ for the government - the poster of of which read “36,000 Mulazam Labbho, Inam Pao” (Find 36,000 employees, get awarded). Union leaders said the Congress government had declared that it will regularise 36,000 contractual employees and hoardings have also been put up across the state with the same claim. But in reality it is yet to be done. Therefore, employees have started a scheme as per which the party workers who will be successful in finding the 36,000 regularised employees will be rewarded with Rs 1,000 from the regularised employee.A poster was also released in this regard. Leaders said in a recent meeting, Education Minister Pargat Singh had told them their demands were genuine decisions regarding were taken in a November 29 meet with the CM following which the CM was to issue direction to the finance department on the issue.They said the CM Channi, while passing a new act in the Vidhan Sabha on November 11, had announced the regularisation of 36,000 contractual employees. But even after 28 days, the act had not been sent to the departments concerned. They said whenever employees meet department officials, they are told that they can start proceedings only after getting state government notification.Sarv Sikhiya Abhiyan and Mid Day Meal Office Employees Association leaders Shobhit Bhagat, Gagan Sial, Rajiv Sharma, Sukhraj, Gagan Sharma said just like parties seek votes by going from home to home, the unions members will go to people’s doorsteps to expose the false assurances and promises made by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/36k-mulazam-labbho-1-000-inam-pao-348187
09-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Mukerian Congmen revolt against party's sitting legislator Indu Bala||Mukerian, December 8Infighting in the Mukerian unit of Congress came to the fore on Wednesday when some Congress leaders called a meeting and urged the party high command to give party ticket to anyone but sitting MLA Indu Bala.Later, led by district vice-president Tarsem Manhas, they also addressed the media, alleging her and her son of ignoring the party workers and benefiting the sand mafia. They said if Congress wants to retain the seat from Mukerian, ticket should not be given to the sitting MLA or any of her family member.They said ever since she took over the command of Mukerian as an MLA, illegal mining had become rampant due to which the common people have the perception that the mining mafia has the patronage of the MLA. They even alleged that the mafia raj in the sand mining business was more rampant during the Congress rule.They alleged that the corruption is going on in full swing in government offices, due to which the general public was suffering. They alleged that drugs were being promoted in the area and false cases being registered against innocent people, due to which people have lost faith in her. They warned that if party high command gave ticket to the sitting MLA or her family member, they will field an honest candidate as Independent and work for the defeat of Indu Bala.Indu Bala refuted the charges saying: “Their allegations hold no reality. All are our respected companions. Sometimes there is a misunderstanding. We will sit together and resolve the mutual differences. I am developing the area without discrimination and my whole focus is on it”.Bala is the wife of ex-MLA Rajneesh Babbi, who won in 2017 but passed away owing to illness. Bypoll was held in October 2019 and Bala won with a thin margin of 3,440 votes from BJP’s Jangi Lal Mahajan. SAD has fielded its youth leader Sarabjot Sabi from the seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mukerian-congmen-revolt-against-partys-sitting-legislator-indu-bala-348188
09-12-2021||Jalandhar||Horticulture camp venue  in Kapurthala now||The venue of the horticulture camp, over which Horticulture Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh and Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema had a tiff on Tuesday, has been shifted to IK Gujral Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala.The camp will begin on Friday. Cheema’s supporters had removed the tents for the camp which were being erected yesterday at the grain market of Sultanpur Lodhi.They had said that they would not let the camp to be organised in the grain market as they were scheduled to hold a Congress workers’ meet the same day at the venue.Cheema is already on loggerheads with Rana, who is openly promoting the candidature of his son from the Sultanpur Lodhi seat, currently represented by Cheema. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/horticulture-camp-venue-in-kapurthala-now-348189
09-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Mukerian police bust gang of contract killers||Mukerian, December 8The Mukerian police arrested three members of a supari (contract) killer gang and seized two pistols, 10 cartridges, a car and three iron rods from them. SHO Karnail Singh said on December 6, 2021, Harish Kumar, a resident of Shastri Colony, Mukerian, lodged a complaint with the police.The complainant alleged that his son Vikas Kumar and Angrez Singh, a resident of Dharmiwal village, were engaged in transport business in the US. For about 3 years, his son Vikas Kumar started his separate business, due to which Angrez Singh started keeping a grudge against him.Now, when his son came back to India, Angrez Singh hired his cousin Harjinder Singh alias Jinda, a resident of Talwandi Suba Singh, to get Vikas killed.The complainant alleged that Karanvir Singh alias Pala and Sandeep Singh, both residents of Maldi, armed with pistols and deadly weapons, chased Vikas in a car bearing fake number plate to kill him. Acting on the basis of the complaint, the Mukerian police nabbed the accused along with weapons. He told that the accused will be produced before a local court and taken on remand for interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mukerian-police-bust-gang-of-contract-killers-348190
09-12-2021||---||21-member panel to aid persons with disabilities in Jalandhar to vote||Jalandhar, December 8To ensure participation of differently abled voters, a 21-member District Monitoring Committee has been set up on ensuring accessible election measures in the district.The committee, led by Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer as its Chairman, will meet every fortnight to monitor accessible election steps in the district besides taking timely corrective measures to rectify the shortcomings in all nine Assembly segments. The committee will also carry out different activities in view of 100 per cent enrollment and participation of persons with disabilities (PwD) voters across district. These activities included availability of wheelchairs facility at all polling stations, deputation of booth volunteers for assistance of PwD voters, ensuring facilities of braille ballot sheet, help desk, easy to understand (pictorial posters), signages and priority queue, dedicated vehicles for PwD voters and pick and drop transport facility on the polling day, besides having ramp facilities, drinking water and toilets at all polling stations.To hold fortnightly meetingDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Ghanshyam Thori said the committee would also conduct training session with field engineers, BLOs, polling officers, booth volunteers, political party agents and police force regarding accessibility standards. A special awareness campaign will also be launched on different platforms to sensitise PwDs in associations with the organisations working for the betterment of PwDs in district. Thori said directions had already been given to all electoral registration officers to constitute Assembly constituency implementation committee on accessible elections with immediate effect. These committees would also conduct a survey of all polling stations to take stock of preparedness and address the issues/shortcoming well within time. The Assembly constituency committees will submit detailed report in this regard every fortnight to the district committee, he added.The 21-member district committee comprises of District Election Officer as its Chairman and Additional Deputy Comissioner (G)-cum-District Sveep Nodal Officer as convener and district social security officer-cum-District Nodal Officer (PwDs voters) as member secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/21-member-panel-to-aid-pwd-voters-348191
09-12-2021||Jalandhar||Cake-Mixing Ceremony at LPU||Armed Forces Flag DayDIPS Schools observed Armed Forces Flag Day. A special assembly was conducted and students made flags on a chart. A parade was organised. Teachers told students the significance of the day. The day is meant to honour martyrs and the brave soldiers that serve this country. The day is dedicated to raising funds from Indian citizens for the welfare of the Indian Army. Red colour in the flag and dark blue and light blue are all symbolic to the Indian Armed Forces. Students sang patriotic songs to arouse the attention of their classmates towards better feelings for the country and its bright and prosperous future. During this, the school principal told the students that the purpose of celebrating this day is to inculcate the feeling of patriotism among the students and people should come forward for the welfare and cooperation of the Army personnel and their families. This day is a link to strengthen the relationship between the Indian Army and the common man.KMV students shine in B Voc examStudents of B.Voc Management and Secretarial Practices (Sem-II, IV & VI) from Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have brought laurels to the college by bagging top positions in the end-semester examination. Navneet Kaur of semester IV has maintained her first position with 8.65 SGPA. Sarojini has bagged the second position with 8.36 SGPA. In B.Voc Management and Secretarial Practices Sem IV, Mandeep Kaur maintained her first position with 8.83 SGPA. Gurpinder Kaur has bagged the second position with 8.82 SGPA. In B.Voc Management and Secretarial Practices Sem II, Daljinder Kaur has maintained her first position with 8.63 SGPA and Malika has bagged the second position with 8.6 SGPA. Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement.National Pollution Control DayDayanand Model Senior Secondary School, Dayanand Nagar, observed National Pollution Control Day to spread awareness about the environmental pollution and its disastrous consequences. This day is celebrated annually in order to remember the people who lost their lives during 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy. The students of class 8 actively participated in the morning assembly to aware the students about environmental pollution and its consequences and suggested different measures to stop pollution. On this day, Principal Dr SK Gautam and Renuka Aeri addressed the gathering by suggesting different measures to stop and control pollution. They reiterated that ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’ is the best way to protect the deteriorating environment.Law college holds alumni meetSt. Soldier Law College under the umbrella of Alumni Association St. Soldier Law College organised its 4th Annual Alumni Meet. Advocate Inderjit Singh, President of the Association, presided over the function and Anil Chopra, Chairman of the St. Soldier Group and Chief Patron of the Association was the chief guest. A total of 195 alumni of the college belonging to all 15 batches passed out from the college attending the meeting. The Dean Alumni Prof. Monica Khanna welcomed the alumni and the Chief guest college Director Dr. S.C. Sharma presented the college report, Advocate Inderjit Singh gave his presidential address, Anil Chopra addressed the students as the Chief Guest. In his address, Chopra appreciated the working of the Alumni Association and achievements of the college. He said our Law College is the best in our group but he wanted it to be amongst the top five of the country. Prof. Rinka Rani, Associate Dean, presented vote of thanks. The college students presented shabad, mirza, folk song and giddha, all these were appreciated with applause from the audience.Youth festival at GNDUA zonal trophy in Youth Festival held at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Apeejay College of Fine Arts (ACFA) has proudly participated in Inter-Zonal youth festival being organised at the GNDU from December 7 to 10. The students of ACFA have commenced by bagging first position in group song, kavishri, percussion, non-percussion, folk orchestra, classical dance and vocal classical, second position in group shabad and vaar singing and third position in costume parade and mimicry. Principal Neerja Dhingra expressed her joy on the occasion and congratulated all the winners and appreciated the efforts of their respective mentors. She especially admired the hard work and rightful guidance of the cultural advisors of the college Dr Arun Mishra and Dr Amita Mishra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cake-mixing-ceremony-at-lpu-348192
09-12-2021||Kapurthala||NAFED opens 'farm to fork' outlet in Kapurthala||The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) in association with Seedstart Retail has launched its ‘farm to fork’ outlet in the city.The outlet has been set up by NAFED Bazaar’s operations and will be taken care of by a young woman entrepreneur and London-based NRI Gurbani Mehta, whose startup Seedstart Retail is NAFED’s channel partner for Punjab.The inaugural event was also attended by Sanjeev Kumar Chaddha, MD (NAFED), and K Siva Prasad, Principal Secretary of Transport and Local Self Government, Punjab online. “It is heartening indeed that NAFED and Seedstart Retail have come together to initiate NAFED Bazaars to help farmers enhance their incomes, as the chain of middlemen will be drastically reduced under this model. Through this outlet, job opportunities for locals will also be created,” said Prasad.Gurbani Mehta said, “The idea is to become a bridge between farmers, manufacturers of small time pan India brands and consumers of the state. The Kapurthala NAFED Bazaar will provide quality NAFED and other agro-based products to consumers at near wholesale prices.”She revealed that her team would also train underprivileged and physically challenged people and will involve at least one such staff member in each store of NAFED Bazaar in Punjab to support them and their community at large. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nafed-opens-farm-to-fork-outlet-in-kthala-348193
09-12-2021||Jalandhar||Implement HSRP scheme to curb vehicle-related crimes, says expert||After the commencement of Mission Safe Ludhiana, Mission Safe Amritsar and Mission Safe Malwa, Dr Kamaljeet Soi, member, National Road Safety Council, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, GOI, rolled out Mission Jalandhar in the city yesterday.Mission Safe Jalandhar aims to focus on check against hit and run road accidents, traffic crimes and its sanitisation. Chairman of the NGO Raahat — The Safe Community Foundation and president, Global Society of Safety Professionals, Dr Soi has been taking up the issues of road safety from past about 20 years and has been recognised at for the work done in this field.Dr Soi particularly emphasised upon the strict implementation of High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) to curb the increasing road crimes, drug trafficking and other criminal activities in Jalandhar belt as fake number plates are used on vehicles involved in such crimes.Speaking on the increase of crime rates in the region, Dr Soi said as per the data available the crime rate in this belt has increased many folds in last couple of years and the rampant incidence of fake number plates being used on the vehicles to evade being caught and jailed is one of the key reasons behind the same and by addressing this issue alone there can be a substantial drop in the crime rate in the city and its surrounding. Although some of these vehicles have been impounded by the police, a large number of vehicles are still plying on the roads without HSRPs. An immediate action is required to stop this menace or these vehicles will remain a threat to the security of the city.Dr Kamaljeet Soi said even today almost 20 lakh vehicles are still plying in Punjab sans HSRP and they are adding new and alarming dimensions to the drug trafficking and other criminal activities in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/implement-hsrp-scheme-to-curb-vehicle-related-crimes-says-expert-348194
09-12-2021||hoshiarpur||Contractual staff's  strike continues||The indefinite strike of the contractual employees of the government-run de-addiction centers, rehabilitation centers and OOATs across Punjab, on state level call of the Government Drug Deduction and Rehabilitation Employees Union, Punjab, entered the third day on Wednesday. It was alleged by the striking employees that during the strike at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, Sector 2, Chandigarh, the employees were treated badly by the Chandigarh Police. They were lathicharged and arrested. After this, deputy Chief Minister OP Soni and the Principal Secretary Health had meetings with them but no notification has been issued so far regarding their demands. Union’s state president Parminder Singh said we are working with many of the patients having criminal background in drug de-addiction centers, yet the Punjab government is not taking any care of us, nothing is given except false promises and assurances. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contractual-staffs-strike-continues-348195
09-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three arrested  with intoxicants||Free revision of voters’ listJalandhar: In the wake of ensuing Assembly elections and special summary revision of voters’ list, Divisional Commissioner-cum-Roll Observer VK Meena on Wednesday presided over a review meeting with all Deputy Commissioners of the division.The roll observer randomly conducted super checking of at least 50 per cent forms received by District Elections Officers (DEOs) and directed them to immediately send forms having errors back to EROs so that the errors in such forms could be rectified at the earliest. He also directed to conduct training sessions for BLOs and supervisions for smooth and hassle free revision of voters’ list by ensuring errorless form-filing. He asked all the DEOs to ensure disposal of all the claims and objections of voters by December 20. TNSTwo new covid cases in districtJalandhar: Two new covid cases were reported from Jalandhar on Wednesday. The district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached at 63,522 cases. No new Covid death was reported today, with which the district deceased tally remained at 1499 today. As many as 61,990 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 33. Of the 18,48,118 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,09,239 samples have tested negative. Meanwhile, no new case of Covid nor death was reported from Kapurthala on Wednesday as the Covid tally remained at 17,870. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-arrested-with-intoxicants-348197
