10-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Kapurthala: Omicron, teachers' protest cast a shadow over exams||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 9Omicron threat and ongoing strike by the college teachers is likely to disturb the examination schedule of the students once again for this ongoing odd semester in various colleges of the region.Theory examinations shall be conducted in online mode by following the same mechanism which was followed in the April/May 2021 session of online examination. — Jaspreet Singh, Registrar, IK Gujral Punjab Technical UniversityWhile IK Gujral Punjab Technical University on Thursday announced to conduct online theory examination owing to the threat due to new Covid variant, the colleges affiliated to Guru Nanak Dev University are still unclear on the possibility of examination slated from December 14 onwards owing to the ongoing strike by the faculty in demand for implementation of the 7th Pay Commission of the University Grants Commission (UGC).IKGPTU release to the media says: “Thousands of students from different states of the country are studying in more than 250 colleges of the university. Due to new variant of Covid, students from outside states are constantly demanding online exams. A high-level committee of college representatives was constituted by the university, after which the decision to make all the theory papers online was approved and released to the colleges /institutions / students on Thursday.”University Registrar Jaspreet Singh said: “The practical exams can be conducted in both offline/online mode. For practical examination, the head of the institution/college will decide at own level. Theory examinations shall be conducted in online mode by following the same mechanism which was followed in the April/May 2021 session of online examination.”He said the examinations will start from the first week of January 2022. “The examination form shall be filled online via login IDs of every student from December 11 (except 2021 batch) and the proposed datesheet shall be available after December 16. The students will be able to fill up the online form with their login ID,” he further clarified.The situation remains different in GNDU-affiliated colleges, which are currently affected due to teachers sitting on mass protest. HMV College Principal Dr Ajay Sareen said: “The practical examination are slated to start from December 14, but we are not sure if the protesting staff will cooperate or not. The principals’ association had proposed to the university that the datesheet be put off by 15 days, but so far it stands as it is. The theory exams were expected to start from December 20 or so but so far there is no datesheet. The teachers are saying that they cannot take exams in winter break and that these should be put off afterwards. But so far, there is no clarity”.Another issue affecting the GNDU colleges is about the SC/ST students. While the Principal Secretary (Higher Education) had directed the colleges not to take fee from the students who hold freeship cards, GNDU has kept the admission of all such students pending asking the colleges to furnish the university fee. The college principals have now written to the Principal Secretary asking him which order they should follow and whether they could take the university fee from the SC students. “In case the university keeps admissions of Dalit students pending, they will not get roll numbers for the forthcoming examination for the first, third and fifth semesters,” said a principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-teachers-protest-cast-a-shadow-over-exams-348579
10-12-2021||---||Unique protest: ETT teachers seek ration to support dharna in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 9Protesting against the non-fulfilment of their long-pending demands in a unique way, members of the ETT TET Pass Teachers’ Union on Thursday visited Education Minister Pargat Singh’s constituency to seek rations and supplies to support their dharna. Villagers also lent support by giving them rations. Notably, teachers had been claiming they would go door to door soon in protest if the government refused to listen to them. Today, was the first day of their taking their fight to the minister’s constituency.Going door to door at Pholariwal village in Jalandhar (which falls in Pargat Singh’s constituency of Jalandhar Cantt), teachers also spoke on the unfair treatment meted out to 180 ETT teachers. They also spoke on teacher Sohan Singh from Barnala, who has been sitting atop a tower in the MLA hostel in Chandigarh for the last 15 days.To strengthen their dharna and to feed teachers, they collected rations for food from the village and exhorted villagers to support their cause. They collected atta and dal, which was donated by villagers. There were some heated verbal exchanges with the police as teachers claimed that policemen tried to stop them from going to the village. They were also given assurances by the Pholariwal village sarpanch that their demands were genuine.Union member Gurmukh Singh said, “In 2016, the state government had released advertisements for the posts of 4,500 ETT (primary) teachers of whom only 180 were hired. These 180 began receiving reduced salaries (from Rs 45,000 to Rs 25,000) about five months ago. We were given new joining letters forcefully, according to which our salaries were reduced to Rs 25,000. Our question is under what rule the government can do this? We require additional posts and Rs 45,000 in salary.”The teachers have been sitting on a dharna under a tent outside the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh for the last three days. They collected rations to cook food for those camping at the same site. Union president Kamal Thakur said the matter of 180 ETT teachers was far from being resolved. They said they would go to other villages too as long as their demands were not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unique-protest-ett-teachers-seek-ration-to-support-dharna-348580
10-12-2021||---||Jalandhar: Blue card claimants protest outside food supply office||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9Residents of Sri Hargobind Nagar and adjoining colonies on Thursday lodged a protest outside the office of the District Food and Civil Supplies Office alleging that they were not being listed as blue card beneficiaries despite repeated requests.The residents were led by district BJP (rural) chief Amarjit Singh Amri and they sat on the dharna displaying their forms. Finding that the officials were not seated, they sat on the floor of the verandah and raised slogans against the department and the government for specifically targeting the families which were not pro-government but qualified under the scheme.Shashi Bala, a resident of Sri Hargobind Nagar, said, “I have filled and given the forms as many as eight times for availing the atta-dal scheme but the officials have been not clearing my case. I am a daily wager and my husband is a driver. We are finding it extremely difficult to arrange for the daily meals of our family including children. We fulfil all criteria for the scheme still our case has been stuck up”.Lakhwinder Kaur, Neelam Kaur, Rajinder Kaur, Prem Lata, Maninder Kaur, Rajni, Shikha, Sukesh, Mukesh Lata, Rano Devi, Sangeeta Devi, Kiran, Mindo, Prabha Devi, Mamta Devi, Kanta Saini and Savita Saini were among those who lodged the protest.Taking up their matter, Amri said, “For getting Blue Cards, the concerned Municipal councillors and sarpanches have to paste a sticker on the forms. But the Congress MCs and sarpanches get into politics and approve the cases only of those people who support them. The remaining applicants are left out.”Harsharanjit Brar, District Food and Civil Supplies Officer, said, “There is a fixed quota for atta-dal scheme applicants. This quota is long over and there is no scope for making a new card. We can issue new card only if some applicants migrate elsewhere or get disqualified due to some reason. Such a situation may come in future but there is nothing as of now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blue-card-claimants-protest-outside-food-supply-office-348581
10-12-2021||---||Jalandhar: NHM staff take to streets, seek regular pay scales||Jalandhar, December 9Protesting against the policies of the state government, employees of the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday took to streets to hold a protest.Employees of the NHM in Kapurthala said the government’s declaration to regularise 36,000 employees was a big lie. They said while they risked their lives to extend health services during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government was neither rewarding Covid warriors nor considering their demands.They said if other states could pay regular pay scales to health workers what stopped the state government from doing so. The union members disbursed pamphlets of the government’s ‘false’ promises and appealed to them to boycott the government in the upcoming elections. They even exhorted patients not to subscribe to the government’s lofty claims. They said unless the equal work, equal pay policy was implemented, they would keep intensifying their protest. Dr Prabhjot Jabbal, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Navdeep Kaur and Dr Yogesh, among others, were present on the occasion.The protest was held in solidarity with the NHM employees’ statewide agitation. Dr Inderjit Singh Rana, state head of the NHM Employees’ Association, Punjab, said this was the first such government which was concerned neither about its employees nor the health of the people of the state. These National Health Mission employees of the Health Department had been fighting for their legitimate demands for a long time, but the state government hardly cared about them.Dr Rana said whenever there was a meeting of the association representatives with the state government, ministers or higher officials, everyone’s statement was different. The lack of consistency in the statements of the Chief Minister, the Health Minister or higher officials of the Health Department proved that the state government was not serious about resolving their issues.Expressing their views on the same subject, state committee members Jaswinder Kaur and Gurpreet Singh said a massive rally would be held in Amritsar, the home town of Health Minister OP Soni, which would be an attempt to wake up the government from its deep slumber.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nhm-staff-take-to-streets-seek-regular-pay-scales-348582
10-12-2021||---||No fresh case reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 9No new Covid case was reported from Jalandhar on Thursday. The Covid tally remained at 63,522 cases.No new Covid death was recorted today, keeping the district deceased tally at 1,499. As many as 61,992 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 31.Of the 1,84,89,858 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,11,388 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 283 samples are awaited.All well in KapurthalaNo fresh case of Covid nor death was reported from Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained at 17,870.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-fresh-case-reported-in-dist-348583
10-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: 157 stamp vendors to get licences||Stones laid for 3 road projectsNawanshahr: MLA Angad Singh on Thursday laid the foundation stones of three major road projects worth Rs1.02 crore in three villages of the district. The projects are construction of roads at the cost of Rs33.7 lakh in Charaan village, Rs13.20 lakh in Dhangerpur village and Rs56 lakh in Mahdipur. He directed the officials of Mandi Board to complete these projects in the projected time frame. The MLA also listened to the problems of residents of these villages and directed the officials to resolve their issues promptly. TNS‘Challenges to media’ tomorrowJalandhar: The Punjab and Chandigarh Journalists Union will hold a seminar on ‘Challenges to media’ at Guru Nanak Dev University College, Ladowali Road, on December 11. Education Minister Pargat Singh will be the chief guest. The keynote speaker at the event would be Dr Pyare Lal Garg, ex-Registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. TNSAlert sewadar foils theft bidHoshiarpur: An attempted theft was reported from Gurdwara Sahib Singh Sabha in Piplanwala. An alert sewadar foiled the theft bid and handed over the miscreant to the police. A case has been registered by Model Town police in this regard. Inderjit Singh, a sewadar, said he saw the suspect entering the gurdwara with the intention of theft. The accused has been identified as Sachin, a resident of Adampur. A case has been registered against the accused. OCCricket trials from tomorrowHoshiarpur: The trials for selections of under-14, under-16 and under-19 cricket players for the regional coaching centre will be conducted on December 11 at the HDCA ground in Railway Mandi. Raan Ghai, secretary, District Cricket Association, said the interested players should bring along their birth certificates for this trial. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/157-stamp-vendors-to-get-licences-348585
