11-12-2021||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between Lovely Professional University (LPU) of India and Russia’s Southern Federal University (SFedU)||MoU with Russian university||Annual fiesta commencedJalandhar: A two-day annual fiesta ‘Apeejay Pinnacle 2021’ commenced at Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus with great zeal. Pargat Singh, Cabinet Minister of Sports, Higher Education and NRI Affairs, Punjab, was the chief guest for the inaugural ceremony of the function. The fiesta began with a mesmerising Ganesh Vandana. The highlight for the event was an enchanting fashion show ‘Fusion Folks’. They blended Indian textile and styling with Western influence. The inaugural ceremony ended with an electrifying folk dance performance- bhangra in which boys and girls enthralled the audience with their rocking dance moves. Dr Rajesh Bagga, Director, Apeejay Institute of Management Technical Campus, exhorted the students to put in their best and consistent efforts for the overall development of their personality. The students will show their prowess in as many as 38 activities.Guest Lecture on Talent MgmtDAV University organised an online guest lecture on ‘Talent Management’ for the students of the Department of Commerce, Business Management and Economics (CBME). Dr Gitika Nagrath, Assistant Prof, welcomed the speaker. Shweta Sharma, an experienced trainer and mentor in the field of talent management. She talked about companies which became leading organisations due to their extraordinary efforts in the field of human resource management. Vice chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi, Registrar Dr KN Kaul and Dean Academics Dr RK Seth congratulated the department for the initiative. Shweta told students, how talent management is a useful tool for attraction and retention of its manpower. At the end, Dr Girish Taneja, coordinator, delivered a note of thanks.Placement drive at HMVSeven students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya have got placement in Knowledge Academy with the pay package of Rs 2 lakh per annum. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and the Placement Cell Incharge Jagjit Bhatia. She told that the students are Riya Sethi, Pooja from B.Voc Web Technology and Multimedia, Devanshi, Sravni, Shruti, Radhika, Vaishali from BCA. Principal Dr. Ajay Sareen told that for the first six months they will do paid internship in the company and then they will be hired as an employee after the completion of an internship. The package will Rs 2 lakh per annum.Recite to ignite event organisedThe ALFAAZ Club of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology organised an event ‘Recite to Ignite’ in the seminar hall of the institute. The event was organised in two categories i.e for age group ‘below 18 years’ and ’18-plus’. Divya Sharma of IT 3rd Semester bagged first position for her brilliant performance. Second and third positions were taken up by Ritika Saini of IT 5th Semester and Namit Sachdeva of ECE 5th Semester respectively in the category of age group ’18-plus’. The first, second and third positions were bagged by Bhavyanshi, Gunjan Bungar and Twinkle, respectively, in the category of age group ‘below 18 years.GNA varsity holds Industrial VisitGNA University organised an Industrial Visit to Solitaire Infosys Pvt. Ltd, Mohali, for the students of Computer Science Engineering. Solitaire Infosys Pvt. Ltd. is an IT service provider. The experts of the industry discussed various ongoing projects of the company and the future trends in the IT market like, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, Machine Learning and what are the industrial needs in the growing world. The interactive session between the students and the experts went for two hours and the queries of the students were solved by the experts of Solitaire Infosys Pvt. Ltd. Dr Vikrant Sharma, Dean (Engineering) said, “Industrial visits are part and parcel for professional courses like BTech.”Manisha shines in academicsManisha Sharma of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged the first position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of Master in Tourism Management-II Semester by getting 545 marks out of 600 whereas Nitish bagged 3rd position by getting 515 marks in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/annual-fiesta-commenced-349020
11-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fateh March: After 'happy ending', it's pack-up time for farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 10“Sade ghar hi bane si ji, ajj dhaa ho gaye. Thora tan dil nu asar hunda hi hai. Par Khushi vi hai Morcha Fateh ho gaya” (We had our homes built there. Today they were taken down. It does touch our hearts a little. But we are also happy that morcha has been won.).After spending nearly a year on Delhi borders, the jubilant farmers from the area, said, they now hold the protest site so close to their heart that they would feel nostalgic while heading back to their hometowns, this being their final journey back to Punjab. With all their demands having been agreed to by the government, jathas of various organisations will return via huge caravans which are expected to reach back to the state from tomorrow onwards.While the BKU (Rajewal) jatha will start return from Delhi borders at 9 am on December 11, ‘Fateh March’ of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee will arrive on December 13.It is with mixed feelings that farmers took down their temporary abodes in the middle of a highway. However, final goodbyes are being said and farewells are being bid as farmer brothers convey each other their final goodbyes. Many hearts got heavy as they took down the tents which served as homes for the past one year.Amarjot Singh Jandiala, Youth leader, BKU Rajewal said, “We had made arrangements for blankets, coolers and ACs and also had little shelves in our tents and sheds. Men have been on the job of removing the tents since yesterday. They will be taken down now. These were our homes for a year. We sat and ate together. There is relief and happiness but also a sense of melancholy for having to take down our ‘homes’. Jathas will start tomorrow at 9 am and return in cavalcades tomorrow or day after.” State treasurer of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Gurlal Singh Pandori said the Fateh March would pay obeisance at the Darbar Sahib in Amritsar following which tributes will be paid to Jallianwala Bagh martyrs in Amritsar. The state treasurer said the rail dharna to be held on December 13 has been postponed to December 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fateh-march-after-happy-ending-its-pack-up-time-for-farmers-349018
11-12-2021||---||Human Rights Day: Youth stand up for human rights||Jalandhar, December 10Seminars, special assemblies and slogan writing contests marked the Human Right Day events in various campuses of the city. The students were told about the equality of rights for all citizens with emphasis on specific rights for women and elderly.GNDU Regional CampusGuru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus at Ladhewali here celebrated Human Rights Day on Friday. Veteran Journalist, author and educationist, Suresh Seth, prominent gynaecologist and social worker, Dr Sushma Chawla and Surinder Saini from Child Helpline and Jalandhar Welfare Society were the chief guests on the occasion. The society felicitated Suresh Seth for his contributions. In his address, Seth talked about igniting young minds with thoughts of betterment of the nation as was envisaged by our freedom fighters. He stressed on women empowerment and urged that they also should be given rights as our Constitution gives equality to all its citizens. Dr Chawla recounted incidents from her own life and gave examples of women patients who are educated but not given opportunity to take even minor decisions. She asked the younger generation to be aware of many issues like environment, senior citizens and many diseases. Earlier, welcoming the guests, Surinder Saini told about the significance of Human Rights Day. Dr. Namarta Joshi, Head of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, thanked the dignitaries and urged the students to speak out against any wrong and become a better human being. A book titled ‘Jai Hind’ by Ajit Saini was also released at the function.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated Human Rights Day. The celebration was jointly organised by Department of Political Science, Department of Human Rights, Student Welfare Department and NSS Unit. The event was organised both in online and offline mode. The students showcased their talent by preparing slogans, PPTs, posters and e-cards on the theme of human rights. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi told the students that KMV was the first institution to start the course of Human Rights in the region at under graduate level. She further motivated the students that by respecting the rights of others and performing their duties with full sincerity will make relevance to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, given by United Nations and the related rights, given in the Indian Constitution. Principal lauded the efforts of Ashima Sahni, SVEEP Coordinator and Head, Department of Political Science, Dr Madhumeet, Dean, Department of Student Welfare, Dr Harpreet, Dr Iqbal Singh and Zeenat for conducting the online celebrations of Human Rights.DIPS SchoolDIPS School, Nurmahal, students were given awareness on human rights and celebrated international human rights day. Special assembly was organised under the guidance of Principal Babli Negi in which students together with able stewardship gave awareness on human rights. Students enlightened their classmates through thought provoking speeches on human rights. Teachers told students that the day is observed to arouse about the rights of humans. Moreover human rights day is celebrated to raise awareness about people social, culture and physical right and to ensure the welfare of everyone. Principal Babli Negi remarked that the day is observed to empower nations to prevent in equality, abuses and discrimination protect the most vulnerable and punish the perpetrators.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraHuman Rights Day was celebrated at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of the college. A seminar was conducted by the Political Science Department for students to aware them about human rights. Students gave speeches and said almost all the rights envisaged in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are enshrined in the Indian Constitution either as ‘Fundamental Rights’ or as ‘Directive Principles of State Policy’. Dr Randhawa said the day is celebrated by deciding a particular theme to make the celebration effective and successful.Know the history, significance & theme||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/human-rights-day-youth-stand-up-for-human-rights-349017
11-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Intoxicants seized, two arrested||Officers probing graft case shiftedHoshiarpur: A new twist has come in the alleged bribery case involving a naib tehsildar, registry clerk and others as the Chief Director Vigilance transferred two officers who took action in the matter on administrative grounds and posted them at headquarters. Notably, four persons, including Sandeep Kumar, naib tehsildar, Mahilpur and Manjit Singh, registry clerk, were arrested by the Hoshiarpur Vigilance Department for allegedly taking bribe. Revenue officers in the state had gone on strike over the issue. The PCS Officers Association Punjab and BDPOs Association, Punjab, suspended the work on Friday. It is believed that both the above transfers have been done under the pressure of unions’ agitation. OC5 fresh cases, 1 death in DoabaJalandhar: Two new Covid cases were reported from Jalandhar on Friday, taking the district Covid tally to 63,524 cases. One new Covid death was reported on Friday, with which the district deceased tally has reached at 1,500. The number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27. Three new cases were reported from Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached at 17,873. No death from Covid was also reported today. Those tested positive included two women from Begowal and RCF, Kapurthala, respectively, and a 10-year-old boy from Begowal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intoxicants-seized-two-arrested-349014
11-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman among 7 booked for kidnapping 9-year-old son||Hoshiarpur, December 10The police have booked seven persons, including the mother, on the charge of kidnapping 9-year-old Balnoor Singh (pic) from his home in Behbowal Chhanniya village.Balnoor’s uncle Sukhjinder Singh told the police that on Friday, five men posing as cops visited the house of Amrit Pal Singh, father of Balnoor Singh, at 1pm. Only Balnoor and his grandmother were present in the house. The kidnappers, who were wearing turbans, told Balnoor’s grandmother that they have come to inquire about the case going on between Amrit Pal Singh and his wife Gurmeet Kaur. They were wearing khaki turbans but they were not in police uniform. Before she could understand anything, they forcibly put the boy in the car and escaped from there.After the news of the kidnapping, Amritpal Singh, immediately informed the police. DSP Dasuya Ranjit Singh Badhesha and station in-charge Dasuya Gurpreet Singh, along with a police team, reached the spot. The DSP formed various police teams on the spot and started the search for the kidnapped boy. Later in the evening, DSP Badhesha told The Tribune that during the preliminary investigation it has been revealed that the kidnapping was planned by boy’s mother, Gurmeet Kaur, in connivance with her friend, Ranveer Singh, and five other unidentified accused. The accused woman is a clerk in the tehsil office in Mukerian and is having a dispute with her husband. She was living separately there in a quarter in Mukerian. Police parties have raided there and her relatives’ houses but she was not found. “Meanwhile, a case has been booked under relevant sections of the IPC against seven persons, including the accused mother, her friend and five unidentified persons. The search for the kidnapped boy and the kidnappers is on. We have got some clues and the accused will be apprehended soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-among-7-booked-for-kidnapping-9-year-old-son-349000
11-12-2021||---||Nursing staff bang thalis, seek regular jobs||Jalandhar, December 10In continuation with their protest against the reduction in their pay grades, members of the Punjab Government Nurses’ Association on Friday took out a march to the Company Bagh chowk banging thalis and tins. They were seeking the fulfilment of their demand by the state government.Over 150 nurses of the association have been on protest outside the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar from December 6 onwards. They started the march from the Civil Hospital. Raising slogans against the state government, they started their march from the Civil Hospital and passed the local Jyoti Chowk from where they reached their protest site — the Company Bagh chowk. They banged plates and tins and carried posters reading ‘equal work, equal pay’. The protest ended at 2pm.Nurses of the Jalandhar were joined by their counterparts who work at OOAT centres in Jalandhar. They boycotted all medical services during the day, including emergency medical ones. They said the protest would continue until their demands were met. The protesters demanded the rectification of errors in their pay scales. They said a typographical error in a letter had become an excuse to pay them very low salaries.They said while they were earlier paid a salary of Rs 4,600 (B grade category), it reduced to Rs 3,200 and there were plans to reduce it further to D grade. They sought the implementation of the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission. Another demand of the association included the regularisation of the services of the nursing staff. They also demanded Rs 7,200 as nursing care allowance. Travel allowance of Rs 2,010 and dress allowance of Rs 1,800 as per the Central pay grade were also demanded by the nurses. Another demand is the change in the name of their post — from staff nurse to nursing officer.They warned that if the government did not give time to the joint action committee of nurses for a meeting soon, they would even go on leave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nursing-staff-bang-thalis-seek-regular-jobs-348974
11-12-2021||---||Unlikely to get Banga ticket, Soondh looks for alternative||Jalandhar, December 10With Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi clearly batting for his Principal Secretary Hussan Lal from reserved Banga Assembly seat, the Congress ticket aspirants who had been working on the seat have started looking for alternate arrangements.Ex-MLA Tirlochan Soondh, who had been denied ticket in 2017 and had contested Independently from Banga, has decided not to quit the party this time and instead look for an alternative reserved seat. There are reports that Soondh has expressed his desire of getting ticket from Phagwara.Party insiders have said recent survey reports conducted by the Congress have pointed out that sitting Phagwara MLA and retired IAS officer Balwinder Dhaliwal was not much popular in the masses as of date. Since there is a buzz that he could be changed, the candidates from the adjoining Banga seat have been expressing their desire to contest from here. Like Soondh, another ex-MLA from Banga Mohan Lal too is reportedly in fray for ticket from Phagwara.In 2012, Soondh had polled 42,000 votes from Banga as the Congress candidate with Mohan Lal (then as SAD candidate) trailing with nearly 39,000 votes. In 2017, SAD’s sitting MLA Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi had polled 45,000 votes. AAP candidate had got 43,000 votes while Congress candidate Satnam Kainth, who passed away months after the polls, lost his security deposit. Soondh as Independent got only 6,294 votes.Asked about his plans this time, Soondh said, “Banga, Phagwara and Phillaur are all inter-connected Assembly seats. If not Banga, I am ready to contest from either of the two seats.”Notably, Congress has lost from Phillaur seat in the last two elections. In 2012, Chaudhary Santokh Singh (now Jalandhar MP) had lost to SAD’s Avinash Chander by 31 votes. In 2017, Baldev Khaira of SAD had won against sitting MP’s son Vikramjit S Chaudhary by 3,477 votes in the four-corner contest, with AAP and BSP candidates too fairing well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unlikely-to-get-banga-ticket-soondh-looks-for-alternative-348973
11-12-2021||---||Doaba to be developed as potato seed hub: Minister||Kapurthala, December 10In a first of its kind horticulture summit, Horticulture Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh said the Punjab Government would develop the Doaba region as a potato seed hub as the soil health of this area is fully suitable for the production of world class potato seeds.Addressing the farmers who take part in the horticulture summit on the campus of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University here, the minister said Punjab has become the first state in the country to pass the tissue-based Seed Potato Act 2021, under which the traceability and certification of potato seeds were made mandatory to ensure quality control of seeds. He also said that first time the seed cultivation of potato seeds increases to 78,000 hectare.Talking about the newly introduced provisions in the Fruit and Nursery Act, the minister said now registration of nurseries would be a necessary step besides making tagging and traceability must.In a conversation with the farmers, the minister also announced to set up banana ripening units. Besides that a subsidy scheme for polyhouses was also launched by the minister. In this scheme farmers would be able to attain 90 per cent subsidy to set up the polyhouses. To initiate it, 19 farmers from across the state also got work orders letters from the minister.Terming the depletion of ground water as alarming, the minister urged the Horticulture Department and Punjab Agricultural University to develop the less water consuming varieties of crops. Director Horticulture Shalinder Kaur said the farmers must come forward for cash crops instead of traditional crop pattern to enhance their income.Nearly 70 prominent horticulturists were also awarded by the Punjab Government on this occasion. Earlier in the technical and farmers session, prominent scientists from PAU and successful farmers in bee keeping, potato production took part in the deliberations, which mainly included Rana Inder Partap Singh, minister’s son and a sugarcane grower.Rana’s son hogs limelight at eventMinister ducks query on tussle with dy cm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-to-be-developed-as-potato-seed-hub-minister-348808
11-12-2021||---||Amid teachers' strike, GNDU says no to online exams this semester||Jalandhar, December 10Even though the college students across the region were today expecting Guru Nanak Dev University to take a final call on announcing the final schedule of the semester examination amid the ongoing teachers’ strike, no announcement came in till this evening. This leaves the students of 34 colleges from the district in a complete dilemma as the practical papers ahead of the theory examination were slated to begin from December 14.The varsity officials have, however, made it clear that there would be no online examination as has been announced by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University and Panjab University. Ruling out any such move, GNDU Controller of Examination Prof Manoj Kumar said: “The question of online examinations does not arise as we have been conducting offline classes since August 16 onwards. Considering the situation, we are planning to release a fresh datesheet within 10 days. Participation of teachers is required for conduct of examinations offline. With teachers on strike, it might cause delays.”The college teachers, who have announced a complete education bandh since the past nearly a week, were expecting some outcome in the yesterday’s Cabinet meeting regarding their demand for implementation of the 7th Pay Commission of the UGC. “We were expecting some outcome in the Cabinet meeting at Chandigarh yesterday but not a word was discussed about the massive protests going on in the colleges of the state,” said principal of an aided college here adding that they have all met new Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh with their demands a number of times, but to no avail. “They have funds to announce tens of thousands of crores for every project but nothing for the nation-builders,” said another principal.Prof Manoj is also concerned about the adherence to UGC guidelines of 90 days of regular classes under the semester system. “If teaching remains suspended for more days, the legitimacy of the course can be revoked or challenged.” He also termed the teachers strike as a justified move. “They have been waiting for many years for the government to implement the 7th pay commission pay grades. Their demands must be taken seriously if the quality of higher education in the state has to improve”, he said.Over 200 teachers of different colleges of Jalandhar district lined up along the road outside Lyallpur Khalsa College on Friday under the banner of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) to register their protest against the anti-education policies of the state government.District General Secretary of the union, Dr SS Bains, said the process of de-linking teachers’ pay scales from the UGC scales was going to hit higher education in the state very badly, leading to lack of financial resources for colleges and universities of Punjab.Addressing the gathering the President of GNDU-affiliated non-government colleges Principal Association and Principal Lyallpur Khalsa College Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra appealed to the government to pay attention to the just demands of the teachers by implementing the 7th Pay Panel recommendations and by revoking the state government decision of delinking with UGC pay scales and to save higher education. State PCCTU General Secretary Dr. Sukhdev Randhawa said that the education bandh would continue till a favourable action by the government was made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-teachers-strike-gndu-says-no-to-online-exams-this-semester-348809
