12-12-2021||---||9 youths appear for test on behalf of friends, caught||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 11Nine youths were arrested by the Jalandhar Commissionerate on Saturday for trying to crack the written examination for entry to the Punjab Police at constable-level by sending their friends for writing the paper.The recruitment for 4,383 posts is underway at the Punjab Armed Police headquarters here. A release by chairperson of the Punjab Police Recruitment Board ADGP Gurpreet Deo mentioned that these youths had been caught on the basis of mismatch in photos and biometric details taken at the time of examination and later during the physical trials that are currently underway.“We have a built-in technology to detect the mismatch in which these youths were caught,” an official said.The arrested youths confessed to the crime and have been arrested by the New Baradari police. They said they were not so good in studies and not very well-prepared, owing to which they tried playing smart. The officials said they also minutely checking all documents of the candidates and the photographs that they had submitted during the filling of the forms. These photographs, too, were being matched digitally at the time of their appearance for written and physical tests, the officials said, warning candidates of trying to commit any forgery henceforth.As many as 4 lakh candidates had taken the examination, of which 25,500 candidates were called for the physical trials at PAP. This stage-2 recruitment process is underway since December 3 and will go on till December 17. As many as 9,800 candidates have already appeared for the trials in the last eight days. The officials said in case any candidate had missed his/her trial on the given date due to some reason, he or she could appear on December 17 at PAP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-youths-appear-for-test-on-behalf-of-friends-caught-349405
12-12-2021||---||Make sure staff is fully jabbed or face action: DC to officials||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, December 11Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer (DEO) Vishesh Sarangal directed the heads of all government departments to ensure that their staff members are fully vaccinated and identified for the poll duties.Instructing the heads of all departments, DC Vishesh Sarangal said total 3,998 employees working in various departments have been deputed in the poll duties, of which 3,770 have already taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.He said among 3,998 employees, 192 are those whose second dose is pending and 36 are those who have not taken even one jab. Sarangal said among these 36, some of them have given medical conditions behind not taking any dose of Covid-19 vaccine, but now they have to ensure administration of both doses, which is mandatory for them to do poll duties.He said the administration would hold a special camp at the Civil Hospital on December 13 exclusively for those who have not taken even the first dose of the vaccine and to complete the vaccination course of both doses.The DC said as per the instructions of the Election Commission of India, only vaccinated staff would be deployed for poll duties and any kind of negligence on the part of the departments’ heads would not be tolerated.He said the vaccine was completely safe and effective and ordered all heads of the departments to strictly adhere to the instructions. He asked them to submit the certificate of 100-per cent vaccinated staff to his office following the camp.Sarangal said action would be taken against negligent heads under Section 32 of the Representation of People Act, 1950.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-sure-staff-is-fully-jabbed-or-face-action-dc-to-officials-349406
12-12-2021||---||Six new cases surface in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 11Six new Covid-19 cases were reported in Jalandhar on Saturday. The tally in the dist reached 63,530. The health authorities reported no new Covid-19 related death today. With this, the toll stands at 1,500.As many as 62,000 people have recovered in the district while the district has 30 active cases. Of the 18,54,892 samples collected in the district so far, 17,17710 samples tested negative.No new case in K’thalaThe health authorities reported no new case in Kapurthala district today. The tally stands at 17,873. No Covid-19 related death was reported in the district today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-new-cases-surface-in-dist-349407
12-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||'cVigil to help ensure free & fair elections'||Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Saturday said that cVigil app is a landmark step in conducting the ensuing assembly elections in a free, fair and transparent manner.Presiding over a training, the Deputy Commissioner said the app was launched by the Election Commission of India (ECI) and used for the first time in 2019 general elections. She said the app was amongst the other novel ways to ensure the electoral participation of the techno savvy youth besides simplifying the poll related works and bringing its functioning in tune with the changing times.She said cVigil provides evidence-based proof of the model code of conduct/expenditure violation, having live photo/video with auto location data. Riyait said any citizen could lodge a complaint through App which was further investigated by flying aquads and subsequent action would be taken by the returning officer. The DC said as soon as the complaint was lodged action had to be initiated on it and it had to be resolved within 100 minutes. She said if the complainant does not want to get identified then his credentials had to be kept secret. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cvigil-to-help-ensure-free-fair-elections-349408
12-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Teachers intensify stir||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 11With the Assembly poll drawing near and their demands remaining unmet, teachers have started adopting novel ways to express their resentment against the government.A day after they went to Pholariwal village falling under Education Minister’s constituency apprising residents of the reasons for their dharna and collecting rations, 180 ETT teachers on Saturday went to Dhina, Chittevani and Kadianwali villages falling under Education Minister Pargat Singh’s constituency in a door-to-door campaign against the government.Teachers taking to streets and holding door-to-door campaigns against the government poses a fresh challenge to the government ahead of the elections. So far, at least two organisations have declared to hold door-to-door campaigns against the state government.While ETT teachers have already begun their door-to-door drives, a few days ago members of the Democratic Teachers’ Front also made similar declarations. During a dharna of the Democratic Teachers’ Front in Jalandhar on December 8, the teachers of the front had said that they would start visiting people’s houses in a campaign to be started from December 25 onwards against the government.Meanwhile, ETT teachers propagated against the wrong policies of the government and also informed people of their own struggle. They apprised them of the fact that their colleague, Sohan Singh, had been camping atop a tower in MLA Hostel, Chandigarh, for the past 17 days in protest against the government, but no one from the administration checked about his well-being. Teachers also collected rations for their ongoing dharnas.Notably, today was the 5th day of the ETT teachers’ ‘pakka dharna’ outside Pargat Singh’s residence. Union president Kamal Thakur said teachers would continue visiting villages each day until their demands were met.Vikramjit Singh of the Democratic Teachers’ Front said, “We plan to hold door-to-door drives from December 25 onwards, propagating the government’s policies. During the last five years of this government, we patiently waited for our demands to be met. But with a few days left for the code of conduct to be implemented, the government has not even addressed their basic demands yet. There has not been a single recruitment of primary teacher in all these years.Meritorious school teachers to gherao Soni’s house in Asr todayJalandhar: Seeking regularisation in the Education Department as per a 2018 notification, the Meritorious School Teachers’ Union has decided to gherao Deputy CM OP Soni’s residence in Amritsar on December 12, while protesting in black clothes. They said when Soni was the education minister, he only talked to teachers of meritorious schools and sought agreement in salary cut for them to become part of the Education Department on regular basis. At that time all teachers had agreed to this. Union members also gheraoed the residence of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu in Patiala on December 8, after which they were given an assurance of meeting him on December 10. They said during many recent meetings with both Navjot Sidhu and Pargat Singh, they received only empty assurances. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-intensify-stir-349409
12-12-2021||---||'Resolve issues or we'll block highways'||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 11The indefinite strike by the contractual employees of the government-run de-addiction centres, rehabilitation centres and OOATs across the state entered the sixth day on Saturday.It was alleged by the striking employees that during the strike at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, Sector 2, Chandigarh, the employees were treated badly by the Chandigarh Police. They were cane-charged and arrested. They alleged that even after this, no heed was given to their demands by the government.Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni and the Principal Secretary, Health, had meetings with them, but these too remained fruitless as no notification had been issued so far regarding their demands, they said.Union’s state general secretary Parshant Adia and district president Gurmit Singh said the contractual employees were working in drug de-addiction centres at great personal risk as many patients, having a criminal background, visited the centres, yet the Punjab Government was not taking care of them. We got nothing but false promises and assurances, they alleged. If the government continued with its apathetic attitude, they would have to come to roads and block all the highways in the state, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resolve-issues-or-well-block-highways-349410
12-12-2021||---||Students urged to think big, work hard, lead||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 11The annual convocation was held at the CT Institutes and St Soldier Group of Colleges on Saturday. On Friday also, 200 students from Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus received their B Tech degrees.1,127 CT students get degreesA cheerful and heart-warming scenario was witnessed during the 7th Convocation of CT Group of Institutions. As many as 1,127 postgraduates and graduates of 2019 and 2020 passed out batches were awarded degrees in a convocation ceremony. The chief guest for the occasion was Padma Shri Pargat Singh, Cabinet Minister of Punjab. He delivered the convocation address. In his address, Padma Shri Pargat Singh shared the tale of his success and stressed on the introduction of the new technology.He said, “I just want to tell all students that after stepping out today of the premises, you must go back and calmly understand yourself and the importance of what and why of your life. You should stop searching for negativity and start seeing positive things in every situation. This will change your inside out. You must work hard with a positive mindset in order to touch the pinnacle of success.”The welcome speech was delivered by Campus Director Dr Rahul Malhotra and the convocation was declared opened by Chairman Charanjit S Channi. The convocation was organised by Dean Academics Dr Anupamdeep Sharma along with Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami, Director Research and staff members. At the convocation, 230 postgraduate and 897 undergraduate students of pharmacy, hospitality, engineering and other streams were honoured.Charanjit Singh Channi, CT Group Chairman, said, “My experiences prompt me to say that today’s achievement may fade or be even forgotten. Your certificates and medals may gather dust on a shelf or displayed on the wall. But you always will be remembered for caring enough, for helping someone, for making someone feel special and appreciated for being the kind. I have no doubt that you will get the very best in life.”CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh and Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh thanked the Chief Guest for accepting to grace this day with his presence.On this occasion, CT University Vice-Chancellor Dr. Harsh Sadawarti, Maqsudan Campus Director Dr Yogesh Chhabra, industrialists namely Sarvjit Samra, MD- Capital Small Finance Bank; Dr Naresh Nagpal- Retired Additional Director- Department of Technical Education, Punjab; Parveen Ahuja; Narender Saggu- President, Industrial Focal Point Association; Charanjit Maingi- General Secretary, Jalandhar Chamber of Industries and Commerce; Advocate Mandeep S Sachdev; Ashok K Sangwan from Wipro etc were present along with the faculty of CT Group of Institutions.452 students receive degrees at St SoldierSt Soldier Law College and St Soldier Co-ed College organised its 11th convocation in which 308 passed out students of LLB, BA (Law), B Com (Law), BA LLB, and 108 students of BA, B Com, BPT and BCA awarded with degrees. The programme was started by lighting the lamp. Education Minister Punjab Pragat Singh was the chief guest on the occasion. Controller Examination of Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar Prof Dr Manoj Kumar, Chairman Anil Chopra and Vice-Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra graced the occasion as special guests.They were welcomed by Managing Director Prof Manhar Arora, Law College Director Dr Subhash Sharma, Degree College Director Dr Veena Dada and others. The annual report was read out by the law college director Dr Subhash Sharma.Pragat Singh and all the guests presented degrees to the students and those who performed excellent in academics, university position holders, sports, cultural and other activities. In his convocation address, Education Minister Pargat Singh, while explaining the bright opportunities in the legal profession, said one should work hard to achieve his goal. He advised the students to carve a name for themselves in the world by learning from the youthful spirit and experience of the seniors.200 get B Tech degrees at LKCTCNearly 200 B Tech students were awarded degrees at the annual convocation organised at School of Engineering of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus here yesterday.Dr RK Gupta (VC, Maharaja Agrasen University, Solan, HP), gave the convocation address. He stated that the Khalsa College Lyallpur Education Charitable Trust has a glorious past of more than 100 years in the in the field of education. The trust is running a number of multi-disciplinary educational institutions with strength of nearly 10,000 students in the areas ranging from arts, science, law, education and literature to management and IT, he said.The institute’s report was presented by the Dr SK Sood (Director LKCTC). He stated that our vision is to be a vibrant and innovative centre of education, research, executive training and consultancy in technical education; to develop a cadre of socially responsive technocrats, entrepreneurs and professionals, thereby fulfilling the contemporary needs of the industry, business, government and the community at large, both locally and nationally. He further added that many students of the campus have bagged top merit positions in the examinations conducted by IKG-PTU. These students have also been honored by the institute and are also given scholarships to encourage them.Thereafter Dr SK Sood (Director LKCTC) declared the convocation open. Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh was chief guest of the day. Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC) welcomed the chief guest, members of Governing Council, invited dignitaries and recipients of degrees. The dignitaries present were Balbir Kaur (President, Governing Council), Urmiljeet Kaur (Secretary), Jaspal Singh Waraich (Joint Secretary), Dr Ekonkar Singh Johal (Dy. Registrar College Development IKGPTU), Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs KCL Group, and Dr RS Deol (Dy Director, Academic Affairs, KCL Group).At the end, Dr RS Deol (Dy Director AA KCL Group) presented vote of thanks. He congratulated all graduating students who worked hard and have completed their degrees.After the completion of convocation, alumni meet was organised in which alumni of the institutes interacted with each other and with the current engineering students. Alumni of the institute guided their juniors for the strong academia and efforts to be put on for good placements. Then a cultural programme for the alumini took place. At the end vote of thanks was presented by Dean Alumni Dr Pooja Dhand giving the best wishes to the alumni of School of Engineering and the current students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-urged-to-think-big-work-hard-lead-349411
12-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||1,395 cases settled in National Lok Adalat||The District Legal Services Authority on Saturday organised a National Lok Adalat under the chairmanship of District Legal Services Authority-cum-District and Sessions Judge Amarjot Bhatti. As many as 11 benches were constituted at Hoshiarpur, four at Dasuy a Sub-Division, two at Mukerian and three at Garhshankar.As many as 3,848 cases were heard in Hoshiarpur Lok Adalat and 1,325 cases were disposed of on the spot and awards of Rs 15,07,69,036 were passed. Additional Sessions Judge Puneet Mohan Sharma settled a 5-year-old complicated dispute between the husband and wife by mutual consent. Civil Judge Junior Division Manik Kaura disposed of 70 out of 100 cases through e-Lok Adalat. In addition to the above, a 7-year-old case was settled by Additional Civil Judge (SD) Dasuya. Several other cases were settled amicably.Lok Adalat disposes of 1,104 casesKapurthala: The Lok Adalat disposed of 1,104 cases and awarded a compensation of Rs 12.47 crore to litigants here on Saturday. As many as 18 courts were set up in the district which included 11 courts at Kapurthala subdivision, four at Phagwara, two at Sultanpur Lodhi and one at Bholath subdivision, said District and Sessions Judge Amarinder Singh Grewal. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-395-cases-settled-in-national-lok-adalat-349412
12-12-2021||Jalandhar||UNICEF Day celebrated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unicef-day-celebrated-349413
12-12-2021||Jalandhar||Tablets distributed among students||Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh on Friday distributed tablets among school students of Government Senior Secondary School, Mithapur, of his own Jalandhar Cantonment constituency.As many as 4,361 tablets are to be distributed in 879 government schools in the state, 250 of which would be provided in the 50 senior secondary schools of the district.Participating in a launch event held at the school, the minister said these tablets would further strengthen e-learning infrastructure across all higher schools in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tablets-distributed-among-students-349414
12-12-2021||Jalandhar||Live science workshop||Workshop on Advance HairstylingKanya Maha Vidyalaya always keeps on organising various meaningful activities in order to enhance the development of the students. With an aim to learn more about the world of ‘Hairstyling’, the PG Department of Cosmetology organised a workshop on ‘Advance Hairstyling’. The resource person for the workshop was hairstylist Tushar. During the workshop, Tushar explained about the basics of hairstyling to the students and also acquainted everyone about the steps that one needs to follow for the proper care and nourishment of the hair. He also explained different kinds of hairstyles and what are the various techniques that one should follow while doing the hairstyling. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these kinds of workshops play an important role in providing skill education to the students so that they may be able to succeed in this highly competitive world. Principal lauded the efforts of Gayatri Arya and other faculty members for successfully organising the workshop.Sports meet held at Eklavya SchoolThe 19th Annual Sports meet was held at Eklavya School. Seema Handa (Director of Eklavya School) was the chief guest of the function. The function started with a welcome speech by Bharti Kalia. The National Flag was hoisted by Handa. Principal Komal Arora hoisted Eklavya school flag whereas the scouts and guides flag was hoisted by the Administrator Dimple Malhotra. The programme started with the presentation of ‘Suryanamaskar’ by the students of middle school and senior school. After ‘Suryanamaskar’ the same set of students performed energetic aerobics which was liked by one and all. The best player (boys) award for the session 2021-22 was bagged by Rajwinder Singh of Class XI (Humanities) and best player (girls) award was bagged by Bhawna Chander of Class XI (Humanities). The Principal appreciated the will power and sportsmanship shown by the students as well as by the teachers.Inter-zonal youth festivalThe students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya again brought laurels to the institution by bagging the first position in Inter-Zonal Youth Festival, quiz competition organised by Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar. The students of HMV stood unbeaten in the quiz for the 7th time consecutively in Zonal Youth Festival and four times in Inter Zonal Youth Festival. In Inter-Zonal, 10 teams from various colleges participated in quiz preliminary round and only four teams reached the finals. HMV team consisted of Shivani Bhadula of MA Political Science Sem III, Avleen Kaur BA Sem III and Vidhi Jain of BBA Sem V. The team scored 100 marks and defeated the second and third team by a margin of 45 marks and 60 marks respectively. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and told that HMV has pride of having quiz team at national level. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen also congratulated the teacher Incharge Quiz and Dean Student Welfare Binoo Gupta, Dean Youth Welfare Department Navroop, Veena Arora, Dr Anjana Bhatia, Anchal, Ramandeep, Dr. Jiwan Devi and quiz support team student Gurwinder for this brilliant achievement.Speech Competition organisedLyallpur Khalsa College is committed to the development of the Punjabi language. Under this series, as per the directions of Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, Punjabi Language Development Centre of the college, organised a speech competition on the theme “Importance of Mother Tongue Punjabi”. Students of various departments enthusiastically participated in the competition. The students shared their views on the importance of mother tongue in life and the importance and development of it in our life. Competitors also expressed the concern of the young generation for breaking away from their mother tongue and conveyed the message to speak in Punjabi and write in Punjabi. Head of the Post-Graduate Punjabi Department Dr Gopal Singh Butter praised the students for motivating audience for the development of Punjabi language. In this competition, Balpreet Kaur, B.Com Semester-1, and Seema, MA Punjabi Semester-3, jointly won first place, Charanjit Kaur, MA Political Science semester-1, and Brahmsevak Singh, MA Political Science semester-1, got second position and third place went to Nagma, BA Semester-3, and Lovepreet Kaur, BA Semester-5. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/live-science-workshop-349415
12-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||BSF IG gets President medal||Salon owner ends his lifeHoshiarpur: Troubled by moneylenders, a salon owner, ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on Friday. After receiving a complaint in this regard, the police have registered a case after naming three accused. According to the information, Himanshu, a resident of local Mohalla Harinagar, lodged a complaint with the city police. He said his brother Harshit Puri used to run a salon at Suthehri Road. According to him, when his brother started the work, he had taken loan from some moneylenders. He said his brother returned a major part of the loan with interest to the said people, but in spite of this, the moneylenders used to harass him mentally and abuse him at his salon. Fed up over this, his brother ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on Friday evening. The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against the three accused — Ridham of Kamalpur, Sanjay Sharma of Canal Colony and Aman of Shergarh. Further probe is on. OCMobile seized in jail, two bookedHoshiarpur: The city police have registered a case against two jail inmates on the complaint of Central Jail administration regarding the recovery of mobile phones from a barrack on Friday. According to the information, Assistant Superintendent Surjit Singh said after a tip-off, barrack number 16 was raided, when a mobile phone was recovered. The accused possessing the said mobile have been identified as Prabhjot Singh of Dharamkot, District Tarn Taran, and Gagandeep Singh, alias Bunty, of Batala Road, Amritsar. OCCop’s house burgledHoshiarpur: Unidentified thieves targeted the house of a policeman on Friday and decamped with gold jewellery and cash. The Model Town police have registered a case. Pawan Kumar, an employee of the Punjab Police, who was a resident of Pratap Nagar, lodged a complaint and said his family was not at home last night and he was also on duty. When he returned in the morning, he found the locks broken. Some unidentified thieves had entered his house by breaking the locks. They stole cash and gold ornaments. The police have started investigation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-ig-gets-president-medal-349416
