13-12-2021||---||Labour organisations hold rail chakka jam in Phillaur||Jalandhar, December 12In order to assert their demands, the joint morcha of rural and farm labour organisations held a rail chakka jam from 12 noon to 4 pm on the Amritsar to Jammu route in Phillaur. Labour organisations participated in huge numbers in protest against the state government.Leaders of the Sanjha Mazdoor Morcha declared that if the state government still did not implement their demands which had already been agreed upon and if their grievances were not addressed, then the government should be prepared for several protests in future. They said the future course of the agitation would soon be declared after another state-level meeting of the Sanjha Mazdoor Morcha. They also said though the CM had been changed with promise of bringing a policy change, the policies and stance of the government still remains the same.They said the demands of the labourer organisations — like allotment of residential plots, grant of land rights to the underprivileged under Swamitva Scheme, power bill waivers, restoration of uprooted power meters among others — were being met with a dilly dallying approach from the state CM. They said the state CM had made big promises and declarations regarding the same, but on the ground level, these rights were being denied to the poor peasantry and labourers.The union leader demanded that CM Channi hold a meeting with labour outfits and allocation of not just wheat from ration depots but also sugar, tea, among other essential commodities on control rates. They also demanded, plots for the homeless and the needy, stopping of blind interest rates and forceful extortions from micro-finance companies, 25 per cent reservation for labourers in cooperative societies and loan amount be increased to Rs 50,000, cancellation of dummy auction at Masania village in Gurdaspur, among other demands.Mazdoor morcha’s Dehati Mazdoor Sabha state president Darshan Nahar, pendu Mazdoor Union Punjab state president Tarsem Peter, Punjab Khet Mazdoor state joint secretary Harmesh Malri, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha leader Mukand Lal along with Gurinder Lal, harpal Bittu, Hans Raj Pabwan, Baldev Noorpuri, Kamaljit Sanawa, Satnam Uggi, Paramjit Randhawa, Kashmir Ghgshore, Jarnail Phillaur, Hari Ram Rasoolpuri, Surinder Toni, Harbans Mattu, Sutantar Kumar, Jaswinder among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-organisations-hold-rail-chakka-jam-in-phillaur-349701
13-12-2021||---||Will keep protesting in Pargat Singh's constituency, say ETT teachers||Jalandhar, December 12In continuation with their daily campaign against the state government to highlight the ‘bad policies’ of the state government, the ETT TET Pass Union today started that their campaign at Brring village in Jalandhar, which falls in Education Minister Pargat Singh’s constituency. At least four ETT teachers were detained by the police for several hours when they planned to protest against the Education Minister on his visit to the constituency.While carrying out their regular drive against the government and collecting rations from the locals, teachers decided to reach the site where Pargat Singh was scheduled to visit in Brring village. Teachers went to the local stadium to lodge their protest from where four of them were detained by the police. However, they were let off after one to two hours. Following the commotion, the slated event was also cancelled.Jaago by unemployed teachersNotably, while it is their sixth day outside the minister’s house on a regular dharna, teachers also protest outside the minister’s home this morning raising slogans near the barricades. For the past four to five days, teachers have been regularly visiting villages in Pargat’s constituency to propagate about the state government’s policies.Teachers said they would continue to hold protests specifically in the minister’s constituency as despite repeated assurances their long-pending demands haven’t been met. The prime demand of teachers is completion of pending recruitments in primary schools as per the demands which has also been previously agreed upon by the state government and the minister. Another demand is the reversal of the central pay scale on them.Union president Kamal Thakur said as long as the forcefully imposed central pay scale on them was not returned, they would continue their protest. They said their protest dharna would continue till their demands were met. They would also continue holding campaigns in the Education Minister’s constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-keep-protesting-in-pargats-constituency-say-ett-teachers-349702
13-12-2021||---||Jalandhar: Farmers return home to a hero's welcome||Jalandhar, December 12Garlands of flowers and showers of petals welcomed farmers as they returned from protest sites on Delhi borders after staying there for over a year. They got a hero’s welcome upon their return today as their grit and determination ensured the repeal of the farm laws and also won them ‘guaranteed’ MSP.Flowers were showered on jubilant farmers and labourers on their way home. Villagers, shopkeepers, residents congratulated them on their victory. A huge convoy of farmers returned via. Phillaur, Goraya, Lamma Pind, Surya Enclave and the Dhannowali village in Jalandhar. Residents were seen dancing with farmers in joy while passing through the city and villages.While continued return of morchas will take place via. the national highway across Doaba for the coming days, huge cavalcades of the Fateh Morcha will also be returning back to Jalandhar tomorrow after paying obeisance at the Darbar Sahib. Expressing happiness, a resident Najar Singh said, “Me and my family have been going to the Singhu morcha off and on. This time we stood on the street to welcome them back. I am happy that farmers have returned with their demands met. We are celebrating their return and the way they have upheld democracy. Its a very joyous occasion for us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-return-home-to-a-heros-welcome-349709
13-12-2021||Jalandhar||No fresh Covid case in Jalandhar district||No new Covid case was reported from Jalandhar on Sunday. The district Covid tally in the district remained at 63,530 cases. No new Covid death was also reported today, with which the deceased tally remained at 1,500. As many as 62,006 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 24.Meanwhile, four fresh Covid cases were reported from Kapurthala on Sunday. The new cases include three teenagers and an adult. The three new cases include a 13-year-old, 14-year-old and a 17-year-old from Army Public School, Dhilwan. Meanwhile, a 35-year-old from RCF has also tested positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-fresh-covid-case-in-district-349715
13-12-2021||---||Lift irrigation project in 3 Kapurthala villages||Jalandhar, December 12Kapurthala district has become the leader in the state to implement the first-of-its-kind lift irrigation with treated water from village ponds project here from three villages — Aujla Jogi, Bishanpur and Kala Sanghian — here on Sunday. Around 40.34 hectares of land in these villages has been earmarked for this unique irrigation facility.Inaugurating the project, Minister for Soil and Water Conservation Rana Gurjeet Singh said this was the major step towards implementing the report submitted by the special committee constituted by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to save the groundwater of Punjab. The Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee (under the chairmanship of MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh), which has six MLAs from across the party lines, had submitted a 248-page report on March 24 this year.Urging people, especially farmers, to come forward to save the natural resource, the minister said as per the findings of the Vidhan Sabha Committee, the situation was alarming as more than 83 per cent tubewells were 300 feet deep and the remaining 17 per cent were more than 500 feet deep. He said, “We are duty bound towards the next generation to maintain a balance between recharging and extraction of water.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lift-irrigation-project-in-3-kapurthala-villages-349717
13-12-2021||---||23-yr-old Phagwara woman killed in road mishap; 3 hurt||Jalandhar, December 12A 23-year-old woman was killed and three other women were seriously injured when the car they were travelling in met with an accident here on Saturday night. The police have arrested the driver of the car. Part of a wedding troupe, four women were returning after a performance when their car rammed into another vehicle and then hit the divider. One of the women was killed on the spot while the three others sustained serious injuries.The victim has been identified as Amandeep Kaur, a resident of Ranjit Nagar in Phagwara. The police said it was due to the car driver’s mistake that the accident happened. The incident took place on the national highway near Bhogpur.A case has been registered against the car driver under Sections 304-A, 279, 227 and 339 of the IPC at the Bhogpur police station.Those injured have been identified as Shalu (28), a resident of New Dashmesh Nagar, Jalandhar, Sonia (23), a resident of Beant Nagar, Jalandhar, and Twinkle (28), a resident of Lamma Pind, Jalandhar. They were all part of the wedding performance troupe. While one woman suffered a fracture, the other two were seriously injured. However, their condition is stated to be stable. The police said the FIR was registered against the car driver on the basis of the women’s statements.Bhogpur police station SHO Harinder Singh said, “The troupe was returning from Gurdaspur after attending a wedding. The car in which they were travelling rammed into a truck loaded with potatoes. The police got the medical test of the driver done to check if he was drunk while driving the car. He is in police custody. The injured women are undergoing treatment at a Jalandhar hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-yr-old-woman-killed-in-road-mishap-3-hurt-349720
13-12-2021||---||Will end loot culture in Punjab if voted to power: AAP||Jalandhar, December 12The Aam Aadmi Party will end the loot culture in Punjab and ensure development in the state if it was voted to power. The policy of the previous SAD-BJP and Congress governments has been, ‘looting the public and businessmen to spend money on themselves’. This was stated by Aam Aadmi Party’s senior leader and Health Minister of Delhi Government Satyendar Jain while addressing a gathering here on Sunday.Addressing small and medium-scale businessmen in Nakodar, Jain said corruption and bribery would be eradicated immediately after the Aam Aadmi Party formed government in Punjab and development works would be done.Taking a dig at SAD and Congress, he said their leaders were afraid of Kejriwal. They always remained worried that if the Aam Aadmi Party formed government in Punjab, then their loot business would stop. Due to the previous corrupt governments, the revenue of the state suffered a lot and the people had to face the consequences.He said the AAP would provide them complete security and facilities. Bureaucracy and commissions would be completely abolished. He said Rs1,000 may not be a big amount, but it would definitely help women in many ways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-end-loot-culture-if-voted-to-power-aap-349722
13-12-2021||Focus more on other social parameters||Open House:  Do you think freebie culture is against basic principles of democracy & how can we stop this practice?||The practice of offering dole-outs is unfortunate. It damages the electoral democracy as all political parties lure the electorate by promising myriad gifts and freebies. Though they may not fulfill all these promises but people are quite amenable to them. People should realise that politicians’ basic duty is good governance and development, both social and economic. Nearly, 75 years after Independence, India is still far behind many countries of Asia in all social parameters, even those countries which got independence after us. It is not that one single party indulges in such malpractices but the whole spectrum of political parties is to be blamed for this sorry state of affairs.The public also needs to be made aware of the damage it would cause to them for their welfare and development. Alas, the Election Commission of India is almost a lame duck sentinel for supervisory duty of the elections. We need another TN Seshan and James Michel Lyngdoh to keep the political parties and politicians in check. All those parties which indulge in such malpractices should be disqualified and debarred from contesting the elections. Only this will control the menace and only then the real democracy will flourish.Dr JS WadhwaState exchequer already in redThe announcements of freebies and sops in democracy are not a new concept to woo the voters. The slogan of ‘Garibi Hatao’ was most powerful in the era of seventies, slowly the political parties came out with announcing more freebies, sops, bonanzas for the voters to woo them with free power and free water to the agriculture sector etc. How long can the government deliver good governance if the state exchequer is in red? The need for reviving welfare schemes is the need of the hour. We need better facilities in government hospitals, hygienic food, and safe drinking water for the masses. As the Election Commission of India issues model code of conduct, the manifesto should get approved from the Election Commission of India before being announced so that the political parties may be held responsible in future if they do not fulfill their election manifesto announcements made to the masses during the pre-election period to woo them. If the state suffers setback in development works and providing basic civic amenities to the masses, it will be unfortunate if the tax payers’ funds are misused. But it is up to the government to go ahead with borrowing loans to carry out development works when the state exchequer is already in red.Rajat Kumar MohindruBribing the electorate won’t fetch votesThe recent trend of political parties to influence voters by offering freebies with an eye on elections is not only the greatest threat to survival of democratic values but also injures the spirit of the Constitution. This unethical practice is just like giving bribes to the electorate at the cost of exchequer to stay in power and must be avoided to preserve democratic principles and practices. In a real democracy, voters are left free to exercise their franchise solely on the basis of their future aspirations and the past performance of the government as per manifesto of their respective political party and it becomes the constitutional duty of any governing dispensation to ensure that elections are held in a conducive manner free from undue influences and manipulated interventions. Distributing freebies on the eve of elections and resorting to populist measures to win public support is a clear indication that the government lacks vision and political will to carry on with the infrastructural development in major fields such as public health and sanitation, roads and bridges, education and employment, business and commerce, environment etc. It is encouraging that the Centre is fully aware of the malice as the PM has publicly criticised the practice of promising doles to people. To prevent this undemocratic practice, it is suggested to carry out effective amendments. There should be a total ban on the announcement of freebies and populist measures to gain undue political favors from the voters and the Election Commission should monitor the violations with suitable deterrent measures.Jagdish ChanderFreebies give us undeserving leadersAhead of the Assembly elections in the state, it has become a fashion with the political parties to announce a number of freebies to lure the electorate. When the ruling dispensation gives assurances to provide financial benefits to maximum workers one way or the other, the Opposition calls it mere eyewash and a political gimmick that has a debilitating impact on the financial management of the state. Prioritising sops rather than good governance is certainly against the basic principles of democracy. It compromises with the integrity of the whole electoral process when elections are not contested on burning issues and concerns for the larger interests of society. Freebies give us undeserving and corrupt leaders, and inculcate the culture of indolence when people get all facilities without actually working for them. If we are really serious about developing our state, outlandish promises should be checked. People should out rightly discard parties that depend on sops to win elections. But since a large majority of people are uneducated and greedy, only the EC and the SC can provide the much-needed relief. These institutions should declare the consolidating vote banks through populist schemes at the time of elections illegal. And parties violating these directions should be de-recognised. People should be educated about their rights so that they do not fall in the lure of money, alcohol and lollypops offered by political parties.Simran & Tajpreet S KangDeclare this freebie practice illegalThere has been a steady decline in people’s exercise of their franchise post Independence. With an aim of ensuring maximum participation in the state elections, political parties across the spectrum vie with one another to woo the electorate. Instead of promising good governance or welfare schemes, they make umpteen electoral announcements such as opening more schools and colleges, hospitals and bus stands while the existing ones are in a shambles, and offer unparalleled freebies to various sections of society to ascertain their victory. This has become an obligatory practice that vitiates the sanctity of elections and is, therefore, totally unwarranted and unjustified. The poor, illiterate, unemployed and gullible voters fall an easy prey to these lures and often make irrational choice of contestants. This breeds corruption and criminalisation of politics that leads to inefficient legislative functioning and puts unnecessary burden on the public exchequer. When people compromise their right to question the government, it ultimately undermines the spirit and essence of democracy and robs other citizens of their desire to live a decent life. The blame for the present mess of our political culture lies entirely with the parties and the people at large. Parties should give tickets to only the deserving candidates. People should also vote for only the educated, honest, dedicated and conscientious leaders who can lead the country on the road to development. The Election Commission should declare the freebie culture unlawful and bring it under the purview of the model code of conduct. Also the election manifesto of various parties should be made a legal document.D S KangIt is a never-ending trailPolitical parties offering freebies to people ahead of elections is not something new. All political parties trying to outdo each other by luring voters with freebies such as free electricity, water, smartphones and free travelling but the trend has gained more momentum now. It has become a menace ahead of every election. It is a sure way of screwing the state and country economy by writing off the bills and taxes to woo the voters. This culture has made us so lazy that we don’t want to do anything, we want everything for free. Even the students don’t want to study. Sometimes it affects the meritorious students because of reservation. It is a never-ever ending trail, it affects the mindset of people and degrades the election process. It is against the principles of democracy. The EC also seems to be acting ineffectively to put a full stop to the freebie culture. He should take a stand against parties offering bribes and de-recognise them.Shashi KiranInvest in health and education sectorsThe elections in Punjab are about to arrive and different parties have been trying to woo people to get maximum share of votes. Many parties have been trying to pay all electricity bills and reduce its charges for the future and also many efforts are being made by the different parties to fulfill the needs and aspirations of people at the nick of time. But what I feel is that the government should provide more funds in improving the education sector and help to develop world-class institutions. Since we know that Punjab lacks a bit in the education sector, the government should increase the funds for developing top class, modern institutes with a well-equipped staff. The government can also provide relief to many of the backward classes and also the poor and unemployed people who have been stuck with this wave of Covid-19. The government should also fulfill demands of the protesting teachers as they form the base for the future generation. The government should not provide freebies only to grab the attention of people.Sanidhya BhaskarFreebies are bound to stay here foreverI was not a voter in the first general election for the Lok Sabha and all state assemblies in 1952, but I did watch freebies in the shape of car rides to the polling booths and in the commotion of the day, no one refused it. In fact there were hardly any candidates to oppose the Congress. But the virus spread, first imperceptibly, but then fast and aggressively, without any impunity. Now, all parties offer the kind of lollipop which would fetch votes. Earlier, sewing machines were doled out. Then came knitting machines and bicycles. However, there is a method in this seeming madness. The politician targets the weaker and innocent sections of the electorate. Women, particularly the uneducated and the poor, foot this requirement. Hence, aata dal, garments, gas cylinders, cheaper electricity etc are doled out with all the fanfare, all the publicity it requires. Now there is a door to door scheme for new ration cards for which the people had been waiting all the five years. The idea of a kind and gracious candidate is floated before the elections. Long ago, in Amritsar, a candidate from the socialist party was reported to have offered a trolleyful of langar at a popular Gurdwara. The richer Congress candidate brought two trolleys next Sunday. The tragedy is that no candidate spends a penny from their own pocket. It is tax payers’ money which is squandered in laying substandard roads just before the elections. There is hardly any opposition to this blatant corruption. I am reminded of Nobel laureate Aldous Huxley’s view that very soon, under the influence of propaganda and drugs, the people will have lost all their freedom but they won’t have with them the will to oppose. There will be a sort of concentration camp like circumstances, but people will have learnt to love them, to enjoy them. Huxley’s prediction seems to be true.Mohan Singh QUESTIONAs experts project third Covid wave to hit India by early 2022 amid surge in Omicron cases globally, what steps do you think the district administration and individuals must take to prevent the spread?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com  by Thursday (December 16)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-do-you-think-freebie-culture-is-against-basic-principles-of-democracy-how-can-we-stop-this-practice-349751
13-12-2021||---||Nawanshahr: Punjab CM lays foundation stone of first pvt skill university in region||Nawanshahr, December 12Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday laid the foundation stone of Lamrin Tech Skills University at Rayat campus in Railmajra, the first private tech skill university in the region.Describing it as a red letter day in the annals of state, he said: “The leading players of the industrial sector viz. IBM, Tata and Ansys have joined hands for a skill university in Punjab, which will help put the state in upward trajectory in terms of skill training and jobs in the industrial sphere. The idea of this university took shape when I was the Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister.”Emphasising upon the skill education in sync with the demands and emerging everyday trends in industry as the biggest need of the hour, the CM exuded confidence that the university would serve the purpose of generating employment and the three industrial companies would provide jobs to the pass outs from the university.Balachaur MLA Chaudhary Darshan Lal Mangupur said the university would radically transform the educational scenario in the region. Representatives from the companies — Hari Ramasubramanian (IBM), Rafiq Somani (Ansys) and Anand Bhade (Tata) — said until now Punjab was known as the food bowl of the country, but with the coming up of the university, the state would also carve out a niche as the skill resource board of the country, which would upgrade the knowledge apart from technical skill of the youth of Punjab.Earlier, the presentation of ‘Malwai Giddha’ completely mesmerised the audience with the CM particularly appreciating the stupendous performance. The CM was also felicitated. Among other dignitaries included founder partner Lamrin Tech Skills University Nirmal Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-lays-foundation-stone-of-first-pvt-skill-university-in-region-349752
13-12-2021||Jalandhar||Two patients with neurovascular conditions cured||By using the most advanced treatment method of flow diverters and retrieval devices, the team at Fortis Hospital treated two patients with complex neuromuscular conditions—one with haemorrhagic stroke and another with thrombotic occlusive stroke.The team, led by Dr Sandeep Sharma, Additional Director, Neurointerventional Radiology, Fortis Hospital, treated a 51-year-old Jalandhar-based woman who had suffered a haemorrhagic stroke caused due to ruptured aneurysm.“Patient Jasbir Kaur was suffering from hypertension, mouth deviation or paralysis of the facial nerve, stiffness of body and involuntary body movement. The patient was operated on the next day. The second patient, Kanwal Krishan Chatrath (70) had suffered a Thrombotic Occlusive Stroke. This happens when a blood clot forms and blocks blood flow through the artery. Mechanical thrombectomy, a type of minimally-invasive procedure was performed on him wherein an interventional.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-patients-with-neurovascular-conditions-cured-349753
13-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Dowry: Husband, in-laws booked in Dasuya||Six booked for murder attemptHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have registered a case against six persons, including a father and son, on the charge of attempt to murder by forcibly entering the house of the complainant. Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Maili village, had lodged a complaint with the police. He alleged that last night residents of his village Sandeep Singh alias Deepa and Avatar Singh Tara, along with his son Davinder Singh alias Dheeraj, and three other people forcibly entered his house and tried to kill him with sharp weapons. The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 452, 323, 506, 148,149 of the IPC. OCMaharana’s statue unveiledTalwara: Dasuya MLA Arun Dogra unveiled a statue of Maharana Pratap at Maharana Pratap Chowk in Sabzi Mandi, Sector 1, on Sunday in the presence of Raghunath Singh Rana, former chairman, Micro and Small Industries Corporation. The MLA said enemies used to tremble with fear when they hear Maharana Pratap’s roars. The warrior became immortal by sacrificing his life while protecting the country from invaders, he added. Taking inspiration from the life of Maharana Pratap, one should have the courage to raise voice against atrocities. The statue of Maharana Pratap has been brought from Rajasthan by spending Rs 6 lakh by the nagar panchayat, Talwara. An ambulance was also presented to the local human services committee on the occassion. OCCheck-up camp for bone ailmentsJalandhar: A check-up camp was held at the Ranjit Hospital here today. The camp was inaugurated by Mayor Jagdish Raja. As many as 200 patients got themselves checked for problems related to bones arms, knees, pelvic bones, joints, etc. Orthpaedician Dr Tarundeep Singh conducted checks during the camp. He intimated that the orthoscopy treatment had begun for people suffering from bone-related ailments. As many as 200 patients received free checkups and consultation regarding bone-related diseases on the first day of the camp today. Dr Tarundeep said the youngest patient was a 12-year-old who came with a fracture and the eldest patient was 90 years old. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dowry-husband-in-laws-booked-349761
13-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Industrial town Phagwara wants district status||Surrounded by constituencies which are either Akali or Congress bastions traditionally, the reserved constituency of Phagwara has been swinging the BJP way for the past three terms. The dynamics changed only in the last byelections where the BJP received its first major setback with the Congress candidate securing a win.Past trendThe seat remained with the BJP for three consecutive terms until 2019, when the Congress won the byelections. In 2007, BJP’s Swarna Ram won, and in 2012 and 2017, Som Parkash secured a win. The Congress won the seat from 1980 to 2002, except in 1997.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,89,744Male 99,930Female 89,806Third gender 8Locals’ key demandsWith 50 per cent rural population from the Dalit community and Hindu voters being concentrated in urban areas, the dynamics have been key determinants of Phagwara’s electoral destiny.The demand for the industrial town to be made a separate district is among the key issues of residents. The Municipal Corporation is riddled with sanitation woes. Perpetual traffic jams in its main bazaars and lack of adequate staff in local government primary schools are among the key concerns of voters.Keshav Kumar, a resident, said, “Phagwara is cut off from Kapurthala by 45 km. Residents have to take hour-long journeys to the district headquarters for basic needs. It is high time Phagwara is declared a separate district. The dangerous highway near the sugar mills at the entry point of the town and the heavily jammed main markets are perpetual bottlenecks for commuters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industrial-town-wants-dist-status-349569
