14-12-2021||---||Apply for Covid ex gratia in SDM offices, says Nawanshahr DC||Nawanshahr, December 13Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on Monday appealed to the families all those who lost their lives to Covid-19 pandemic in the state to apply for the ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50,000 in the offices of Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) of the district.He said the form regarding this can be downloaded from nawanshahr.nic.in. He said that the claimant will have to submit their application through a form to the respective Sub-Divisional Magistrates along with specified documents, including the death certificate certifying the cause of death, identity proof of the claimant, proof of relationship between the deceased and the claimant, laboratory report certifying having tested positive for Covid-19 (in original or certified copy), death summary by the hospital where death occurred (in case death occurred in hospital), death certificate in original and legal heirs certificate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apply-for-covid-ex-gratia-in-sdm-offices-says-dc-349993
14-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur: Panel formed to keep vigil over paid news||Hoshiarpur, December 13To keep a strict vigil over paid news and advertisement content in the forthcoming Assembly elections, the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) at district level has been constituted, said SDM Shivraj Singh Bal while addressing the training programme in the District Administrative Complex on Monday. The nodal officer of district level MCMC said the committee would monitor the print media, electronic media and social media 24-hours as per the instructions of the Election Commission so that appropriate action could be taken against telecasts of paid news and uncertified advertisements. He said that pre-certification was required for candidates to telecast advertisements on electronic media. He said that MCMC pre-certification would be required ed for advertisement in print media on polling day or a day before polling. He said that no candidate or individual or political party can publish advertisement against any candidate or party. He said that apart from bulk SMS, voice message, candidates should also get pre-certification for advertisements on radio and in cinema halls.24-hr monitoringSDM Shivraj Singh Bal said the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) would monitor the print media, electronic media and social media 24-hour as per the instructions of the Election Commission so that appropriate action could be taken against paid news and uncertified advertisements. He said that pre-certification was required for candidates to telecast advertisements on electronic media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panel-formed-to-keep-vigil-over-paid-news-349994
14-12-2021||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr DC: LED-fitted van to halt 10 days in each Assembly seat||Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Vishesh Sarangal today dispatched an awareness van to sensitise people to ensure free and fair Vidhan Sabha polls-2022.Giving details of LED fitted van’s activities, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said that this exercise is also part of SVEEP program of the Election Commission. He said that the van would halt 10-day in each constituency, where people are to be sensitised about C-vigil app, voter helpline 1950 etc. The DC said that the motive of van is to focus on young voters so that vote percentage could be enhanced through their maximum participation. He said Punjab recorded 77 per cent voting during previous elections and efforts are on to increase this percentage this time. The election booths with less percentage during last polls are being specially focused for improvement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/led-fitted-van-to-halt-10-days-in-each-assembly-seat-dc-349995
14-12-2021||---||57,000-kg lahan destroyed in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 13In a major crackdown against illicit liquor mafia, the excise teams of Jalandhar Range 1 and 2 on Monday destroyed 57,000-kg lahan from 57 underground pits in Mand area of Bilga, Noormahal and Phillaur.A spokesperson said under the supervision of excise officers of Jalandhar East and West, along with excise police staff, a search operation was carried out in the morning near villages Bhode, Burj, Boote dia Chhanna, Behra and Dharma Dia Chhanna in Mand area of Bilga, Noormahal and Phillaur. The teams led by Excise Inspectors Resham Lal, Ravinder Singh, Ram Murti, Paramjit Singh and Baldev Krishan of Range Jalandhar 1 and 2 recovered 57 underground pits containing approximately 57,000-kg lahan besides 50 bottles illicit liquor in one tube, which were destroyed. The team also confiscated three iron drums, five containers of iron, which are found to be unclaimed. The spokesperson said that the crackdown against illicit liquor would be intensified in coming days and strict action would be initiated against those found indulged in this malpractice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/57-000-kg-lahan-destroyed-in-jalandhar-district-349996
14-12-2021||---||Stone of multiple infra projects laid||Jalandhar, December 13Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary and former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary laid the foundation stone of cement concrete flooring work worth Rs 61.5 lakh to be undertaken at the Partabpura grain market, here on Sunday. Earlier, Vikramjit Chaudhary inaugurated the streets constructed with interlocking tiles and drainage systems in villages Laadian and Lehal at Rs 11 lakhs, under the Smart Village Campaign scheme of the Punjab government. Vikramjit Chaudhary said the Phillaur assembly constituency had received grants amounting to almost two hundred crores rupees since 2017. “In the last four and half years, hundreds of grants for Phillaur constituency have been sanctioned. From building streets and drains to installing RO systems and solar street lights to constructing gymnasiums, community halls and classrooms, we have fulfilled all demands of people,” he said. He said since 2017, works worth Rs 14.25 lakhs, Rs 26.43 lakhs and Rs 95.68 lakhs have already been completed in villages Laadian, Lehal and Partabpura, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stone-of-multiple-infra-projects-laid-349997
14-12-2021||---||SSP appointments: OP Soni sides with Sukhjinder Randhawa, says no one took money||Jalandhar, December 13In the tussle between Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Rana Gurjeet Singh with latter alleging use of money for the appointments of SSPs, Punjab Deputy CM OP Soni today took sides with the former.No exchange of money happened. There is some confusion and it will be sorted out. Hence, there is no need for anyone to probe into the matter. OP Soni, Deputy Chief Minister, PunjabSoni, who was in city to review pace of development works in the district, said, “No exchange of money has taken place. There was only some confusion and it will be sorted out and hence there is no need for anyone to probe into the matter.” He said this in a reply to the queries pertaining to demand by opposition parties for conducting a probe into Rana Gurjeet Singh’s allegations.Earlier in the day, Soni visited Sultanpur Lodhi constituency, represented by MLA Navtej Cheema. He was in the holy town for the inauguration of oxygen plants. His visit for a programme of Cheema in Sultanpur Lodhi, where Rana’s son Inder Partap Singh Rana is a ticket contender, too, is being seen as a move in favour of Rana’s opposite camp.On PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s statement that he would not be responsible for the party’s victory if the government cannot handle sand, cable and transport mafia, Soni said: “I have all the regard for Sidhu, but most issues such as those related to sand, cable and transport businesses were being well taken care of and won’t be much of an issue”.Responding to a query, Soni who is also holding the portfolio of health minister, said all genuine demands of nurses and ASHA workers would be fulfilled within a short span of time as the state government was sympathetically considering all their genuine concerns.On Omicron variant of Covid, the Deputy Chief Minister said there was no need to panic but precaution are a must. The state government is fully geared up to tackle any kind of third Covid wave as the state enhanced the production of oxygen to 609 MT against the peak demand of 300 MT during the second Covid wave, he said. He also announced to enhance the capacity of Sultanpur Lodhi government hospital to 80 beds against the present 50.In Jalandhar, accompanied by Education Minister Pargat Singh, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, MLAs Rajinder Beri, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Avtar Singh Bawa Henry, and Surinder Chaudhry, Soni said the state government was committed for the welfare of all sections of society adding that a slew of projects are being executed by the government to achieve the task of holistic development.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori apprised the Deputy CM that the Jalandhar is a frontrunner in the state in issuing timely mutations to property owners. He added that the district has implemented all welfare and development schemes.Under smart city project, a total of 71 projects costing Rs 1,460 crore would be completed in the city, he said, while also detailing the progress made under Jal Jeevan Mission, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, construction of Modal Playgrounds, Hariyawal Scheme, Smart roads, Bio-remediation project at Wariana dump site, LED lights in the city, drainage system and Burlton Park sports hub project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-appointments-op-soni-sides-with-sukhjinder-randhawa-says-no-one-took-money-349998
14-12-2021||Jalandhar||Cake-mixing ceremony at CT Group||Sukhveer shines in academicsSukhveer Kaur of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged 7th position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MA-Political Science Semester-IV by getting 1336 marks out of 1600 whereas Anjani, Kirandeep Kaur, Anita Devi, Ramandeep Kaur and Navneet Kaur of the same class bagged Distinction by getting 1301, 1289, 1271, 1256 and 1230 marks, respectively. Principal Gurpinder Singh Samra said the college was committed to provide quality education to its students and it would ensure all possible help to the deserving and needy students. Dr Manpreet Kaur, Head, PG Department of Political Science, Dr Anu Moom and Dr Ajitpal Singh were also present on the occasion.When Miss Universe walked LPU rampStudents and staff members of Lovely Professional University (LPU), especially those of the School of Fashion, remembered Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu’s gracious ramp-walks and encouraging speech made during her two visits on the campus. She was at LPU Campus as Miss India (Punjab) in October 2019 for judging ‘Campus Princess’ event; and as Miss Diva in early February 2020 for selecting Ms and Mr at ‘Youth Vibe-2020’ mega event of LPU. On her first visit at LPU, she had judged 150-plus participants from across the zone. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal shared: “It is a moment of pride as after a wait of 21 years Miss Universe title is won by an Indian once again. We further feel elated that our students got the chance to walk the ramp along with Sandhu.”Farewell party organisedA farewell party was organised by students of MSc 1st year, BSc 3rd year, Post Basic BSc 1st year, GNM 2nd year, MSc 2nd year, BSc 4th year, Post basic BSc 2nd year and GNM 3rd year of Mahatma Hans Raj DAV Institute of Nursing and DAV Management. The theme of the party was “Hasta Siempre” meaning farewell. Principal Dr Veena Williams and Dr Harbans Kaur graced the occasion with their presence. Modelling was done by outgoing batches and winners were given beauty titles from PG and UG courses. Navjeet from BSc 4th year and Navleen Kaur from GNM 3rd year were crowned with Ms. Farewell 2021, Ms. Anjali from BSc 4th year bagged with the title of Ms. Charming, Sukhvir from Post Basic BSc. Nursing 2nd year was entitled as Ms Perfect and Alka from BSc 4th year scripted as Ms. Personality.Tributes paid to Bipin RawatKanya Maha Vidyalaya paid a rich tribute to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat along with 11 officers who lost their lives in the unfortunate helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma addressed the students on the occasion and averred that college salutes all the brave hearts who served their motherland when they were alive and laid their life for it. The PG Department of Music also paid tribute in the form of patriotic songs. Dr Madhumeet, Dean Student Welfare, Lt Seema Arora, NCC Incharge, Sufalica, and NCC cadets of KMV along with the faculty members of KMV were also present on the occasion.Interaction event at HMV schoolHMV Collegiate Sr. Sec. School organised a programme Ru-B-Ru. The chief guest of the occasion was renowned social worker Sukhi Bath. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen welcomed him with planter. Students of Class XI recited their self-composed poems. Sukhi Bath addressed the students and said we should have goals in our life as a student. He made the students aware about their responsibilities towards society. He motivated the students about having a positive approach. He also paid the fees of the needy students and assured to help them in future also.Postcard writing activityCambridge International School, Phagwara, organised a postcard writing activity as per the circular intimated by thr CBSE. Nearly 400 students of classes IV-VIII enthusiastically participated in this activity. The topics were “Unsung Heroes of Freedom Struggle” and “My Vision for India in 2047.” The students were very excited and presented their perspectives in post cards to gain a deeper understanding. The post card writing activity made students to create awesome postcards. Principal of the school, Jorawar Singh, appreciated and congratulated each and every student for creative thinking which they presented in their postcards.Online Quiz on IPR at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a national-level online quiz on Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), under the aegis of Innovation Cell, Ministry of Education, Government of India. The quiz was organised by the PG Department of Chemistry in collaboration with Institutions Innovation Council (IIC) of the KMV. The goal of the quiz was to create awareness of the law which provides rights to researchers for their innovative research and patents in academic and industrial front they create, usually for short interval of time. E-certificates were provided to participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cake-mixing-ceremony-at-ct-group-349999
14-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 held with poppy husk, drugs||‘Apprise workers of e-shram portal’Jalandhar: Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Jaspreet Singh has directed BDPOs, self-help groups (SHGs) and industry department officials to promote the e.shram.gov.in portal to benefit rural workforce. All workers in the age group of 16-59 years, establishments/ units having less than 10 workers, SHGs, MGNREGA workers and industrial workers can register themselves for the scheme. He said the aim of the portal was to create a national database of unorganised workers in the country. The workers only required their Aadhaar card and active mobile number linked with Aadhaar to get themselves enrolled under the scheme. The workers registered at the portal before December 31 will be getting an accident insurance cover worth Rs2 lakh for one year under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, he added. TNSWar heroes’ kin to be honouredJalandhar: The ex-servicemen wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal will honour kin of the Indo-Pak 1971 war heroes from across the state at a function to be organised at Jang-e-Azadi Memorial on the occasion of golden jubilee of the India’s victory against Pakistan on December 16. Chairman of the wing and Navy engineer Gurjinder Singh Sidhu said there were 249 martyrs in the war from Punjab. “We are trying to contact most of these families to honour them. These included three martyrs from the Indian Navy and five from the Indian Air Force. We have especially invited the survivors of the INS Khukri that was sunk by a torpedo along the Gujarat coastal area to recall the 50-year-old account,” he said. TNSDHO collects food samplesHoshiarpur: A food safety team led by District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh conducted checkings at various food shops and sweet shops in the district with the objective of providing clean and unadulterated edibles to the people and taking appropriate action against adulterated food. As many as 13 samples of fennel, fenugreek seeds, garam masala, wheat flour, gram flour, sago, raisins, black gram, khoya, cottage cheese, milk and yoghurt were taken. Dr Lakhvir Singh said the team on Monday visited various shops on Bal Krishan Road and collected various samples of open food items and sent them to state testing lab, Kharar, for further probe. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-poppy-husk-drugs-350000
14-12-2021||---||Jalandhar's ration depot holders demand hike in commission||Jalandhar, December 13Nearly 243 ration depot holders of the district under the banner of Ration Depot Holder Welfare Society have demanded their commission to be hiked from Rs 48 per quintal to Rs 200 per quintal.President of the society Darshan Lal Bhasin said the commission that they were getting was far too low as compared to the expenses they were incurring on account of deployment of labour and availing of transport facilities. He said they were incurring huge losses in this work and were not able to make their two ends meet. The ration holders also said they had not received any commission for the past over six months.Comparing the commission in Punjab with that of other states, Bhasin said, “Delhi is paying Rs 200 per quintal. The commission is high in all other states with Haryana at Rs 170, Goa at Rs 280, HP at Rs 143, Gujarat at Rs 123 and Maharashtra at Rs 150 in some states, ration holders draw a monthly salary from the government. Tamil Nadu pays Rs 18,000, Kerala pays Rs 15,000 and West Bengal pays Rs 10,000 per month.” The depot holders said they would appreciate if a fixed salary is introduced for them in Punjab too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ration-depot-holders-demand-hike-in-commission-350001
14-12-2021||---||Surjit Patar: A journalist's call of duty more difficult than poet||Phagwara, December 13Calling journalism as the soul of society, popular Punjabi poet and Punjab Arts Council chairman Surjit Patar said a journalist’s call of duty is more difficult than that of a poet.Patar said this while addressing a gathering of prominent writers as chief guest at a function by Punjabi Virsa Trust, Phagwara, on Sunday at an award ceremony for three journalists.Organised by Trust’s president Prof Jaswant Singh Gandam and general secretary Gurmit Palahi, the award carried a shawl, a citation, a memento and Rs11,000 each. Patar argued that a journalist has to be clear, straight, factual and fearless in reporting issues on daily basis and, like poets, has no escape routes in the form of symbolic or metaphorical expressions.Asserting that a journalist plays a stellar role in changing public thinking, Patar said a journalist has to be bekhof and bebaak in calling a spade a spade.“In doing so, journalists have to face a lot of dangers and difficulties as they did in the days of Emergency and are doing so even now,” he remarked, adding several writers also face these. “Varvara Rao is still in jail”, he said to substantiate it.Patar said: “Democracy has four pillars - judiciary, legislature, executive and press. The first three have in-built legal strength, but the strength of media was only its words, logic and arguments. Though journalists don’t have any in-built legal strength for their safety, but their words and writings become strength of peoples mind that act as shields. Actually, journalism and literature both play a big role in changing thoughts and mindsets of peoples.”He said pattarkari is our zameer while shayari’(poetry) is our soul as it stirs in us a feeling for others peeda (pain). Patar also distinguished between a khoti siyast and khari siyast, claiming that the former was vote-specific while the latter was issue-centric.Claiming that a debate keeps going on his mind about merits and demerits of ‘Parvas’(migration abroad), Patar quoted his old and later stage couplets to drive home his point: Jo badesan ch rulde ne rozi layi, jad partange apne desh kadi, kuchh ta sekange maa de sivey di agan, kuchh rukhan di chhan heth ja behnge. Patar regaled audience by reciting his other poems too.Speaking on the occasion, Satnam Manak dubbed Partition as unnatural and a monumental blunder. Among the founders of Hind-Pak Dosti Manch, Manak, while expressing grave concern over forced conversions of minorities in Pakistan, demanded implementation of Nehru-Liaqat Ali pact in toto for safeguarding interests and human rights of minorities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and India.Demanding MSP for farmers, Manak equated agriculture with army. “One provided food security while the other provided geographical security. They can’t be treated as per trade terms anywhere in the world and governments should shoulder the entire expenses of both.”Referring to problems and concerns of journalists, Manak said peoples’ problems were ‘sarokar’(concerns) of journalists. He said all journalists and writers must fight to keep up ‘sanjha-manjha’(common and colourful) character of our country and be watchdogs of peoples human rights, especially minorities.”Dr Lakhvinder Johal, secretary, Punjab Arts Council, called journalists as the permanent opposition of the establishment. Dr Swaraj Singh dubbed migration from Punjab to abroad as the worst ever curse for Punjab. Dr SS Chhina and NRI Ashok Bhaura also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-journalists-call-of-duty-more-difficult-than-poet-surjit-patar-350002
14-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||On way to Amritsar, farmer leaders get grand welcome||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 13Residents’ overwhelming love for farmers was witnessed as Kisan Morcha leaders were served homemade delicacies such as pinnis, barfis with hot tea on their way to Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway.Farmer leaders Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal, Doaba Kisan Union’s Manjit Singh Rai and Rakesh Tikait all crossed the highway amidst cheer by locals.The villagers showered flower petals on them and distributed sweets for the “victory” of their protest against the three farm laws.Farmers unique connect with young blood was witnessed when slogans of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zindabad were raised by students aboard a school bus.Kashmir Singh, an office-bearer of BKU (Rajewal), said, “We owe our victory to the blessings of Guru Nanak. So today farmers have all gone to offer shukrana. Now, every child and every farmer has become one.” He added, talking about farmers’ future plans, “I was there at Delhi borders for the past nine months. We have brought back souvenirs of things we kept or built there. We treasure them all our lives. We have brought everything back and will keep them for rest of our lives. However, we are also sad for the farmers who lost their lives.”Jeet Singh, an elderly Jandiala farmer who waited along with the Sangat, said, “It is a collective win for all. We are all very happy. I also spent considerable time there. Its a moment for triumph and gratefulness.”Paramjit Kaur, an anganwadi worker from Nakodar, who along with her friend Manjit Kaur welcomed farmers, said, “All our fellow workers in Nakodar support the farmers. We did ardaas for their victory. The morcha had blessings of the people of Punjab. That is why it has emerged triumphant. There were honest prayers and hard work involved. It has all paid off. We have come to welcome and congratulate farmers on this victory.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-way-to-amritsar-farmer-leaders-get-grand-welcome-350003
14-12-2021||---||4-time councillor gets District Congress Committee urban chief post||Jalandhar, December 13Even as today’s appointment of the District Congress Committee (Urban) president and three working presidents has come on very expected lines, the party has clearly tried to give equal representation to the four urban Assembly seats falling in the district.DCC (Urban) chief Balraj Thakur is a four-time MC councillor, who represents the Jalandhar Cantonment seat. The three working presidents — Nirmaljeet Singh Nimma, Vijay Dakoha and Harjinder Ladda — represent the Jalandhar North, Central and West seats.Interestingly, all four of them are MC councillors or spouses of sitting councillors. Thakur represents Ward No.28, Nimma represents Ward No.6, Dakoha’s wife Bimla Rani is councillor from Ward No.13 and Ladda’s wife Balwinder Kaur is councillor from Ward No.47. The party has also tried to balance out castes with Thakur being a Hindu Rajput, Dakoha being an SC leader and Ladda representing the Backward Class community.The president as well as the working presidents have been appointed with the due consent of the sitting MLAs of these seats. Thakur, who was the contender for the mayoral post and had also staked a claim for MLA, has been contended with the DCC president’s post on the recommendations of Education Minister Pargat Singh. Various party leaders, including Sanjay Sehgal, have been against giving dual role to party leaders, who are already serving as MC councillors.For the DCC (Rural) posts, Darshan Singh Tahli for the post of chief has been a big surprise as the name of ex-PPCC spokesperson, IMA national vice-president and party’s Jatt face Dr Navjot Dahiya had been doing rounds for the post. A lesser known Valmik leader, he had been the vice-chairman of the Zila Parishad and hails from Tahli village of Nakodar.A close aide of Manpreet Badal, Dr Dahiya perhaps did not get support from Pargat and ex-minister Amarjit S Samra.Ashwan Bhalla and Ashwani Kumar have been appointed as working presidents of the DCC (rural). Bhalla, who has been district youth president, hails from Bhogpur and is a contender for the Nakodar seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-time-councillor-gets-district-congress-committee-urban-chief-post-350004
14-12-2021||---||Covid-19: One new case surfaces in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 13One new Covid case was reported from Jalandhar on Monday. The district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached at 63,531 cases. No new Covid death was reported today, keeping the deceased tally at 1,500. As many as 62,011 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 20. Of the 18,58,052 samples collected in the district, so far, 1,72,26,261 have tested negative. Results of as many as 109 samples are yet awaited.All well in KapurthalaNo new case of Covid nor death was reported from Kapurthala on Monday as the Covid tally remained at 17,875.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-one-new-case-surfaces-in-jalandhar-district-350005
14-12-2021||---||Omicron threat: Sample of Italy-returned man sent for genome sequencing in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 13A Jalandhar resident, who returned to Jalandhar from Italy, has tested positive for Covid-19. This is the first case of an international traveller in Jalandhar testing positive ever since the surfacing of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. The foreign returnee has been kept under institutional quarantine at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, his wife and three children have been placed in home isolation.The sample of the man has been sent for genome sequencing. Though Omicron variant cases have surfaced in some states of the country, none of the Jalandhar residents has tested positive for the new variant of Covid-19 so far. A total of 455 international travellers have come to the district from abroad ever since the Omicron variant surfaced. However, none of the previous travellers tested positive for Covid-19.Notably, while the samples sent for genome sequencing earlier tested positive for the Delta variant. After the surfacing of the Omicron variant, 32 samples were sent for genome sequencing. However, no case of the Omicron variant has been reported so far in the district.The number of Covid-positive cases in the district has reached 63,531 and as many as 1,500 lives have been lost to the deadly virus in Jalandhar. Notably, the cause for concern is violation of Covid protocols in many areas. Very few people wear masks in public places despite surfacing of the Omicron virus.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said, “An Italy returnee has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been placed under institutional quarantine. The patient is asymptomatic. Samples of his family members have been taken and sent for genome sequencing. There has been no case of the Omicron variant reported in Jalandhar so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-threat-sample-of-italy-returned-man-sent-for-genome-sequencing-350006
14-12-2021||---||Hero's welcome for homebound farmers in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 13Farm leaders returned to a hero’s welcome in Jalandhar today after returning from the Delhi morcha. On their way to Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, stalwart leaders of the Kisan Morcha stopped over at the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway amidst glorious cheers from the sangat and chanting of slogans and jaikaras.Tea, pinnis, barfis and showers of petals welcomed the leaders back to Punjab. Local members of farm outfits as well as Jalandhar citizens gathered in huge numbers at the national highway to welcome the leaders and honour them with garlands and siropas.The cavalcades stopped over at the highway with women, children, and men of farm groups jostling to honour the revered leaders. Passing cavalcades nodded in unison to standing sangat with all raising the slogan “Kisan mazdoor ekta zindabad”. A huge jatha of women from Jalandhar, Nakodar and Shahkot also stood by the roadside to welcome the leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heros-welcome-for-homebound-farmers-in-jal-350051
