15-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||After 432 days, toll collection resumes from today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 14With farmers across the state lifting their 432-day of morcha at 23 toll plazas tomorrow at 5 pm, the NHAI authorities are set to resume the levying of charges from the commuters by Wednesday evening.A Jalandhar resident going to Nawanshahr/Ropar/Chandigarh or Ludhiana will now have to shell out slightly more on the toll plazas than what they were paying previously. Boards indicating a Rs 5 increase for one side and Rs 10 hike for both sides have been put up at the toll plazas of Behram on Phagwara-Nawanshahr section and Kathgarh on Nawanshahr-Ropar road and Ladowal toll plaza between Jalandhar and Ludhiana.While a car, van or a jeep driver was earlier paying Rs 50 for single side trip at Behram, the levies have been increased to Rs 55. For the double use, the charges have gone up from Rs 75 to Rs 85 now. Likewise, Kathgarh toll charges which were earlier fixed at Rs 55 for a single trip have gone up at Rs 60. The two-way charges at this section which were Rs 80 will now be Rs 90.At Ladowal, a car, jeep or a van driver, who used pay Rs 130 for one-way and Rs 190 for two-way passage, would now pay Rs 135 as single use charges and Rs 200 for both sides. The monthly pass has been increased from 3,905 to Rs 3,985.Rajiv Jadon, manager of the tollway at Behram, said: “The increase of toll rates has not come now. It came into effect from March 31 onwards this year. The NHAI revises its rates at the start of every financial year. It is just that the tolls were not working and hence people will feel the change now”.The farmers occupying the toll plaza at Behram today said they would vacate the site tomorrow at 5 pm and handover everything to the managers. BKU Doaba Circle president Baljinder Singh said: “We had been occupying this toll for over 432 days in protest against the imposition of farm laws. Today, we organised path to conclude our dharna after which we distributed langar and sweets to all the passersby. We will hand over all controls to the toll staff clearing our tents and hutments by tomorrow evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-432-days-toll-collection-resumes-from-today-350588
15-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar: Age no bar for this powerlifter||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 14Having left competitions in bench press nearly two decades back, Raj Kumar Chouhan, a resident of Basti Sheikh area, has won accolades yet again.The 43-year-old has not just recently won gold medal in the National Bench Press Competition held in Goa, but has also created a national-level record in the master category.Chouhan, more popular with his name Sonu, proudly shared: “In my 83-kg weight bracket, the national record so far was of lifting 145 kg but I broke it going up to 150 kg. In my younger days, I had won the third place in Punjab in the sub-junior category. I played up to Class XII but then I got into work and could not continue with the game. But I surely missed it and always thought of resuming it one day.”Running a business of PVC taps and skipping rope manufacturing, Chouhan said he had started practising bench press at Shiv Mandir in Basti Sheikh. “A pathan is learnt to have donated plates at the temple way back in 1946. My father Prithvi Raj Chouhan, who was an amateur weightlifter and trainer, used to go there for practice. I used to accompany him to the temple where I started practising lifting weights in my school days. There was neither any sports club in those days nor was any professional training available in those days. I would just observe how the senior players practised and kept copying them and asking them about the rules of the game,” he recalled.Owing to some circumstances, Chouhan said he had competed in the 83-kg category even then, but could not go much further into competitions. “Now that I am settled in my business and my kids who are in Classes VII and III are much independent, I decided to start all over again. I had continued giving free training at the temple in my area and had already been maintaining a good fitness level. I restarted the game in 2018 and won gold at the national level the same year. I won a silver in 2019 and even participated in an International Powerlifting Federation competition held in Japan and came sixth the same year. But there were brakes again on the game as Covid came in. As the tournaments started all over again, I went for the state selection tournament in October this year at Patiala and got through,” he shared.Chouhan said that it was his like his dream coming true when he won at the national level. “I felt that an aim that I had set in my life more than 20 years ago had finally been achieved. Even a bigger satisfaction for me was the fact that I have played a very natural game, taking all natural food and no supplements or steroids,” he said.He said the only issue coming to him was that there was no government support for international tournaments. “I intend to meet Punjab Sports Minister Pargat Singh for some assistance in this regard”, he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/age-no-bar-for-this-powerlifter-350589
15-12-2021||---||Kejriwal's 'Tiranga Yatra' in Jalandhar today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 14To step up its presence in the Doaba region where it is facing a major crisis of win-able candidates, the Aam Aadmi Party is set to carry out a Tiranga Yatra across the city tomorrow.The yatra will be led by AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a big open truck. It will start at noon from Bhagwan Valmik Chowk (Jyoti Chowk) and proceed towards Dr BR Ambedkar Chowk (Nakodar Chowk). On way, Kejriwal is expected to interact with the masses and address them from his truck, which will be all decked up with party symbols.There will be a second truck with AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann, party in-charge Raghav Chadha and 40 already announced candidates of the party from Punjab and halqa in-charges on board. The third truck has been readied for the social media team of the AAP.Channi on city tour on Dec 17In view of the proposed visit of the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in the city and its adjoining areas on Friday, the district administration today took stock of arrangements and preparations at site of event on Jalandhar-Nakodar road.MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh along with other civil and police officers today took a round of grain market at Partappura on Jalandhar-Nakodar road, where CM Channi will address a gathering. Holding a meeting with officers/officials at the site, the DC also gave instructions to them for smooth conduct of all the events at Jalandhar during CM Channi’s visit.As per the tentative schedule,Channi may inaugurate Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar Government Co-Education College at Boota Mandi besides dedicating Kabir Bhawan located at 120 feet road to the public. The CM may also get the work started of development of Sports Hub at Burlton Park Area.Briefing about this project, Ghanshyam Thori said the vision of this project was ‘Healthy and Productive Jalandhar-the leading sports and manufacturing hub in Asia’. He said that this project would also provide facilities like cricket stadium with pavilion, hockey and football stadiums with pavilions besides having multipurpose indoor sports facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kejriwals-tiranga-yatra-in-city-today-350590
15-12-2021||---||Gymkhana Club poll on December 19||Jalandhar, December 14Following completion of a two-year term, hectic politics is on at the prestigious Jullundur Gymkhana Club which is going for polls on December 19 (Sunday). The club has more than 4,000 members from top business families, bureaucrats and retired officials.Like previous years, two groups — Achievers group and Progressive group — will be contesting elections for the post of Honorary Secretary, Junior Vice-President, Treasurer and Joint Secretary. From Achievers group that had an edge in the last term, Tarun Sikka is seeking a repeat of term for the post of Honorary Secretary.Amit Kukreja, who is sitting treasurer, and SPS Virk, who is sitting Junior Vice President have chosen to inter-change their posts in the new contest as they cannot have more than two consecutive terms. Virk is standing for the post of Treasurer and Kukreja for Junior Vice President. Saurabh Khullar, who was Progressive group candidate last time, has now sought to repeat the post of Joint Secretary but from Achievers group.From Progressive group, Sandeep Behl, Gulshan Sharma, Gurpreet Kochhar and Madhuri Matta are contestants for the posts of Honorary Secretary, Junior Vice-President, Treasurer and Joint Secretary, respectively.There are 10 posts of the executives also for which Achievers group has fielded only five and Progressive group has fielded nine.The main agenda points being raked up by the Achievers group are setting up of kids’ zone, basketball court, skating rink, multi-utility hall and more facilities for the senior citizens. The Progressive group has promised Olympic size heated swimming pool, debit/credit card payment system, free coaching in sports for kids less than 12 years, cut of 50 per cent on sports activities of senior citizens, music room etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gymkhana-club-poll-on-december-19-350591
15-12-2021||---||After 4 yrs, Akalis face challan for lodging protests||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 14As the SAD leaders were today busy in the 101st anniversary celebrations of the foundation of the party at Moga, it came known that the challans over the various FIRs lodged against them for organising dharnas on December 8, 2017, had been filed in the respective courts. The caseIn the various replies furnished to Nawanshahr-based RTI activist Parvinder Kittna, the Punjab Police authorities had been maintaining that they were trying to arrest the accused for violation of Section 8B of the National Highways Act and Sections 148, 149, 188, 283, 341 and 431 of the IPC but now they have finally submitted the challans after nearly four years of the lodging of the FIR.With this, the party leaders, including SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and dozens of other senior leaders including Bikram Majithia, Mantar Brar and Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, are set to face trials in various courts of Punjab. Kittna along with activists Kuldeep Singh Khehra, and advocate Hakam Singh had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the Punjab DGP over inaction and notice had been issued on October 22, 2019. The date was put off to February 11, 2020, and later got put off due to courts remaining partly shut due to pandemic.At Makhu police station in Ferozepur, FIR No. 171 had been lodged against Sukhbir Badal, Bikram Majithia, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, Rozy Barkandi and others in which challan has now been presented. Likewise, challan had been filed against Mahesh Inder Grewal, Hira Singh Gabria, Sharanjit Dhillon, Manpreet Ayali and Darshan Shivalik in FIR No. 233.The Hoshiarpur police, too, has filed challan against Sohan Singh Thandal, Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan, Satwinder Dhatt, Avtar Singh Johal and others.For traffic jam at Nawanshahr, challans have been filed against Banga MLA Sukhwinder Sukhi, Jarnail Singh Wahid, Sukhdeep Sukar and others. At Sujanpur police station, challan has been presented against ex-minister Des Raj Dhugga, Kamlesh Kaur and others. For Beas dharna, challan has been filed against ex-minister Gulzar Singh Ranike and others in FIR no. 236.Notably, an FIR No. 100 was lodged against Jagir Kaur and others in Dhilwan police station but the police filed a cancellation report which got accepted by the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-4-yrs-akalis-face-challan-for-lodging-protests-350592
15-12-2021||---||Panel inspects observation homes in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 14A team of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), New Delhi, today inspected the observation home, children homes situated at Gandhi Vanita Ashram.Deepti Bahal consultant, Shaista K Shah, senior technical expert, and Dr Deepak Jyoti, member, Child Right Commission Punjab, were part of the team. The team members personally interacted with the inmates of observation and children homes so as to inquire about the problems being faced by them, if any, followed by a visit to washrooms, kitchen, and bedrooms. The team also took stock of medical and education facilities, availability of psychiatric, counsellor, safety and security of inmates, and food being provided to them.District Programme Officer GS Randhawa on the directions of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyan Thori assisted the team during the inspection, where he apprised the NCPCR panel about the steps being taken by the administration to keep up with the requirements of these homes. He stated that all the requisite facilities were being offered to inmates in line with the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panel-inspects-observation-homes-in-city-350594
15-12-2021||---||'Use of renewable energy vital for sustainable development'||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 14The Pushpa Gujral Science City jointly with Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) celebrated National Energy Conservation Day. The theme of the day was “Save Energy, Save Future”. More than 250 students and teachers participated from all over Punjab.Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar, presided over as the chief guest on the occasion. In his address, he said the renewable energy sources play a vital role in securing sustainable development ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for citizens. The primary objective for deploying renewable energy in India is to advance economic development, improve energy security, improve access to energy, and mitigate climate change. Further, strong government support and the increasingly opportune economic situation have pushed India to be one of the top leaders in the world’s most attractive renewable energy markets, he added.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, giving introductory remarks at the occasion, said the National Energy Conservation Day was celebrated to bring awareness among the masses about the importance of energy, using it efficiently as well as conserving it by using less energy. Energy conservation should be rooted in the behaviour of every human being to get more effect towards the plan of energy conservation. Further, PGSC is leading by example by adopting several energy conservation measures, she added.Sharad Sharma, Project Engineer, Punjab Energy Development Agency, Chandigarh, shared the steps taken by PEDA in the field of energy conservation. He informed that replacement of existing inefficient electrical appliances with energy efficient electrical appliances in Government Primary and Middle Schools (Urban) has resulted in annual energy saving of 1,99,114 kwh equivalent to abatement of 159 tonnes of CO2 emissions under demonstration project.Dr Rajesh Grover, director, Science City, said the day highlights the importance of energy in our day-to-day life, its scarcity and efforts required for its conservation and its impact on sustainability of global eco systems.Science play competition and model competitions were also organised on the occasion. In science play competition, Tara Convent Schoo, Malerkotla, won the first prize, Parbhat Public School Amritsar got second prize and Guru Harkishan Public School Kapurthala received third prize. In project model competition, Dass and Brown World School Ferozepur bagged the first prize, Pioneer Convent School Malerkotla won the second prize and third prize was secured by Rayat Bhara School, Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/use-of-renewable-energy-vital-for-sustainable-development-350595
15-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||JITK awards belts to qualifying karatekas||The belt grading examination was organised by Jagmohan’s Institute of Traditional Karate (JITK) under the aegis of Okinawan Gojuryu Karate Federation of India, as per the instructions of technical director Sensei Rangeela Ram Dhatwalia, Deputy Commandant (Retd), Indo-Tibetan Border Police, at Honbu Dojo. Karatekas (Karate players) performed brilliantly in Karate Kihon, Kata and Kumite in the Belt Grading Examination conducted by internationally-renowned karate Coach and World Karate Federation Certified Judge Sensei Jagmohan Vij, Fifth Degree Black Belt (USA). After the examintion, qualified Karatekas were awarded Brown Belt, Green Belt and Yellow Belts.The chief guest of the belt award function, District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh appreciated their performance and their dedication towards the game and inspired them to give their best in karate as well as in education and other fields. On the occasion, Arpit Sharma was awarded the Brown Belt, Shubham Sandal, Riddhi Thind, Aarush Sharma, Dilshan Saddal and Sania passed the Green Belt exam while, Srishti, Girisha, Chahat, Akshita, Manisha, Tanishka, Mridul, Seerat, Soham, Arnav Singh, Adabpreet Singh and Tanishk were awarded the Yellow Belt. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jitk-awards-belts-to-qualifying-karatekas-350596
15-12-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA inaugurates development works worth Rs 17 lakh||Hoshiarpur, December 14MLA Sundar Sham Arora said development works worth crores have been carried out in Hoshiarpur and many more are being carried out. He said during the development works, it has been ensured that there was no compromise with the quality of the material used. He categorically said negligence and corruption in development works would not be tolerated at any cost.He was addressing the residents of Mohalla Deep Nagar in Ward No. 27 of the city while inaugurating the work of installing interlocking tiles at a cost of Rs 17.13 lakh. Mayor Surinder Kumar was also present on the occasion.He also directed the officials of the Municipal Corporation to complete the construction work within the stipulated time. The MLA said all the roads and streets in the city have been constructed and soon the work of the rest of them is being started on a war footing. He said development works have been carried out as per the demand of the people. “As far as quality was concerned, the contractor concerned has been instructed in this regard at the time of tender and if there was any deficiency in quality, departmental action would be taken against them,” said Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-inaugurates-development-works-worth-17l-350597
15-12-2021||---||Inter-district gang of drug smugglers busted, 3 arrested||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, December 14The Phagwara Police on Tuesday busted an inter-district gang of drug traders and nabbed six drugs smugglers and sellers. The cops also recovered a huge quantity of drugs worth around Rs 2.25 crore from their possession.Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said after getting a tip off, the police party headed by SHO Sadar Gagandeep Singh and CIA in-charge Inspector Surjit Singh raided the house of Santokh Singh at Bhularai village today early morning and arrested six drugs traders — Lakhwinder Singh alias Lakha of Bhularai, Harwinder Singh alias Bhinda of Wahid village, Sarabjit Singh of Mirapur village, Barinder Singh of Pandori village, Amanpreet Singh Attowal village and Sahil of Ganna Pind.Phagwara SP Sarabjit Singh Bahia said the accused were nabbed from the house of Santokh Singh, who is the grandfather of the arrested accused Lakha.Khakh said the police party raided the house and seized 330 gm of heroin, 400 gm of opium, Rs 2.1 lakh as drugs money, a pistol along with live 10 cartridges, an electronic weighing scale, a Breza car, a Verna car and packing material from the arrested accused, who would be produced before the Judicial Magistrate on Wednesday. Several more disclosures are expected from the arrested drugs traders during police interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-district-gang-of-drug-smugglers-busted-3-arrested-350598
15-12-2021||---||NGO raises voice for strict enforcement of plastic ban||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 14Members of an NGO (Action Group Against Plastic Pollution) on Tuesday organised a protest rally in front of the district administrative complex (DAC) demanding a ban on single use plastic.NGO founder Navneet Bhullar and activists Tinu Luthra and Anjali Arora put out placards to spread awareness on the issue. They presented a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori demanding that the ban on manufacturing, stocking, distributing and recycling one-time use plastics like disposable cups, spoons, straws etc be implemented with force.Bhullar said: “The Department of Local Bodies and Department of Rural Development has put a complete ban on plastic bags in their jurisdictions from April 1, 2016, but it is yet to be enforced.”The NGO has plans to carry out a series of street protests every Tuesday. “We have earlier given a memorandum to Joint Commissioner of Municipal Corporation Major Amit Sareen and the Commissioner Karnesh Sharma but nothing has happened”.The members said: “We cannot sit and watch our earth and oceans bear the brunt of our violations. This must stop. The only way to accomplish this is to pressurise authorities to enforce the ban on single use plastic bag use that has been on paper in Punjab since 2016 but never enforced. Microplastics are now in our food chain.”Suggesting a way out, they said: “Compostable plastic bags are completely biodegradable and the government is charging lakhs to issue licences for their manufacturing.” Bhullar said the NGO was set to expand its reach and will be taking protests to Patiala and Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ngo-raises-voice-for-strict-enforcement-of-plastic-ban-350599
15-12-2021||Jalandhar||Inter-Zonal Youth Festival||Investiture Ceremony at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) organised an impressive investiture ceremony for student council 2021-22. During the ceremony, oath of office was administered to all office-bearers through which the members promised to uphold the policies of the institution while executing their office. The Student Council comprises class representatives from all faculties as well as sports, hostel and ECA. All members were divided into committees like discipline, student mentorship, campus beautification, library and event management, headed by captains from all faculties, to help in the smooth functioning of the college. The two head girls who took the oath were Aarzoo Sharma of BA (Hons) English Sem V and Yukta Mayor of BCA Sem V.Human Rights DayDayanand Model Senior Secondary School, Dayanand Nagar, celebrated the Human Rights Day on the school premises. Angelina Sharma of Class VII delivered a speech in the morning assembly and highlighted the specific issues of human rights. Principal Dr SK Gautam along with the students took a pledge that they would respect all rights of humans irrespective of their race, sex, religion, caste, nationality or any other status. He reiterated that in our daily lives, we should take action to uphold the rights that protect us all and also promote kinship of all human beings.Industrial visitAn industrial visit was organised by Training and Placement Cell of School of Management, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus to Aarti International, Ludhiana, for students of management department. Aarti International Ltd represents a 100% cotton yarn manufacturing company, with an installed capacity of 1,75,000 spindles including 43,400 spindles of compact yarn. Vice President, HR, ArjeshMishra, AGM Namita Arora and their trainers interacted with the students and handled their queries. Dr SK Sood, Director, LKCTC, and Dr Inderpal Singh, HOD, Management Department, highlighted the importance of Industrial visits in the department as this type of visit provides practical exposure to the students and helps in relating theory with practice.Postcard-making contestAs part of the commemoration, a series of events have been planned under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by the Government of India. A postcard making competition was organised for the students of grades IV to XII under the guidance of the principal Navdeep Vashishta. This competition was headed by Navjot, Poonam, Reema, and Satish. Children participated with great enthusiasm and zeal. The students were well involved in the competition and came up with their creative skills. The postcards made by them reflected showed their respect and gratitude towards the nation and its heroes. School management appreciated the creative skills of the students and motivated them to do the best in their careers.Postcard campaignDIPS Suranussi organised postcard writing activity. This activity is being propagated by CBSE and postal department to celebrate 75 years of India’s freedom through a 75 lakh postcard campaign. During the activity, children from Classes IV to XII wrote letter to the Prime Minister. Students expressed their thoughts on unknown freedom fighters and how India must be in 2047. Principal Bela Kapoor gave important information regarding the campaign till December 20. Students can share their valuable thoughts and 10 postcards will be selected and uploaded on CBSE website.Cake-Mixing CeremonyGNA University organised traditional ‘mix it up ceremony’ for Christmas. The key objective behind organising this ceremony was to celebrate this ritual of unity and camaraderie with faculty and students. Simran Sihra, a patisserie expert and an entrepreneur, was the guest of honour to this event. Sihra said the first step towards making the cake is the mixing process, formally called the ‘Cake Mixing Ceremony’, a ritual religiously followed the world over and said to be a harbinger of good tidings and happiness. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-zonal-youth-festival-350600
15-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 arrested with pistol, bullets||Suvidha Camps on December 16, 17Hoshiarpur: The Hoshiarpur district administration on Tuesday has identified locations for organising the “Suvidha Camps” at subdivision level on December 16 and 17 to facilitate the people to attain maximum benefits of welfare schemes launched by the Punjab Government. Divulging details on the locations of the camps, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said Suvidha camp of Garhshankar subdivision will be held at Government Senior Secondary School, Mahilpur,on December 16 and 17; Hoshiarpur subdivision camp at Government Senior Secondary School, Rajpur, on Bhayian on December 16 and Govt. Senior Secondary School Dhade Fateh Singh on December 17; Mukerian subdivision camp at SPN College Mukerian on December 16 and at the Talwars BDPO Office on December 17; and of Dasyua subdivision would be organised at Dana Mandi on December 16 and 17. OCpoll officers appointedHoshiarpur: The Chief Electoral Officer has issued notification regarding appointment of the returning officers of all assembly constituencies in the district for the forthcoming elections in 2022. District Election Officer Apneet Riyait said as per the directions of the Election Commission, Mukerian SDM has been appointed as returning officer for Mukerian, Dasuya SDM for Dasuya, ADC (Development), Hoshiarpur, for Urmur, ADC (Urban Development) for Shamchurasi, Hoshiarpur SDM for Hoshiarpur, ADC (General) for Chabewal and Garhshankar SDM has been appointed Returning Officer for Garhshankar. ocADC flags off awareness vanHoshiarpur: ADC-cum-Additional District Election Officer Sandeep Singh dispatched an awareness van to sensitise people to ensure free and fair Vidhan Sabha elections. Giving details of LED fitted van’s activities, Sandeep said this exercise was also part of SVEEP programme of the Election Commission. He said the van would halt for 10 days in every constituency, where people are to be sensitised about Cvigil app, voter help line-1950 etc. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-with-pistol-bullets-350601
