16-12-2021||Jalandhar||'Hatch Pitch' Event at GNA University||Lecture on 75 years of IndependenceUnder the Government of India programme “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, organised an extension lecture to celebrate and commemorate 75 years of Indian Independence. Dr Satish K Kapoor, Director of the College, who was the main speaker on the occasion, delineated the different phases of Indian nationalism from 1857 to 1947. He explained that anti-colonial protests were stimulated by political subjugation, racial discrimination, impoverishment of peasantry, drainage of wealth, repressive land revenue settlements, spread of western education, new means of transport and communication, birth of new middle classes, socio-religious reform movements and emergence of new political leadership. He delved on the saga of freedom movement in the Punjab, particularly referring to the Kuka movement, the Arya Samaj, Ghadar party, Komagata Maru incident, Jallianwala Bagh massacre, Akali morchas, Babbar Akalis, and Gandhian movements. He regretted that Punjab which had been in the forefront of freedom struggle had to suffer due to its vivisection and the communal frenzy that followed. TNSJump and grab candy activityDIPS School Urban Estate organised ‘Jump and grab candy’ activity in which preprimary wing students in order to get their gifts and toffee jumped high. the main purpose of this activity was to teach children how to jump high to reach one’s goal or destination facing all the odds be it marks or a gift. During the activity teachers of pre-wing Blessy, Rekha, Ritu and Vandana tied the toffees and gifts on a rope and children took a high jump. DIPS chain advisor Monica Mehta remarked that just as to obtain their gift and candies children have to jump high similarly in real life they have to cross all hurdles and achieve success. The right jump is filled with grit, willpower, determination, hard work and sincerity and aim for the best in life. CEO Monica Mandotra encouraged students to always work hard with utmost dedication and reach the desired destination.Science activity at Eklavya SchoolTiny tots of LKG Class of Eklavya School have performed science activity such as sources of water. JK Gupta, chairman of Eklavya School, encouraged the children by saying that science education activities provide children with opportunities to develop and practice many different skills and attributes. By watching the video on sources of water, students will understand the concept deeply. Educator Raminder Kaur had explained about the concept by drawing the images of sources of water on the blackboard and after that she has explained the concept by showing different cut-outs of water sources. Director Seema Handa motivated the students by saying that these activities include communication skills, collaborative skills, team working and perseverance. She also appreciated the efforts done by the students.Award for KMV from Edu MinistryInstitution’s Innovation Council (IIC) of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has been awarded with four ‘Gold Stars’(highest rating in the country) by Ministry of Education (MoE) Innovation Cell (Govt. of India). It is pertinent to mention that last year also KMV was awarded with 4.5 gold stars by the Ministry of Education. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that this rating has been awarded to KMV for organising various activities to promote entrepreneurial and innovative culture among the students and faculty. With the continuous motivation, guidance and support KMV-IIC team, 14 students have started their own ventures.Awareness camp organisedThe Social Sensitisation Cell of Lyallpur Khalsa College organised an awareness-cum-protest rally at the Municipal Corporation Jalandhar in collaboration with the NGO Action Group Against Plastic Pollution to make public aware of the hazards of single use plastic bags and to pressurise authorities to enforce ban on them. The rally was marked by raising slogans and reciting songs related to ban of polythene bags. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra encouraged and appreciated the initiative taken by Social Sensitisation Cell and AGAPP to stop single use plastic bags.Judo inter-college tournamentIn an inter-college Judo tournament held at Dinanagar recently, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women team won accolades by getting various medals and positions. Kareena won a silver medal in an open weight category, Priya Nahar won a bronze medal in 70 kg category while Palvi won a bronze in 78 kg category. Principal Dr Navjot appreciated the college’s sports girls and applauded the efforts of Parminder Kaur, Assistant Professor, Department of Physical Education. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hatch-pitch-event-at-gna-university-350812
16-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur tops in citizen services||Hoshiarpur, December 15In what reflects the district administration’s commitment to providing smooth and hassle-free citizen services through Sewa Kendras, Hoshiarpur district has top position in the state by ensuring 0.13 per cent pendency in these services.Hailing the efforts of the entire team of district administration, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait stated that the administration had achieved this target by ensuring timely disposal of applications being filed by the citizens at the Sewa Kendras, especially amid unprecedented health crisis posed by Covid-19 pandemic.The DC said since December 14, 2020 till December 14, 2021, as many as 3,15,826 applications were received by administration for around 372 services at all 25 Sewa Kendras, which were disposed of by the officials in a time-bound manner. Of these applications, only 0.13 percent were pending for disposal. Riyait said due to Covid-19, all requisite measures have been adopted in all Sewa Kendras for the safety and security of everybody, including staff and applicants, adding the administration had also been rendering pre-booking slot facilities to ensure delivery of these services in a segregated manner.The DC said a viable mechanism had been evolved by the administration to achieve this goal through regular monitoring of pendency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-tops-in-citizen-services-350813
16-12-2021||Nawanshahr||Signature campaign to motivate young voters in Nawanshahr||To ensure massive participation of the voters, especially the youngsters and students in the ensuing 2022 Assembly poll, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on Wednesday initiated a signature campaign for soliciting their fulsome support in the elections.Kickstarting the campaign with his signatures in the district administrative complex, the DC said this drive would help to sensitise the young voters to come forward for strengthening the democracy at the grass-root level by participating in maximum number. He said the students and youth can play a major role in further strengthening the democratic ethos in the country. He said this signature campaign would be actively started in Banga and Balachaur subdivisions of the district and asked the officials to ensure young voters participate in large numbers.The DC asserted that this programme under Systematic Voter Education and Electoral Participation Programme (SVEEP) would be instrumental in making the young voters about their democratic rights. He said the district administration would organise more such events in the coming days to ensure that the message of fair and free voting gets conveyed to every nook and corner of the district.He said to facilitate the youth, the Election Commission has launched National Voter Services Portal and Voter Helpline App where they can apply for voter registration. The youth can visit www.nvsp.in for getting them registered as new voters, he added. Sarangal said the youth can also download Voter Helpline App from Google Play store. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/signature-campaign-to-motivate-young-voters-in-nawanshahr-350814
16-12-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab CM Channi, Navjot Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar to campaign in Jalandhar on December 17||Punjab Education and Sports Minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements and preparations of a state function to be held on December 17 at Partappura grain market.While taking stock of preparations at local Circuit Houses, the minister said the function would be presided over by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi while PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Chairman Election Campaign Committee Sunil Jakhar and in-charge of Congress’ Punjab Affairs Harish Chaudhary would also participate and address the gathering. Accompanied by the MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri and Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, the minister said that besides public gathering function, the CM would inaugurate some works too.Earlier, DC Ghanshyam Thori and Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh along with civil and police officers took a round of the function site, where they issued directions to concerned authorities for completion of ongoing arrangements well in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-navjot-singh-sidhu-sunil-jakhar-to-campaign-on-december-17-350815
16-12-2021||---||A Singhu-like site outside residence of Pargat Singh in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 15It is evening time and there is hectic activity outside the residence of Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh. A tent stands erected by the ETT-TET Pass Teachers’ Union for the past nearly 10 days. Inside the tent, mattresses have been laid and some men and women unionists are seen taking rest while some of their counterparts are busy preparing dinner.There are some women cooking lentils in a huge pot kept on fire. There are women chopping onions and garlic for the tadka and still others preparing dough out of the stock of wheat flour that they have collected from the people of surrounding villages. The teachers say that they will not go till the minister orders that their salaries, which have been reduced from Rs 44,000 to Rs 25,000 are restored.Says Kamal Thakur, a unionist: “We are 180 teachers and we won’t go from here till our salary is restored. It has been reduced haphazardly without assigning any reason. We have met Education Minister Pargat Singh but nothing has happened. The minister himself has committed that it is a departmental error, but he has not given us a solution to our problem.” The teachers have been sitting like this for the past 10 days and have also brought in their kids, who sleep with them through the nights in the tents. There are about five-six kids of the age as low as one year who are accompanying their mothers. Gurvir, another unionist, said: “Since it gets foggy early morning, the tent start seeping due to mist and dew. We still do not have any tarpaulin sheets to cover our tents. The poor kids are bearing it all with us and learning lessons of life the hard way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-singhu-like-site-in-jalandhar-350816
16-12-2021||---||BJP leaders reach out to ETT teachers protesting outside Pargat Singh's residence in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 15BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, along with key functionaries and veteran leaders of the BJP today called on the 180 ETT Teachers’ Union protesting outside the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh here today.It is the very first occasion that the BJP has reached out to a teachers’ union protesting in Jalandhar. Facing protests from farmers for the past one year, BJP leaders have finally begun holding meetings and reaching out to protesting unions.Reaching out to the teachers, the party state BJP President Ashwani Sharma also assured the inclusion of teachers’ demand in the BJP’s election manifesto. Sharma was accompanied by senior leaders Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, district president Sushil Sharma, Rajesh Bagha, former Mayor Sunil Jyoti, Mohinder Bhagat, Raman Pabbi among others.Speaking on the occasion, Ashwani Sharma said appointment of teachers on a regular basis and regularisation of already working teachers will be made a key priority of the party’s election manifesto in the upcoming elections. Terming the demand of the teachers valid, he termed the reduction in their salaries condemnable and questioned the move by the state government.For the past over a month, various teachers unions and unemployed teachers and workers unions have held landmark protests against the Education Minister. At least two teachers have also been protesting atop water tanks since October end.While veteran BJP leader and former Cabinet minister Manoranjan Kalia met them early this afternoon, later BJP state President Ashwani Sharma called upon the teachers with party’s key leadership and assured their demand to be included in party’s menifesto. While ETT teachers started going home to home to spread information against the state government’s policies days ago, they continue with the same. Teachers of the union today went across areas in urban estate - within the constituency of Pargat Singh, holding a ‘jago’ (folk song which is sung like a wake up call) against the state government.Gurmukh Singh, one of the protesting teachers said, “The BJP members led by state president Ashwani Sharma came to meet us today. They have ensured inclusion of our demand for regualrisation in the party manifesto. Today is the first day that the BJP leadership has come to meet us. BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia first came to meet us, followed by state president Ashwani Sharma later in the afternoon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-reach-out-to-ett-teachers-350817
16-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three booked for cheating man on pretext of sending him to Canada||4 booked for Forgery in bondHoshiarpur: The city police have registered a case against four accused under the charge of filling fake surety bonds for bail of a woman. According to the information, in the court of CJM Pushpa Devi, the surety bonds were filled by Manohar Singh, a resident Kaloiyan, Jaspreet Singh and Manjeet Singh, residents of Manwal and Harjit Singh, a resident Khakhan for bail in Barjinder Kaur’s case. The bonds were found to be forged during investigation. A case of forgery has been registered against all accused. OCOne held with smuggled liquorHoshiarpur: The city police have arrested a smuggler and recovered 45 bottles of smuggled liquor from him. The accused has been identified as Rajinder Sidhu, alias Jinder, a resident of Rishi Nagar. An FIR under the Excise Act has been registered against him in the city police station. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-booked-for-cheating-350818
16-12-2021||---||Covid-19: 15 school students test +ve in Dhilwan||Jalandhar, December 15As many as 15 children from Army Public School, Dhilwan, on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19 keeping the health authorities in Kapurthala on their toes. Three students of the school had tested positive for the virus a few days ago while 15 more students tested positive today.Notably, Army Public School, Dhilwan, has a hostel facility, which houses students from many other states except Punjab. Of the 15 students tested positive, eight hail from other states and seven belong to other districts.Sources in the Health Department said there were 360 students in the school hostel. All staff and school students were being tested for Covid-19. The sources said barring 77 to 80 people left to be tested later, all staff and students had been tested of whom 18 had tested positive so far. The sources informed The Tribune that the samples of all those tested positive would be sent for genome sequencing.Epidemiologist, Kapurthala, Dr Rajiv Bhagat said, “Samples of all staff and students are being taken. Those tested positive have either been placed under home quarantine with families with Fateh kits given to all of them or those from other states have been kept in a special quarantine facility arranged in the hostel. A Dhilwan-based medical team has been placed on standby for them to check their vitals daily. Samples of the remaining staff and students are being taken.”The total tally of Covid-19 has reached 17,883 in Kapurthala. No death due to the novel coronavirus was reported in Kapurthala.1 new case in dist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-15-school-students-test-ve-in-dhilwan-350819
16-12-2021||---||Court orders auction of Jalandhar DEO office to pay pension to retd teacher||Jalandhar, December 15Much to the embarrassment of the Education Department, the court of Civil Judge (Junior Division) Sheryl Sohi has ordered that the building of DEO office be put on auction on January 14 to pay pension to a retired government teacher.The court issued warrants of sale and even issued a schedule for the same. It ordered that since the applicant is an aged person and his matter has already been delayed, the payment should be made by auctioning the DEO office and executing its sale by February 2 and reporting the same before the court by February 18.The matter pertains to a legal fight put up by 82-year-old retired teacher Harjinder Singh. The complainant had retired on January 31, 1996, from government senior secondary school in Gumtala. Since he did not receive pension as expected, he knocked at the court’s door. The court decided in his favour in August 1997, but the department moved an appeal against the order. The appeal was dismissed by the court in August 2001.His wife Baljinder Kaur said she kept on making rounds of the DEO office for receiving her husband’s pension but to no avail. The matter again went to the court over issues related to calculation of the pension amount. His tiff with the department kept lingering on which released him a small amount to which Harjinder Singh disagreed.He demanded that he be paid pension from the day of his retirement and that too with all the interest amount. As his case was sub judice, it was ordered that the office be put to auction and all dues, including arrears, be paid to Harjinder Singh from the amount so recovered.The complainant retired in 1996||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/court-orders-auction-of-deo-office-to-pay-pension-to-retd-teacher-350821
16-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||50 years after '71 war, Jalandhar family still hopes to see their loved one||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 15Even as India will celebrate the golden jubilee of 1971 Indo-Pak war tomorrow, a family from Jalandhar is still waiting for Lance Naik Hazoora Singh of the 22nd Battalion of Border Security Force to return home. He is one of the 54 Indian Prisoners of War and the only BSF personnel who remains missing ever since.Though 50 years have passed since she saw her father, Gurjit Kaur (63) says that she still believes that he would return some day. Holding on to her dad’s pictures, she tells: “I cannot forget that day of 1969 when my father had returned home after participating in the Republic Day parade. He proudly took out his picture of the parade and showed it out to me, my mom and my four siblings. I was in Class IV then”.She goes on. “I cannot even forget the last few days that we spent with our dad. He had come home in October 1971 when tension had started escalating and there were reports that war could start any day. My father took out a paper and pen, drew a map and told all of us about his Border Occupied Post. He said the place in Fazilka, where he was posted, had Pakistan boundary on three sides. His words cannot stop ringing in my ears when he said that in the event war erupts, there was no chance that he would return home. Days later, I was in school when he received a telegram and he had to reach back for duty. I did not even get a chance to have that last hug.”Gurjit said as war started on December 3, 1971, no one in the family could sleep that night. “As if our fears were to come true, we received a telegram few days later that my dad had gone missing and someone from the family could come and collect his belongings. My maternal uncle went there and brought back all his things. All relatives came to our place and told all of us to not give up hope and we somehow never did,” she says still with a strong conviction.She adds: “People around us told us that they heard our dad speak via Pakistan radio but we missed the talk. In 1972, as the PoWs were to be exchanged, we thought that he too would return but he did not. Several such occasions came, people released from Pakistan jail told us that they met him at Kora jail and a lot of communication happened from our side and through the BSF but we got no clue to where our dad was. Till 1974, we got his salary but then the BSF told us that they would consider him to be ‘killed in war’ and accordingly give us pension. All through this distress, we stayed at BSF quarters in Jalandhar and my mother Dalip Kaur took good care of all of us ensuring that we do well in our studies and we made her proud. While I became a teacher, my two sisters Dalip Kaur and Sarbjeet Kaur did pharmacy. My two brothers Amarjit Singh and Ranjit Singh are doctors and settled abroad.”She says that everyone was trying to get over with what had happened when a book on Indian PoWs by Brig Manmohan Sharma shook them all. “The book had account of details of our father’s heroic deeds. He continued to hold the post and kept the enemy at bay for 2.5 to 3 hours till the Army reached that fateful night. After that he was gheraoed by the enemy,” it mentioned.Gurjit says: “A turning point came when in 1999 his name came in the list of Indian PoW during the Vajpayee government. Since my mother had passed away waiting for him till 1997, I was called to put up the case with a DG-level team of Rangers at the BSF headquarters in Jalandhar. The Pakistani officer turned emotional on hearing our side of story and said that he would surely try to find him when he goes back. But eventually nothing happened and things again came to a naught.”A teary eyed Gurjit says: “A martyr’s family is at least at peace as they know that their loved one is no more. They get a chance to see his body one last time and perform his last rites. But the kin of PoW remain in a dilemma and the wait never ends. The thought how he would be spending his days in lock-up, how he would be longing to come back home and having absolutely no clue about our well-being still haunts us. Since we could do nothing for him, we eventually all decided to hold path for him at Golden Temple. We prayed that wherever he is, he should stay healthy and happy.”She added: “On 50 years of 1971 War, my brothers have requested the government that a memorial be built in his name so that people should know about his heroic act”. City-based Dr Navjot Dahiya, who has been closely associated with the family, says, “I have seen the emotional trauma that they have all went through. No words can describe their pain”.About Lance Naik Hazoora Singh54 Indian PoWs remain unaccounted||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/golden-jubilee-today-50-years-after-71-war-this-family-still-hopes-to-see-their-loved-one-350820
16-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||AAP's Tiranga Yatra pulls mammoth crowd, causes immense traffic snarls in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 15Traffic came to a standstill in the Central part of Jalandhar city today as a flood of vehicles clogged the main streets of downtown Jalandhar, during AAP’s second Tiranga Yatra today. What added to the rush and the bottleneck was hundreds of vehicles brought in from across the state to make the yatra a success. A visibly happy Kejriwal also lauded the enthusiasm shown by city for holding yatra.While the stretch of road through which the yatra passed wasn’t too long (less than 1 km) - it took place at the very central point of Jalandhar - from the Jyoti Chowk (Valmiki Chowk) to the Nakodar Chowk (Ambedkar Chowk). Hours ago, the police diverted traffic from the Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Nakodar Road (towards Nakodar Chowk), Model Town, near Civil Hospital Near Skylark Chowk among other areas to prevent huge traffic bottlenecks on the yatra route.Hundreds of vehicles mobilising support for the yatra - cars, buses, trucks, vans, SUVs, etc. bearing posters of Kejriwal and the promises made by him along with photos of AAP leaders, halka in charges, other district functionaries - remained parked on all roads leading to the yatra stretch - holding up traffic way before the yatra started. Old Baradari Road, Model Town, Nakodar Road (and its nearig stretches), the stretch in front the Gymkhana Club, Red Cross Bhawan, stretches near Jyoti Chowk and Civil Hospital saw hundreds of vehicles bearing AAP signage parked.Sources in AAP said the party had sought at least 200 persons from all constituencies in support of the rally. Additionally, some supporters mobilised more support, bringing in even more buses. Sources said 10 buses were brought in from Moga alone. The Tiranga Yatra saw a sea of Tricolour hoisted in air and even people in buildings on the stretch climbed atop terraces and roofs with the flags. Sight of ArvindKejriwal cut-outs and Tri-colour waving in the air – was all pervading. Beaming with the success of the yatra, Kejriwal congratulated the people of Jalandhar.Speaking to crowds, Kejriwaal said: “Itni shandaar Tiranaga yatra. Maine bahut saare road shows kiye hain apni zindagi mein. Bahut saari Tiranga yatra nikali hai. Par aaj Jalandhar ke logon ne kamaal kar diya. Aur jitna pyar jitni mohabbat - aaj humein Jalandhar ke logon se mili hai. Main janta tha Jalandhar ke log humein bahut pyaar karte hain, lekin itna pyaar karte hain ye humein nahi pata tha. Jalandhar ke logon ka tahe dil se shukriya. Pura raste log apni khirki pe chat pe tiranga lehra rahe the aur sab ke muh pe tha Bharat Mata ki jai.”(Such a marvellous Tiranga Yatra. I have done many roadshows in my life, many Tiranga yatras also. But Jalandhar people have topped it today. They have given us so much. I knew Jalandhar people loved us, but didn’t know this much. I thank the people of Jalandhar. All through the way people on windows and roofs waved flags and everyone chanted Bharat Mata Ki Jai.”)It took over an hour — after the yatra ended — for the restoration of smooth traffic in the city. At Model Town, Nakodar Road, near Lal Rattan Cinema and all stretches — bumper to bumper traffic held up people for a long time. Amidst media presence, Kejriwal skips garlanding Ambedkar statue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aaps-tiranga-yatra-pulls-mammoth-crowd-causes-immense-traffic-snarls-in-jalandhar-350822
16-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar will have India's biggest sports university and international airport, vows Kejriwal||In keeping with his dole-disbursal spree ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal promised two major projects for Jalandhar city during the party’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ here today.He announced that Jalandhar will get India’s biggest sports university and an international airport to facilitate NRI-rich Doaba region, if AAP comes to power in the state.Also read: AAP's Tiranga Yatra pulls mammoth crowd, causes immense traffic snarls in JalandharAddressing the crowd atop an open vehicle, Kejriwal evoked nationalist symbolism in his speech. Surrounded by a sea of Indian flags from all sides, he said, “All through my way, people atop roofs and on windows and chanted ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’… terrorism days were bad for the border state. We have to make Punjab ‘khushhaal’ (happy). We have to maintain brotherhood.”Invoking ‘kisan andolan’ and Dr BR Ambedkar, he began the yatra by garlanding portraits of Maharishi Valmiki, Guru Ravidas and Sant Kabir. The yatra started from Bhagwan Valmiki Chowk and ended at Ambedkar Chowk.“We are giving two guarantees here today. Many Doaba youths have gone abroad. It is a very old demand that Jalandhar should have an airport. If AAP forms the next government, we will make an international airport in Jalandhar.”He added: “Jalandhar has a sports industry and those who play cricket and hockey have to use Jalandhar (sports) goods. Sachin Tendulkar used to hit sixes with bats made in Jalandhar. When our hockey team brought a medal in Olympics, their ball and stick had the city stamp on them. We will make the country’s biggest sports university here.” Atop the vehicle, Kejriwal was joined by state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, party’s co-affairs incharge Raghav Chadha and other leaders. Some district AAP units brought in workers in buses to lend support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-will-have-indias-biggest-sports-varsity-vows-kejriwal-350844
