17-12-2021||---||Teachers flay Punjab Govt's 'anti-employee' policy||Jalandhar, December 16Members of the B.Ed Front, Punjab, on Thursday said they will vote against the state government if its ‘anti-employee’ policy continue the same way.Ravinder Singh, district president, Jalandhar B.Ed Front, Punjab, said the anti-employee face of the Punjab Government is coming to the fore day by day under which the allowances of government employees are being cut by the government.Front members condemned the cuts in rural allowance of employees. They said the fresh example of anti-employee policies of the government is the cut in the rural allowance of government employees. They said 70 per cent employees are involved in development works at villages. They said hence village or rural works will be stopped or adversely impacted by the decision of the state government. Ravinder Singh said, “It is injustice with government employees of the state to cut rural allowance. Apart from this 37 other allowances of employees have been stopped i.e. Border Area, ACP allowance etc.”He said the government has also not implemented the pay commission report. They also said Punjab government had also denied to give arrears of DA installments. They said Congress had also promised that they will reinstate old pension scheme after forming a government in Punjab before the elections. They said the government employees will cast their votes against the government for the anti-employees policies of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-flay-governments-anti-employee-policy-351310
17-12-2021||---||Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Jalandhar, transferred within a week of posting||Jalandhar, December 16Wednesday’s transfer orders of Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Jalandhar, Shalin Walia, that, too, within a week of his joining has exposed how the mafia still prevails upon the system.Walia had joined the post on December 7 and got transferred within eight days. During his short stint in the Jalandhar division which has seven districts of Doaba and Majha area falling under it, he got conducted major raids which led to the recovery of a huge stock of 4.5 lakh lahan for manufacturing of illicit liquor. There are reports that the illicit liquor, which was being manufactured in the mand areas of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana and Harike along the banks of the river bodies on very large scale, was to be used in the forthcoming election time.Further on December 9 just two days of his joining, he even got checked various liquor vends and got confiscated 131 cases of expired beer and 873 cases of IMFL and PML liquor of year 2019-20 from a group in Kala Bakra. The vend was challaned. On the same day, he also got challaned six vends of Goraya circle for keeping old stock. The vends reportedly belonged to Jasdeep Chadha and Doda group.The department insiders said his bold action shook the entire mafia which approached the concerned authorities and put pressure for his immediate transfer, which the government ordered. Yesterday, he got transferred to the taxation wing of the department that too in Ferozepur.The officials supporting him have said the orders had come as a big humiliation and had affected the morale of the entire department. The officials also pointed to that had the official not acted, a hooch tragedy as had occurred in April 2020 was waiting to happen. “Beer has a shelf life of just six months. Stocks of expired liquor are being openly thrown for weddings and big parties. As per the rule, the stock of the previous year can be used after paying excise duty afresh but it has to be sold off within six months. The stock that was unearthed dated back to year 2019-20”, said the insiders.Rajat Aggarwal, Commissioner, Excise, “My idea is that all officials should do good work but transfers do not fall in my domain”. Notably, Punjab CM Charanjit S Channi holds the charge of the minister of the revenue-fetching department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/officer-transferred-within-a-week-of-posting-351311
17-12-2021||---||Three test  +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 16Three new Covid cases were reported in Jalandhar on Thursday taking the district Covid tally to 63,536 cases. No new Covid death was reported, with which the toll remains at 1,500.As many as 62,018 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 18. Of the 18,65,333 samples collected in the district so far, 17,28,787 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 1,040 samples are awaited.Six new cases reported in KapurthalaSix new samples tested positive in Kapurthala, of which three were from the Army Public School, Dhilwan. With this, the Kapurthala district tally increased to 17,889.So far, 21 persons have tested positive at Army School Dhilwan of which 18 had tested positive formerly.As many as 15 children from Army Public School, Dhilwan, had tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. The school has a hostel facility, which also houses students from many other states except Punjab. Sources said there were 360 students at the school hostel. All staff and school students were being tested for Covid. The samples of all those who tested positive would be sent for genome sequencing.Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala. The toll remains 556.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-351312
17-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Those who kept the hearths burning at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 16Organisers of one of the biggest langars at Singhu were accorded a warm welcome on their return to Doaba. A convoy of 100 vehicles arrived at Phagwara to receive them on December 13.Led by Bharti Kisan Union (BKU), Doaba, president, Manjit Singh Rai along with Tony Sandhu, Mangi Bagga, Nanni Gopalpur and other sportspersons, sports promoters and associates, village gram panchayats, these organisers contributed to the peasant movement and organised the “Maa dharti de warisan da langar” at Singhu.For the past one year, at least 4,000 members of the sangat partook of langar near the KFC Mall, a farmers’ protest landmark.At the same time, accommodation was also arranged for more than 3,000 sangats in the building.Kabaddi players from Punjab and Doaba also played a vital role in organising the main stage at the border. The historic Delhi Morcha Kabaddi League was also organised in collaboration with sportspersons and NRIs.To welcome the back these peasant movement supporters, a convoy of over a hundred tractors and other vehicles from Rurka Kalan village reached Ladhowal Toll Plaza from where Manjit Singh Rai, Satnam Singh Sahni, Tony Sandhu, Sonu Doji, Claire Randhawa, Manjot Machhiwara, Bhinda Mindu, Nimma Cheema, Kuljit Rai, Aman Hothi, Gopi Mudh, Nek Malupur, Gurmukh Dhakowal, Gogi Sandhwan, among other colleagues were warmly welcomed back to their villages.One of the orgainsers, Tony Sandhu, said, “Sangats contributed wholeheartedly to the langar. On our way back, we donated our rations worth around Rs2.5 lakh to Darbar Sahib. Donations were also made to the Jalandhar branch of the Pingalwara, Amritsar. Donations will also be made to the families of martyrs in Amritsar. All rations or things left over will also go to various sports or social welfare NGOs.”Not just rations but blankets, goods, coolers, fans, utensils etc. were also brought back from the Delhi border after the protests were wrapped up.Sandhu quipped, “The protest site became our home. While coming back we fell like migrants going away from home. Singhu had been our home for a year. We have brought back memories, kindness and a sense of relief at having organised everything peacefully and successfully for a year by the grace of God.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/those-who-kept-the-hearths-burning-at-singhu-351314
17-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Youth dies, two others hurt in accident on Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road||Hoshiarpur, December 16A 22-year-old youth died and two others were injured in a road accident on the Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road on Wednesday afternoon.The Chabbewal police have registered a case against the accused driver. Pope Singh from Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh, who’s presently working at Mukhomjara village, lodged a complaint saying his son Bobby (22) was on a bike with Bhup Singh and Ram Singh, residents of Mukhomajra, when a car passing by hit them near Jian village.As a result, his son died, while two other were injured. The police have registered a case against the accused car driver Suresh Kumar, a resident of Sector 47-A, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-dies-two-others-hurt-in-road-accident-351316
17-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Talwara: Kidnapped child traced after 6 days, mother held||Talwara (Hoshiarpur), December 16A woman accused of abducting her own 9-year-old son due to some dispute with her husband was arrested and the child recovered six days after the incident on Thursday.DSP Dasuya Ranjit Singh Badhesha said on December 10, around 1 o’clock, four persons abducted Balnoor Singh (in pic right) and fled in a car. The Dasuya and CIA police formed various teams to solve the case and cooperation from Talwara, Hajipur and Mukerian police station in-charge was sought. The DSP said on the basis of a secret information, a team led by Gurpreet Singh, SI Sikander Singh and CIA inspector Shiv Kumar raided Salowal village under police station Taragarh of district Gurdaspur and traced the abducted child Balnoor Singh, son of Amrit Pal Singh of Behbowal Chhanniyan. His mother Harmeet Kaur, who got him abducted, was also arrested.DSP Badhesha and Dasuya police station in-charge Gurpreet Singh told the reporters that after being produced in the court of Judge Parminder Kaur in Dasuya, the abducted child was handed over to his father Amrit Pal Singh as per his wish, while his mother would be produced in court on December 17. The case would be investigated after taking her on remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kidnapped-child-traced-after-6-days-mother-held-351317
17-12-2021||---||Vajra Corps celebrates victory of India over Pak in 1971 war||Jalandhar, December 16Vajra Corps celebrated Vijay Diwas to commemorate the stellar victory of the Indian Armed Forces over Pakistan in the 1971 war.The historic victory signifies a unique and unparalleled feat, wherein the Armed Forces fought both on Eastern and Western front and liberated the people of the East Pakistan, leading to the creation of Bangladesh. The Vajra Corps, proudly known as the ‘Defenders of Punjab’, had proven its mettle on the strategic Western front and achieved its objectives with elan and vigour, capturing key territory and preventing enemy attempts.During the war, operations in Vajra Corps Sector saw major battles at Dera Baba Nanak, Burj-Fatehpur and Sehjra where the enemy was pushed back. A proud nation conferred nine Maha Vir Chakras, 50 Vir Chakras, 72 Sena Medals and numerous other awards to the valiant men of the Vajra Corps during the 1971 war for their courage and selfless service to the nation.Maj Gen Sanjay Maini, Chief of Staff, Vajra Corps and serving personnel of the Vajra Corps in Jalandhar Military Station paid homage and tributes to the martyrs in a solemn wreath laying ceremony held at the Vajra Shaurya Sthal.War veteran Brig Bajwa narrates his experiencesIn another event organised today by the Field Outreach Bureau of the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a webinar dedicating to ‘Golden Jubilee of Vijay Diwas-1971 Indo-Pak War and Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ was held.War veteran of both 1971 and Kargil War and decorated soldier Brig MPS Bajwa (Retd) and the Head of the History Department from HMV College Protima Mander addressed the audience. While Brig Bajwa took the young audience to visualise the events of wars and how the Indian forces fought valiantly to defeat the enemy, the History professor cast a web of the historical events which lead to India’s freedom.Sharing his experiences, Brig Bajwa said how as a young 2nd Lieutenant, he participated in the 1971 war when he got the call to join back soon after his engagement. He, along with his brothers-in-arms, fought valiantly at Garibpur in Jessore sector in November 1971 even before the war was officially declared. He said he could never forget the surrender of 93,000 Pakistan army officers and soldiers on this day today that led to the birth of Bangladesh. He said he was proud of his 48 stitches on his body he got after being hit by enemy bullets in wars and terrorist operations in Kashmir.He motivated the youngsters, both boys and girls, from Jalandhar and Amritsar NCC groups, Nehru Yuva Kendra, NSS, schools and colleges to dedicate themselves for the welfare of the country. He motivated girls to contribute in securing the borders of the Nation by joining armed forces at various levels and streams. He specifically asked the youth to take up National Cadet Corps (NCC) in schools and colleges for living a disciplined life for making and giving a better society to the future generations.Tributes to Shaheed Jeet Singh Tanda UraIn a yet another event, the 50th martyr day ceremony of Jeet Singh Tanda Ura in the Indo-Pak War 1971 was held at Tanda Ura village near NakodarAddressing a large gathering to salute the martyr after inaugurating the memorial of the martyr at the village of the martyr, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, MLA Shahkot, commended the martyr’s family for helping the needy by holding a function every year and assured of every help. MLA Sherovalia announced to provide Rs 5 lakh for the development of the martyr’s village. The younger brother of the martyr and journalist Balwinder Singh Tanda Ura, while giving information about the sacrifice of the martyr, said the rest of the family of the martyr was also engaged in the service of the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-celebrates-victory-of-india-over-pak-in-1971-war-351321
17-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Tributes paid to 3,900 soldiers who laid down their lives in war||MLA Sunder Sham Arora today paid homage to the 3,900 soldiers who laid down their lives in the Indo-Pakistan War of 1971 and Bangladesh’s Freedom Struggle, at the War Memorial, Hoshiarpur, along with his family members on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas. While paying tribute to the martyrs, the MLA said that 103 soldiers of our district were martyred in this war.He said, “Vijay Diwas inspired us to maintain true faith and loyalty towards the country. It is only due to their sacrifice towards maintaining the integrity of the country, that we are able to breathe in the free air. He said the society will always be indebted to its brave soldiers, who have always protected the honor of the country.”BJP Himachal Pradesh in-charge and former Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Avinash Rai Khanna paid his respects to the brave martyrs of the 1971 Indo-Pak war at the war memorial. In a tribute ceremony organised by the BJP Sports Cell, Punjab, at the war memorial, Khanna said Indian soldiers defeated the Pakistan Army 50 years ago and got independence for Bangladesh, for this, the Indian Army is recognised all over the world even today.In the 1971 war, the brave soldiers of Hoshiarpur also sacrificed their lives and played an important role in making the Indian Army victorious. For this, the nation will always be indebted to these martyred soldiers. Dr Raman Ghai said the way Indian soldiers had brought victory for India by displaying their valor in the 1971 Pak war, even today inspires the young generation of India to prepare them for the protection of nation.President of Bharat Vikas Parishad Sanjeev Arora, while paying tribute to the brave soldiers of 1971 at the War Memorial, said that the indomitable courage and valor displayed by the Indian Army in 1971. can never be forgotten. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/forever-indebted-351322
17-12-2021||To acquaint the students with specifics of bakery products||Bakery workshop organised||AIDS awareness programmeJalandhar: DAV University organised an awareness programme to aware students about AIDS. The Artistia club of the university made the students aware about symptoms, causes, treatment and how to get tested about disease. Vice Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi congratulated the organising team. Dr Rishi further stressed upon the need to motivate the students to follow healthy practices in life and spreading knowledge about myths and promote its prevention. The V-C also highlighted the fact that world is suffering from new diseases so, we must take constructive steps to stop them so that our planet could be safe to live. Registrar Dr KN Kaul also appreciated the efforts of the students. Dr RK Seth told students that Red Ribbon is the symbol of awareness and one must provide support to those living with HIV. Around 20 students from all streams participated in the event. Higher authorities of the institution judged poster making competition on this occasion. Pratiksha (Dept. of Zoology), Anjali (microbiology) and Navneet (M.Sc. chemistry) got the first, second and third prize respectively. Appreciation prize went to Nency (B.Sc. Agriculture).Investiture at lyallpur CollegeLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus held an investiture ceremony for the members of the student welfare association, which is the largest body of the students created with the intention to inculcate the leadership qualities in the students. The posts of various designations were filled after conducting interviews. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director, KCL Group, graced the occasion as a chief guest. Dr SK Sood, Director LKCTC, congratulated the students and motivated them for their responsibilities. Deputy Director KCL Group Dr R S Deol also congratulated and advised the students to be role models and extended a supporting hand to the student’s association for its smooth running. The office- bearers were conferred with badges by the chief guest for the session 2021-2022. In this session, Dhriti Jain will act as president, Hargun Singh Rana as vice-president, Snovia as Secretary, Harinder Kaur and Rudransh as Joint Secretaries and the members are Kunal, Simran, Sashank, Priyanshu, Ria, Akash Soni, Jyoti Kumari, Shivam Sangar, Heena and Harsimran.Publicity Exhibition of IAFDisha Cell of the Indian Air Force organised an awareness drive on career opportunities in the Indian Air Force in collaboration with 1 Pb Air Squadran and Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya. On this occasion, CO Wing Commander Deepak Sharma, 1 Pb Air Sqn Jalandhar, Sqn Leader Prashant Verma and Wing Commander Ranjan were present. They addressed the cadets and cleared the doubts of the cadets about the procedure of selection in SSB (Service Selection Board). Disha Cell of IAF has developed an Induction and Publicity Exhibition Vehicle (IPEV) which has a flight simulator and other gadgets aimed at showcasing various facets of IAF. As many as 350 cadets from various institutions of the district visited this vehicle. The resource persons also honoured Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen. CTO Air Wing Purnima was the incharge of the event. ANO Lt. Sonia Mahindru, Dean Academics Dr Seema Marwaha and Dean Science Dr Neelam Sharma were also present on this occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bakery-workshop-organised-351332
17-12-2021||Our Correspondent||17 beneficiaries get debt waiver certificates in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, December 16MLA Sundar Sham Arora handed over the debt waiver certificates to 17 beneficiaries of the Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation and Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development and Finance Corporation aggregating to around Rs 8.5 lakh. He said the effort of the government has given a lot of relief to the needy.Arora said on Thursday, 12 beneficiaries of the Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation have been handed over loan waiver certificates worth Rs 5,93,851 and by now the total debt of 90 beneficiaries in the district, has been waived of to the tune of Rs 41,39,369. Whereas the debt of Rs 50,000 each to the five beneficiaries given by Punjab Scheduled Caste Land Development and Finance Corporation has been waived and debt waiver certificates of Rs 2.5 lakh have been handed over today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/17-beneficiaries-get-debt-waiver-certificates-351341
17-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Road infra works to begin at Barian Kalan village soon||Hoshiarpur, December 16“The roads connecting Barian Kalan village will be dedicated to the public. To be constructed and repaired at a cost of Rs 14 crores, it will meet the demand of residents of the constituency,” said MLA Chabbewal Dr Raj Kumar, while laying the foundation stone of the new road from Barian Kalan to Baghaura village, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 1 crore.The road was dedicated to the memory of Daljit Singh Sahota’s father, Mahinder Singh Sahota. On this occasion, Dr Raj Kumar said apart from this, a grant of Rs 53.49 lakh has been provided to village so that the pace of development works in the village could be accelerated. Dr Raj said Daljit Singh Sahota had contributed towards the development of the area.He always remains in touch with him regarding the development and problems of the area. Due to which, it becomes easier to solve the problems of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/road-infra-works-to-begin-at-barian-kalan-village-soon-351342
17-12-2021||Jalandhar||Placement camps for rural youth in Jalandhar||A campaign would be launched to provide employment opportunities to rural youths between December 18 to 22 under Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav in Jalandhar.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Jaspreet Singh today said under the Deen Dyal Upadhay Gramin Kaushal Yojna, these camps would be held for Class X and XII pass unemployed youths, in collaboration with the Punjab Skill Development mission and Rural Development and Panchayat department.He further added that prominent companies hailing from health, food processing, beauty, capital goods, and manufacturing sector would come up with over 1,000 vacancies. He also said on December 18, a camp would be held at Bharat Para Medical Skill Centre, followed by camps on December 21 and 22 at National Science Society’s Skill Development Centre Bhogpur and CT Institute, Maqsudan Campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/placement-camps-for-rural-youth-351343
17-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||DAV Collegeof Education, Hoshiarpur, bags overall trophy in Zonal Youth Festival||DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, bagged overall trophy in the Panjab University Youth and Heritage Festival of Education Colleges (Zone-A) held at GTB Khalsa College of Education, Dasuya, recently. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla said in this festival, more than 20 colleges of Education competed and in tough competition, the college won total 51 prizes including the overall trophy.College students won first prizes in poster-making, cartooning, Mitte De Khidone, Khiddo Making, ennu making, folk orchestra, folk orchestra (Individual), Bagh, Pakhi, Kali, Vaar, Kali (Individual), Vaar (Individual), Classical Dance and folk dance.Students bagged Second Prizes in general quiz, photography, clay modelling, Rangoli Making, Installation, Pranda Making, Peehri Making, Debate, muhaavredaar Vartalap, knitting, handwriting (Punjabi), group song (Individual), bhand, bhand (Individual), kavishri, and group dance and third prizes in collage Making, Percussion, group song, folk instrument, Folk orchestra (Individual), Elocution, hand writing (English), poem recitation, geet, crochet work, muhavredaar Vaartalap (Individual), one act play, histrionics, skit (Individual), one act play (Individual), Kavishri (Individual), Giddha, group dance (Individual) and folk dance (Individual).DAVVCMC president Dr Anoop Kumar, Secretary DL Anand, Joint Secretary Sharanjit Saini and Director Dr SS Sharma congratulated the Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla and lauded the sincere efforts of the students and the faculty members. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla congratulated the winners and appreciated the efforts of the college staff. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-college-of-edu-bags-overall-trophy-351360
17-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Research Grant Workshop held at Lovely Professional University||Principal Secretary to Chief Minister of Punjab Hussan Lal visited Lovely Professional University (LPU) campus where he inaugurated a seven-day ‘Research Grant Proposal Writing Workshop’. The occasion was inaugural session of the mega workshop where top 70 researchers are participating.Counting down various coveted opportunities meted out to him by the government, including Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, the guest suggested, “We all need to work hard together and keep competing with the top countries of the world.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/research-grant-workshop-held-351361
17-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with intoxicants||Now, renew X-10 cards by Dec 31Hoshiarpur: District Employment Officer Gurmel Singh said as per the directions of the Director Employment Generation, Skills and Training, all eligible candidates who failed to get their registration (X-10) card renewed should apply for it before December 31. He said the candidates had to apply to the District Bureau of Employment and Trade, MSDC, at its office on the first floor at Government ITI Complex on Jalandhar Road, Hoshiarpur. He said due to the lockdown, unemployed candidates could not renew their registration (X-10) card, in view of which, the department has given them a chance till December 31. OCDefence training from December 20Hoshiarpur: The District Defence Services Welfare Officer, Colonel (retd) Jarnail Singh, said the state government has started pre-recruitment training for the youth of the state. Next cadre of pre-recruitment training would be starting from December 20 at the District Defence Services Welfare Office. He said in the training cadre, besides Army, Navy, Air Force, the training for recruitment into BSF, CRPF, ITBP, CISF and Punjab Police will be imparted to the youth. Interested candidates should contact the office and bring along their original educational qualification certificates, proof of age, SC / ST certificate, residence certificate and a copy of discharge book or relationship certificate in case of dependent of ex-servicemen, to get their name registered for the training cadre. OCStrict vigil on liquor tradeHoshiarpur: ADC Sandeep Singh on Thursday said the campaign against illicit liquor should be intensified in view of Assembly elections and no mischievous elements involved should be spared. He was addressing a meeting of officials here while reviewing the arrangements made by the Excise Department to curb liquor smuggling. The ADC directed the Assistant Commissioner, Excise, to increase checking by setting up inter-state nakas with his team and also to keep a close watch on liquor vends bordering Himachal so that liquor could not be smuggled. Singh said a special task force should be formed to take action on a war footing. Also special teams should be constituted by the Excise Department in all seven constituencies to check the movement of liquor. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-intoxicants-351362
17-12-2021||---||Bank strike affects biz worth Rs 800 cr in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 16Various banks across the region remained closed on Thursday on the call of United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU).The strike consisted of five workmen and four officers’ organisations, who have been opposing the move of privatisation of banks and Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. There is wide resentment among bank employees over the government’s move to list Bank Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 for introduction and passage during the current session of the Parliament. Bank employees and officers gathered in front of their branches and raised slogans against the policies of the government. Later, the employees held a massive rally in front of the State Bank of India, main branch.While 380 branches of various banks remained closed in Jalandhar city, nearly 720 branches of the entire district remained locked because officers and branch managers were also on strike. The clearing house remained suspended and around 25,000 cheques worth Rs230 crore were not cleared. The cash transactions of Rs220 crore were also affected due to the strike. Business worth Rs450 crore was affected in Jalandhar city and Rs800 crore in the district on account of the strike.The rally was addressed by Dalip Pathak, Dinesh Dogra, HS Veer, Pawan Bassi, Raj Kumar Bhagat, Rajesh Verma, Vinod Sharma, RK Jolly, Vinay Dogra, Sanjeev Bhalla, Baljit Kaur, RK Thakur, Jaswinder Singh Sahni, Kanwar Jit Singh, Jagpreet Singh, NK Khanna, BC Joshi and Atul. The leaders announced that the struggle would be intensified in the days to come if the government does not alter the existing policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bank-strike-affects-biz-worth-800-cr-in-district-351309
