18-12-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab CM Channi praises Eklavya School, Jalandhar, for its infra||Today’s rally would remain memorable for Eklavya School students as the chopper of the Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi landed in the school ground. Being close to the rally venue, the school offered its ground for the landing of the CM’s chopper.Also read: CM gives a miss to Dr BR Ambedkar Government College opening eventTo witness the event, the whole school was present in the Partappura campus of the school. On his arrival in the school at 1.45 pm, the CM interacted with school director Seema Handa, principal Komal Arora, students and the whole staff. He was presented a handmade bouquet by Arshdeep Kaur Momrath (9) and Ruhani Chaudhary (9).The school authorities also welcomed Harish Chaudhary, AICC in-charge for Punjab, who accompanied the CM. Channi praised the school for its infrastructure. He gave blessings to the students for their upcoming final exams and for their future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-cm-channi-praises-eklavya-school-jalandhar-for-its-infra-351742
18-12-2021||---||Punjab CM gives a miss to Dr BR Ambedkar Government College opening event||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who was here to address a public rally and participate in some inaugural events, chose to return immediately after his address to attend a Cabinet meeting in Chandigarh.Also read: Navjot Sidhu skips Pargat Singh's function, Sunil Jakhar takes swipePunjab CM Channi praises Eklavya School, Jalandhar, for its infraIn his absence, Education Minister Pargat Singh, Lok Sabha MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh and MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku on Friday dedicated Dr BR Ambedkar Government College and storm water sewerage project to people, besides laying the foundation stone of Satguru Kabir Bhawan.Accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, the leaders inaugurated the college in Buta Mandi, which waas built at a cost of Rs 11.46 crore. They also laid the foundation stone of Satguru Kabir Bhawan to be constructed at a cost of Rs 2.71 crore. They said the construction of the bhawan was a long-pending demand of the people, which has been fulfilled by the Punjab Government. They said the bhawan would be instrumental in spreading the message of brotherhood as preached by Saint Kabir.They dedicated the stormwater sewerage at Basti Danishmanda. They said the project, to come up at a cost of Rs 21 crore, would help in solving the chronic problem of waterlogging in this area. It would bring a great deal of relief to residents who faced massive trouble while travelling through this stretch, especially during the monsoon.On the occasion, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Amarjit Bains, Additional Chief Administrator, Jalandhar Development Authority, Rajiv Verma and councillors of the constituency were also present.Meanwhile, in his speech, the CM promised to start a 78-crore hub project in Burlton Park. The Chief Minister also announced to accord subdivision status to Kartarpur and Adampur, besides announcing a government college for Adampur and setting up a chair in name of Baba Sain and Baba Namdev.Among those who attended the CM’s rally were MLAs Rajinder Beri, Hardev Singh Laddi, Chaudhary Surinder Singh, former ministers Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Sarwan Singh Phillaur and Amarjit Singh Samra, former MLA Kanwaljit Singh Lally, Jalandhar MC mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, former PPCC spokesperson Dr Navjot Dahiya, presidents of District Congress Committee Balraj Thakur and Darshan Singh Tahli, acting presidents Harjinder Lada, Nirmal Singh Nimma and Ashwin Bhalla, Jalandhar Mahila Congress president Dr Jasleen Sethi, District Youth Congress president Honey Joshi and Angad Dutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-gives-a-miss-to-govt-college-opening-event-351669
18-12-2021||---||Dissenting BSP group joins Congress||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17A dissenting group of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which had been calling the recent alliance of the party with the Shiromani Akali Dal as one-sided for the benefit of the latter, today joined the Congress.Among those who joined the Congress today was BSP’s former state general secretary Sukhwinder Singh Kotli. He had contested Vidhan Sabha election on the party ticket from Adampur Assembly segment in 2012 and had polled 25,263 votes. He was also the BSP’s 2014 Lok Sabha candidate from Jalandhar in which he got 47,000 votes. He has also been a sarpanch of Kotli Than Singh village.HighlightsAlong with Kotli, two prominent leaders of the party — Amritpal Bhonsle and Ram Saroop Saroye — also joined the Congress. Both hail from Phillaur and had been expelled as they had been demanding that Phillaur reserved seat should have come in the BSP quota.These leaders joined the Congress in the presence of state leadership, including Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, AICC Punjab in charge Harish Chaudhary, Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar and minister Pargat Singh.AICC secy meets Chabbewal party workersHoshiarpur: Chetan Chauhan, secretary, All-India Congress Committee and co-in charge of Punjab, visited the Chabbewal area here on Friday. On the occasion, a large number of Congress workers attended the meeting held at the Congress office in Chabbewal. The problems of workers and the organisation were heard and discussed how to solve them. While apprising the workers of the policies and ideology of the party, Chetan Chauhan said shared the work performance and achievements of the Punjab Government. He mobilised the party workers present in support of MLA Dr Raj Kumar. The party workers said they had given the assembly segment’s representation in the hands of Dr Raj Kumar. Addressing the workers, Chetan Chauhan called Modi a great liar and said the farmers of Punjab had forced him to bow to them. He asked everyone to avoid false slogans of Kejriwal. Kejriwal, despite being the Chief Minister of Delhi, could not give anything to women there and how come he would be able to give monthly allowance to the women of Punjab. In the meeting, Dr Raj Kumar appealed to the party workers that now was the time to go ahead and take others along with them. He thanked Chetan Chauhan and everyone who attended the meeting. Jatinder Kumar, Daljit Singh Sahota, Zila Parishad members, committee members, panches, sarpanches and other Congress office-bearers were present. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dissenting-bsp-group-joins-congress-351671
18-12-2021||---||Seven more test positive at Dhilwan Army Public School||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17There seems to be no end to fresh cases of Covid-19 being reported from Army Public School, Dhilwan. Seven more persons of the school tested positive on Friday, taking the district tally to 18,891 (five of the cases have not been included in the district tally as they belong to other districts).On Thursday, six persons of the school had tested positive. With the result of seven samples coming positive today, the number of positive cases reported from the school alone has reached 28.Besides, no new death due to the virus was reported in the district. The death toll stood at 556 in the district.Meanwhile, there has been a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar too. The district reported seven new cases on Friday, taking the tally 63,543. As no new case of death due to Covid-19 was reported today, the death toll stood at 1,500.As many as 62,019 people have recovered from the disease while the number of active cases has reached 24. Of the 18,68,077 samples collected so far in the district, 17,30,895 came negative. Reports of 1,114 samples are still awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-more-test-positive-at-dhilwan-army-public-school-351672
18-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Partial victory for BEd unemployed teachers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17With the release of advertisements for the posts of 4,185 teacher of master cadre by the state government, the ‘pakka morcha’ of the BEd TET Pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union achieved a partial victory on the completion of 50 days of their protest. The advertisement was released by the government on December 16. It seeks online applications from candidates for 4,185 posts of the mastre cadre.The advt released by govt on Friday reads:As per Ghar Ghar Rozgar, the Punjab Education Board releases 4,185 posts of various subjects of the master cadre (250 posts of art and craft teachers and 343 posts of lecturer cadre in various subjects) for recruitment and seeks online applications from eligible candidates on the department’s website www.educationrecruitmentboard.com for recruitments. The terms and conditions for these posts are available on the department’s website.Protesting in Jalandhar since October 28, the union’s morcha is among the earliest protests which began in the city ahead of the upcoming elections. The major demand in Jalandhar has been the release of advertisements for recruitment of 9,000 mastre cadre teachers (especially in the subjects SST, Hindi and Punjabi).Two teachers — Munish Fazilka and Jaswant Ghubaya — even climbed atop a tank at the Jalandhar bus stand on October 28 and continued to stay there despite their serious health condition for the past 51 days.Meanwhile, union members have simultaneously been holding morchas outside the Education Minister’s residence near the water tank and elsewhere in the city.After the release of the notification, a decision regarding the future course of protests will be taken in a state-level meeting of the union this evening. Meanwhile, teachers also indicated a partial reprieve in protests in view of the continuously deteriorating health of their colleague Munish Fazilka who continues protesting atop a water tank even in the biting cold.Union leader Amndeep Sekha said, “The notification for the posts of 4,185 master cadre teachers was released by the state government on Thursday. The advertisement for the same was released in a newspaper today. We were demanding that the government advertise recruitment of teachers. As per the notification, only half the number of posts has been advertised. We consider it a partial victory of our agitation. At present, we continue with the protest and the decision on the next course of action will be taken after a state-level meeting this evening.” Sekha added, “One of our concerns is also the number of SST, Punjabi and Hindi subject posts included in these 4,185 posts. A majority of our protesting unemployed teachers are SST, Hindi and Punjabi teachers. The notification or the advertisement does not specify how many of the 4,185 posts are meant for these three subjects. Of the 3,704 posts, for which advertisements were previously released by the Education Department, only 152 posts were for these subject (SST, Punjabi and Hindi) teachers. The future course of action will be clear when we get to know the break-up of subjectwise posts in these 4,185 posts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/partial-victory-for-bed-unemployed-teachers-351673
18-12-2021||Jalandhar||OP Sharma is DBA president||Civil lawyer from the city Om Parkash Sharma was elected as the president of the District Bar Association (DBA).He is the second time president of DBA, having got elected to the same post earlier in 2018-19. Hailing from Phamia village of Sham Churasi in Hoshiarpur, he shifted to Jalandhar and remained closely associated with advocate Late Harbans Lal Sharma. He polled 724 votes against his closest rival RK Mehmi.Jagroop Singh Sarih was elected as junior vice president. He polled 888 votes against his contestant Dashwinder Singh. For the post of Joint Secretary, Amandeep Singh Jammu was the winner who polled 899 votes against his rival Bhupinder Singh Kalra. Chetan Bighamal, Deepika Duggal, Poonam Kumari, Raman Kumar Sondhi, Rishipal Singh, Simran and Sonalika got elected as the executives. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/op-sharma-is-dba-president-351674
18-12-2021||---||In biting cold, nurses continue to protest for 12th day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17In continuation with their protest against the reduction in their pay grades, members of the Punjab Government Nurses’ Association continued to boycott services on the 12th day on Friday.They have been protesting outside the emergency of the Civil Hospital in biting chill in support of their demands. They said despite repeated meetings and ongoing protest, their demands haven’t been addressed so far.While nurses also met the Director, Health Services, and Health Minister OP Soni, when he came to the city recently, they said they haven’t received any assurance yet. The key demand is increase in their salary grade which was reduced recently. They were earlier paid a salary of Rs4,600 (B grade category), which was reduced to Rs3,200 and there are plans to reduce it further to D grade. They sought the implementation of the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission. Other demands include regularisation of services of the nursing staff. They also demanded Rs7,200 as nursing care allowance for the nursing staff. Travel allowance of Rs2,010, dress allowance of Rs1,800 as per the Central pay grade is also being demanded. Another demand is the change in the name of their post — from staff nurse to nursing officer.Over 150 nurses in Jalandhar are protesting outside the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar from December 6. Nurses of Jalandhar have been joined by the nursing staff personnel who work at the OOAT centres in Jalandhar. They said even in the meeting with the Health Minister, the only assurance we received was that the issue with be discussed in the Cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-biting-cold-nurses-continue-to-protest-for-12th-day-351676
18-12-2021||---||Skill development on Tech Education Minister's mind||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17Technical Education Minister of Punjab, Rana Gurjeet Singh today said the Punjab Government had signed an MoU with the Microsoft to impart technical training to 20,000 girls who have the educational background of Information Technology to impart international-level skills to them.Addressing the youth here at the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University during the state-level facilitation ceremony of high-end job fair and self employment job mela, the minister said under the state CM, arrangements for provision of jobs to lakhs of youth is being ensured and banking on that, the department has now been focusing on the Artificial Intelligence as it would play a great role in the lives of people in the future, especially in the IT and agriculture sector.He further said the sewer men of all Municipal Corporations would also be turned into skilled workforce and a course for the same would be started from December 20.Besides this, training to 60 nurses would be provided in respiratory courses at AIMS Bathinda, as the lack of trained staff during Covid was felt at all levels. These nurses would further provide training to the nurses in government hospitals. The minister also said the armed forces training Institute such as Mai Bhagho Armed Forces Preparatory Institute, Mohali, and C Pyte institutes at Kapurthala have played a great role.The minister also felicitated 270 youths who were selected during the mega job fair held in December first week, out of which 70 were facilitated for self employment and 200 for grabbing the job opportunities during the job fair.Director Employment Generation MK Arvind Kumar welcomed the Cabinet minister. Terming the self-employment generation sector as a full of possibilities and opportunities, he said the Punjab Government also facilitated 2,000 candidates for self-employment generation sanctioned loan of Rs 48 crore by various banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/skill-development-on-tech-education-ministers-mind-351677
18-12-2021||---||Get the food quality tested on the spot||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 17Civil Surgeon Parminder Kaur flagged off Mobile Food Safety on Wheels van in here on Friday.On the occasion, she said under the Mission Tandarust Punjab, efforts were being made to implement the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, to ensure unadulterated and quality food items to the people. The van will ensure on-the-spot testing of samples of milk, water, pulses, spices, sweets, etc. On the occasion, Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Pawan Kumar and members of the food safety team were present.Sharing information on the occasion, District Health Officer Lakhvir Singh said the van would be available in the district for a month and it would visit various places in the district. It would have a food testing lab technician to check the purity and quality of food items and report on the spot.Any shopkeeper or individual could get their food tested by paying a nominal fee fixed by the government. He said the purpose was to make the shopkeepers and consumers aware of the purity of the products and if the sample did not pass the test then he would be reprimanded and instructed to improve the quality of products in future.He said a sample taken by the food safety team would be sent to the food and drug lab for further investigation and action taken as per the report. The Health Department would ensure compliance with the law so that the health of the people was not compromised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/get-the-food-quality-tested-on-the-spot-351678
18-12-2021||---||Make environment agenda for Punjab elections, says Seechewal||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17Exerting pressure on political parties to include environment as the main agenda for the forthcoming poll, Punjab Lok Chetna Lehar is set to organise a debate with leaders of all parties at Ramgarhia College, Ludhiana, on December 20.Led by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, former-IAS officer Kahn Singh Pannu and various representatives from the Sant Samaj aims to put up the issue of right to live in a clean environment having clean air, water and nutrition as the most significant demand of the masses. The members of the movement said they had invited political leaders by name — Navjot Sidhu from the Congress, Bhagwant Mann from Aam Aadmi Party, Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema from SAD and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa from SAD (Sanyukt). Seechewal said they would specifically ask parties that have ruled the state as to what they have done for saving environment during their tenure. “We will also ask parties such as AAP which have not yet come to power as to what magic wand they will use to change the face of the environment for the betterment of Punjabis,” he said.He made his point: “Certainly, inflation, crisis farming and unemployment are issues. But owing to deteriorating environment, lives and health of people are at stake. The mounds of solid waste are on a rise. The untreated water is straightaway being mixed with river waters leading to cancer among residents of the villages falling along the banks of the river.”Pannu said: “My idea of joining the movement is to simply awaken voters to rise to the problems and question the authorities and politicians as to what good work they have done to protect the environment. Listing out various alarming facts, he said the groundwater in the state would exhaust in the next 17 years. There is a need to treat 2,200 MLD of sewer water but we have systems to treat only 1,600 MLD and the rest 600 MLD in being directly discharged into the drains or river bodies. The permissible BOD is of 10 ppm, whereas this value tested at Buddha Nullah came out to be 1,610 ppm. The AGI should ideally not be beyond 50, but this value comes only in rainy days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-environment-agenda-for-elections-says-seechewal-351679
18-12-2021||---||1971 Bangladesh liberation war quiz for school students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17An inter-Army Public School quiz competition was conducted by the Double Victory Brigade in coordination with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) at the Bhagat Hall of Vajra Corps here today.Maj Gen Balwinder Singh (retd), convener Doaba region, and governing council member of INTACH India said the quiz competition was conducted as a part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebration being celebrated across the country to commemorate the historical event of the 1971 war and liberation of Bangladesh. Quiz competition was conducted with an aim to instill sense of pride towards nation’s historical achievement along with the knowledge regarding history, culture and tradition.In this quiz competition, six Army Public Schools of Jalandhar zone, including those of Jalandhar, Amritsar, Kapurthala, Ferozepur, Beas and Tibri, participated. The competition was conducted in two phases. In phase-1, screening written test was conducted at respective school locations in which 10 teams comprising of two students each participated from every school. The question paper comprised of 55 questions covering topics related to 1971 war, Indian history, tradition and culture.Based on the performance, the best team was selected for the Phase-2 final competition which was just conducted at the present location. The final competition was conducted in six rounds, with each round containing six questions. Each team was given 20 seconds to answer the question. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1971-bdesh-liberation-war-quiz-for-school-students-351680
18-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Subsidy of Rs2.36 cr paid on agricultural machinery||The subsidy of around Rs 2.36 cr has been paid for the agricultural machinery this year by the government to private farmers, cooperative societies, gram panchayats and the Farmers Produce Associations of the district, over various types of straw management farm machinery.Giving information about this, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said a scheme is being run under which latest farming machines for disposal of straw are being provided to the farmers on subsidy. The private farmers of the district had applied under this scheme besides the farmer groups setting up custom hiring centers, cooperative societies, Gram Panchayats and Farmers Produce Associations. They procure the machines after getting the approval letter from the department.These machines have been physically inspected at the block-level by the officials of the Agriculture Department. After the physical examination, the payments of subsidy to the eligible applicants, has been started and under the first phase, the subsidy of Rs. 14,7,55,700 for 151 machines of 151 private farmers of the district has been provided.The subsidy of Rs 4,67,200 for 3 machines of Gram Panchayats, Rs 1,68,000 for one machine of Kisan Utpadak Sangathan and Rs 58,01,835 for 61 machines of 43 farmer groups has been successfully paid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/subsidy-of-2-36-cr-paid-on-agricultural-machinery-351681
18-12-2021||---||Mock drill checks readiness for response against disasters||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17The Vajra Corps conducted a two-day mock chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) disaster drill at Katoch Stadium, Jalandhar Cantt, which concluded yesterday. The drill was reviewed by Maj Gen Sanjay Maini, Chief of Staff, Vajra Corps.The exercise was carried out to check and streamline the drills of Indian Army in assistance to civil administration in case of a CBRN disaster. A scenario-based exercise depicting chemical related disaster was practiced over a period of two days.The exercise was attended by civil administration to include representatives of NDRF, state medical authorities, Punjab Police and fire department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mock-drill-checks-readiness-for-response-against-disasters-351682
18-12-2021||Jalandhar||Industrial training for GNA students||GNA University orgnised an industrial visit for the students of the hospitality to Hotel Hyatt Regency, Amritsar, and Hotel Radisson, Jalandhar. The main aim behind organising this industrial visit was to provide an exposure to the students about practical working environment of the hotel and to get a glimpse of industrial practices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrial-training-for-gna-students-351684
18-12-2021||Jalandhar||Wall Magazine at KMV||B.SC (Biotech) exam Results outStudents of Lyallpur Khalsa College of B.Sc (Biotechnology) Semester-VI Jalandhar have performed well in Guru Nanak Dev University exams of Principal of the college Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra informed that Gurnoor Kaur and Pallvi bagged 1st and 2nd positions by getting 2379 and 2360 marks out of 2760 whereas Sukhpreet Kaur, Ritika Rani and Ranjna Devi bagged distinction by getting 2240, 2172 and 2099 marks, respectively, in the same class. The President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr. Arun Dev Sharma, HOD PG Department of Biotechnology, was also present on this occasion.SKEI TechnotsavThe young innovators of CT Public School have won accolades by bagging first and second positions in SKEI Technotsav 2021. ATL Technotsav was held online by Smt. Kamlabai Educational Institute, Bengaluru, in which seven students of the school participated. Avni Arora of Grade VI stood first in act podium; Aamishi Bhalla of Grade III stood first in poster making; Kareena Toor and Kashish Seth of Grade VIII stood first in ILog Journal, Diksha Birdi of Grade VIII stood second in Animate a Poem, Parth Verma of Grade VIII stood first in Innovative Architect and Vineet Sharma of Grade VIII stood first in Junk to Sculp event. Students have received merit certificates and gift vouchers from the organisers for their performance.Quiz Competition organisedThe Department of Office Management and Secretarial Practices of PCM S.D. College for Women, Jalandhar, in collaboration with Department of Philatelic Bureau, General Post Office, Jalandhar, city organised quiz competition. The college Principal Dr Pooja Prashar accorded a floral welcome to the guests. In this Competition, eight students participated enthusiastically. The chief guest of the day was Bhim Singh Panchal , Senior Post Master, Head Post Office Jalandhar city. The quiz was organised by Princi Dua, in-charge of Philatelic Bureau, Post Office, Jalandhar.In this competition, Harsharan Kaur of B.A Semester III got first prize, Himani Mishra of B.A Semester I bagged second and Manisha of B.A Semester III achieved third prize. In addition to this, Ishika got B.A Semester I got consolation prize. At the conclusion of the seminar, Bhim Singh Panchal, Senior Post Master, honoured the Principal with ‘My Stamp’ and felicitated the teachers and the students with gifts and certificates. Not only this, the Philatelic club was opened in the college campus by General post office, Jalandhar. Principal of the college Dr Pooja Prashar praised the efforts of the in-charge of the Department of Office Management and Secretarial Practices Seema Tiwari for organising such events for broadening the world-view of students and inculcating positive and constructive hobbies in them.Toppers bring laurelsStudents of B. Voc (Theatre and Stage Craft) Sem III of Apeejay College of Fine Arts made their college proud by bagging top positions. Jayant Kumar scored 384/400 and bagged the 1st position in university examinations. Ishan Handa scored 365 and Rahul scored 356 out of 400 and bagged IInd and IIIrd positions respectively. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated and appreciated the hard work of students and motivated them to keep the spirits high throughout the session.Inter-House English DebateShiv Jyoti Public School organised an Inter-House English Debate Competition for classes VI to VIII.The topics were ‘Is online Education better than Traditional Education’ and ‘Shreshtha Bharat’. The participants put forth their enthralling performance. Participants were shortlisted for the same by Savita Sharma for class 6th, Shashi Dubey for class 7th, Ritu Devgun for class 8th. The final judgement was made by Richa Sharma and Pooja Sodhi of Class VIII. Gorish bagged first position, Adamya and Pridhi Sharma got the second position. Sachi and Shivek stood third. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wall-magazine-at-kmv-351685
18-12-2021||Garhshankar||Lahan seized, one booked||DC-cum-deo seeks SuggestionsHoshiarpur: Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Apneet Ryat said suggestions would be sought from people to make polling booths in the district more attractive. A mobile number will be displayed at every booth so that people of that booth can give their advice on how to make the booth better on the relevant mobile number. She said if any voter feels that there was any problem in his booth during the last election or some change was required, then he should contact the Returning Officer or BLO at the booth. OCPoll: ADC trains different teamsHoshiarpur: Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-cum- Returning Officer, Urmur, Darbara Singh Randhawa gave training to various electoral process related teams such as SST, FST, VAT, AEO, VVT, grievance, C-Vigil, Single Window Team, IT Encore, postal ballot papers, ETBPS, MCC, EVM and SVEEP etc on Friday. Extensive training was given to teams by ADC himself. During the training, he motivated all teams to do election duty with fairness and integrity. The queries of the team members were also answered by ADO Harpreet Singh. Bhushan Kumar Sharma, Harpreet Singh and Raman Kumar were also present during the training. OCApply by Dec 20 at DCC officeHoshiarpur: District Congress Committee president Dr Kuldeep Nanda through a press release issued here on Friday informed that in view of the Assembly elections, whoever wants to present its candidature on the party ticket, can take the form from the district office. He said the information should be carefully mentioned in the form and related documents should be attached and submitted at the office by December 20, so that they can be sent to the party high command for further action. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lahan-seized-one-booked-351686
18-12-2021||Jalandhar||Navjot Sidhu skips Pargat Singh's function, Sunil Jakhar takes swipe||Alluding to the 32 farm organisations that took on the Centre over the farm laws by shunning differences to achieve a common goal, Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar today took a jibe at PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for not sharing the stage with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at a rally organised in the constituency of his aide and minister Pargat Singh.Also read: Punjab CM gives a miss to Dr BR Ambedkar Government College opening eventPunjab CM Channi praises Eklavya School, Jalandhar, for its infraAddressing the gathering in the presence of state affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, Jakhar said: “A second meeting of the farm unions ahead of their Delhi protest was underway with then CM Capt Amarinder Singh. All leaders, including Darshan Pal and Balbir Singh Rajewal, took time for a discussion among themselves and went outside, but Joginder Singh Ugrahan stayed there. I asked him why he did not join them, to which he replied he had differences with them but was together on the big common issue.”“While 32 unions having differences of opinion could come together for a big cause, we cannot handle only two,” he said, indicating towards the tussle between Sidhu and Channi. Jakhar congratulated Pargat for having made an effort to bring the two together. “You talk of team work. You have tried to bring us all here. Maybe for some reason it did not materialise.”“I hope the top leadership realises the Congress will be able to form the government in Delhi only if we are first able to form a government in Punjab,” he added. Earlier, Pargat had announced Sidhu could not turn up owing to prior engagements.Meanwhile, attacking the BSP leadership in the Dalit hub of Doaba, CM Channi said the party had “backstabbed” the SC community by selling the party to the SAD. Addressing a rally at the Partapura grain market, the CM said the BSP no longer represented the ideology of Kanshi Ram, which aimed at empowering the SCs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-president-skips-pargats-function-jakhar-takes-swipe-351511
18-12-2021||---||High Court raps Punjab Police for 'high-handedness'||Chandigarh, December 17Taking cognizance of a “strange case” in which a divorced woman and her three minor children were left on the roads “in these extreme cold conditions and fog” after their “landlord” sought police help for their eviction, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Jalandhar Range Deputy Inspector General of Police to step in.Coming to the rescue of the hapless family, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri directed him to take “prompt action” and ensure shelter for them immediately. He was also directed to consider looking into the role of the police official involved in the matter.The matter was brought to Justice Puri’s notice after the woman, through counsel Vivek K Thakur, filed a petition alleging that the purported owner and “many unknown persons” forcibly got the house’s possession by throwing out all household articles and utensils with active aid of the police on December 1.Justice Puri was also informed that the action of throwing away the articles was video-graphed. But the police, instead of taking action, connived with the other side and aided them. The respondents also enjoyed active political influence in the locality, it was added.Appearing before the Bench, Thakur submitted that the Kapurthala Civil Judge (Junior Division) had restrained the defendants from interfering in peaceful possession of the plaintiff-woman over the suit property except in due course of law. The order was still in force.The state counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the petitioner’s husband was a tenant. The owner went to the police station for getting the petitioner evicted on the ground that the last date of the rent deed had expired. Thereafter, some compromise was struck but not honoured by the petitioner. As such, the police could not do anything.Rapping the police for being mute spectators and apparent high-handedness, Justice Puri asserted the house was an urban property and the purported landlord sought police help for eviction. Instead of taking action against the persons, who allegedly trespassed into the house and violated the Civil Court orders, the police did nothing.“Prima facie, it appears to be a case of high-handedness by the police officials inasmuch as the police interfered in a purely civil dispute and that too regarding a rent matter. Even though remedy might be available with the petitioner under Order 39 Rule 2A CPC for violation of the injunction order passed by the court, this court deems it fit and appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the present case to invoke the extra ordinary jurisdiction of this court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with Article 21…,” Justice Puri added.Cop told to arrange shelter for womanJalandhar Range Deputy Inspector General of Police has been directed to step in and ensure shelter for a woman and her three minor children, who were left on the road after their landlord sought police help for their eviction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-raps-police-for-high-handedness-351516
