19-12-2021||A webinar on ‘Financial education||Webinar on investor awareness||Workshop on NBA accreditationJalandhar: A two-day workshop on NBA accreditation process was organised at Mehr Chand Polytechnic College under the “Margdarshan Scheme” of AICTE, New Delhi, in collaboration with Sant Longowal Institute of Engineering and Technology (SLIET), Longowal. Prof RK Garg, Director, National Institute of Technology, inaugurated the workshop as the chief guest. Prof Shailendra Jain, Director, SLIET, was the guest of honour, who joined this workshop through online mode. The chief programme coordinator Prof Ajat Shatru Arora along with his team members Prof Surita Maini and Prof RK Sexena delivered important lectures on NBA process, its formatting, criterion and distribution of marks, best administrative practices and SWOT analysis. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh thanked the team for conducting the workshop for his staff members and motivating them towards the best teaching learning practices and a step towards excellence of work. About 30 participants from various disciplines attended the two-days workshop. Dr Rajeev Bhatia, HOD, performed the work of stage secretary.Tour to garden for tiny totsState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised a tour to a garden for the kindergarten’s tiny tots. As the kids gathered in the garden, the excitement was palpable and the spirit was strong. This cheerful and heartwarming scenario was witnessed during the visit. The everlasting positive impact of green vegetables and fruits on health was told to them through this live tour. President Dr Narotam Singh along with Principal Savina Bahl appreciated the efforts of the teachers and success in bringing tiny tots closer to nature.Softball Inter-College C’shipKanya Maha Vidyalaya’s softball team bagged silver medal in the Inter-College Championship organised by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. KMV’s team comprising of Ramandeep Kaur, Lakshmi, Manisha, Kavita, Akshita and Anushka has also been selected in All-India Inter University. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement. She averred that players at KMV are provided many facilities which include free education, hostel, mess and transport facilities. They avail a lot from state of the art infrastructure comprising gymnasium, health club, swimming pool and sprawling play grounds. All these exceptional facilities elicit such excellent outcomes. Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi also adumbrated that KMV will continue to provide these facilities to the students who continue to prove their mettle in sports arena. Principal also lauded the efforts of Dr Davinder, Baldina and Pardeep Saini for this achievement.Jagriti tops in B.Design examsStudents of B.Design (Multimedia) Sem VI of Apeejay College of Fine Arts made their college proud by bagging top positions. Jagriti and Akshit scored 593/600 and bagged the first position in university examinations. Gracedeep scored 588, Mukhdeep Kaur scored 583 and Ritik Loomba scored 582 out of 600 and bagged third, fourth and fifth positions, respectively. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated and appreciated the hard work of students and motivated them to keep the spirits high throughout the session. She also appreciated Varinder Saggu, Ankit Goel and Diptesh Naskar from the Department of Multimedia for yielding appreciable results.Activity on road safety rulesA ‘Keeping Safe’ activity was organised in the five schools of Innocent Hearts at InnoKids Pre-Primary wing in which KG II’s little ones participated with great enthusiasm. In the classes, teachers made children aware of the rules to walk safely on the road. They told that while crossing the road we should look left and right. It was explained through posters showing traffic rules that red light indicates stop, yellow light indicates readiness and green light indicates go. “We should always use the zebra crossing for walking and keep in mind the speed-limit while driving. Never use a phone while driving and should always wear a seat belt while driving”, he said. Alka Arora, Deputy Director, InnoKids, explained the rules to the children to walk safely on the road. She asked the children to take utmost care while boarding the school bus. She said the traffic rules should be followed completely. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-investor-awareness-351847
19-12-2021||Chabbewal||'Farm loan waiver a historic move'||The Congress government’s historic debt waiver programme will always be remembered by farmers, agricultural labourers, poor and the needy families, said Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar while handing over cheques for different grants to the panchayats and youth at Chabbewal Congress office. On the occasion, cheques for Rs 1.53 crore were distributed among panchayats for various development works. Rs 45 lakh for tubewell of Bichohi, Rs 14 lakh each for villages Kangar, Maili and Kothi for dharamshalas, Rs 25 lakh for Gujjar brotherhood and youth gym etc. were given away. He welcomed the announcement by th CM to waive loans of Rs 64 crore of self funded societies. He said the government has already waived loans worth crores of rupees of farmers, landless farmers and labourers, poor families. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-loan-waiver-a-historic-move-351848
19-12-2021||---||MLA inaugurates three road works||Nawanshahr, December 18Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh inaugurated three road works worth Rs23.21 lakh in various localities of the town on Saturday.The inauguration projects included interlocking roads in Mota Singh Nagar, Bakarkhana Road and Ward No. 2 on Kulam Road.Special focus was being laid on time-bound completion of development works and making officers accountable for it. Angad Singh, MLA, NawanshahrThe MLA said special focus was being laid on time-bound completion of the remaining ongoing development works worth crores by ensuring quality control and making the officers accountable for it. He said he would also keep a vigil and ensure that quality material was being used for constructing the roads.MC president Sachin Dewan, Dr Kamaljit Lal, Jasvir Kaur Badwal, Pardeep Chandla, Parveen Bhatia, Jatinder Bali, Happy Bhatia, Gurminder Badwal, Kulwant Kaur, Pooja, Gurdev Kaur, Tarsem, Dr Sartaj Mangewalia, Jaideep Jangra, Chetram among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-inaugurates-three-road-works-351849
19-12-2021||---||KMV dedicates 'Saanjh' to Police Mahila Mittar Project||Jalandhar, December 18Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised first annual conference ‘Saanjh’ dedicated to Punjab Police Mahila Mittar — the first of its kind government project.Chief guest IPS Sonali Mishra, IGP BSF frontier, Jalandhar, was accorded floral felicitations on this commemorative event. ADGP Gurpreet Kaur Deo, Jalandhar Police Commissioner, and senior police officers including Deepak Parek, Satinder Singh, and Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh were also present.Welcoming the chief guest, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the role played by women in today’s world, where they have proved their mettle by forging partnerships in every sphere of workforce proving the fact that they share equal space in the ecosystem.In her inaugural address, IPS Gurpreet Deo, the first IPS woman officer of the state, appreciated the commendable role played by the ‘women wing’ of the Punjab Police — a relentless friendly force. Sonali Mishra expressed sense of gratification on the colossal efforts being made by the women work force at all levels in the Punjab Police Mahila Mittar project spearheaded by Deo in the state.She congratulated all award winners and reiterated that such projects bring out a transformational change in societal stereotypes with an aim at introducing gender neutrality. She was also very much appreciative of all women centric endeavours undertaken by KMV for the uplift of women in society, especially in the field of higher education. During the event, Prof Atima was also honoured for her outstanding contribution to the field of women education and empowerment.A documentary titled Pink Power showcasing the strength and innovative moves made by the female taskforce that is serving seamlessly to the cause of women empowerment was also screened. Prof Atima proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-dedicates-saanjh-to-police-mahila-mittar-project-351850
19-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with intoxicants||1 tests positive in JalandharJalandhar: One new Covid case was reported in the district on Saturday. The district tally in Jalandhar reached 63,544. No new Covid death was reported, with which the toll remains 1,500. As many as 62,019 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has reached 25. Of the 18,70,766 samples collected in the district so far, 17,33,577 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 1,101 samples is still awaited.2 more test +ve from Dhilwan school: Two more persons tested positive for Covid at Army Public School, Dhilwan, on Saturday. On Friday, seven fresh positive cases were reported from the school in Kapurthala. Both cases were from other districts, so these haven’t been added to the district tally. The Kapurthala district tally remained at 18,891. The total number of positive cases reported from the school alone has reached 30, including two samples that tested positive on Saturday. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala. The toll remains at 556. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-intoxicants-351851
19-12-2021||Garhshankar||FIR for causing traffic jam||The Garhshankar police have registered a case against unidentified people for causing traffic jam on the Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur road.The police party was on patrol on Friday evening, when it got information that some people were sitting on the main Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur and blocked it without any permission, thereby causing traffic. The Garhshankar police have started the investigation and a case against unidentified persons under Section 283 of the IPC has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fir-for-causing-traffic-jam-351852
19-12-2021||---||Vaccine proof must for attending Harivallabh sammelan||Jalandhar, December 18It will be mandatory for all music lovers to produce their vaccine certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report if they want to enjoy the 146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan this year. Coinciding with Christmas, the festival is taking place at a time when the fear of the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is keeping health authorities on tenterhooks.To keep the disease at bay, members of the Shree Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha declared the guidelines during a meeting of the Harivallabh committee held at the Circuit House here on Saturday.They said during the 146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan, music lovers coming to the sammelan have been asked to bring along their vaccine certificates, use sanitisers before entering the hall, wear a mask all through the event and obey social distancing protocols.The sammelan will be held from December 24 to 26 at the Shri Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar this year. This year is also the first time that the festival will be held at the Harivallabh Bhawan — a long-awaited project of the Harivallabh Committee.Addressing mediapersons, committee members said all arrangements and preparations for the 146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sameelan had been made and the Harivallabh Bhawan fully constructed and decked up for the event.The bhawan will be formally inaugurated on the first day of the sammelan by the state Governor on December 24.The sammelan is being held in association with the North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, which will also be organising a mela three days prior to the sammelan.Meanwhile, a galaxy of ace artists will be performing at the sammelan in keeping with the nearly 150-year-old Hindustani classical music traditions. Stalwarts performing at Harivallabh this year include vocal maestro Kaushiki Chakraborty, Dhrupad exponent Uday Bhawalkar, renowned flautist Ronu Majumdar, Purbayan Chatterjee (Sitar), Pt Vijay Ghate (tabla), Asghar Hussain (violin), Saniya Patankar (vocals), Sudhir Pandey (tabla), among others. HMV College, Jalandhar, has taken the responsibility of venue decoration and event management on the occasion.Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha president Purnima Beri said, “Obeying Covid norms will be mandatory at the festival to ensure a safe and enjoyable music experience for all music lovers. Hence, it will be mandatory to bring vaccine certificates or RT-PCR negative reports.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-proof-must-for-attending-harivallabh-sammelan-351853
19-12-2021||---||Nurses' association calls on Navjot Singh Sidhu||Jalandhar, December 18Members of the Punjab Government Nurses’ Association, on Saturday, met Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu.A delegation of five members of the association including members from both Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts met Sidhu with their demands. A memorandum about the demands of nursing cadre was given to him. The representatives gave their demands about key issues, including pay matrix and nursing allowances.The meeting took place on the sidelines of Sidhu’s rally at Sultanpur Lodhi on Saturday. The five-member delegation called upon the PPCC president at Sultanppur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema’s residence at Sultanpur Lodhi.Nurses demanded that the arrear of Rs3,200, instead of the Rs4,600 previous salary being received by them, be fixed. They also demanded nursing care allowance along with other requisite allowances. Another demand included designation of nursing officer be given to staff nurse, which has already been implemented in other states.Navjot Singh Sidhu listened to their demands carefully. Nurses said they had been given reassurance by him that he would do his best. Nurses informed him that as long as these demands were not fulfilled, their strike would continue and would be further intensified in the coming days.Meanwhile, their protest in front of the Civil Hospital emergency also continued for the 13th day on Saturday.While nurses also met the director, health services, and Health Minister OP Soni, when he came to the city recently, they said they hadn’t received any assurance regarding their demand yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurses-association-calls-on-navjot-singh-sidhu-351854
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||CM Charanjit Singh Channi visits 'Tap Asthan' of Guru Ravidas||Garhshankar, December 18Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi visited the ‘Tap Asthan’ of Guru Ravidas to pay obeisance and took blessings here on Saturday. The Chief Minister, who reached the place in the afternoon, prayed for the well-being of all humanity.Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said Guru Ravidas gave the message of welfare of all mankind and equality among all sections of society. “The bani of Guru Ravidas is included in Sri Guru Granth Sahib,” said Chief Minister Channi, adding that Guru Ravidas laid out the concept of such an ideal society where nobody undergoes suffering of any kind.On the occasion, chairman, Sri Guru Ravidas Itihasik Dharam Asthan Prabandhak Committee, Khuralgarh Sahib, Dr Kulvaran Singh and president Bhai Kewal Singh honoured the Chief Minister with a siropa. The Chief Minister also paid obeisance at ‘Charan Chhoh Ganga’ where he was felicitated by Sant Sarwan Dass and Satwinderjeet Singh Heera.Ravidas was an Indian mystic poet-sant of the Bhakti movement and founder of Ravidassia religion during the 15th to 16th century CE. He was born in the village of Seer Goverdhanpur, near Varanasi in what is now Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-charanjit-singh-channi-visits-tap-asthan-of-guru-ravidas-351855
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||CM Channi, Badal & Capt robbed Punjab: Bhagwant Mann||Chabbewal/Tanda Urmar, December 18State president of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann, while appealing to the people of Punjab during public rallies at Chabbewal and Tanda Urmar on Saturday, said, “Do not stay entangled in Takaddi, Panja and Kamal, now is the time to give Kejriwal a chance.”When Arvind Kejriwal talked of giving Rs1,000 per month to women of Punjab, the Congress, SAD and BJP all opposed Kejriwal. When the CM, ministers, MLAs and other leaders get free electricity, water, telephones, airplane rides with the money of people, then why the common people should not get free and good facilities? Bhagwant Mann, MP & State AAP presidentAddressing the people, Bhagwant Mann asked the people to send a message to every house and all friends that “it is the Aam Aadmi Party which is worried about the livelihood of people of Punjab and now is the time for Kejriwal. So, give AAP a chance to make Punjab prosperous again.”He said AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal delivered what he promised. He proved it in Delhi where, by eradicating corruption, he increased its budget and with this extra money free electricity, water, good education and good treatment were being provided to people.Mann said when Arvind Kejriwal talked of giving Rs 1,000 per month to women of Punjab, the Congress, SAD and BJP all opposed Kejriwal. He said when the Chief Minister, ministers, MLAs and other leaders get free electricity, water, telephones, airplane rides with the money of people then why the common people should not get free and good facilities.Mann said only Rs 8,200 crore was required to pay Rs 1,000 to women, which would be available only if sand mafias were stopped which is costing Punjab about Rs 20,000 crore. Instead of going to the pockets of criminals and Congressmen, the money would financially strengthen women.Commenting upon Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Bhagwant Mann said, “Channi has not done anything during his four-and-a-half-year tenure as the Technical Education Minister. He organised job fairs as a minister, but no one from Punjab got a government job.” He said the Congress either forgot or reneged on their promises.Criticising the Shiromani Akali Dal, Mann said the Akali Dal would show up with 94-year-old Parkash Singh Badal on stage and ask for another chance. “We have been giving them opportunities to them for over the last 70 years. They have plundered everything,” he said, adding that the Badal family had been advocating the anti-farmer laws, but when the agitation started, Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet, saying, “we have sacrificed for the farmers”.On the occasion, Aam Aadmi Party leaders of Tanda Jasveer Singh Raja, Jagjivan Singh Jaggi, Satwant Jaggi, Avtar Singh, Joginder Singh, Tarsem Lal, Surinder Pal Singh, Manjit Singh, Harminder Singh, Harnam Das were present. From Chabbewal, Harminder Singh Sandhu Chabewal, district president Mohan Lal, Lok Sabha in-charge Dr Harminder Bakhshi, Kisan Wing district president Jasveer Singh, Surinder Pal Singh Sandhu, Karamvir Singh Ghuman, Gurwinder Singh Pabla, Unkar Singh, Karamjit Kaur, etc, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-channi-badal-capt-robbed-punjab-mann-351856
19-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||'Backdoor entry' into BSP from SAD becomes an issue||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 18Even as Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said at Partappura that the Bahujan Samaj Party was being controlled completely by the Akali Dal, which had even fielded 15 out of 20 candidates from its kitty and many BSP workers are well aware of this.BSP workers have confirmed that even if it was not 15, there could be 10-12 candidates of the BSP who are originally from SAD, the BJP or the AAP. They have said that SAD chief Sukhbir Badal has signed a deal with the BSP as he was ensuring tickets to his own men through the backdoor entry.Channi specifically spoke about retired PPS officer Harmohan Singh Sandhu’s entry into the Bahujan Samaj Party and announcement of his candidature from Chamkaur Sahib against him. It is a known fact that Sandhu, who was last posted as the Jalandhar Rural SSP, had resigned from the SAD after reports that the Chamkaur Sahib seat had been given to the BSP in the seat-sharing pact. But months later, he returned to the alliance as the BSP candidate last week. He joined the party in the presence of state president Jasvir Garhi and state in-charge Randhir S Beniwal. Sandhu’s mother Satwant Kaur Sandhu has been five-time MLA and has remained an Akali minister and his father Ajaib Singh was elected twice as the legislator from here.Another BSP joinee last week and candidate from Jalandhar North Kuldeep Singh Lubana too has been an Akali leader. His wife, Baljinder Kaur, is the sitting Akali councillor from the Municipal Corporation Jalandhar. Lakhwinder Singh Lucky, BSP’s Urmar Tanda candidate, too has been with the SAD, which had also got him appointed in the RTI Commission at the fag-end of its previous tenure. The BSP’s Hoshiarpur candidate Virinder Parhar, who has been with the SAD.A native of Lutera Khurd village in Adampur, he had been supporting Akali leader Pawan Tinu for a long time. Kapurthala candidate Davinder S Dhapai too has been with the SAD before joining the BSP as its candidate.The BSP has also picked at least two candidates who have remained associated with the BJP till recently. Dasuya BSP candidate Sushil Sharma Pinki has been with the BJP just like Kamaljit Chawla from Dinanagar.BSP workers have said that Amritsar Central candidate Dalbir Kaur, Bassi Pathana candidate Shiv Kumar Kalyan and Sham Churasi candidate Mohinder Singh Sandhar too are all parachute candidates in the BSP from BJP, SAD and AAP, respectively. As Sukhbir had recently announced that one of the Deputy CMs would be from the BSP, this has made everyone ask if his Deputy CM choice would be from among the original BSP leaders like those from Phagwara, Kartarpur or Nawanshahr or some parachute leaders who seem to be more like Sukhbir’s pick.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/backdoor-entry-into-bsp-from-sad-becomes-an-issue-351857
