20-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Bike collides with trailer, 1 dies||six booked for assault on womanHoshiarpur: Six persons, including two women, were booked for allegedly assaulting a woman who had come to her in-laws’ house. Talwandi Kanugo resident Amarjeet Kaur, wife of Kamaljeet Singh, said she reached her in-laws’ house on Saturday to stay with her husband but her mother-in-law Bimla Devi refused to open the door. After that, she contacted the village sarpanch, but he, too, refused to get involved. She said during this, the former sarpanch of the village Rajesh Kumar, his wife Rajrani along with Thakur Kuni and Ranjit Singh and his wife Kiranbala reached and assaulted her. She was admitted to a hospital by Kulwinder Kaur. After registering a case against all accused under Sections 323, 324, 148 and 149 of the IPC. OC160 get placed in various hospitalsHoshiarpur: A job fair was organised by the Punjab Skill Development Mission under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav at Deendayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushal Yojna Skill Centre, Mother Mary Nursing Institute, Nasrala on Sunday. Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Darbara Singh Randhawa said candidates were recruited for different posts for different hospitals. The selection was made from among around 300 youths who participated in the job fair, of which 160 were selected. On this occasion, block manager Mahinder Rana, placement manager Raman Bharti and mobiliser Sunil Kumar of Punjab Skill Development Mission were also present. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bike-collides-with-trailer-1-dies-352422
20-12-2021||---||535 international travellers return to Jalandhar, none +ve for Omicron||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19A week after the first international traveller (Italy returnee) coming to Jalandhar tested positive for Covid-19, the district Health Department maintains that the Covid-19 scenario in the district is well monitored and under control. At present, there are no presumptions regarding a dramatic increase in the number of cases in the coming days.The Civil Hospital has adequate beds and there has been some increase after the previous wave too. So far, of the 32 random samples sent for genome sequencing, all tested positive only for the Delta variant. The report of the recently positive traveller is awaited. The Omicron variant might be more infectious but it is less virulent than the Delta variant. Hence, there is no cause for concern. — Ranjit Ghotra, Civil Surgeon While the Covid supermodel panel has expressed apprehensions of a mild peak in India expected in February in view of Omicron cases, no case has so far been reported in Jalandhar.While the 32 randomly sampled Covid positive cases earliest tested for variant (genome sequencing) were found positive with the Delta variant, the report of the genome sequencing of the traveller who tested positive about a week ago has not arrived yet.In total, ever since the Omicron variant surfaced, as many as 535 international travellers have returned to the district of which the samples of as many as 185 have been sent for testing. Of these, only one tested positive and is under quarantine. The family members of the same travellers had tested negative.Meanwhile, in terms of bed capacity, the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, has as many as 170 level-2 beds and 56 level-3 beds. The number of level-3 beds will have an addition of 14 after recent additions. The Civil Hospital has 18 ventilators. A PSA oxygen plant, with a capacity to produce 150 cylinders per day, was also set up in the Civil Hospital infrastructure after the second wave of Covid-19.Speaking about preparations ahead of the predicted February peak of the Omicron variant, Civil Surgeon Ranjit Ghotra said, “The Civil Hospital has adequate bed capacity and there has been some increase after the previous wave too. So far, of the 32 random samples sent for genome sequencing, all tested positive only for the Delta variant. The report of the recently positive traveller is yet expected. The Omicron variant might be more infectious but it is less virulent than the Delta variant. Hence, there is no cause for concern.”Sources in the Health Department expressed apprehensions that the Omicron variant might already be in Punjab. Notably, gatherings and weddings and crowds in marketplaces continue to thrive even amidst apprehensions of the new variant. A senior doctor said, “NRIs continue to pour in and weddings continue seeing large gatherings with most people without masks. As far as marketplaces are concerned, same is the case. Only airport passengers are being screened. All other modes of transport bring in thousands of travellers every day. So the Omicron variant might already be around. Since it is asymptomatic it is difficult to say. It might cause a marginal peak, otherwise it is less virulent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/535-travellers-return-to-city-none-ve-for-omicron-352346
20-12-2021||---||Jalandhar district records one Covid death, 5 new cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19The district recorded one death due to Covid-19 on Sunday. Besides, five new cases were reported, taking the district tally to 63,549. With one death, the death toll has increased to 1,501 in the district.As many as 62,020 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases has reached 28.Of the 18,72,827 samples collected in the district so far, 17,36,038 tested negative for the disease. Reports of as many as 1,060 samples are still awaited.Five more positive cases reported in KapurthalaMeanwhile, Kapurthala district reported five more cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. Four of the cases were reported at Army Public School, Dhilwan, while one case was recorded from Sultanpur Lodhi.The district tally has risen to 18,896. The total number of positive cases reported from the school alone has reached 34. No new death due to the disease was reported in the district. The death toll stood at 556.Seven test positive in HoshiarpurAs many as seven new cases of Covd were reported in Hoshiarpur district on Sunday.Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said with the receipt of 521 new samples from people with suspicious flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples of Covid-19 taken so far in the district reached 9,93,632 and according to lab reports, 9,65,069 were negative, while the reports of 1,448 samples were still awaited.On Sunday, the reports of 860 samples were received, of which seven reported positive. So far, the tally of positive patients in the district has reached 31,008, which includes 28,914 samples taken from within the district and 2,094 positive cases reported from other districts.The number of deaths so far is 996. There are 35 active cases, while the number of recovered patients is 29,977. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-records-one-covid-death-5-new-cases-352347
20-12-2021||---||Guest faculty asst profs protest outside Pargat Singh's residence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19Members of the Government College Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association of Punjab protested outside the house of Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh for the second time on Sunday.Sitting on durries, teachers raised slogans against the government. They said dharnas, protests have been going on in government colleges across Punjab for the last 48 days due to the Punjab Government’s policies against professors working in government colleges for the last 15-20 years as guest faculty, part-time and contract basis but the Punjab Government was still unaffected of their plight. They said the government was not run by ministers, but by officials, which is why none of their problems were being solved. On the other hand, the association said if their issues were not resolved, then they would not allow the Congress government to come again.Teachers said the government had postponed the meeting of guest faculty assistant professors dated 18/12/2021, which shows that the Punjab Government was not at all serious about the demands and jobs of higher education and guest faculty assistant professors. They said the Department of Higher Education, Punjab, had earlier given five marks in the paper for the recruitment of guest faculty, part time, contract teachers, which was passed by the Cabinet. They said the government later withdrew their own issued letters.Therefore, it was very difficult to trust the Congress government and the Department of Higher Education, Punjab. Apart from this, Higher Education Secretary Krishan Kumar issued a letter of maternity leave to the guest faculty professors and withdrew this benefit on the second day itself. Union leader Harminder Singh Dimple Nabha said due to all this, a wave of anger was rampant among the guest faculty assistant professors. In collaboration with the organisations, teachers said they would fight against the policies of the Punjab Government on a large scale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guest-faculty-asst-profs-protest-outside-pargat-singhs-residence-352348
20-12-2021||---||Farmer unions protest against toll tax hike at Sanghowal plaza||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19Various farmer unions on Sunday held a protest against the increased toll rates at the Sanghowal toll plaza at Jagraon. They also got the toll plaza closed in protest. Unions demanded that as long as previous toll rates aren’t restored, the toll plaza will remain closed.On the occasion, Kirti Kisan Union’s state leader Santokh Singh Sandhu, BKU (Rajewal), district president, Kashmira Singh Jandiala, addressed the gathering, saying on the one hand the state government claims to be farmer-friendly on the other it quietly releases anti-people decisions. After the farmers ended their agitation, the rates at toll plazas have been doubled, they said.The government and toll plazas should immediately reduce rates failing which they should be prepared for another protest, leaders added. On the occasion, farmer leaders who returned from Delhi were also honoured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-against-toll-tax-hike-352349
20-12-2021||---||Pendu Mazdoor Union condemns canecharge on Dalit activists||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19The Pendu Mazdoor Union on Sunday condemned the lathi-charge on a large number of Dalit activists who had gathered to protest against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in Malerkotla during his visit.Tarsem Peter, state president of the Pendu Mazdoor Union, held a meeting on the issue here on Sunday during which he said during PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Malerkotla visit, a large number of Dalit activists had gathered to protest against his visit against the CM’s failure to solve long-pending grievances of the community.He said the activists were lathi-charged and manhandled. Some were arrested while protesting against Sidhu’s visit. The Pendu Mazdoor Union condemned this action on the activists.Union state general secretary Avtar Singh Rasoolpur and state press secretary Kashmir Singh Ghusgshore said the Congress government had been making new declarations for underprivileged sections of society.They said on the issue of five-marla plots, notified plots to previous owners, five-marla residential plots, debt waivers, power bill waivers, restoration of disconnected power bills, unconditional membership to landless Dalits in cooperative societies, issuance of blue cards, etc, huge flex boards had been put up across the state. However, they said on the ground these issues were far from being addressed.They said in a meeting held at Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh, on November 23, these and other demands of rural and farm labourers had been agreed to by the CM. But the written notification by various departments for their formal implementation is yet to be made. They said the notification seeking excess land with those violating the land ceiling Act was also withdrawn under pressure later. They said labour and farm unions were very angry about the government’s stance and inaction on these issues.Members of the union said protesters would be held on December 28, 29 and 30 on these issues in which union members would hold a dharna on tehsil centres. Similarly, black flag protests would also be held against Congress ministers and MLAs. They said preparations for these protests were on. During the meeting, union leaders Hans Raj Pabwan, Kamaljit Sanawa, Raj Kumar Pandori, Nirmal Singh Sherpursaddha and Manga Singh Vairoke, among others, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pendu-mazdoor-union-condemns-canecharge-on-dalit-activists-352350
20-12-2021||---||Biodiversity park in Hoshiarpur soon?||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 19Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora laid the foundation stone of biodiversity park, to be built on 8 acres at a cost of Rs5 crore, near the under-construction court complex in the city. This will be the first-of-its-kind park in the district, which will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.The MLA said the construction work of the park would be completed in a year.He said a sports park would be built in this park where a special ground would be prepared for sports like basketball, volleyball and tennis. Apart from this, the park will have a variety of swings in the children’s playground.There will be a nana-nani park, yoga garden, open-air theatre, walking and jogging area, garden lights, high mast lights, butterfly garden, national tree gallery, food court and parking in the park.Besides, a beautiful pond would be built here. Different types of trees and plants would be planted, he said.The MLA said the park would boost tourism. On the occasion, Sarwan Singh, Chairman, Backward Classes Commission, Punjab, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, Mayor Surinder Kumar, ADC (Urban Development) and MC Commissioner Ashika Jain were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/biodiversity-park-in-hoshiarpur-soon-352351
20-12-2021||As part of the theatre group YUVAA's ongoing Rang Utsav||A tribute to the Mirasis||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-tribute-to-the-mirasis-352353
20-12-2021||Prevention is better than cure||Open House:  What steps should be taken to prevent the spread of Omicron?||The new virus Omicron originated from South Africa. The fact that the European countries and America have not been able to help African countries with vaccine doses. Many countries in Europe have banned flights to and from South Africa. Not surprisingly, South Africa condemned such partisan attitudes of the developed countries. Our own Dr Guleria of the AIIMS has stated that the Omicron virus is less lethal than Delta 1.1.517. So I don’t think there is any need to get panicky. Nevertheless, the previous precautions of hand washing, wearing mask and avoiding large gatherings should be observed strictly. Both the government and social activists need to make people aware of the coming contagion. Vaccination drive should be expedited and vaccination hesitancy should be avoided to make people aware of the same. As the maxim goes prevention is better than cure.Dr J S WadhwaPut curbs on large gatheringsAlthough the previous wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has started losing its momentum and the number of positive cases and fatalities has been on the decline in the recent past, the third Covid wave with a more deadly Omicron mutation that is slated to hit the country by early 2022 has raised fresh concerns. As many nations across the world have witnessed a sudden spike in infections, the Central government has issued new instructions to the states to make proper preparations to deal with the impending danger in the wake of holiday season and the upcoming Assembly elections in UP, Punjab and elsewhere. But it is ironical that the ruling dispensation has failed miserably to enforce strict implementation of the health protocols in the past, courtesy its ubiquitous apathetic and indifferent attitude. As usual, people are again least concerned about wearing masks, sanitising hands, maintaining social and physical distancing and avoiding crowded places. Instead of being grossly engaged in furthering its electoral gains, the Congress-led government should spare time to make orchestrated plans to prevent the spread of the virus that has the potential to cause a humongous loss of human lives. While the district administration should ramp-up vaccination drive and put necessary curbs on public gatherings, all parties should ensure that people do not violate the Covid safety norms at political rallies. Learning lessons from the past experience, the health authorities should update its medical infrastructure to ensure that public hospitals and other healthcare facilities are not overwhelmed. Being largely and thickly populated, India is still in the throes of a pandemic. Only a correct public behaviour and a stringent governmental action will secure the vulnerable lives.Simran & Tajpreet S KangResponsible public behaviour a solutionAt a time when the ongoing battle against the novel coronavirus pandemic is still not won, India is confronted with a new Omicron variant. The virologists and epidemiologists term it more transmissible. The state has opened all economic activities. It is feared that it is likely to be more active in the beginning of the next year. In the absence of an effective vaccine or drug for its cure, it is an unsaid thing that only a responsible public behaviour is the only plausible way to escape its onslaught. Time and again, the Centre has been advising the states and the local administration to be more vigilant about the impending menace. But sadly, it is an established fact that neither the authorities nor the people are serious about strict adherence to the mandatory safety protocols. What is the way out then? The government should bring out a comprehensive policy on booster shots to all age groups, i.e. from adolescents to children to youngsters and the old. These would raise the amount of circulating anti-bodies that provide protection to the vulnerable from symptomatic infection with Omicron. The district Health Department should educate the complacent and hesitant public about the looming danger and increase the sluggish process of testing, tracing and vaccination. The police should take effective steps for the strict implementation of health and safety measures, and take penal action against the violators. Political parties that are busy in offering freebies ahead of Assembly elections should cooperate with the authorities to prevent the spread of the deadly virus on priority basis. After all, what is more precious than human life?D S KangAdmn, Health Dept to play major roleThe world has recently passed through a tough phase due to the second wave of Covid. The public had to pass through various restrictions till the vaccination was discovered, the life came to a standstill and total lockdown was implemented, the mode of traffic was suspended and the use of face masks was necessary and using of sanitisers to lean your hands was also strictly implemented, but with the new Omicron people are still double minded in regard to its negative results, even though the masses are feeling themselves safe due to vaccination of two doses and if all goes well booster dose is in question in coming days. The masses are well aware of the precautions taken during Covid-19 and once again if the administration feels risk of Omicron the administration should strictly once again create atmosphere of awareness against this omicron and if necessary they should strictly implement the remedies for precaution to once again implement face masks, sanitisers, social distancing for a short while as when the Omicron is clear then the precautions should be lifted. It is for the Administration to send guidelines to the Health Department to ensure if any precautions are to be taken it should be strictly implemented without fail in public interest. As few states are going for the Assembly polls, the Election Commission of India should also take serious note of Omicron before allowing public rallies and strictly order for implementation of Safety measures if any to safe guard the masses from OmicronRajat Kumar MohindruGive impetus to inoculation driveConsequent upon lifting the Covid restrictions, a new variant Omicron (B 1.1.529) has been detected across many countries of the world. Though supposed to be less virulent than Delta variant, it is fast spreading as the number of cases surge since unlocking process began. According to experts, third wave of Covid may hit by early 2022. To prevent from any contagion, the virologists opine that a booster dose against Covid-19 increases 70 to 75% protection from the symptomatic infection. So many countries have raised the pace of jabbing to cover all its population, including the children and the adolescent. With the GOI approval for Sputnik V, in addition to Covishield and Covaxin doses, vaccine availability has improved substantially. As such, the administration ought to give further impetus to inoculation drive, while a firm policy is drawn to provide booster vaccination to all nationals to improve the immunity. Alongside, it is vital to gear up our preparedness to face any eventuality from the third wave of pandemic. As the ensuing elections and marriage season may increase the problems due to large get- togethers, there should not to be any lenience in the Covid protocol such as mandatory testing, tracing and quarantine, especially for those coming from abroad. Utmost care has to exercise in the offices and educational institutions. Learning from our past mistakes, we have to be vigilant against the unscrupulous elements resorting to black marketing and fleecing the innocent patients by charging exorbitantly. Right at the district/block level, health infrastructure, O2 generation capacity and adequate stocks of potential medicines besides upkeep of life-savers equipment like ventilators, oxygenators etc may be flipped to tackle any adverse situation. Administration and the people must actively coordinate in expeditious vaccination, maintain hygiene and avoid undue socialisation to prevent the spread of virus that casts its shadows again.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathCases spreading like wildfireOmicron, the latest variant of Covid, is more lethal and contagious, both the district administration and the citizens need to be more vigilant and well-prepared to face the challenge. WHO, in its latest briefing, has warned the member nations that Omicron will likely outpace Delta but with the hopeful assurance that new variant of concern could be detected with the existing system of clinical testing and can be well-treated with the prevailing set of medical strategies. Presently, Omicron cases in India increasing rapidly spreading across the globe, preparedness to meet the challenge cannot be overlooked under any circumstances. Given the national data of vaccination coverage to adult population as 55% with both doses and 85% with a single shot, immediate task of local administration is to achieve 100% target of adult inoculation within specified time frame. In addition to different and comprehensive strategies to be kept in place at the national and state levels, the immediate task with the Centre is to be ready with all necessary preparations required to administer booster dose to all those adults who are fully jabbed. The people in general must continue adopting Covid-appropriate behavior such as wearing prescribed masks, avoiding public gatherings, maintaining physical distance, keeping hands occasionally sterilised and taking necessary steps to maintain good health standards to boost immunity and personal hygieneJagdish ChanderCan pin hopes on the booster doseAs we know that another variant of Covid-19 has hit the world and even India has reported many cases of this new variant, we all must go back to square one to keep ourselves protected and follow the guidelines imposed by the government. Now, new variants are coming on and on. Some were not worrisome but the Delta variant and now the Omicron are the variants of concern. The first case of Omicron virus was found in South Africa and now it has spread in India, USA and many other countries have been affected by it. Now, we all have to take precautions like wearing masks at all times, getting vaccinated and even spreading awareness. As we know that it could be possible that a booster dose may be permitted to be used as it is around 75% effective against the Omicron variant. In the end, I would just like to say that we only have to acclimatise to the conditions by following proper protocols and it is us who will make a difference.Sanidhya BhaskarLeave no room for any complacencyEarlier too the experts predicted third Covid wave in September to be peaked in October but people heaved a sigh of relief that their predictions did not turn out to be true. Now, again they project third Covid wave to hit India by early 2022 amid surge in Omicron cases globally. One fails to understand why do they want to keep the general public under constant fear, stress, strain and anxiety as one or the other variant of the Covid is bound to surface from time to time? However, now that a new variant of Covid Omicron has emerged globally, it becomes imperative to take it seriously leaving no room for any complacency. Although the anticipated wave is said to be milder than the harsh and severe second one, a proper risk management plan is required to avoid the shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, medicines etc. The district administration should initiate various appropriate measures to halt the fast spreading Omicron in its tracks. Since the elections are round the corner, a blanket ban should be imposed on rallies and mass gatherings, be they government or private. It should focus on enhancing vaccination drive as vaccinations and boosters are said to be the best and essential defence against Omicron. The emergence of the variant should spur the people to get vaccinated or get the booster shots. They should fully co-operate with the administration by religiously following Covid protocols. It becomes all the more important to maintain social distancing, wearing masks, using sanitizers and following all the necessary guidelines issued by the district health authorities to protect themselves from getting infected. They should shrug off complacency that has of late crept into them to follow Covid appropriate behaviour for their own good and for the others too. Non-essential travel should be put off. With the Omicron cases crossing 60 in the country and the Covid ‘variant of concern’ rapidly spreading across countries, the district administration should prepare itself for the formidable challenge that the Omicron may pose. The threat of a possible third wave looms large and is projected to hit by February next, nothing should be left to chance and the people flouting Covid management norms with impunity should be dealt with strictly.Tarsem S BumrahWear masks at all timesThe foremost thing which all must do to prevent spread of virus is to wear masks at all times and all places while going out from home. Secondly, the district administration must encourage and enforce social distancing at all places. Thirdly, awareness about bane effects of virus should be created. Last, but not the least the district administration should try to prevent massive gatherings in rallies by any one.SANJAY CHAWLABe prepared for the worstThough the media is not very vocal about the third Covid wave hitting our country early next year, common sense cautions us to be prepared for it. It is not a mistake to be too cautious. Hope for the best, yes, but be prepared for the worst. The government instructions in this regard as issued periodically over the radio and television must be monitored. To check passengers arriving from infected countries at the international airports, the formula should be ‘test, trace and isolate’. Fortunately for the population, a majority of us now have, unlike last year, the shield of protection against the virus in the form of full vaccination. The same is also expected to provide immunity against the new variant Omicron but it is only a guess. The exact position will be clear after a credible data emerges. Those who are not jabbed yet must be convinced to get vaccinated as soon as possible. The good part is that Omicron is not so deadly and its mode of spreading is also not different, i.e. it spreads through the mouth or nose and targets the respiratory system like Covid19 but its symptoms are mild fever, headache, runny nose etc. Hence, precautionary measure must be taken. The administration should order organisers of processions and ‘prabhat pheris’ to skip the same altogether or maintain Covid appropriate behaviour wherever such gatherings are planned. Moreover, it is time to take a call on the booster dose for the fully vaccinated.Mohan SinghTake healthy diet to boost immunityContemporary era is so unpredictable as every coming year bring new disease that engulfed major proportion of population. Last year due to the pandemic life came to a halt and now it is projected that Omicron will peak at beginning of the next year. However, there are many people who don’t care to wear masks, came outside during the lockdown and involved in get together with their relatives and friends. Residents should contemplate the significant reasons behind hike in cases and take all mandatory precautions to save themselves. Some people get infected even after taking all necessary precautions just because of low immunity. The prominent reason behind this is adultrated food items. In addition to this, physical activities have reduced alot due to modern comforts. The first and foremost step should towards good health is to consume a healthy diet.Sukhmeet KaurRaise awareness among massesThe Omicron variant of Covid-19 is slowly picking up its pace globally, leading to many restrictions worldwide. The district administration must now act strict than before and ensure that proper rules and regulations are followed. Awareness campaigns need to be increased so that maximum number of people are informed about the variant. Individuals must be made aware to not get complacent about the pandemic as it proved deadly during the second wave of Covid-19. They should obey the orders of the authorities so that maximum safety can be ensured. With the elections just around the corner, it must be ensured that large gatherings are avoided and people follow the necessary precautions.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHQUESTIONWith minimum temperature dipping to 1°C to 2°C in many cities of Punjab, what steps should the administration and residents take to protect the homeless from the biting cold and related health risks?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 23)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-to-prevent-the-spread-of-omicron-352354
20-12-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala gets projects worth Rs 3.66 crore||Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh today inaugurated projects worth Rs 3.66 crore across nine villages of Kapurthala today. Rana inugurated project worth Rs 48.70 lakh at the Arainwal village in Kapurthala ment to build a pond at the village. Barring his projects worth Rs 10.70 lakh (community hall inauguration) and 5 lakh for sewerage project were also inaugurated. At Wadala village, Rs 6.23 lakh project for sanitation, 9.48 lakh Rs for Dharmashala and Rs 4.98 lakh for water sanitation worth of projects were inaugurated.At Kot Karar Khan village, Rs 23 lakh project for renewal of pond, Rs 12.70 lakh project for stadium and Rs 20.62 lakh project for water sanitation was inaugurated. Apart from this, many other projects were also launched. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-gets-projects-worth-3-66-crore-352355
20-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Girish Ohri is PMRA president||The election for the general body of Punjab Medical Representative Association (PMRA), Hoshiarpur, was held under the chairmanship of state vice-president Manav Kapoor on Sunday.Girish Ohri was unanimously appointed as the president of the association for the fifth time and Ajay Mehta as the secretary for the 17th time, which was welcomed by all members. Advocate Rakesh Marwaha, chairman, Improvement Trust and Mayor Surinder Kumar Shinda were present on the occasion. Marwaha appreciated the work being done by the PMRA. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girish-is-pmra-president-352356
20-12-2021||---||Parshad distribution in 'donas' at Kartarpur Sahib: Avinash Rai Khanna writes to External Affairs Minister||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 19Taking a serious view of the matter of distribution of ‘parshad’ in ‘dona’ (paper bowls) made of advertisement material and wrappers of tobacco products in the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara located in Pakistan, Himachal BJP in-charge and former Rajya Sabha MP Avinash Rai Khanna has written to Union External Affairs Minister Dr Subrahmanyam Jaishankar in this regard.Through the letter, Khanna has demanded strict action against the culprits. According to a release issued in this regard from Khanna’s office on Sunday, Khanna has termed it as a lousy handiwork of the Government of Pakistan. Khanna said Pakistan had been targeting religious places of minorities over the decades due to its poor mentality. He said distributing ‘prashad’ in ‘donas’ made of paper with tobacco advertisements on it in the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is sacrilegious and such ‘donas’ should be banned.Khanna urged the Ministry of External Affairs that the security of religious places of minorities should be ensured by putting appropriate pressure on the Government of Pakistan. He said the ministry should ensure that the management of the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara was given to the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/avinash-writes-to-moef-352357
20-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||MLA's public meeting turns into rally||MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal held a meeting with party workers and residents of the area at J&J Palace in Chabbewal village. The meeting turned into a rally when a large number of people arrived at the venue to meet him. Overwhelmed by the support of the people, Dr Raj Kumar said he is indebted towards the people for their unconditional affection. He said every section was benefited with the schemes of Punjab government, be it farmers, landless labourers, poor and the needy, small shopkeepers or trader. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mlas-public-meeting-turns-into-rally-352358
20-12-2021||---||Fertiliser, pesticides shops inspected in Nawanshahr||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19Following the directions of the Punjab Government led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, various teams of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department on Sunday conducted the inspection of 67 fertilisers, pesticides and seeds dealers in Nawanshahr, Banga, Balachaur, Aur, Saroya and other parts of the district.The teams checked the stock register and physically examined the stock inside the shops. The teams also sent decoy customers to check the overcharging or forced buying. The teams told the dealers to sell the materials as per the Quality Control Act and asked them to display the stock outside and they must give the bills to the farmers at the time of purchase.DC Vishesh Sarangal said the administration was duty-bound for ensuring proper maintaining of stock of fertilisers and others and made it clear to them that any found indulging in supply of spurious seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, overcharging or forced buying would not be spared and severe action would be taken against them. He said that the farmers should purchase products from registered dealers with bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fertiliser-pesticides-shops-inspected-in-nawanshahr-352359
20-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||'Sacrilege' suspect done to death at gurdwara in Kapurthala; FIR against 100||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19Day after the death of a suspect following a “sacrilege” bid at the Golden Temple, a man was done to death for allegedly disrespecting Nishan Sahib at the gurdwara of Nizampur village in Kapurthala in the wee hours here. The Kapurthala police claimed as per preliminary investigations, it seemed to be a case of theft and the police were further verifying the allegations of sacrilege.Sacrilege not established; 3 cops hurtSacrilege has not been established as the motive. It seems to be a theft case. Further probe is on.... Three of our men were hurt in assault. Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, SSPAn FIR has been lodged against four persons by name and 100 others at the Subhanpur police station under Section 295A (outrage religious feelings) of the IPC.The gurdwara management, however, claimed the youth had attempted sacrilege. “Around 4 am, the man unfurled the Nishan Sahib and fiddled with it before entering the gurdwara store. He was noticed by granthi Amarjit Singh. He along with local sewadars caught hold of the suspect and tied him up in the store, where he was beaten up,” claimed sarpanch Surinder Singh.The police arrived around 6 am and heated exchanges followed with villagers and religious groups. As the police tried to take the man into custody, the mob resisted their attempts. Irate residents broke open the store’s door and allegedly assaulted the suspect. Three police personnel were injured in the melee.A video of the assault later went viral on the social media. Religious groups held a dharna outside the police station after some villagers were apprehended by the police, before being let off.Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said: “Around 200 people were present when the police arrived at the scene around 6.30 am. While we tried to get the man out for questioning, locals opposed it. The suspect had already been beaten up before the police arrived. The mob broke open the door of the room and assaulted him again. Policemen were also manhandled and three of our men sustained injuries.”“As per the investigation so far, sacrilege has not been established as the motive. It seems theft was his intent. Further probe is on. A case under Section 295 A of the IPC has been registered,” said the SSP. IG (Jalandhar Range) Gurinder Singh Dhillon said it was not a case of sacrilege. The police had not included Section 302 (murder) in the FIR till the filing of the report. They maintained more sections would be added after a detailed investigation.The police haven’t disclosed the names of the four named in the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-done-to-death-at-gurdwara-in-kapurthala-fir-against-100-352205
