21-12-2021||Talwara||Sanatan Chetna Pad Yatra held||A Sanatan Chetna Pad Yatra was organised jointly by religious and social organisations under the banner of Hindu Sanatan Mahasangh led by president Pradeep Singh Palaha. The yatra, starting from Vishwakarma Mandir Talwara, passed through Khokha Market, Main Bazaar Talwara, Old Talwara, Bus Stand, Sansarpur Terrace Chowk and going through Pong Dam dispersed by reaching back at Baba Vishwakarma Mandir in Sector 1.Pradeep Palaha said in Punjab, under some big conspiracy, cow slaughter, vandalism in temples and disrespect of religious symbols is being done, for which Hindu sanatanis need to be awakened and organised. On the occasion, Naveen Kumar, Gurbaksh Singh, Sumer Singh, Narendra Sharma Pappi, Pradeep Katoch, Amar Singh Rajput, Vijay Vasudev, Thakur Kiran Singh, Sunil Kumar, Anil Thakur, Kulwinder Singh, Surinder Kumar, Major Balbir Singh, Sandeep Thakur, Vishal Hans, Rohit Thakur, Ajay Mahajan, Pyaara Singh Dheeraj Thakur and many others were also present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanatan-chetna-pad-yatra-held-352825
21-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Talwara MC builds night shelter for homeless||Talwara, December 20A night shelter has been built by the nagar panchayat in the office of nagar panchayat, Talwara, for the homeless people. Nagar panchayat president Monika Sharma and EO Simran Dhindsa said if there is any homeless person in the Talwara, then he can take advantage of the facility of night shelter of nagar panchayat, Talwara. He said the state government has provided facilities such as cots, blankets, drinking water, electricity and toilets etc. in this night shelter set up by nagar panchayat. In the town, people are also being made aware about this through bad bills besides public address system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talwara-mc-builds-night-shelter-for-homeless-352612
21-12-2021||---||Gymkhana Club elections: Sandeep Kuki Behl is honorary secretary||Jalandhar, December 20In the late last evening results of Gymkhana Club elections, Sandeep Kuki Behl got elected as the honorary secretary defeating the last time winner Tarun Sikka with a margin of 384 votes.While 1,154 votes were polled in favour of Sikka, who led the Achievers’ group, Behl, who was representing the Progressive group, remained ahead with 1538 votes. Major Gurpreet Kochhar, also from Progressive group, brought the second victory winning the Treasurer’s post too. He took a lead with 1653 votes against SPS Virk from the Achievers’ group, who trailed with 1035 votes. Virk was the Junior pice president in the previous tenure.The two of the four posts of office-bearers which went in the kitty of the Achievers’ group were of Junior vice president and Joint Secretary. Amit Kukreja won against Gulshan Sharma with a handsome margin of 674 votes. Kukreja became the office-bearer again this time as he was the Treasurer in the previous tenure.Saurabh Khullar, who too has won from Achievers’ group this time as the Joint Secretary, was the candidate of the Progressive group in the last tenure. He got elected by defeating Anu Matta with a narrow margin of 39 votes.The 10 winners for the post of executive members are Prof Vipin Jhanjhi, Nitin Behl, Raju Sidhu, Shalin Joshi, Mahinder Singh, Nikhil Gupta, Harpreet Goldy, CA Rajiv, Atul Talwar and Gundeep Sodhi.The club hasover 4,000 members from among top business families, politicians, bureaucrats and retired officials. Politicians including ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia and ex-Congress minister Mahinder S Kaypee also cast their votes. The celebrations after the victory continued till late night. The winners and their supporters danced on the beats of the dhol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gymkhana-club-elections-sandeep-kuki-behl-is-honorary-secretary-352613
21-12-2021||---||Hold special sessions on martyrdom of Sahibzadas in educational institutions: Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, December 20As Jor Mela for the commemoration of martyrdom of Sahibzadas has started, Punjab Education Minister today asked all educational institutions in the state to conduct special sessions on the historic event.Releasing a souvenir for the same, Pargat said the new generation must be made aware of the sacrifices made by the family of the tenth Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh.It is our moral duty to educate our younger generation about the sacrifices of Sahibzadas so as to enable them to derive inspiration from them. Pargat Singh, Education ministerThe minister said a lecture would also be conducted by the Education Department through Edusat conducted by an eminent personality on the importance of Shaheedi Jor Mel. The students would be directly joining the lecture through the link. Pargat Singh said all the institutions must hold a programme of minimum one-hour duration.The minister said not just the government schools of the state but also all private schools and colleges have been instructed that since the events that took place in the winter months of ‘Poh’ are part of the history of standing up to the tyranny and oppression and making supreme sacrifice for the sake of ‘Dharma’. He said, “It is our moral duty to educate our young generation about the same so as to enable them to derive inspiration from the moral values as well as the principles enshrined in our history”.He further pointed out that the sacrifice made by Sahibzadas Ajit Singh and Jujhar Singh at Chamkaur Sahib and guru’s mother Mata Gujri and younger two Sahibzadas Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh at Fatehgarh Sahib is matchless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hold-special-sessions-on-martyrdom-of-sahibzadas-352614
21-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Now, get scarless removal of gallstones||Hoshiarpur, December 20New technique of ‘scarless’ laparoscopic cholecystectomy known as ‘Bikini Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy’ has gained wide acceptance now. It’s the gold standard approach for the treatment of symptomatic gallstone disease.Dr GR Verma, senior laparoscopic & GI onco surgeon and director-digestive disease sciences at Ivy Hospital said a number of innovations had been introduced by laparoscopic surgeons across the world to further reduce the tissue trauma without compromising the safety of this unique technique.More recently, natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) technique has come into practice in which the access to peritoneum is gained through natural orifices like oral cavity, colon or vagina without leaving any scar on the skin Technique.Operating time varied from 35 -110 minutes with an average 55 minutes. None of the patients had any immediate or late complications.The technique demands that surgeons should be experienced in advanced laparoscopy, and have sufficient experience in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. They should not hesitate to convert the procedure into conventional laparoscopic technique or even open cholecystectomy if difficulty is experienced during operation as the safety of the patient is of paramount importance, said Dr Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-get-scarless-removal-of-gallstones-352615
21-12-2021||Jalandhar||Limca Book of Records attempt by making 389 types of besan chilla||Show and tell activityDIPS School, Karol Bagh, organised a show and tell activity. During the activity, teachers gave various props to students to see and express their views. Students were given 20 minutes to look at the prop and then speak on the related prop for a minute in front of their classmates. During this activity, Mukta, Madhvi, Ravneet, Nitesh, Prachi, Darshdeep, Nitika and other students expressed their views on milk, phone, and chocolate. Notebook etc to enlighten how these items are important in our daily life. Principal Rajesh Choudhary remarked that the main purpose of such an activity is to enhance confidence and communication skills of students. This way students can speak with immense confidence skillfully and develop an overall well groomed personality.Child’s education sponsoredSt Soldier Group of Institutions has taken up the entire responsibility of the education of the innocent Mannat, who was a victim of an accident in the city a few days back. Sangeeta Chopra, Vice Chairperson of the group gave courage to Mannat and said their entire group is with her. Chopra while talking to Mannat’s aunt Renu and Nani said everything related to Mannat’s education, including school fees, her books, uniform everything will be given by St. Soldier and apart from schooling she will also get higher education from St. Soldier free of cost. Principal Ambika Sharma told that Mannat would study in St. Soldier Divine Public School, Mann Nagar branch along with her cousin brother and sisters.University PositionsStudents of MSc Bioinformatics-I year of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, got university positions and brought laurels to the college. Kamini got first position with 88.1 per cent marks, Nandini got second position with 86.5 per cent marks and Rakhi got third position with 85.2 per cent marks in the M.Sc.-I year. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Head of the Department Dr Harpreet Singh and Purnima for the success.National Chemistry Week celebratedCV Raman Society of Department of Chemistry celebrated ‘National Chemistry Week’ wherein a Science Talk Competition was held in the seminar hall for students of B.Sc (Non-Medical), B.Sc (Computer Science), 10+1 and 10+2. The aim of the competition was to hone public speaking skills of the students and teach them to be articulate while expressing their thoughts and opinions. The speakers of different classes spoke eloquently on topics such as: Why chemistry matters, kitchen chemistry, role of chemistry in daily life, environment and CFC’s, and acid rain. Sakshi and Navpreet Kaur made it to first position and Shreya bagged second position in the competition. Members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar applauded the department for organising such scholastic activities which inculcate love for learning and gave kudos to the achievers.Students get jobsGNA University conforming to its standards of giving best placement assurance organised campus drive of Sapcons Systems Pvt Ltd for the students of Faculty of Engineering Design and Automation. Ten candidates out of 25 students were shortlisted for R&D Cell after conducting a written test, skill test, group discussion and personal interview. Saksham Hans, Technical Engineer, and Satish Kumar, Application Engineer, Sapcons Systems Pvt Ltd, congratulated Gurdeep Singh Sihra, the Pro-Chancellor, GNA University and CEO, GNA Gears Ltd, for running skill career-enhancement courses in BTech Mechanical and Automation Engineering and Robotics and Automation Engineering for the students who have bridged the gap between educational sector and industrial/corporate sector.Softball ChampionshipKanya Maha Vidyalaya’s softball team bagged gold medal in 33rd Senior Softball Championship organised at Solan, Himachal Pradesh. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement. She averred that players at KMV are provided many facilities which include free education, hostel, mess and transport facilities. Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi also adumbrated that KMV will continue to provide these facilities to the students who continue to prove their mettle in sports arena. Principal also lauded the efforts of Dr Davinder, Baldina and Pardeep Saini for this achievement.Bhutanese festival at LPUTraditionally attired Bhutanese students at Lovely Professional University celebrated their 114th National Day at the campus, with the theme of the year-‘Bhutan First’. The event was chaired by LPU’s Vice-President Aman Mittal, who invoked students to be true ambassadors of the country and the university. On the eve, cultural programme included national song, cake cutting ceremony, prayers to majesties, dances, songs and speeches. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/limca-book-of-records-attempt-352616
21-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Three killed in road accidents||Six booked for attacking farmerHoshiarpur: The police have booked six persons for injuring a farmer who was going to irrigate his fields. According to information, Parvinder Singh of Data village, told the police that on December 11 (around 2.30 pm), he was going to Kangrod village to irrigate his crop. He said six masked men on three motorcycles stopped and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. He said he was first admitted to Mahilpur Hospital and then at Jalandhar-based hospital. The police have registered a case against six persons, including a resident of Mangi village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-killed-in-road-accidents-352617
21-12-2021||---||Jalandhar-based doctor Harnoor Singh Pruthi gets fellowship of Royal College of Physicians, London||Jalandhar, December 20Coming as a proud moment for the city, heart specialist Dr Harnoor Singh Pruthi has been rewarded as the Fellow of Royal College of Physicians (FRCP), London, in the field of cardiology. Dr Harnoor Pruthi holds MBBS degree from Manipal University and completed his MD (Medicine) in the General Internal Medicine from London, UK, in 2015. Thereafter, he cleared the PLAB test and got registered with the General Medical Council (GMC), UK. FRCP are a community of over 19,000 senior medical leaders from around the world to improve the health of the patients and the populations.The fellow of RCP can influence National Health Policy via personal representation on groups and committees and input into consultants. He also is involved in the development of specialty-specific curricula, core medical training, educational support and national guidelines and national guidelines and standards which improve patient safety and is a recognised qualification by the Medical Council of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-city-based-doctor-gets-fellowship-352618
21-12-2021||Talwara||Talwara civic body chief  faces rebellion||Rebellion of eight out of 13 councillors against Talwara civic body chief Monika Sharma caused a flutter on Monday.Earlier, they had demanded her resignation on November 15. Even after more than a month, neither Sharma proved her majority nor she resigned.Infuriated councillors dissatisfied with the working style of Sharma today warned the senior Congress leaders that if by coming Monday, Sharma does not proves her majority, they would say goodbye to the party. They said they cannot be a part of a political party, which violates the democratic and constitutional rights of its councillors.“We may join hands with any other political party where our rights are protected and our self-respect is restored,” said the irked councillors. Aggrieved councillors include Vikas Goga, Munish Chadda, Deepak Arora, Surinder Kaur, Shelly, Parminder Kaur, Suman Dua Deepak Dua and Taranjit Bobby. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talwara-civic-body-chief-faces-rebellion-352619
21-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress, Akalis looted state for decades: Bhagwant Mann||Dasuya/Mukerian, Dec 20The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state chief and MP Bhagwant Mann, while addressing public meetings in Dasuya and Mukerian, targeted the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday.When Congress leaders cannot stay together for 80 days, how will they keep Punjab together for five years and how Congress is asking people for a chance to rule for five more years? Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Sidhu and other leaders, fight among themselves for a chair. Will these people improve the future of Punjab? Bhagwant Mann, State chief, Aam Aadmi PartyHe said, “After 1966, the Congress ruled Punjab for 25 years and the Akalis for around 20 years. During their tenure, both the parties looted Punjab, but these people have hunger for money and politics.”Criticising the ruling party, Mann said, “When Congress leaders cannot stay together for 80 days, how will they keep Punjab together for five years and how Congress is asking people for a chance to rule for five more years? Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Sidhu and other leaders, fight among themselves for a chair. Will these people improve the future of Punjab?”Launching a scathing attack on the SAD, Mann said, “Even today, Badal sahib comes on the stage and says give me one more chance.” He asked the senior Badal to give newcomers a chance.“Panth and Punjab’s love has rekindled today as Sukhbir Singh Badal, who made the SAD a private company of the Badal family, was not in power,” said Mann.He said youths were fleeing abroad so that they do not go astray. “Exercise your franchise for a better future. To clean the political mess in Punjab, press the ‘broom’ button once,” urged Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-akalis-looted-state-for-decades-bhagwant-mann-352620
21-12-2021||---||Nawanshahr: Election Commission holds training for flying squads||Nawanshahr, December 20To explain the role and responsibility of various teams constituted for the purpose of keeping an eye over the poll expenditure, the district administration on Monday organised a special training workshop for Flying Squad Teams (FST), Static Surveillance Team (SST), Video Surveillance Team (VST), Accounting teams, Video Viewing teams and assistant expenditure observers.The Election Commission of India has set a limit of Rs 30.8 lakh for every candidate to spend during the 2022 Assembly elections. All team members should remain abreast with the methodology to calculate the poll expenditure. Vishesh Sarangal, Deputy CommissionerDeputy Commissioner (DC)-cum-District Election Officer (DEO) Vishesh Sarangal along with Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC)-cum-Additional District Election Officer (ADEO) Jasbir Singh, said these teams have been given major responsibility to monitor the election expenditure of candidates and parties.He said the Election Commission of India has set a limit of Rs 30.80 lakh for every candidate to spend during the 2022 Assembly elections. Sarangal said for the facilitation of these teams, rates of every item has been duly fixed by the Election Commission. He told that these lists of more than 150 items have also been given to political parties.The Deputy Commissioner said main aim of training is to ensure that all team members remain abreast with the methodology to be adopted for calculating poll expenditure in an effective manner.Sarangal expressed hope that the officers would get a detailed overview regarding the ways and means to perform their duties efficiently for smooth conduct of the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/election-commission-holds-training-for-flying-squads-352621
21-12-2021||---||Poll teams to keep strict vigil over paid news||Nawanshahr, December 20Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the district administration would keep a close vigil over paid news and advertisement content during the 2022 Assembly elections.Addressing members of the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) at the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has issued strict instructions to monitor advertisements, publicity of candidates and paid news in print and electronic media, besides channels owned by political parties and expenses on these advertisement would be included in the account of candidates from the date of filing of nominations.He said the administration has constituted the committee to keep tabs on news content on channels, newspapers and social media. Sarangal said all members must perform their duty diligently.The Deputy Commissioner said the committee would keep watch on poll-related news and features appearing in print, electronic and social media, during the poll process. He said the committee would be responsible for certification of advertisements, monitoring of news in print and electronic media and keeping records of election-related news of candidates in the fray.He said the committee members would verify the advertising contents sought to be broadcast by candidates or their supporters before releasing them to the electronic media.Meanwhile, a training session was held by Nawanshahr SDM Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon. District Public Relations Officer Ravi Inder Singh Makkar, Principal Surinder Agnihotri, Parmod Bharti, Omkar Singh, Jasvir Singh, Harjinder Singh, Rajwinder Lakha, Om Parkash, Surinder Pal, Amritpal Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Sandeep Singh, Palwinder Singh and Daljit Singh, among others, were present in the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-teams-to-keep-strict-vigil-over-paid-news-352622
21-12-2021||---||Four arrested with Rs 2.5L drug money, weapons in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 20The Jalandhar (rural) police have busted a gang by arresting four persons with nine pistols (.32 bore), 16 live cartridges, 3-gm heroin, 260 gm of intoxicant powder and drug money worth Rs 2.5 lakh.The accused have been identified as Barinder Singh Sandhu, Amit Hans of Neelamahal, Shashi Kumar of New Amar Nagar and Arwinder Singh of Helran village in Jalandhar.The accused were conspiring to strike in the area on December 18. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them. Ajay Gandhi, ASP, AdampurAdampur Assistant Superintendent of Police Ajay Gandhi disclosed that Bhogpur SHO Harinder Singh along with his team had set up a naka on Adampur T-point. He said the accused were were conspiring to strike in the area on December 18. He said a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them at Bhogpur police station.Gandhi added that cops had confiscated three pistols, four magazines, 10 live cartridges, 3-gm heroin and drug money worth Rs 1 lakh was recovered from Tata Indigo car. During further interrogation, the police personnel recovered five pistols, six live cartridges and Rs 1.5 lakh drug money on their disclosures. He said the accused were facing criminal cases in various police stations and more recovery of weapons was expected.Jalandhar (rural) SSP Satinder Singh said those indulging in anti-social activities would not be spared and stern action would be taken against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-arrested-with-rs-2-5l-drug-money-weapons-in-jalandhar-352623
21-12-2021||---||Jalandhar: Bizmen decry 12% GST on footwear||Jalandhar, December 20Opposing a hike in Goods and Services Tax (GST) on footwear, members of the Rubber Footwear Manufacturers’ Association from the city have written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.BB Jyoti, chairman, Rubber Footwear Manufacturers’ Association, said, “There was no indirect tax on footwear for years, but the GST was introduced at 5 per cent. The industry took a few years to absorb the impact, but now the GST has been suddenly increased from 5 per cent to 12 per cent, over which the industry is sore.”Jyoti said, “This hike in the GST will only lead to the generation of a parallel economy as most players will prefer to remain out of formal economy to avoid taxation and its implications. Lower tax rate is always an acceptable norm and even in foreign countries, the tax rate is lowest on footwear items.”Chief of the association, Neeraj Arora, said the increase of the GST would also lead to increase in the price of footwear. “The footwear, which was priced at Rs 1,000 will cost Rs 1,120 from January 1 onwards. We have already faced huge losses due to the pandemic and are reeling under the issues of hike in diesel and increase of transportation charges. The growth of industry is decreasing and so is the number of employees and we can see worse days ahead owing to shortage of buyers,” he asserted.Handing over a copy of their memorandum to Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, they have sought his support in vying to get the GST reduced back to 5 per cent. They wrote, “It is time to support the business and industry so that turnover can be increased and employment opportunities increase. We seek your support to get the notification on increase in the GST withdrawn at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-bizmen-decry-12-gst-on-footwear-352624
21-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala: Day after man beaten to death, no murder charge||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 20A day after a man was lynched at a gurdwara in Nizampur, Kapurthala, following an alleged sacrilege attempt, no FIR was lodged under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.While the incident was live-streamed, the police maintained they were waiting for the autopsy report before taking further action.The Kotwali police station where an FIR under Section 295-A (insult to religion) has been lodged was found bolted from inside. While the SHO wasn’t present, cops said they had kept the gate shut for their own “safety”. HPS Khakh, SSP, Kapurthala, said, “Section 302 has not been added yet. No family member of the deceased could be traced either.” On the locked gate, the SSP said, “It is a temporary measure. The cops are being constantly approached by someone or other.”Dr Sandeep Dhawan, SMO, Kapurthala Civil Hospital, said, “The autopsy is yet to be conducted. Any statement regarding the nature of the wounds can be made after formal investigation.”Complainant Amarjit Singh, a granthi of the gurdwara, alleged when he spotted the accused, he tried to flee. “I went upstairs and found the holy book intact, but the Nishan Sahib was unfurled. We nabbed the accused. He did not disclose his name or other details.”He said, “Soon after the incident, besides making some calls, I made an announcement from the gurdwara loudspeaker asking people to gather. I also went live on Facebook following which the crowd swelled and the situation went out of control. I did not see the man die.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-man-beaten-to-death-no-murder-charge-352647
