22-12-2021||---||‘Suicide bid’ by teachers protesting outside education minister Pargat Singh’s residence||Jalandhar, December 22Several protesting unemployed teachers of the B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union on Wednesday allegedly attempted suicide in front of the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh.While the Cabinet minister's home has turned into a cantonment as regular protests have been taking place outside his residence for the past over a month, teachers today took it a step further as several of them poured oil on their body in a bid to attempt suicide.While chaotic scenes were witnessed as unemployed teachers' raised slogans against the state government, things got heated up when several of them tried to attempt suicide. Cops apprehended several teachers as they poured oil on themselves while being apprehended by the police.Teachers Sandeep Gill, Amandeep Sekha and Jagsir Singh poured oil on themselves and tried to light matches before being prevented by cops and colleagues.Two teachers who have been protesting atop a tank in Jalandhar-- Jaswant Ghubaya and Munish Fazilka -- had also threatened suicide.While the state government recently released notification for the recruitment of 4,185 teachers, in response to three-month protest by B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union, teachers have in turn complained that there is no clarity yet whether these recruitments also include posts of SST, Hindi and Punjabi teachers.Their three-month long protests have been on the prime demand of advertisements of posts of 9,000 teachers specifically in the aforementioned subjects.Union leader Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said, "Teachers are fed up with the government’s doublespeak that's why they had to take this step today.“Government has released notification but teachers can't apply yet. Also there is no clarity whether these include the three subjects in which we need maximum recruitments,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suicide-bid-by-teachers-protesting-outside-education-minister-pargat-singhs-residence-353337
22-12-2021||---||Guru Nanak Dev University semester exams likely in first week of January||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21As the college teachers across the state have been holding a complete ‘education bandh’ for the last 22 days, Guru Nanak Dev University’s exams, which were slated to be held from mid-December would likely be held in January first week.Protesting principals and teachers said in all probability the practical exams would be held in the first week of January and the theory exams would be pushed to around January 10.Thousands of students from Guru Nanak Dev University-affiliated colleges have been sitting idle at home ever since the teachers went on protest demanding the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission of the UGC.Members of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union on Tuesday held a massive protest near General Post Office. Dr SS Randhawa, General Secretary of the PCCTU, said, “We will not relent till our demands are accepted. We are expecting some good outcome on December 23 in the Punjab Cabinet meeting with Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh. Once our main demand of the 7th Pay Commission is cleared by the Cabinet, we will immediately get back to work. We will forgo our winter break and try to cover up all the loss of the students.”Even though a two-week winter break at GNDU-affiliated colleges starts from January 1, the teachers said they were ready to take exams. “If everything goes as per our plans, we expect GNDU to start practical exams from the first week of January and theory papers from January 10 onwards,” said a college principal.Meanwhile, the anger has now spilled to the roads from college gates. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Sanjeev Dhawan, district chief, PCCTU, said by not implementing the 7th UGC pay panel and delinking pay scales from the UGC, the state government was not only shutting its doors to crores of rupees coming from the Centre, but also unnecessarily increasing a financial burden on students. “This will also kill the academic spirit of thousands of teachers and compel them to waste their time on roads instead of letting them use their energy on teaching and research,” he said.The protesting teachers said, “If our demands are not accepted, we will not vote for the Congress in the 2022 Assembly poll. The government knows it well that we can even influence our students.”Dr Simranjit Singh Bains, district secretary, PCCTU, said the genuineness of the demands can be seen gauged by the fact that even the Principals’ Association has joined the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gnd-varsity-semester-exams-likely-in-first-week-of-january-353203
22-12-2021||---||Two gangsters nabbed, weapons seized in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, December 21The Kapurthala police have arrested two members of Badonga gang and seized two pistols (.32 bore), nine live cartridges and 20-gm heroin, from their possession on Tuesday.The accused have been identified as Jasvir Singh of Rihana Jattan village, Kapurthala, and Pardeep Singh of Ratenda village in Nawanshahr.Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said under the supervision of Phagwara SP Harinder Pal Singh and CIA Staff incharge Sikander Singh a police team led by ASI Paramjit Singh was patrolling near GNA University, Bhogpur Gate.He said the team had laid a special naka and started checking vehicles coming from Bhogpur towards Phagwara and spotted two motorcycle-borne youth coming from Bhogpur. The SSP said after the youth saw police naka, they pulled out two packed envelopes from their pockets and threw on the left side of road.He said the police party stopped them and during checking of envelopes, the cops recovered 20-gm heroin (10-gm per envelope). Meanwhile, cops recovered two pistols and nine live cartridges from the possession of the accused.Khakh said the duo was active members of Badonga gang whose kingpin had murdered BSP worker Ram Saroop in broad daylight in Phillaur subdivision of Jalandhar on September 25, 2019. He said the incident had led to series of protests by the BSP activists. The SSP said the police would seek further remand of the accused to question their role in the murder and source of weapons. The SSP said the accused remained at large since and were declared proclaimed offender by the court. He said a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them at Rawalpindi police station.The SSP added that the accused were habitual offenders and wanted in dozen of criminal cases registered at different police stations. They indulged in several gang wars and public brawl in the past, said Khakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-gangsters-nabbed-weapons-seized-in-kapurthala-353204
22-12-2021||Kapurthala||Theatrics won't help Cong, Akalis: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state chief and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann said former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal colluded, but both of them have lost credibility.“Both are responsible for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and taking false oath. God doesn’t kills with a lathi (stick), he just takes away the wisdom. No one will come to the aid of those who’ve betrayed their own Gurus. Don’t trust them again,” said Mann while addressing a rally at Bholath.He appealed to the people to change the button of their choice while casting vote, if they want to change their destiny, “Click the ‘jharoo’ button this time, then forget about the rest.”Mann said, “We have paid obeisance to the mandate issued by people of Punjab during the 2017 Assembly elections, but now masses must demand accountability from the winners. Former Congress Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had sworn in on ‘gutka sahib’ that he will break the cycle of drug addiction and provide employment to every household, but he continued to rest at his palace in Siswan.”He said, “Drug peddlers weren’t even touched and youngsters are still unemployed. Sukhbir is responsible for sacrilege issues and administrative mess that followed. Now, no one is opening even a window for them.”Criticising the ruling Congress and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Mann said Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu and other leaders were busy fighting among themselves. The Congress is not running the government, but a circus. He said the CM should have a vision or a policy for his people and his baseless announcements won’t help.The AAP MP slammed the state’s education system. He said, “We are oppressed through syllabus. They don’t teach you to live proudly. In government schools, children are taught to lie and ask for waivers (fee waiver and fine waiver). That’s why people innocently believed the promise of loan waiver.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theatrics-wont-help-cong-akalis-mann-353205
22-12-2021||---||Jalandhar: Sculptures, tapestries attract visitors at Virsa Vihar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21Leftover wool, bangles, used ball pens, rags and old sanitaryware, have been put to use by artists to make ethnic designer corners in the art exhibition put up at Virsa Vihar.The week-long exhibition, which commenced on Monday evening, has been sponsored by the Apeejay Education Society and Dr Stya Paul Art Gallery. It will continue till December 27.Prabhjot Kaur, Commissioner, Income Tax, was the chief guest and Balwinder Kaur, Additional Commissioner, Income Tax, was the guest of honour.The exhibition has paintings, sculptures, digital art, photography and tapestry on display. In the expo, the art work of renowned artists Dr Baldev Gambhir, Dr Jaspal Singh, Dr Ajit Jabbal, Ashwini Verma and Basudeb Biswas has been displayed. They were honoured by Dr Sucharita Sharma and Dr Neerja Dhingra. Along with the work of prominent artists, the work of budding artists was also put on display.The casting work by sculptor Basudeb Biswas remained a major attraction. He displayed metal pieces, including peacocks made from old-plumbing material, Kashmiri water jugs and scrap. He also put up women figurines in iron and copper.Artist Anil Gupta put up digital prints on the theme of ‘lockdown’ from pictures taken out of partially latched door, showing all moods, including gloom and hope. There were torans made out of used multi-colour ballpens. Bangles hanging with wool tied all around iron frames remained an attraction. A wall of the exhibition room was dedicated to framed woollen geometrical patterns on pieces of cloth. A tapestry with colourful birds made on loom by the college students also attracted many.Mixed compositions by artist Suruchi, who used paper, strips of cloth, pen for her design pieces was also eye-catching. Dr Sharma appreciated the efforts of Anil Gupta, Dr Gagan Gambhir, Rajesh Kalsi, Diptesh Naskar and Manoj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sculptures-tapestries-attract-visitors-at-virsa-vihar-353206
22-12-2021||---||Governor Banwarilal Purohit reviews vaccination drive in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 21Governor Banwarilal Purohit visited Hoshiarpur on Tuesday and reviewed implementation of various government schemes and ongoing vaccination drive in the district.Reviewing the work, the Governor held a meeting with the administration officials, including the Deputy Commissioner. He expressed satisfaction related to disbursing benefits of various schemes to the needy. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said all pro-people schemes were being implemented in the district in a smooth manner. She said the Health Department was working to vaccinate all the beneficiaries in the district.A special campaign has been launched to facilitate people to ensure their vaccination, she said. IG GS Dhillon, SSP Kulwant Singh Heer, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Ashika Jain, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Darbara Singh Randhawa and Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/governor-reviews-vaccination-drive-353207
22-12-2021||---||She gave artistic touch to her garden||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21Big or small size flowers in pink, yellow, white, maroon and purple, Vandana Sondhi has all the varieties and colours of Chrysanthemum blooming in her house. She daily makes at least 8-10 arrangements of the flower for her drawing room, living room, entrance and the staircase.Hundreds of flowers of this variety have been potted in the frontal portion of her house and all pots have been arranged in a very artistic manner. “My day starts with these flowers. Every morning, I go out and fetch fresh flowers which I take to my puja room as well. I take some along with me to work too. I first arrange them on my desktop before starting my day’s work,” says Sondhi, who is working as a child guidance counsellor. She adds, “I strongly believe that these beautiful flowers have a very good impact on our thinking and belief and makes us positive”.Residing at New Jawahar Nagar, she says that it was her mother-in-law who was fond of maintaining garden. “I learnt it all from her”, she tells adding that it is her husband Vivek Sondhi, Joint Managing Director of popular PKF group, who too helps her with making it all look artistic. “All the sculptures, terrocota pieces in the garden, ponds for lotus, swings and a fountain in the backyard have been picked and bought by him”, she revealed.Sondhis have maintained a nice kitchen garden also on the backyard with mango, orange and lemon trees. The garden has a rich growth of lettuce, salad leaves, basil, garlic, onion, spinach, radish, lemon grass, tulsi and other plants. “The time we are experimenting growing strawberries too,” said Vandana Sondhi pointing to her tiny plantlets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-gave-artistic-touch-to-her-garden-353208
22-12-2021||---||Christmas carnival organised at CT World School, Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21A Christmas carnival was organised on the CT World School campus in collaboration with Municipal Corporation. City residents and students took part in the carnival with zeal.The carnival included events such as dance competition, baby show, ramp walk (solo and with parent). Major attractions included selfie corner, tattoo corner, coffee corner, horse riding, delicacies of Kashmir and other states and many more.An Instagram influencer Kishtu K gave the guest appearance and gave a glimpse of Punjabi folk culture, followed by live performance by the students of CT Musical Society. RJ Pak Pak Deepak and RJ Baani set the mood full of humour via fun-filled conversations.The event was formally inaugurated with the release of balloons by Charanjit Singh Channi, Chairman, CT Group, Parminder Kaur Channi, co-chairperson, Manbir Singh, MD, Tanika Singh and Madhu Sharma, Principal.Dr Prem Rana, gynecologist Rana Hospital, Dr Arwinder Kaur, multi-specialist hospital, Dr Shiwali, skin specialist, Manpreet Saini, from Dance factory; Urwashi Saini, art director and fashion choreographer in Pollywood graced the occasion by being the judges cum guests of the day.CT World School Principal Madhu Sharma thanked everyone for gracing the occasion and wished everyone a Merry Christmas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/christmas-spirit-grips-city-residents-353209
22-12-2021||Jalandhar||RUDSET to impart training in five courses||To make youngsters self-dependent on employment front, the Rural Development and Self Employment Training Institute (RUDSET) is all set to start training programme for next quarter from January 2022 in five courses included mobile repair, AC/refrigerator, men saloon, fast food stall and fashion designing.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Jaspreet Singh said the RUDSET would impart the training to aspirants to enable them self-dependent on employment front by unveiling their own ventures. He also reviewed the status for courses to be initiated for next quarter besides finalising the annual action plan from 2022-23.While presiding over the district level RUDSET advisory committee’s meeting here at District Administrative Complex, Jaspreet Singh said any candidate could fill the form by visiting the institute Vijay Nagar near Football Chowk or apply online at www.rudsetitraining.org to get enrolled for the training. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rudset-to-impart-training-in-five-courses-353210
22-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: St. Soldier Institute Engineering students build 6-ft tall 'Make in India' logo||To promote “Make in India” campaign, students of St. Soldier Institute of Engineering and Technology designed and installed tiger logo of ‘Make in India’ campaign on the campus on Tuesday.The logo was prepared by the students of B.Tech Final Year (Mechanical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Science Engineering, ECE and Electrical Engineering) Harmanpreet, Mohit, Pooja, Aasifa, Lovepreet, Divya, Piyush, Abhishek, Gagandeep, Manjit, Prabhjot, Raman, Satwinder, Anmol, Sanjog and Simranjeet of the college.Chairman of St Soldier Group Anil Chopra said the logo costs Rs 1.25 lakh and stands 6-feet tall. The students used 400-kg mild steel sheet of 6-mm thickness to make it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/engg-students-build-6-ft-tall-make-in-india-logo-353211
22-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||JITK karatekas shine in state championship||Karatekas of Jagmohan’s Institute of Traditional Karate (JITK) performed brilliantly in Punjab State Karate Championship organised by Punjab Karate Association and won six gold, five silver and three bronze medals. Trained by renowned Karate instructor Sensei Jagmohan Vij, fifth degree Black Belt (USA) these players claimedmaximum medals.Shubham Sandal, Aaditya Bakshi, Arpit Sharma and Aarti Kumari won gold medals in different categories of Individual Kata ( Form) competition. Apart from this, Divyanshi Joshi won gold medal in the U-21 girls’ individual Kumite competition in the weight category below 60-kg and Aditya Bakshi in the U-21 boys weight category below 75 kg. Representing Hoshiarpur, Deepika Joshi won two silver medals and one bronze medal while Karateka Aaditya performed brilliantly and won two gold and one silver medal. Other karatekas who won silver medals for the team also include Shubham Sandal and Arpit Sharma. While Om Silli of SD College, Hoshiarpur, along with Ashish Thakur, Arpit Sharma and Deepika won bronze medals. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jitk-karatekas-shine-in-state-championship-353212
22-12-2021||Jalandhar||Football championship at LPU||75 lakh post card campaignAs a part of ongoing celebrations of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, the Department of Posts, Ministry of Education, along with the Department of School Education, organised a post card campaign. Around 800 students participated in the event. Students shared their views with the Prime Minister through post cards. The topics were ‘Unsung heroes of freedom struggle’ and ‘My vision for India in 2047’. All the post cards addressed to the PM were posted by the school. The activity was conducted by the class incharges under the supervision of Bhavna Sabharwal. The management and school principal Neeru Nayyar and vice principal Parveen Saili appreciated the efforts put in by the students and teachers and acknowledged the initiative taken .Mathematics day celebratedDIPS School, Tanda, organised Mathematics Day to make students understand the importance of maths. Various activities were conducted for classes III to VII. Quiz was conducted in junior or wing and model making for senior wing. During the quiz students were quizzed on several problems related to maths and how to solve them and in mode making students prepared models on formulae, angle was explained in a simplified manners. Principal Divya Chawla explained to the students about maths day and mathematician Ramanujan’s birthday is celebrated as maths day. She also mentioned that this is celebrated every year in order to encourage students around the world to sharpen their skills in arithmetic and problem solving.gna varsity students go on excursionGNA University organised an excursion-cum-one day trip for its students and faculty members of GNA Business School. Over 150 students boarded for the trip. The trip was organised by Ramandeep Singh, assistant professor, GNA Business School. The main objective behind holding this trip was to relieve the stress of students and give them an opportunity to explore the outer region of their cities and have a gala time with their friends and teachers. The trip commenced from Phagwara through a bus route and landed directly to Golden Temple, Amritsar, wherein students experienced pure serenity and divinity embracing the darshan to the holy pilgrimage of Sri Harmandir Sahib. After the visit to the Golden Temple, the students also visited Jallianwala Bagh and had a feeling of patriotism witnessing the past happenings and truly enjoyed being there.First aid training at Red Cross BhawanNSS volunteers of Lyallpur Khalsa College took first aid training at Red Cross Bhawan. Principal Gurpinder Singh Samra appreciated the thought process of volunteers to undergo the training. He added that timely first aid can save many lives. He said Lyallpur Khalsa College is committed to provide these platforms to its students for their overall growth. Chief Programme Officer Satpal Singh said 45 volunteers took the training which will not only be beneficial for them or their family but also to society as these volunteers are committed to social welfare. State awardee first aid trainer Som Nath was the resource person in the training. Minhas, secretary, Red Cross, coordinated the training session smoothly. The certificates, to be awarded to volunteers, will be endorsed by Red Cross State Branch Chandigarh.Training in fashion designingKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised online training for the students of Fashion Designing. Industrial training was facilitated with Innovative Knits, Mohali, for BSc Fashion Designing Semester V students. All the 22 students got themselves enrolled and participated in the training programme with enthusiasm. The training was organised by the PG Department of Fashion Designing which is ranked thrice as topmost in ‘Best Value for Money Category’ in India and amongst top 30 colleges of India as per India Today Survey 2020. The main motive of organising the industrial training was to ensure the best utilisation of time and energy of students in productive work. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/football-championship-at-lpu-353213
22-12-2021||Tanda Urmur||Tanda Urmur: Farmer dies during rail roko||19-yr-old killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A 19-year-old youth died in a road accident on Hoshiarpur-Phagwara Road. According to information, Lakhveer Singh of Marnaiyan Kalan, said his son Randhir Singh (19), was learning work at a hairdresser’s shop in Attowal village. He said Randhir was heading back to home when a truck ran over him. After the incident, the driver fled from the spot, leaving the truck behind. The police have registered a case against the accused truck driver, Jarnail Singh, a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh, under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. OCNRI, sister booked for cheatingGarhshankar: The Garhshankar police have registered a case against a non-resident Indian (NRI) and his sister. The complainant Kulwinder Kaur had alleged that after the death of her husband, NRI Parminder Kumar alias Binda, a resident of Kariha, and his sister Harjinder Kaur alias Jinder, promised her that Binda will marry her and take her abroad. She alleged that the duo extorted lakhs of rupees from her on the pretext of marriage. She alleged that Parminder also made her spend around Rs 4 lakh in the marriage of his sister Harjinder. Later, he refused to marry her. The matter was investigated by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime). Parminder and Harjinder have been booked under Sections 418, 420, 120B and 506 of the Indian Penal Code. OCMan held with contrabandHoshiarpur: The Model Town police have arrested a smuggler and recovered 25-gm of intoxicating powder from his possession. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Sunder Nagar. He has been booked under various Sections of the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-dies-during-rail-roko-353214
