23-12-2021||---||Two arrested for betting||Hoshiarpur: The Model Town police have arrested two accused with betting slips and Rs 7,990 put on bets, on Wednesday night. The police had received a tip off that two men were betting in the public near Luxmi Market. On the basis of information, the police raided the site and arrested Rajiv Kumar alias Jeeva of Bassi Khwaju, recovering Rs 3,980 put on the bet and betting slips from him. Also Dalip Kumar, alias Dhiana, a resident of Balmik Mohalla, Pahadi Gate, Hariana, was arrested with Rs 4,010 and betting slips. Separate FIRs have been lodged against both the accused under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act. OCTwo arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The Talwara and Mahilpur police arrested two accused in two separate cases and recovered intoxicating powder from them. The Talwara police arrested Gurdheer Singh, alias Ladi, a resident of Bhadson Road, Patiala, and recovered 56 grams of intoxicating powder during the search of his car. The Mahilpur police arrested Davinder Kumar, alias Binda, a resident of Mananhana and recovered a huge quantity of intoxicating pills from him. Separate FIRs under the NDPS Act have been registered against them. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-arrested-for-betting-353591
23-12-2021||Jalandhar||Junior Golf Championship||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/junior-golf-championship-353590
23-12-2021||---||DCP urges people to be ‘green warriors’ for making Jalandhar clean||Jalandhar, December 22Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Jagmohan Singh on Wednesday gave a clarion call to people to join hands as ‘green warriors’ for making Jalandhar clean, green and pollution-free.The DCP, while starting a plantation drive by Aakash Institute at Lajpat Nagar Park, underscored the need for planting more trees to enhance the green cover in the city.Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh said trees play a crucial role by conserving natural resources and improving the environment, which is the need of the hour, especially in the wake of the ongoing pandemic.The DCP said it was the need of hour to sensitise younger generation about this noble cause. He said this step would go a long way in increasing the green cover on the one hand and making the youth of the city more responsible towards environment on the other.Earlier, the DCP was welcomed by branch manager Vivek Bhadauria and academic head Rahul Tyagi, and other faculty members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dcp-urges-people-to-be-green-warriors-353589
23-12-2021||---||Fight between teens takes an ugly turn in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, December 22The Kapurthala police on Wednesday booked 20 persons for creating a ruckus in the Char Batti Chowk. A school feud between two school going teens got serious to the extent that three cars were smashed and three people were injured in the incident today.An FIR has been lodged against 20 persons at the Kapurthala city police station under Sections 307, 160, 148, 149 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.As per the police, a feud between two of them got so serious over a mutual dispute following which their families also got involved and a fight broke out over the issue at the Char Batti Chowk today in which both the parties smashed each other’s vehicles.Two teens, aged 18 to 19, and another person have been injured in the incident. They have admitted to the civil hospital Kapurthala.SHO City Police Station, Kapurthala, Gaurav Dhir said, “To solve a school dispute between two teens aged 18 to 19, they met in the said area today where a fight broke out between both the parties. While two cars of pone of the parties and another of the other party have been damaged, at least three people have also been injured in the case. Two of those injured are youths while the third is middle aged. The cause behind the fight hasn't been ascertained yet. Footage is being reviewed. The matter is further being investigated.”While the police said the persons involved were also carrying weapons, firing hasn't been reported on the spot as per preliminary investigation.Police said the names and identities of those booked will be known after further investigation” While the police said the persons involved were also carrying weapons, firing hasn’t been reported on the spot as per preliminary investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fight-between-teens-takes-an-ugly-turn-353588
23-12-2021||---||National Lok Adalat on March 12||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 22The CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi, held a meeting with the bank manager and administrative officers regarding the forthcoming National Lok Adalat on March 12, 2022.During the meeting, she said, in this Lok Adalat, maximum number of pre-litigation cases and the cases which were pending in the court, should be filed. She said maximum information should be given to the people for setting-up domestic disputes, land-property disputes, civil cases, injection matters, land acquisition cases, traffic challans, check bounce cases and compoundable criminal cases in the Lok Adalat. The Lok Adalat's decision is final and there lies no appeal against this decision. Therefore, more and more people should get the benefit of this by bringing their cases in the Lok Adalat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-lok-adalat-on-march-12-353587
23-12-2021||---||Balbir Singh Seechewal tells Sukhbir to work on increasing forest area of state to 10 pc||Sultanpur Lodhi, December 22Sukhbir Badal paid obeisance at the historic Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib and also visited noted environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal. Seechewal asked Sukhbir to envisage a plan whereby the forest area in the state could be increased from 4 per cent to 10 per cent. He also asked the Akali chief to promise to the people that he would ensure environment protection as per an Act already in place since 1974.Sukhbir promises education, healthcare for constituencyTaking on Congress MLA Navtej Cheema from the seat, SAD president Sukhbir Badal held a rally on Wednesday and told the residents of the town that just 180 hours were left to bear his tyranny. He said this since the elections were round the corner and the model code of conduct could be enforced anytime.Trying to express sympathy with the masses, he said, “I know that you have faced many false FIRs at the behest of the sitting MLA. I have come to know that an 85-year-old from the town and some teenage girls too have been wrongly booked here. You need to wait for just a few months to get justice. When we come to power, we will set up a commission to cancel all false FIRs lodged in the Congress rule.”In the panthic seat, Sukhbir did not just raise the issue of Congress indulging in politics over sacrilege but also took on the matter of 1984 riots. “PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu keeps coming here. If he is so courageous to take up issues, he must talk of the 1984 riot case and demand action against the Congress leaders. Why does he not talk about them?” the SAD chief asked. Speaking about the constituency, Sukhbir said, “We are committed to taking steps, including construction of a ‘bandh’ to ensure there is no crop damage due to flooding. We will bring in quality education and healthcare to the area, including establishment of mega schools which will provide an integrated study model.”Badal also spoke on how the SAD-BSP alliance government had promised to provide 33 per cent reservation to all students of government schools in colleges and universities. “We will also ensure free education to such students,” he said, adding that students would also be eligible for and Rs 5 lakh interest-free student loan. Speaking about how the party understood the problems of farmers, the SAD president said the next alliance government would give a crop insurance cover of Rs 50,000 per acre to farmers. He said similarly all farmers who did not have a tubewell connection would be given one.The SAD president also paid homage to the elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh on their Martyrdom Day and recalled the supreme sacrifice made by them to uphold Sikhism. Students Organisation of India (SOI) workers led an impressive road show from Talwandi Chaudhrian to Sultanpur Lodhi rally pandal on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seechewal-tells-sukhbir-to-w-ork-on-increasing-forest-area-of-state-to-10-pc-353586
23-12-2021||Jalandhar||11 food samples collected for testing||Acting on the directions of CFDA, Punjab (Commissioner Food & Drug Administration), Food Wing Kapurthala, carried out checking today. A naka was set up to intercept vehicle carrying food items, wing also checked shops. The team was led by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, FDA, along with Mukul Gill Food Safety Officer, Kapurthala supervised the action. Eleven samples have been taken, including milk, petha, matri, matthi, gur, rewari, gur gachak, roasted chana, energy drink etc, to check adulteration in these food products.Simultaneously, the teams also emphasised the presence of fortified products in food items to advocate inclusion of essential micronutrients in foods. FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority of India) in collaboration with manufacturers of various food articles like Milk, Edible Oil & Fats, Atta/Maida, Edible Salt has already taken the initiative of manufacturing these food articles fortified with Vitamins and Minerals. A drive was also initiated to prevent prevailing deficiencies of the Vitamins A, D, B1, B2, B12, Folate and Iron, Zinc etc. in the diet of Indian population. As a result of the deficiencies of these essential micronutrients, human being becomes susceptible to various infections and diseases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-food-samples-collected-for-testing-353585
23-12-2021||Jalandhar||National Mathematics Day celebrated at Eklavya School, Jalandhar||Students showcase their talentThe Manageates Club of Department of Business Management conducted a quiz show Smartaculous at the DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology. As many as 12 teams belonging to different disciplines, including B.Com, BBA, B Tech and MBA participated in the event and showcased their talent in the show. There were three rounds conducted under which first one was placards, second was riddle round and in the end, there was Kaun Banega Champion round to get the final winner team. Dr Anil Soni, HOD, Department of Business Management, appreciated the performance of various teams and encouraged them to take up such endeavours in the future as well. Dr Manoj Kumar, Principal, DAVIET, showered his blessings upon the students and lauded the efforts of the students for coming up with such apprehensive and knowledgeable activities. Students of B.Tech bagged first prize for their brilliant performance and second and third position were taken up by students of MBA 3rd Sem and MBA 1st Sem, respectively.Christmas decoration competitionBasking in the spirit of Christmas, Mayor World School organised an inter-house Christmas decoration for the students of grades VI-VIII. Four participants from each house, namely Wordsworth, Shakespeare, Dickens and Keats participated in the competition and left the onlookers awestruck with their magnificent ideas and presentation skills in embellishing and festooning the areas allotted to them. All teams participated enthusiastically and came up with the most enticing ideas that they could imagine using eco-friendly material, best-out-of-waste material, colours, Christmas bells, lights, toys, gifts, Santa caps, glitters, nests, birds, candles, flowers and what not. The teams were adjudged by Deputy Vice-Principal Charu Trehan and art instructor Meera on the basis of creativity and uniqueness, interpretation and clarity of theme, verbal explanation, and overall presentation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-mathematics-day-353584
23-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Carjacking attempt with AAP MLA in Garhshankar, four booked, one held||Hoshiarpur, December 22The police have booked four persons and arrested one of them for damaging the car of Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Garhshankar with an intention to rob it. The police have recovered a car, bike and sharp-edged weapon used in the incident.SP (D) Mandeep Singh said Jai Kishan Rodhi, MLA from Garhshankar, was in the car with his driver late on Tuesday night. When they reached near Garhshankar, another car (CH 01 BB 7627) coming from Banga Road tried stopping their car by hitting it. Gauging it to be a carjacking attempt, the MLA’s driver cleverly took out the car, after which the accused broke its front glass. Meanwhile, the MLA’s driver drove away.The SP said as soon as the information of the incident was received, the district police chief constituted a team to investigate it, in which DSP Sarabjit Singh Rai, DSP Narinder Singh, in-charge of police station Garhshankar Rajeev Kumar and ASI Rachpal Singh were also there. He said the police team started a special operation to nab the accused.When the police reached near Bagwai Road, they noticed that some persons were trying to rob the car of one Deepak Kumar of Rajdhan after dropping their bike in front. When the accused saw the police, three of them fled in a car. When the police personnel Balveer Singh proceeded to nab the fourth accused, he attacked him with a sharp weapon. His official rifle was damaged in the incident, but the accused was nabbed. SP (D) Mandeep Singh said during primary interrogation of the accused, he has been identified as Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassa, of Seechewal village, police station Lohian, and district Jalandhar.He said the accused who fled have been identified as Pala, Labbha; alias Kaka, and Mani, all residents of Seechewal, Jalandhar. The SP said a case against the accused has been registered under Sections 307, 379B, 353, 186, 427 and 511 of the IPC.He said the police teams have been dispatched to various places to nab the absconding accused. He said the one arrested will be produced before the court and interrogated after obtaining the remand after which more revelations are likely to be made.He said the car, bike and sharp weapon used at the time of the incident have been recovered. In response to a question, he said during the preliminary investigation, it was found that the said incident was done with the intention of robbery, but the police are investigating it.MLA Jai Kishan Rodi said: “Law and order has collapsed in Punjab. If an MLA can be attacked, how can common people be safe? There were attacks on the ‘Thanedars’ in the Akali-BJP government, and now, an MLA has been attacked in the Congress regime. It is clear that the government has collapsed and hooliganism is increasing. Even going out on roads has become dangerous for people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/carjacking-attempt-with-mla-four-booked-one-held-353583
23-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Saido Patti village gets borewell||MLA Dr Raj Kumar, in Saido Patti village, inaugurated the work of a borewell for drinking water to be installed at a cost of Rs 8 lakhs. Village residents were troubled by drinking water and had shared their problem with Dr Raj Kumar. The MLA today inaugurated the work. On this occasion, Dr Raj Kumar said earlier too, a grant of Rs 33.87 lakh was provided to the village for the development works.With that grant the flooring was laid in village school, the streets and drains of the village have been paved and about 10 cattle sheds have been built. On this occasion, the residents of the village welcomed and thanked Dr Raj Kumar.He said he residents could always count on him. Residents of village Baldev Kumar, Ram Krishna, Bakshish Kaur Sarpanch, Sandeep Kaur Panch, Lucky Panch etc. were present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/saido-patti-village-gets-borewell-353581
23-12-2021||---||Job fair at CT Group: Over 300 shortlisted||Jalandhar, December 22A job fair was organised by the by the district administration, in association with the CT Group of Institutions at the CT Group of Institutions, Maqsudan campus today. The job fair saw the participation of the students of PG/UG/Polytechnic/ITI, diploma and Class XII pass-outs.As many as 847 candidates registered and got a chance to get absorbed by more than 25 companies. Companies namely ICICI Bank, Enexus Global, SBI Life Insurance, Itronix Solutions, CS Soft Solution, Paytm, TTL Holidays, SkillVertex, Radisson, etc. participated in this fair. Out of 847, 386 candidates got shortlisted.Gurdyal Chand, Sub Regional Employment Officer, paid a visit in the job fair. He was accompanied by Campus Director Dr Yogesh Chhabra, deputy director Dr Ramandeep Gautam, and Training and Placement Officer Kunal Verma.While appreciating the efforts of organising this job fair, Gurdyal Chand, Sub Regional Employment Officer, said, “After the long gap due to COVID-19, this was a great platform in order to raise employment opportunities for the young generation and the response remained satisfactory. The key motive was to give maximum number of jobs to the pass out students and for those as well who are looking for jobs.”Charanjit Singh Channi, chairman, Manbir Singh, managing director and Harpreet Singh, Vice-Chairman, congratulated the selected candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/job-fair-over-300-shortlisted-353580
23-12-2021||---||Rs 16 lakh robbed from bank in broad daylight||Jalandhar, December 22In a broad daylight robbery, a three-member gang decamped with Rs16 lakh from the branch of Punjab National Bank in the posh Green Model Town locality on Wednesday.The three robbers reportedly came to the bank around 9:15 am on foot and had their faces covered. Taking out their weapons from their jackets, they took the keys of the safe from the staff and looted the cash. As they went out, they took along the DVR attached with the CCTV cameras, so that no evidence in the form of footage could remain behind.The inquiry teams are trying to fetch video grabs from the CCTV cameras around the bank premises for establishing the identity of the robbers. The bank is located in a residential colony and falls near Innocent Hearts School.ADCP-1 Suhail Mir said: “The robbers chose to strike right at the time when a sweeper was opening the gates of the branch. Three unidentified men followed him immediately after. Till the time other staffers came in, the sweeper was made hostage. As the staff came, they forcibly took keys of the safe from them. Though the exact amount which has been taken away is yet to be calculated, it is expected to be close to Rs16.93 lakh.”Mir said: “Even though the main DVR has been taken away by the robbers, the bank officials said some hidden cameras, too, were installed and we are hopeful of getting some video grabs from the same. One of the accomplices was outside the premises but we are still confirming it.”Regarding weapons, the ADCP said: “As per the statements of the staff, the robbers were in possession of an indigenously-made pistol, screw driver and a sharp-edged weapon.”There have been other incidents of bank robbery in the past including the one of 10-kg gold loot from a bank on Garha Road in July this year. On this, the ADCP said: “We have been focusing on strengthening security and ensuring night domination. We have formed an SIT in this case for quick results. The locker area of the bank was safe. The bank had a secured officer but not armed personnel.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-lakh-robbed-from-bank-in-broad-daylight-353579
23-12-2021||---||DC inaugurates five-day crafts mela at Shri Devi Talab Mandir, Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 22Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori inaugurated the five-day-long crafts mela at Shri Devi Talab Mandir, where craftsmen from across the country have set up 13 counters showcasing famous craftwork of their respective states.Kick-starting the fair, the DC said this event has been organised by Shri Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha with the help of North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, wherein craftsmen from UP, Maharashtra, MP, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir besides others have set up several stalls displaying a wide range of handicrafts and craftsman skills.This mela would continue till December 26, he said, while congratulating organisers for holding the event in the city as it would enable people to connect with the rich cultural legacy of India. Notably, the fair showcased a wide range of Banarasi sarees, carpet, bead jewellery, Punjabi jutti, pottery, soft toys, and other items.Meanwhile, Thori visited each counter and said on the one hand, such fairs give a glimpse of the expertise of handicrafts and on the other it displays the rich culture of the country.He called upon people of Jalandhar to visit this crafts mela in large numbers so as to revive the culture of arts and crafts in the country. He also visited the under-construction auditorium hall of Shri Harivallabh Bhawan and took stock of works going on there.Prominent among those present included president of sabha Poornima Beri, director HS Ajmal, secretary Nitin Kapoor, Mangat Ram, cashier Ramesh Maudgil, secretary Shri Devi Talab Mandir management committee Rajesh Vij, representatives from north zone cultural centre Ravinder Sharma, and Bhupinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-peek-into-craftsmanship-from-different-states-353578
23-12-2021||---||41 positive, Dhilwan school declared containment zone||Jalandhar, December 22Three more cases of Covid positive persons reported from Kapurthala on Wednesday. All three are from Army Public School, Dhilwan.The Kapurthala distrsict tally reached 18,907 on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases reported from the school has reached 41. On Tuesday, nine persons tested positive in Kapurthala, seven of which were from the school.Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala on Wednesday. The Kapurthala district toll remains 556.Five test +ve in JalandharFive new Covid cases were reported in the district today. The district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached 63,564 cases. As many as 62,028 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has reached 35. Of the 18,79,050 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,41,791 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,167 samples is yet awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/41-ve-dhilwan-school-declared-containment-zone-353577
23-12-2021||---||Ensure CCTVs are functional, managements of religious places told||Nawanshahr, December 22After the recent sacrilege and lynching incidents, the district administrations have started asking the managements of all religious places to ensure CCTVs on the premises and keep these functional 24X7. They have also been told to depute security personnel in and outside the premises.Chairing a meeting of peace committee members here at the District Administrative Complex, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal along with Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh said recent incidents in the state have been posing a huge challenge for the peaceful atmosphere in the district. They said all of us should make concerted efforts to uphold peace and communal harmony in the district at every cost.The DC said there was absolute normalcy but still active participation of people was needed. He said any kind of communal tension/disturbance would not be good for society and concrete efforts must be made to reduce any such tension among society.Sarangal said people must refrain from getting swayed away by the rumours or false propaganda on social media and said strict action would be taken against those spreading such rumours. The DC said the administration was keeping a strict vigil to prevent any sort of untoward incident and the administration was well aware of its duty to maintain peace and harmony in the district.SDM Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon, DSP Shahbaaj Singh, SGPC members Gurbax Singh Khalsa and Mohinder Singh Husainpuri, councillor Param Singh Khalsa, Harjit Singh Manager Gurdwara Sri Charan Kanwal Sahib Banga, Jagdip Singh from Guru Nanak Mission Sewa Society, Surjit Singh from Nishkam Tiffin Sewa Society, Varinder Ummat of Shiv Mandir Kacha Tobha Kulam Road and Gopal Shardha of Dasehra Committee among others lauded the administration’s initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-cctvs-are-functional-mgmts-of-religious-places-told-353576
23-12-2021||---||LPU student makes it to NASA’s space programme||Jalandhar, December 22A B Tech ECE (Hons)-II student of Lovely Professional University (LPU) has been selected to undergo International Air and Space Programme (IASP) at NASA Launch Operations’ Kennedy Space Centre situated in Alabama (USA).IASP selects only a handful of 20 young people from all over the world for this prestigious programme. Hailing from Andhra Pradesh, Jahanvi Dangeti is the first person of Indian origin to be selected for this programme. Jahanvi completed the entire astronaut programme at Kennedy Space Centre, Alabama (USA). It involved activities including zero gravity, multi-access training, underwater rocket launch, and also operated an aircraft for the first time.Aiming highUnder the guidance of her LPU teachers and mentors, Jahanvi cracked the IASP interview and moved to the US to attend this programme. Jahnavi was also appointed the mission director for ‘Team Kennedy’, where she led a group of 16 people from several countries. Her team successfully launched and landed a miniature rocket into the sky. Her determination, initiative, sacrifice, and decisions enabled her to accomplish objectives required of her. She went through various phases and got trained as an astronaut. There, she also got mentoring from a retired American naval aviator and a former NASA astronaut Kenneth D Cameron. LPU chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the student and encouraged her to be in the illustrious footsteps of India’s globally reputed astronauts including Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams.At LPU, Jahnavi is an active member of student organisation ‘Robotics and Intelligent System Community. RISC has helped many students in achieving their goals through innovative workshops, global competitions, participations and social events. Students have also created a number of innovative devices, products including driverless car, hybrid vehicles and more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-student-makes-it-to-nasas-space-programme-353575
23-12-2021||---||Teachers attempt suicide outside Education Minister’s house in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 22Several protesting unemployed members of the B Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union attempted suicide in front of the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday.While the Cabinet minister’s home has turned into a cantonment as regular protests are taking place outside his residence for the past over a month, teachers on Wednesday took it a step further as several of them poured kerosene oil on their body in a bid to commit suicide.While chaotic scenes were witnessed as unemployed teachers raised slogans against the state government, things heated up when several of them tried immolating self. Cops apprehended several teachers as they poured oil on themselves while being apprehended by the police. Several teachers were held and oil bottles and match sticks were snatched from them as they tried setting themselves on fire.Teachers Sandeep Gill, Amandeep Sekha and Jagsir Singh poured oil on themselves and tried lighting matches before being prevented by cops and colleagues.Scuffle-like scenes and utter chaos prevailed outside the minister’s residence as teachers indulged in intense sloganeering and cops tried to control the situation. Irate teachers pushed and pulled as cops held them back from the residence and snatched oil and matchsticks from them.Two teachers — Jawant Ghubaya and Munish Fazilka — who have been protesting atop a tank in Jalandhar, also threatened to commit suicide.While the state government recently released notification for the recruitment of 4,185 teachers, in response to three month long protest by B Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union, teachers have in turn complained that there was no clarity yet whether these recruitments also include posts of SST, Hindi and Punjabi teacher.Their three-month protest has been on the prime demand of advertisements of posts of 9,000 teachers specifically in the aforementioned subjects.Union leader Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said: “Teachers are fed up of the government’s doublespeak that’s why they attempted suicide today. Government has released notification, but teachers can’t apply for these yet. Also, there is no clarity whether these include the three subjects in which we need maximum recruitments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-attempt-suicide-outside-edu-mins-house-353574
