24-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Harbhajan Singh announces retirement from cricket; says all good things come to an end||Chandigarh, December 24Veteran India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday announced retirement from cricket. He took to the social media to bid adieu to the game.He wrote: “All good things come to an end and today as I bid adieu to the game that has given me everything in life, I would like to thank everyone who made this 23-year-long journey beautiful and memorable. My heartfelt thank you Grateful”All good things come to an end and today as I bid adieu to the game that has given me everything in life, I would like to thank everyone who made this 23-year-long journey beautiful and memorable.My heartfelt thank you 🙏 Grateful .https://t.co/iD6WHU46MU  The 41-year-old from Punjab took 417 wickets in 103 Tests, 269 wickets in 236 ODIs and 25 scalps in 28 T20Is in his illustrious career.Also read: Harbhajan Singh set for 'doosra' innings, may contest on Congress ticket from NakodarHarbhajan, who made his India debut during an ODI against New Zealand at Sharjah in 1998, last played for the country in March, 2016 during a T20I against the UAE at Dhaka.One of the most memorable moments in his international career was when he snapped 32 wickets in three Tests, including the first Test hat-trick by an Indian, against Australia in March, 2001. With inputs from PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/sports/harbhajan-singh-announces-retirement-from-cricket-says-all-good-things-come-to-an-end-354007
24-12-2021||---||After blast in Ludhiana, dog squad checks court complex in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23After the blast at District Court Complex in Ludhiana, the judicial officials at the District Court Complex in Jalandhar have raised their voice demanding better security arrangements at the complex.The city police, too, tried to beef up security by deploying dog squads and checking the entire three-storey compound near BMC Chowk here. The security staff deployed at the court complex was given a special briefing and was asked to remain alert at all times and ensure frisking of every single person entering the court.Largely on occasions when VIPs visit the court, the security remains active and alert. A complacent attitude was often seen during rush hours with visitors trying to avoid passing through metal detectors and hence entry of a person inside the compound with arms or explosives hidden inside jackets cannot be ruled out. The court complex has more than 1,000 visitors, other than judicial officials, court staff and lawyers, entering daily from the two gates.The judicial officials expressed concern as a meeting was held under the chairmanship of District and Sessions Judge Rupinderjit Chahal. Amit Kumar Garg, CJM and Sushma Devi, ACJM and Om Parkash Sharma, president, Bar Association, were also present. Sandeep Malik, Joint Commissioner of Police; Aditiya, Assistance Commissioner of Police (headquarters); Jaspreet Singh, Assistance Commissioner of Police; Sukhdeep Singh, Assistance Commissioner of Police (Central) and Inspector Sewa Singh; SHO Navi Baradari, were also present to review the security on the court complex.District and Sessions Judge Rupinderjit Chahal directed the police officers to ensure proper security so that any untoward incident can be avoided and there is no fear in the minds of judicial officers, employees, advocates and litigants. The police officers who were present in the meeting assured to take necessary steps for everyone’s security.Three judicial officials, including the CJM, ACJM and Additional Civil Judge Senior Division, were asked to coordinate with the police officials regarding the security. Lawyers, too, expressed their concern about safety measures that need to be adopted.Mandeep Sachdev, senior lawyer and former DBA president, said: “Only four cops are deployed at the commonly used gate. Only one of them is armed and there is no plan in place in the event of any eventuality like the way it happened today. The district courts, too, need to have safety measures for exit during emergency and bunkers to prevent any gate crash.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-blast-in-ludhiana-dog-squad-checks-court-complex-353901
24-12-2021||---||Red Alert operation: 60 liquor vends checked, 4 FIRs lodged in Nawanshahr||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, December 23To curb the flow of illicit liquor ahead of Assembly elections, three teams of the Excise Department have been working round the clock in the district since the last fortnight under Red Alert Operation.Each team comprising three officials from the Excise Department along with police officials have been deployed in three Assembly seats of Banga, Nawanshahr and Balachaur. These joint teams have so far physically examined stock of 60 liquor vends in the district and checked CCTV recordings, stock registers besides inspecting four L-1 and eleven L-13 in the district. Till date, all records have been found satisfactory in all these shops, four L-1 and eleven L-13. Further, these teams have also been checking hotels, beer bars, dhabas, rice shellers, marriage palaces and other places to ensure proper surveillance. —  Vishesh Sarangal, Nawanshahr DC Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said each team comprising three officials from the Excise Department along with police officials have been deployed in three Assembly constituencies of Banga, Nawanshahr and Balachaur. He said these joint teams have so far physically examined stock of 60 liquor vends in the district and checked CCTV recordings, stock registers besides inspecting four L-1 and eleven L-13 in the district.He said that till date, all records have been found satisfactory in all these shops, four L-1 and eleven L-13.Further, Sarangal said these teams have also been checking hotels, beer bars, dhabas, rice shellers, marriage palaces and other places to ensure proper surveillance.Likewise, the teams have also registered four FIRs in separate incidents wherein 45-litre lahan was seized from Talwandi Sibu village and illicit liquor from other locations, he said, adding that cases have been lodged under Sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act.He said special dedicated checking points have been installed at all crucial spots, including wholesale depots, to ensure there is no illegal movement of liquor and no one is involved in any kind of malpractice.Sarangal said these teams have been keeping a hawk-eye on the menace and directions have been issued to take strict action against the persons involved in the illicit liquor trade.Raid at karyana shopJalandhar: A raid was conducted by excise inspectors Raman Bhagat, Sukhwinder Singh and Paramjit Singh and excise police staff at karyana shop and residence of Ashok Kumar at Sansarpur village, from where they recovered 15 quarts of PML whisky (for sale in Chandigarh),1 quart another branded whisky and half quart PML (for sale in Chandigarh ). The officials said they were getting an FIR lodged at the Cantonment police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/red-alert-operation-60-liquor-vends-checked-4-firs-lodged-353902
24-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Region's double connect with Bollywood movie '83||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23As the much-awaited Bollywood movie ’83 is set to be screened in cinema halls tomorrow, Jalandhar residents recall that at least two cricketers who were a part of the historic event when the Indian Cricket Team won the World Cup for the first time in 1983 had a connection with this region.Among the squad was Balwinder Sandhu, a native of Mattewal village of Amritsar, and Mohinder Amarnath, who hails from Gopipur village of Kapurthala. While Sandhu’s role will be played by actor Ammy Virk, Amarnath’s portrayal will be brought forth by actor Saqib Saleem.Sandhu still has the regional connect as his sister Paramjit Kaur Cheema resides in the Ladhewali area here. Elated over the release of the movie on Friday, Cheema said: “I wish I could have watched the movie tomorrow but owing to certain engagements, I will be away. But I will definitely go to the theatre this weekend to revive those old memories when my brother had come home winning the cup 38 years ago and the whole country acknowledged him as the hero of the triumph, especially when he bowled Gorden Greenidge in the finals.”Cheema said: “Our paternal house was situated in Amritsar, but our maternal grandmother hailed from Patti. Our father was a writer and he had moved to Mumbai, where we all were raised. But my marriage brought me to back to Punjab. My brother, too, is set to have a new connect with the region with his younger daughter who will soon get married to a family from Jalandhar.”Sandhu’s brother-in-law Sajjan Singh Cheema, who was the Captain of the Indian basketball team, retired as SSP and is currently AAP leader from Sultanpur Lodhi, too, shared his excitement: “I, too, intend to spare some time from my political engagements to watch Sandhu’s film.”He said: “Other than Sandhu, even Mohinder Amarnath who was in the squad hails from Kapurthala. His grandfather Nanak Chand ran a shop in the village and is no more. I met Mohinder twice. His Gopipur village was just adjoining my native village — Dabulian. Both villages earlier had a common panchayat and gave three cricketers (Lala Amarnath, his sons Mohinder Amarnath and Surinder Amarnath) and four-five international cagers, including me, my brother Balkar Cheema and cousin Kuldeep Cheema.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regions-double-connect-with-83-353903
24-12-2021||---||20 sewadars fall ill after having langar at dera in Mukerian village, 2 kids critical||Our CorrespondentMukerian, December 23About 22 sewadars fell ill after partaking of langar at Dera Sarv Dharm Prakash in Manjhpur village of Mukerian subdivision in Hoshiapur district on Thursday.As the condition of 22 people deteriorated, they were admitted to the Civil Hospital with the help of residents of the area. Out of them, two children, who were critical, were referred to Government Medical College in Amritsar.Giving this information, SMO GP Singh said 16 persons were brought to the hospital in the morning, who were alleged to be suffering from diarrhoea. Meanwhile, six more persons were brought to the hospital in the afternoon.The SMO said all the patients admitted to the hospital were out of danger except for two children.Akali-BSP candidate Sarvjot Singh Sabi also reached the Civil Hospital to enquire about the condition of the patients. Some patients told him that CCTVs were installed in the kitchen of the dera. After watching the footage of the CCTVs, the police can get clues how the incident happened. Investigation is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-sewadars-fall-ill-after-having-langar-2-kids-critical-353904
24-12-2021||---||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee goes on indefinite dharna at Jalandhar Cantt railway station||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23Under Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) district president Salwinder Singh Jania and Kapurthala president Sarwan Singh Baupur, farmers on Thursday began an indefinite protest at the Jalandhar Cantt railway station.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra and Gurlal Singh, state secretary and state treasurer of the committee, respectively, were also present at the station. While a meeting of the KMSC with the Deputy CM had taken place in Chandigarh on September 29 (the day when dharnas were held at all state headquarters by farmers), he had assured farmers of fulfilling all their demands in 20 days. But farmers said these would remain just empty assurances until the demands were fulfilled.The KSMC had been holding chakka jam across the state since December 20. Increasing the places of protests, a stir began at the local railway station.Farmer leaders asked the government that financial aid of Rs 5 lakh be given to families of farmers who lost their lives during the farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders. They also demanded jobs for one member of their family and debt waiver.Their other demands included strict punishment for those who were involved in the killing of farmers holding a protest in Lakhimpur Kheri of UP, removal of the scarcity of urea and other fertilisers, formulation of law ensuring the guaranteed MSP for 23 crops, reduce prices of oil products, withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, and implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report.Besides, women and children also participated in the dharna during which farmers raised slogans and squatted on the railway tracks at the station. Leaders warned if their demands were not fulfilled soon, they would announce intensify their stir. Satnam Singh Raiwal, Lohian zone president, Nirmal Singh Dhandowal from the Dhandowal zone, Jarnail Singh, Major Singh Padda, Sukhpreet Singh, among others, were present during the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmsc-goes-on-indefinite-dharna-at-railway-station-353905
24-12-2021||---||DC Ghanshyam Thori checks polling booths in Shahkot, Phillaur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday conducted surprise check at the polling booth falling under the area of Phillaur, Shahkot and Malsian, where he directed the poll staff to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India while preparing for the forthcoming Assembly poll.Accompanied by the Returning Officer, Assistant Returning Officer and Sector Officers of Shahkot constituency, the DC checked polling booths bearing nos. 139 to 141 at Government Elementary School, 142-144 at Government Middle School,146-149 at Government Elementary School (Girls), and booth no 157-158 located at Government Elementary School, Dhandowal, followed by similar checking at Malsian and Phillaur.Thori had a detailed discussion with the poll staff from the standpoint of inclusion of specially-abled persons, persons above the age of 80 years and first-time voters (18-19 age group) in the voters’ list. He said with collective efforts, this task could be achieved, thereby ensuring no one was left without the voting rights. He said special arrangements would be made to make these people able to exercise their right to franchise.The DC conducted checks at the polling booths at Bundala village of Phillaur constituency and reviewed the arrangements made by the poll staff to facilitate voters at the polling stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-checks-polling-booths-in-shahkot-phillaur-353906
24-12-2021||---||'Desecration, blast a conspiracy'||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, December 23Senior Congress leader co-convener of the Punjab Congress Sewa Dal, Pankaj Kirpal Advocate, talking to media persons, after paying obeisance at Mata Hari Devi temple in Bhawanipur village, said, the incidents of desecration in Punjab and the bomb blast in Ludhiana were a conspiracy to intimidate the Hindu community.He said last time also, before the Punjab Assembly elections, a bomb had been detonated at Maur Mandi, the reality of which could not be ascertained till date. “But this time the Hindu community will use the vote for their rights, not out of fear,” he said. He said the government should seriously investigate the incidents of indecency in Punjab and the bomb blast in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/desecration-blast-a-conspiracy-353907
24-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Cultural programme kickstarts in Hoshiarpur||The two-day Sahodya Cultural Programme-2021 was started with great enthusiasm at Rayat Bahra International School, 65 schools affiliated to CBSE participated in the cultural programme.On this occasion, Principal Kiran Dhami and Secretary Dr APS Chawla were the chief guests. Prof Bharat Bhushan Bharti, who arrived specially, was the guest of honour. In the two-day long event, the competitions held on the first day included poetry, pronunciation, mime, mimicry, poster making and dance.Around 2,500 students are participating in the programme. Chairman Gurvinder Bahra and Campus Director Dr Chandra Mohan lauded the talent of children and wished them a bright future. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cultural-programme-kickstarts-in-hoshiarpur-353908
24-12-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers lay siege to Jalandhar DC office||The farmer organisations, which are a part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, today blocked the entrance of the District Administrative Complex over their various demands.Led by farmer Kashmir Singh, members of the morcha raised slogans against the state government for dilly-dallying their demands. Among the main issue that was raised by the farmers was providing the promised compensation to the families of the farmers who lost their lives protesting against the Centre during the farmers’ protest on the Delhi borders. They also demanded a job for the next of the kin for each of these 700 victims.The farmers also demanded that notification of land of farmers being acquired in areas around Mehatpur including in Udowal, Pachharia, Bulanda be withdrawn.“Already two farmers including Megha Singh and Jaswinder Singh have committed suicide for forcible acquisition of their land. The land is being acquired just to benefit one person even as there already is a road passage in the area,” the farmers alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-lay-siege-to-dc-office-353909
24-12-2021||---||Hoshiarpur: Husband held for dowry death||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 23The Hariana police have registered a case against the husband of a newly married woman who died under mysterious circumstances in Tajpur village. It appears to be a dowry death and the husband has been held. The police produced the accused in the court and obtained remand for two days for interrogation.Giving information in this regard, investigation officer Major Singh, said that Inderjit Kumar, a resident of village Bhatian Bet in Ludhiana district, told the police that his sister Shashi Bala was married to Lakhveer Singh, a resident of Tajpur on March 10, this year. Shortly after the marriage, his sister's husband allegedly started demanding Rs five lakh to go to Italy. Not seeing the demand being fulfilled, her husband started harassing her. According to the victim's brother, yesterday, receiving the information of his sister's death, he reached her in-laws' house and complained to the police.As soon as the information was received, taking possession of the dead body, the police sent it for post-mortem.The accused was arrested while the dead body was handed over to the heirs. Police officer Major Singh said after the post-mortem report of the deceased was received, it was revealed that she was pregnant.He said a case has been registered against the arrested accused under Section 304B of the IPC. Police remand for two days has been obtained for interrogating the accused after presenting him in the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/husband-held-for-dowry-death-353910
24-12-2021||---||Akalis allege Bikram Majithia's arrest  as vendetta||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23Local Akali leaders, including MLA Gurpartap Wadala and Pawan Tinu today alleged that the lodging of FIR against ex-minister Bikram Majithia was a clear case of vendetta by the ruling party.Accompanied by ex-MLA Jagbir Brar, SGPC member Kulwant S Mannan and BSP leader Balwinder Kumar, Wadala said the appropriate legal framework had been followed in the lodging of the case. “The FIR has been lodged on the direct orders of the DGP. The Congress changed the DGP so many times to get their ‘yesman’ on the position after two previous officials refused to lodge the case against Majithia,” said the SAD leaders.Wadala said building the case against Majithia was registered just on the grounds that some shady people used to come and meet him. “All kinds of people meet the politicians and the leaders cannot just be booked on such flimsy grounds,” they raised the issue alleging that the ruling Congress was indulging in such tactics just to regain their lost ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/akalis-allege-majithias-arrest-as-vendetta-353911
24-12-2021||Jalandhar||Cervical cancer vaccination camp at Rurka Kalan||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cervical-cancer-vaccination-camp-353912
24-12-2021||Jalandhar||Mayor World School, Jalandhar, celebrates Ganit Utsav (Mathematics carnival)||Martyrdom of Swami ShradhanandHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya paid tributes to Swami Shradhanand on his 95th death anniversary by organising Havan Yajna. Officiating Principal Navroop Kaur paid floral tribute to Swami Shradhanand. On this occasion, she said that Swami Shradhanand was an Indian educationist and an Arya Samaj Missionary who propagated the teachings of Dayanand Saraswati. This included the establishment of educational institutions, like the Gurukul Kangri University. He also worked for the betterment of the society and aimed to produce disciplines citizens in the community. She further motivated the faculty to follow the teachings of Swami Shradhanand. Mamta, Dean Vedic Adhyan Society, also paid tribute to Swami Shradhanand on the occasion. Dr. Meenu Talwar, Head of Sanskrit Department, also paid tribute to this great personality. At the end, members of teaching and non-teaching staff paid floral tribute to Swami Shradhanand. Havan Yajna ended with the recitation of Shanti Path.Voter awareness programmeTo create awareness amongst the youth about the rights and duties of a voter in India, Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme was organised on the campus of MGN Public School Kapurthala. Resource person was Suneeta Singh, Nodal officer (SVEEP) Kapurthala. Voter' oath was administered. Students of class XI attended the programme. Games were played by the students and quiz was also organised. Students of were apprised of the voter helpline app that can help a voter to gather any information. The programme was quite enlightening and provided knowledge to the children about the significance of voting. Principal Rashmi Sharma thanked the guests for sparing their time for sharing the facts about this important topic.Inspirational talksKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised another talk under Alumni Speaks- a series of inspirational talks. Under Alumni Speaks series, PG Department of Computer Science and Applications organised another talk of alumni. Reacha Jain Gupta, Vice President, Genpact, was the resource person for the talk. The session was organised virtually through a zoom meeting. Reacha addressed the students and gave them tips for gaining confidence, facing the world and about the corporate world's expectation on their domain expertise. She talked about the skills required to be acquired by the students in the vast domain -like a good hold on at least one programming language, problem solving skills, learning about new innovation and inventions. She also added on details of how perseverance with dedication can lead to success in the business. Principal Dr.Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that this type of webinar is very essential for the students as it gives them a very accurate information regarding the skills required to make a powerful career in the IT world as it motivates the students to follow their dreams fearlessly and confidently. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr. Suman Khurana, Dr. Pardeep Arora from PG Department of Computer Science and all the faculty members of PG Department of Computer Science for organising this inspirational talk.Webinar on road safetyPost Graduation Department of Economics, Lyallpur Khalsa College conducted a webinar regarding road safety to create awareness among students about road accidents and safety measures. As many as 179 students from different streams actively participated and pledged to take steps towards safe driving. Nisha Singh, chief speaker for the session, apprised of students of the causes and prevention of road accidents. It was an interactive session in which students also share their real life stories. Principal of the college, Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra graced the occasion with his presence and congratulated the Department of Economics for making efforts contributing in creating awareness among students to take Road Safety measures. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ganit-utsav-mathematics-carnival-353913
24-12-2021||Jalandhar||Eight new Covid cases in Jalandhar||One +ve in Kapurthala: After the Army Public School, Dhilwan, was declared a containment zone owing to as many as 41 Covid positive cases being reported from there, the Kapurthala district on Thursday had a temporary reprieve in Covid cases. Only one case of Covid was reported from the district taking the district tally to 18,908.  Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala. The toll remains at 556. TNSIntoxicants seized, 3 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers, including a woman and recovered intoxicants from them. According to the information, the Model Town police have arrested Kundan Kumar, a resident of New Fatehgarh and recovered 32 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Dasuya police arrested Karan Kumar, a resident of Johlan village, and recovered intoxicating capsules from him. Similarly, Tanda police have arrested Sarbjit Kaur, alias Rodi Baba, and recovered 10 grams of heroin from her. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. ocbetting: 1 held with Rs3,200 Hoshiarpur: The Model Town police have arrested a Kirti Nagar resident Santosh Kumar under the charge of betting. The police have recovered cash worth Rs3,200 put on bet and slips of betting from him. An FIR under the Gambling Act has been lodged against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-new-cases-in-jalandhar-353914
