25-12-2021||---||CM: Nursing college at Comrade Harkishan Surjeet's village soon||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced a nursing college to be constructed at Bundala, the ancestral village of great communist leader Harkishan Singh Surjeet.After paying floral tributes to communist stalwart Harkishan Singh Surjeet and his wife Pritam Kaur in the village, the Chief Minister said the village panchayat had been asked to provide five acres so that the necessary formalities for setting up the nursing college could be completed within the next 10 days.The CM named a 25-km-long road leading to Jandiala from Bara Pind after Comrade Harkishan Singh Surjeet Marg, which would be re-carpeted at a cost of Rs 6 crore.Earlier, the Chief Minister also named Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Bundala, after the iconic political personality. These projects and announcements are not big things against the huge contribution and role played by Harkishan Singh Surjeet in safeguarding and strengthening the democratic set-up of the country, said ChanniAs for his contribution, Channi said he had always stood at the forefront against the tyranny unleashed by divisive and facist forces in the larger interest of the nation.He also recalled that Harkishan Singh Surjeet had played a vital role in making the UPA government led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, besides keeping the CPI and CPI (M) intact. He also mentioned that Surjeet spent his entire political career for the welfare of the downtrodden and deprived section of society.Meanwhile, CPI state secretary Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon, state committee member Gurchetan Singh and others presented a shawl to Channi. Prominent among those present on the occasion were Education Minister Pargat Singh and Lok Sabha member Chaudhary Santokh Singh, his son Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary, district Congress Rural president Darshan Singh Tahli, communist leaders Sukhpreet Johal, Bhoop Chand Channo, Balbir Singh Jadla, Parshotam Singh Bilga and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-nursing-college-at-comrade-harkishan-surjeets-village-soon-354291
25-12-2021||---||Deputy CM Soni lays stone of emergency block in Mukerian||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 24The foundation stone of a new building of the emergency block was laid by Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni here on Thursday. constructed at Civil Hospital Mukerian at a cost of Rs. 4.52 Crore.Soni, in his address, said the Punjab Government was committed to providing all kinds of health facilities to the people. He said the Emergency / Trauma ward, being set up in the Mukerian Civil Hospital, located on the National Highway, would provide all kinds of facilities, especially in case of an accident.He said a minor operation theatre, nursing station and other emergency facilities would be provided here in this new ward. All these facilities would be available free of cost for 18 beds, including two private beds, in the ward for both male and female patients.Apart from this, the old building of this hospital would be renovated at a cost of Rs 1.9 crore. He said in addition to this, an oxygen plant and a dialysis facility would be provided very soon.MLA Indu Bala, SDM Navneet Kaur Bal and Civil Surgeon Parminder Kaur were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deputy-cm-soni-lays-stone-of-emergency-block-in-mukerian-354292
25-12-2021||---||17 fresh cases surface in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24The district witnessed a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases with 17 persons testing positive on Friday. The total tally has reached 63,589.As many as 62,032 people have recovered from the disease while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has reached 56.With no new death due to Covid-19 reported, the death toll stood at 1,501. Of the 18,84,032 samples collected in the district so far, 17,46,947 tested negative. The report of as many as 1,048 samples is still awaited.No new case in KapurthalaThe district on Friday got a relief as no new Covid-19 case was reported. Besides, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district. The district tally remained at 18,908 with no new sample testing positive.Meanwhile, no new death was reported in the district. The death toll stood at 556.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/17-fresh-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-district-354293
25-12-2021||---||Angry activists burn effigy of govt over FIR against Bikram Majithia||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24Alleging vendetta in lodging FIR against ex-minister Bikram Singh Majithia, the leaders of the district unit of Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday lodged a protest outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner and burnt the effigy of the state government.The party workers were led by MLAs Gurpartap Wadala, Baldev Khaira and Pawan Tinu, SGPC member Kulwant Singh Mannan and ex-MLA Jagbir Brar.The leaders said false case had been lodged against Majithia that, too, by changing three DGPs in three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/angry-activists-burn-effigy-of-govt-over-fir-against-majithia-354294
25-12-2021||Jalandhar||Sec 144 imposed in  rural areas of Jalandhar||In view of the recent incidents, the district administration imposed Section 144 in the rural areas of the district for two months to ensure ‘peace and order ’.The order was issued by Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Amarjeet Singh Bains.The orders says: “Untoward incidents have been happening in the state for the past few days, due to which there is danger of peaceful and lawful situation to be disrupted. To ensure peace and order in the district, it is imperative that restrictions be placed on taking out any kinds of march or procession; bearing of any kinds of fire arms, knives, sharp-edged weapons or fatal weapons; gathering of five or more persons or sloganeering etc. by them. The orders will stay implemented from December 23, 2021 to February 21, 2022.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sec-144-imposed-in-rural-areas-354295
25-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Ready for next innings of life, says Turbanator - Harbhajan Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24As veteran spinner Harbhajan Singh (41) formally announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Friday, political circles in Punjab were abuzz with what could be his next move.My 25-year-journey that started from the narrow lanes of Jalandhar to become the Turbanator for Team India has been a beautiful one. Donning the jersey of India and getting on the field gave me the biggest motivation of life. There are times when one has to move forward taking tough decisions. — Harbhajan Singh, Veteran Spinner, Indian cricket teamPost his recent meeting with PPCC chief and cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh, everyone’s guess is that he could be joining Congress and could be fielded from Nakodar seat in Jalandhar. But Bhajji denied any such plans, adding: “There isn’t anything to share at the moment.”However, in the last few lines of his six-minute video, which he posted on his official YouTube channel on Friday, he is heard saying: “A new chapter with new challenges is set to start in my life now. Believe me, your Turbanator is ready for this exam. Just continue pouring your love on me.” It is these last words in the video and his timing to retire just ahead of the Assembly poll that has made everyone speculate if his next innings could be politics.The country’s fourth-highest wicket taker started the video referring to his home in Jalandhar. He starts with salutation, “Sat Sri Akal, dosto” and then goes on in Hindi: “My 25-year-journey that started from the narrow lanes of Jalandhar to become the Turbanator for Team India has been a beautiful one. Donning the jersey of India and getting on the field gave me the biggest motivation of life. There are times when one has to move forward taking tough decisions.” Then he announces his retirement from all forms of cricket.He tweeted this video link with his words: “All good things come to an end and today as I bid adieu to the game that has given me everything in life, I would like to thank everyone who made this long journey beautiful and memorable.” He had a long list of people, including his family, to acknowledge, in which he even mentioned about the Punjab Cricket Association.Meanwhile, Bhajji is set to visit Burlton Park on Saturday afternoon. The park has a stadium, where from he had started his cricketing career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ready-for-next-innings-of-life-says-turbanator-354296
25-12-2021||The 146th edition of the Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan — one of the oldest festivals of Hindustani classical music in the world — took off to a flying start at Devi Talab Mandir in the city on Friday. Tribune Correspondent Deepkamal Kaur and photojournalist Sarabjit Singh capture the myriad images on the first day of the three-day gala festival||Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan begins at Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar||Melodious sounds of musical instruments resonate through the freezing December nights at Devi Talab Mandir in the city. The audiences brave the cold weather, wrap themselves up in blankets and stay glued to watch the performances of the doyens of classical music till the wee hours of the morning. This is that time of the year for which music aficionados from the city and around wait the whole year. As the music exponents from across the country have already started descending in the hall of the temple, the atmosphere is already charged up and everyone is waiting to enjoy those raga-based rhythmic beats.The three-day-long Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan hosts 15-20 artistes every year. The sammelan is celebrated every year at the sacred seat of music, which is the Samadhi of the saint and exponent Baba Harivallabh. The traditional sammelan dates back to 1875, which was held at the same venue.The artistes who regaled the audiences on Friday were shehnai maestro Vikas Babu, dhrupad exponent Uday Bhawalkar, santoor artiste Dr Varsha Agrawal and renowned flautist Pt Ronu Majumdar. Some eminent artistes who are set to perform for the next two days include vocalists Kaushiki Chakraborty and Saniya Patankar, tabla player Sudhir Pandey and sitarist Purbayan Chatterjee.The mahasabha that organises the sammelan aims to encourage budding musicians and an open competition precedes the festival. But owing to the pandemic, the competition part of the festival has not been included this time again. Instead, a crafts mela was organised at the temple premises in association with the North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, wherein 13 stalls of phulkari, jewellery and other traditional items were put on sale. Prior to the sammelan, a havan yagna, too, was performed on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sound-of-music-354297
25-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Elderly hit by vehicle, dies||Three arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested three smugglers with intoxicants on Thursday. Garhdiwala police recovered 53 grams of intoxicating powder from Dharampal, alias Pali, a resident of Fambda village. The police arrested Amandeep Singh, alias Babbu, a resident of Marula village, and recovered 22 bottles of smuggled liquor from him. Similarly, Mukerian police arrested Rishav Kumar, a resident of Alipur village, and recovered 10 grams of heroin from him. Separate cases have been registered against the accused by respective police stations. OCShiv Sena protests blast in LudhianaHoshiarpur: Under the chairmanship of Somraj Bajwa, city president of Shiv Sena Bal Thackeray, vice-president Santosh Gupta and Mahilpur in-charge Paramjit Singh Pala, an effigy of terrorism was burnt at Rahimpur Chowk in protest against the bomb blast in the Ludhiana court complex here on Thursday. The protesters raised slogans against the Congress-led state government and the Chief Minister alleging that the government had failed to protect the state. Bajwa and Gupta said it seemed that terror was rearing its ugly head again in the state. In Punjab, bomb blasts are happening, religious texts are being desecrated, incidents of cow slaughtering and idol-breaking incidents are happening continuously. The Congress government has failed miserably to stop such incidents. Before elections, anti-national forces have become active in fomenting terror activities. Moreover, Punjab’s intelligence agencies have failed to detect them. OCDBEE nodal point for complaintsHoshiarpur: District Bureau for Employment and Enterprise (DBEE), Hoshiarpur, has been made the nodal point to register fraud-related complaints regarding foreign travel, studies abroad and employment. This status is given to the DBEE through Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act, 2012, and Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act, 2014, by the Punjab Government. District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Officer Gurmail Singh said complaints could be lodged against registered and unregistered travel agents in the bureau. Any victim of fraud regarding foreign travel could submit the complaint to the nodal point from 9am to 5pm on any working day. The complainant must bring along his or her valid ID card and suitable documents should be attached with the complaint. Oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/elderly-hit-by-vehicle-dies-354298
