26-12-2021||---||Licence mandatory for selling eatables from Jan 1, says FDA||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25No food items can be sold without licence/registration number from January 1 next year. This direction was shared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Kapurthala, today.As per the order shared by the FDA, FSSAI has made it mandatory for every food business operator, including manufacturer, wholesaler, retailer, distributor, hotel, restaurant, dhaba etc to mention food safety licence No. on bill/invoice issued with effect from January 1, 2022. Earlier, the same order was to come into force with effect from October 1, 2021, but relaxation was given by FSSAI, the nodal authority.As per the order, no food items can be sold without licence/registration number.The FDA said, “The direction has to be implemented for the convenience of customers so that with this unique licence/registration number, they can easily lodge complaint against erring sweetmeat shops, hotels/restaurants, catering units and businessmen selling food. The unique 14-digit licence/registration number will help in tracing and locating businessman concerned. Officials concerned will take action against defaulting businessmen.”This mandatory display of licence/registration will go a long way in redressing grievances of aggrieved consumers. This will also help in identifying how many FBOs have got themselves registered with FSSAI.Meanwhile, Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, FDA (Food & Drug Administration), Kapurthala, has urged all food businessmen to follow guideline issued by FSSAI without any delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/licence-mandatory-for-selling-eatables-from-jan-1-says-fda-354604
26-12-2021||Jalandhar||No new case  in Jalandhar||No new Covid case was reported in Jalandhar district today. The district Covid tally remained at 63,589. As many as 62,034 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases stood at 54 today. With no new death reported from coronavirus today, the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,501. Of 18,86,174 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,49,332 had tested negative. Result of 510 samples is awaited.No Covid case was detected in Kapurthala district today. The district Covid tally remained at 18,908 today with no new samples testing positive. Meanwhile, no new death was reported from the virus in district today. The total death tally in Kapurthala district until now remains at 556. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-new-case-in-jalandhar-354606
26-12-2021||Jalandhar||Joint front of workers, pensioners to oppose policies of Cong govt||A joint meeting of the Punjab UT Employees Joint Front was held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall today against the recent rampant cuts in salaries and allowances of employees, pensioners and workers by the government instead of listening to their demands.During meeting, it was decided that a strike would be held by employees on December 28 and 29. A decision was also taken to hold a demonstration and block the National Highway and Ladowal toll plaza on January 8.In a statement joint front convenor Satish Rana, Germanjit Singh and Sukhjit Singh said without regularising contractual employees, the state government was indulging in false publicity about regularising 36,000 employees. They said the truth was that the government did not regularise any employee nor increased salaries of daily wage workers.As opposed to their electoral promise, the state government not only implemented the Sixth Pay Commssion report with considerable delay, but also played with rights of pensioners and employees in an unconstitutional manner, leaders added.The government similarly put a stop to 37 allowances in both the rural and border areas stopping even marginal advantages gained from the pay commission, said leaders.Keeping employees recruited after July 17, 2020, devoid of the pay commission benefits; denying probation period benefits to employees recruited after 2016; delaying the implementation of the old pension scheme; denying employees’ ACP and regular atrocities on unemployed people holding demonstrations and other such measures by the Channi government proved that it was denying employees their rights, leaders added.Joint front leaders Kulwaran Singh, Kulbir Moga, Surinder Puari, Shiv Kumar Tiwari, Hardeep Todarpur, Teerath Singh Bassi and others said their key demands include regularising contractual staff, increasing pay of daily wagers, proper hike in salaries of all employees and pensioners as per pay commssion, restoring pay parity of unreserved and partially revised categories of employees, restoration of probation period benefits of employees recuited after 1.1.2016, restoring pay commssion benefits of the employees recruited after July 17, 2020; restoration of allowances and ACPs, re-implemenattion of old pension scheme, among others. They said for these demands actions had been planned on December 28, 29 and January 8.The joint front also decided that the CM, ministers and PPCC president would be opposed with black flags wherever they go in the state. BK Khanna, Harjinder Singh Dudhala, Sukhwinder Singh Chahal, Simerjit SIngh Brar, Rajiv Kharwal among others were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/joint-front-of-workers-pensioners-to-oppose-policies-of-cong-govt-354607
26-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Three members of robbers' gang held with looted goods||Hoshiarpur, December 25The district police has claimed to have arrested three members of the robbers’ gang. The arrested accused had also attacked Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Garhshankar Jaikishan Rodi three days ago with the intention of snatching his vehicle. The police have recovered a 315 bore country-made pistol, gold and silver jewellery, a car, two motorcycles and 13 mobile phones from the arrested accused.Addressing a press conference at the Police Lines here, SSP Kulwant Singh Heer said on December 22, some youths attacked a vehicle of Jai Krishna Rodi, MLA from Garhshankar, with the intention of looting him. One accused was arrested while three more had escaped spot, the SSP added.During investigation, the police arrested three members of the robbers’ gang, the SSP said. All the three accused were residents of Jalandhar district, the SSP added.“The arrested accused have been identified as Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassa, and Harpal Singh Pala, both residents of Seenchewal village and Manpreet Singh, alias Mani, a resident of Dhindsa village,” the SSP said.“The accused are involved in several robbery incidents in the past too. The police are interrogating accused after taking them on remand,” the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-members-of-robbers-gang-held-with-looted-goods-354608
26-12-2021||---||DC conducts surprise checking  at polling booths in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 25District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait today conducted a surprise checking at some polling booths of Chabewal and Hoshiarpur Assembly segments. During checking, she directed the poll staff to strictly adhere to guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India while preparing booths for the forthcoming Assembly polls.In Hoshiarpur Assembly segment, the Deputy Commissioner (DC) checked polling booths No. 15 at Government Elementary School, Chak Harnoli, booth No.16 at Government Senior Secondary School, Khadkan, booth No.18 and 19 at Government Elementary School, Jahankhelan, and booth Nos. 183, 184 and 185 at SBAC High School, Bajwara.In Chabbewal Assembly segment, the DC conducted checking at the polling booths Nos. 61 and 62 at Government Senior Secondary School, Bassi Kalan, booth No.64 at Government Elementary School, Parsowal, booth No.65 at Government Elementary School, Tajewal, booth Nos. 67 and 68 at Government Elementary School, Bichhohi, booth No. 69 at Government Elementary School, Sunnah, and booth nos. 70 and 71 at Government Elementary School, Sarngowal. The DC reviewed arrangements being made by the poll staff to facilitate voters at polling stations.The DC had a detailed discussion with the poll staff regarding inclusion of differently-abled persons, those above 80 years and first-time voters in the voters’ list. The DC said the task could be achieved through collective efforts, ensuring no one was left without voting right. She stressed that all required arrangements should be made to enable this group of voters exercise their right to franchise.Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Sandeep Singh, Tehsildar (Election) Harminder Singh, election kanungo Deepak Kumar and Harpreet Kaur were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-conducts-surprise-checking-at-polling-booths-in-hoshiarpur-354610
26-12-2021||---||Training workshop for poll vigil teams||Jalandhar, December 25The district administration today held a special training workshop for poll expenditure teams to ensure strict vigil on candidates during the election process.District-level nodal officers, members of accounting teams, Assembly- level assistant expenditure observers and master trainers participated in this training session.Chairing the training session, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-cum-nodal officer training Jaspreet Singh said, “The Election Commission of India (ECI) has set a limit of Rs30.80 lakh for every candidate to spend during the 2022 Assembly elections. All team members should be acquainted with the methodology to calculate the poll expenditure.”For the facilitation of these teams, rates of every item had been duly fixed by the ECI, he said. To further assist these teams several flying squad teams (FST), static surveillance team (SST), video surveillance team (VST), and video viewing teams had also been formed by the administration, he added.The main objective of this training was to ensure that all team members remained updated with their responsibility and methodology to be adopted for calculating poll expenditure in an effective manner, he said. He also expressed hope that the training workshop would enable officials concerned to get a detailed insight into their duties for smooth conduct of the elections.Tehsildar (Election) Sukhdev Singh, election kanungo Rakesh Kumar, Ramandeep Kaur, and programmer Gurpreet Singh were present also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/training-workshop-for-poll-vigil-teams-354611
26-12-2021||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr tops in lowest public services pendency for 3rd time||In what can be termed as proud moment for the district, it has been again declared number one by the state government for the third time in a row for lowest pendency of applications and ensuring prompt and efficient delivery of public services.As per fresh report issued, the district had only 0.09 per cent pendency of applications at Sewa Kendras from December 24, 2020, to December 23, 2021. The district had been securing first rank with 0.04 per cent and 0.09 per cent pendency in the previous weeks.Reiterating the commitment of redressing applications of the people within time-bound manner, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Vishesh Sarangal said, “Effective and prompt delivery of services ensures good governance.”Sewa Kendras were opened by the government to help people in getting their routine administrative works done in speedy and time-bound manner, he said. These kendras were ensuring minimum public interaction with various offices and enhanced efficiency of the administration by bringing transparency and accountability in the whole service delivery system, he added.The DC informed that the district had received 1,37,392 applications at Sewa Kendras from December 18, 2020, to December 17, 2021, out of which 119 applications were pending beyond the stipulated timeline set by the state government.As many as 716 applications were rejected and 148 sent back on account of inappropriate information or documents, he added. Around 3,152 applications were in process and the remaining were disposed of on time, he said. Zero pendency approach was ensuring vital results to facilitate people by settling their applications within timeframe, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-tops-in-lowest-public-services-pendency-for-3rd-time-354612
26-12-2021||---||A time to spread joy & happiness in society||Jalandhar, December 25Christmas carols, gift exchanging and donations, for underprivileged children marked the celebrations in various schools and colleges of the city.Ivy World SchoolThe Vasal Education Society celebrated Christmas on the school campus. Christmas is a time for joy, giving, sharing, laughter, gathering with family and friends, tinsel, and brilliantly decorated parcels. With their foot tapping performances on old classic medleys, tiny tots produced magic. The K1 students wowed the audience with their energetic dances and fashion show. Through a nativity play, children were also told about the birth of Lord Jesus and the mythology of Santa Claus. S Chauhan, principal, Ivy World School, congratulated the children for their participation and also appreciated them and educators for their whole-hearted support.Saffron Public SchoolChristmas was celebrated by students of Saffron Public School from Classes pre-play to VIII. Boys came dressed as Santa Claus and girls came dressed as fairies. Children sung carols, enacted plays depicting the lives of Mother Mary and Jesus Christ, danced on Christmas songs and distributed sweets. Children took X-mas and New Year resolutions. Principal Dr Sandeepa Sood lauded the performance of tiny tots. She told everyone about the relevance of the festival and wished them a great winter vacation ahead.State Public SchoolThe festival of Christmas was celebrated with great zeal and enthusiasm at State Public School (Jalandhar Cantt). A special programme titled ‘Nativity’ was organized by students. Carols echoed the entire campus. The power packed dance performance stunned everyone to the core. Santa Claus distributed sweets and Christmas cake among students. Chief of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh along with Principal Savina Bahl congratulated the students for putting up an incredible show.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School celebrated Christmas with fun and fervour. JK Gupta, chairman, Eklavya School, inaugurated the programme. Children dressed like Santa Claus and distributed sweets to everyone. Nishesh of Class XI, Simranpreet of Class IX and Guneet of Class VIII, delivered speeches. Director Seema Handa said Christmas has a great importance in every individual’s life. The message of Christmas is that where there is hope, love, light and life, plan and purpose of God will reach.Tagore’s International Smart SchoolTagore’s International Smart School celebrated Christmas with religious gaiety. Students as well as teachers were clad in red attire. Several other activities, including Christmas card making and handcrafted gifts were organised. Goodies were distributed among the students. Everyone was drowned in the happy festive Vibes. Dean Vinod Shashi Jain and Director Ruchika Jain appreciated the efforts of the little ones and highlighted the importance of the New Year resolutions.State Public School, ShahkotStudents of State Public School, Shahkot, celebrated Christmas with zeal. The campus was decorated with red balloons and Santa Claus robes. Tiny tots came dressed in crimson, recited poems and danced. Principal Kanwar Neel Kamal wished students and teachers on the occasion.Police DAV Public SchoolChristmas celebrations were held at Police DAV Public School. Students of symphony club presented Christmas carols. Tejaswi House presented an English skit which gave the message of sharing and caring. Members of the Social Welfare Club gave socks and caps to the orphanage in Budhiana village. Students of primary wing also celebrated Christmas and sang carols. Principal Dr Rashmi Vij wished Merry Christmas to all.PCM SD College for WomenThe NCC cadets of the college celebrated Christmas in a unique way under the guidance of Lieutenant Priya Mahajan, in charge, SD College (NCC wing). The NCC cadets gave gifts to non-teaching employees and the support staff of the college. By doing this, the cadets learnt core human values, including humanity, compassion, resource mobilisation and sense of affinity with the community. Principal Dr Pooja Prashar praised the efforts of the students and appreciated Lieutenant Mahajan.Kanya Maha VidyalayaThe post graduate department of commerce and business administration of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a social outreach activity in collaboration with social outreach department. Three teachers - Ritu, Namita and Deeksha went to Banarasi Das School, Transport Nagar, adopted by KMV to donate caps and socks as Christmas giftd to the underprivileged children. On this occasion, students were given warm caps, socks and biscuits. Principal Prof Atima Sharma congratulated Dr Neeraj Maini, head, Department of Commerce, and all the faculty members and the students for organising the event.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraChristmas was celebrated with enthusiasm at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa (principal of the college). The celebrations included a rhythmic presentation from the college choir as well as an add-on surprise package by Santa Claus. Students prepared posters and decorated college with balloons. Dr Randhawa said one must share love and joy.MHR DAV InstituteChristmas was celebrated at MHR DAV Institute of Nursing. Renuka Bhatt was the chief guest and was welcomed by principal Dr Veena Williams. The celebration started with a prayer and carol. Students also performed a role play exploring the life of Jesus Christ and his teachings of love, peace and humanity. Dr Williams presented a token of love to teaching and non-teaching staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-time-to-spread-joy-happiness-in-society-354615
26-12-2021||Jalandhar||Women pugilists prove their mettle||The women boxers’ team of Lovely Professional University (LPU) has been declared ‘Champion’ at the Association of Indian Universities’ (AIU’s) All-India Inter-University Men/Women Boxing Championship-2021.Around 2500+ men and women boxers from 156 universities from across India are competing at the LPU. The 15-day championship will conclude on January 3.The LPU women boxers gathered 54 points to be on the top of the championship; Panjab University, Chandigarh, was declared first runner up with 46 points; and Kurukshetra University was second runner up with 42 points.The LPU’s light middleweight (66-70 kg) woman boxer Arundhanti was declared ‘Best Boxer’. Exhibiting the furious power of their hooks and punches, three of the LPU’s women boxers won gold medals and two silver medals in their respective weight category. The LPU’s other two gold medal winners include Deepa Kumari of light fly weight category (48-50 Kg) and Jasmeen of light welterweight (60-63Kg); whereas, Silver medal winners are Bharti (45-48 Kg) and Lipakshi (81+ Kg). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-pugilists-prove-their-mettle-354618
26-12-2021||---||Skill courses for addicts at de-addiction centres||Kapurthala, December 25Minister for Technical Education and Industrial Training Rana Gurjit Singh on Saturday said they would soon start courses for training youngsters at Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OAAT) clinics.He said that the project was being undertaken under the ‘Red Sky Mission’ so that addicts can attain skills essential to become self reliant.While launching the distribution of grocery to people registered at OAAT clinics, the minister said to eradicate drugs in the state, the government and social organisations must ensure to bring youngsters in main stream by providing them the employment opportunities.The minister said the state government would have to strengthen the efforts to bring the drug addicts in the mainstream so that they can live with dignity.He also lauded the role of Navjivan Kendra and Red Sky Mission (Kapurthala) under which more than 110 youngsters get selected in various companies after drug de-addiction.Earlier, Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbeer Kaur, Dr Sandeep Bhola and SMO Kapurthala Dr Sandeep Dhawan welcomed the Cabinet minister and presented a report about the progress of drug de-addiction programme of the state government in Kapurthala.Rana Inder Partap Singh, Vishal Soni and Rajinder Kaura, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/skill-courses-for-addicts-at-de-addiction-centres-354621
26-12-2021||Jalandhar||Thumri, santoor performances mesmerise audience||The second day of 146th Shri Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan at Devi Talab Mandir started with Saraswati and Harivallabh Vandana by students of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Boys Jalandhar. Devotees of music were left heart stolen during the performance of ‘Thumri’ by vocalist Prakhran Jojan. He is winner of the music competition in 2019.The audience were agog with performer Divyansh Srivastava, who too was enlisted as the winner of the 2019 music competition. He played with the strings of ‘Santoor’ mesmerising the whole environment of the Harivallabh Bhawan. Srivastava was accompanied by Dr Ankit Parikh, who tuned the beat of ‘Pakhawaj’ with ‘Santoor’ and Anand Mishra also showed the speed of his fingers on ‘Tabla’.There was a performance by a group of three sisters in which Ashupreet Kaur and Anu Malhotra rendered their soulful voice and Poojapreet Kaur assisted them by showing her musical magic on harmonium keys. They were accompanied with Surjeet Singh on ‘Tabla’ and Rupali on ‘Tanpura’. Former Lt Governor of Pondicherry Iqbal Singh was honoured by members of the organisation. Vijay Sehgal, an industrialist and a music lover, was also honoured with the Shree Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Seva Samman-2021 for his service in the Mahasabha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thumri-santoor-performances-mesmerise-audience-354624
26-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 bikers killed in road accident||One killed, one hurt in accidentHoshiarpur: A youth was killed and another was injured after they were hit by an Innova (SUV) on Friday night. The Tanda police have registered a case against the unidentified vehicle driver in this connection. According to information, Sukhpreet Singh, a resident of Aulakh Beri village in Gurdaspur district, lodged a complaint with the police about the accident. The complainant stated to the police that he, along with his cousin Akashdeep Singh, was going from Aulakh Beri village to Dasuya on a bike. They were hit head on by an Innova coming from the opposite direction near the Beas river bridge. In the accident, Akashdeep died on the spot while Sukhpreet was injured grievously. After registering a case, the police have started investigation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-bikers-killed-in-road-accident-354626
