27-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Imposition of Section 144 in rural areas of Jalandhar district riles teachers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26With less than a month to go for the model code of conduct to be implemented in the state, Section 144 has been imposed in the rural areas of Jalandhar district for a period of two months. The move has earned the ire of protesting teachers and workers who have termed it a ‘clampdown’ on dissent and protest by the government.On October 28, two men climbed atop a water tank at the Jalandhar bus stand to demand issuance of advertisements for posts in the Education Department. A ‘pakka morcha’ was announced to raise the issues of the B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union. Since then, there have been a spate of protests in the district, majority of them directed at the Education Minister, who’s residence had become an epicentre of agitations.Teachers, unemployed youth, professors, mid-day meal workers, among others had been protesting there.At least two teachers groups — ETT teachers and guest Faculty lecturers — are currently holding protests on two sides of the residence of the minister’s residence. Additionally, The B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers also continue their protest, including the teachers protesting at the tank, at the Jalandhar Bus stand.Many of the protests are being held or are planned for rural areas in the coming days as well. The ETT teachers have also been going to villages seeking rations for their protests and reaching out to people with criticism of government policies. Four of them were also recently arrested at a village.Sukhwinder Dhilwan, B.Ed TET Pass Teachers Union, said, “With days to go for the code of conduct to be implemented, what does this new restriction mean. Untoward incidents have happened in other districts. Covid and Omicron have already wreaked havoc on lives and free mobility. Now, in the name of law and order another restriction has been imposed. A few days back a bank was robbed in broad daylight. When police is unable to stop criminals, they are targeting job seekers and rights are begun to be treated as criminals. The restrictions are an unnecessary imposition meant to curb protest and dissent ahead of the elections even as election gatherings thrive.”Gurmukh Singh from the ETT 180 Teachers Union said, “The imposition right before elections is concerning. During our protest at Birring, the police arrested four of our teachers. Ministers and politicians are free to go anywhere and hold meetings. In the coming days, the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha is also going to hold protest in villages. Restrictions at such a time is a direct attempt to muzzle people’s voice.”DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “The orders passed yesterday have been done in the light of recent incidents. They are the same across the state. it has been done to ensure proper security. In the light of the CM’s visit tomorrow, security has also been increased in the periphery.”The orderIn view of the recent incidents in the state for the past few days, the district administration on Friday imposed Section 144 in the rural areas of the district for a period of two months to ensure ‘’peace and order in the district. As per the orders, gathering of more than five people, bearing of arms and holding processsions has been prohibitedThe order had been issued by Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Amarjeet Singh Bains. Restrictions have been placed on taking out any kinds of march or procession; bearing of any kinds of fire arms, knives, sharp edged weapons or fatal weapons; gathering of five or five more people or sloganeering etc. within the rural limits of the district. The orders will stay implemented from December 23, 2021 to February 21, 2022.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/imposition-of-section-144-riles-teachers-355018
27-12-2021||---||Two new cases in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26Two new Covid cases were reported from the district on Sunday. The district Covid tally rose 63,591 with the new cases. As many as 62,039 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar were 51. With no new death reported from Covid, the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,501. Of the 18,87,551 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,51,456 samples have tested negative. The reports of as many as 171 samples is awaited.Kapurthala on Sunday reported no fresh Covid case, keeping the district tally at 18,908. Meanwhile, no new death was recorded today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-new-cases-in-jalandhar-355019
27-12-2021||Phagwara||Phagwara: Miscreants snatch cash bag, 3 booked||Three masked robbers kidnapped an employee of a money exchanger and snatched a bag containing money from him before throwing him out of a moving car near Goraya on Saturday night. The victim, Shankar Maini, who works at Pankal Enterprises, Hoshiarpur, told the police that he came to Phagwara to deliver money to his customers. He said as soon as he reached near Goal Chowk, three unidentified persons posing themselves as the CIA Staff asked him to sit in their car (registration number PB-10C-1111) and drove towards Goraya.He said as he resisted, they snatched his bag and threw him outside the car.Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said acting on the complaint lodged by an owner of the money exchange, Puneet Sood, the police have registered a case under Section 364 of the IPC against three unknown persons.The SSP said neither the victim nor his employer could explain the details of looted money. Sources claimed that the bag contained over Rs 45 lakh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/miscreants-snatch-cash-bag-3-booked-355020
27-12-2021||---||Foundation stones of projects worth Rs 1.5-cr laid in Jalandhar villages||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26Former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary laid foundation stones of development projects worth Rs 1.5 crore in villages Dosanjh Kalan, Bara Pind, Atta, Patti Masandpur, Patti Kamalpur and Sang Dhesian here on Sunday.The works include construction of link roads from Dosanjh Kalan—Nano Majaara Road to Kultham at Rs 35.40 lakh, from GT Road (Phillaur–Phagwara) to Nirankari Bhawan Atta at Rs 27.14 lakh, Sang Dhesian to Bansian Road at Rs 21 lakh, and Bada Pind – Phalpota Road to Bara Pind – Dhuleta Road at Rs5.9 lakh. The market committee, Goraya, would complete the projects.Additionally, under Punjab Nirman Programme, the new projects include construction of streets and boundary wall of garbage dump ground in Sang Dhesian at Rs 23 lakh, construction of lane, dharamshalas and community hall in Bara Pind at Rs 17 lakh, installation of sewage pipeline and construction of streets in Patti Masandpur at Rs 10 lakh, the building of Ravidas dharamshala and streets in Patti Kamalpur at Rs 6 lakh, and construction of dharamshalas in Atta at Rs 5 lakh.Chaudhary said, “The completion of these works such as link roads, streets and community halls would be immensely beneficial to local residents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-1-5-cr-laid-355021
27-12-2021||---||146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan: Musical conclave ends on melodious note||Jalandhar, December 26The 146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan came to a close today with the strains of the tabla and mellifluous vocals of Patiala Gharana maestro Kaushiki Chakraborty here today. Kickstarted with a gala cultural exhibition and fair, the Harivallabh was hosted in the plush new building of the Harivallabh Bhawan this year, which hosted a musical bonanza in the decked up building.The sprawling largeness of the erstwhile pandal was replaced with a warmer, more insulated Harivallabh Bhawan, which was upholstered and laid over with rugs to host the concert.While the Harivallabh was kickstarted with the haunting strains of the Shehnai and the flute, it saw a packed sitar and tabla jugalbandi last night and came to a close with stirring vocal renditions today.On December 26, the festival’s illustrious line up included D. Alankar’s melodious vocals, he was accompanied by Pt. Surjay Bhaumik on tabla, Rajendra Prsad Banerjee on harmonium and Sandeep Singh on the Dilruba, vocals by Sania Patankar accompanied on the tabla by Avirbhav Verma and on the Harmonium by Rajnish Dhiman. Pt. Sudhir Pandey’s rivetting solo tabla recital came in next. He was accompanied by Ghanshyam Sisodia on the Sarangi. The rousing vocals of Kaushiki Chakraborty brought the sammelan to a close with Ishaan Ghosh accompanying her on the tabla and Milind Kulkarni on the harmonium.On Christmas Day, the warmed and enthusiastically attended recitals included a line up with artists - Divyansh Shrivastav (Santoor) accompanied by Anad Mishra (tabla) and Ankit Parikh (santoor); Jalandhar’s very own talented child prodigy Ashupreet Kaur and Anu Bala with their vocals accompanied by Surjeet Singh (tabla) and Poojapreet Kaur (harmonium), Violinist Asghar Hussain accompanied by Akhtar Hussain; Sanika Kulkarni (vocals) accompanied by Aashay Kulkarni (tabla) and Milind Kulkarni (harmonium) and the packed final performance whjich saw an ace jugalbandi Purbayan Chatterji’s illustrious sitar played to the accompaniment of Pt. Vijay Ghate’s rich, masterful tabla.On day one, acclaimed flautist Pt Ronu Majumdar’s performance entralled the audience. The evening was also ornamented by the dhrupad vocals of Uday Bhawalkar (accompanied om the Pakhawaj by Pratap Awad) and the calming santoor recital from artist Dr Varsha Aggarwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/musical-conclave-ends-on-melodious-note-355022
27-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi pays obeisance at Nakodar deras||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday paid obeisance at Dera Baba Murad Shah and Darbar Almast Bapu Lal Badshah, Nakodar. CM Channi also announced grants of Rs 11 lakh each for the both religious places.Accompanied by MLA Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia, former minister Amarjeet Singh Samra, Ex-MLA Kanwaljeet Singh Lalli and others, the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi went to Dera Baba Murad Shah where he prayed for the welfare of all sections of the society besides seeking blessings to serve the people of Punjab for more effectively. The trustees of Dera Baba Murad Shah presented a shawl to the Chief Minister, who also partook of the langar with sangat.The visit is also part of the CM’s spree to announce appeasement sops to various religious communities and devotional places across the state. He has already visited Dhakti Peeth Sheri Devi Talab Mandir, the Lord Vishwakarma Mandir in Phagwara. On November 28, he had announced the setting up of an exclusive research centre at Phagwara after the laying foundation stone for the state-of-the-art Bhagwan Parshuram Taposthal.The CM today also met and interacted with the sangat gathered from different parts of the state. Meanwhile, Channi also paid obeisance at Darbar Bapu Lal Badshah Ji, Nakodar. While visiting the Darbar complex, he also spoke with the sangat besides partaking of langar with head sewadar and MP Hans Raj Hans. CM Channi also prayed for the peace and prosperity in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/channi-pays-obeisance-at-deras-355023
27-12-2021||Provide night shelters to the needy||Open House:  What steps should be taken to protect the homeless from biting cold?||As of now, Amritsar is the coldest place in Punjab. North India usually experiences biting cold every winter. As a result, most people prefer to stay indoors and venture out incase of emergency. Most of the well-heeled people wear warm clothes to protect themselves from severe cold, but there are many unfortunate people (mostly poor and migrants) who cannot afford warm garments. So, it is the responsibility of masses and the government to provide night shelters to the needy. No doubt some NGOs are playing the roles of good Samaritans and provide food and shelter to those in urgent need. Still a lot more needs to be done.Only shelter from cold is not the issue as there are other issues, especially for elderly and children. Acute and chronic bronchitis and bronchial asthma are most prevalent during winter because of cold wind, which causes bronchospasm and breathlessness. The government, residents and NGOs, should provide homeless with blankets, food and shelter, so that precious lives can be saved.Dr JS WadhwaDraft a policy for homeless personsEvery year the temperature dips during winter. This season the temperature has dipped below 0 degrees celsius in Rajasthan. Snowfall in hilly areas has decreased the mercury and rain will further make life difficult of the masses. Demand for heaters and warm clothes has increased manifold. Homeless people either take shelter below a tree or sleep in the market corridors to keep them safe from ther biting cold. The homeless people use bonfire to keep themselves from cold wave. The administration should draft a policy for the homeless persons and esure to provide them accommodation during winter. Warm clothes and good quality blankets, socks and gloves, should be given to them so that they can protect themselves from the cold wave. Earlier, the administration used to lit fire at various points on its own expenses, for “alaap and homeless”. Despite witnessing all around development in various segments, many people are still homeless and the administration should provide them free night shelters. Schools have already announced holidays due to the cold wave and dense fog, which will only get worse in the coming days. It is our moral duty to keep every resident warm and safe.Rajat Kumar MohindruTough times ahead for needyDipping mercury and smog throws a new challenege for homeless persons. Beggars and labourers are facing extreme difficulties in tackling the bone chilling cold in the open. The government has made some shelter homes for their stay, but the homeless prefer to stay outdoors. Moreover, most of these shelter homes are not properly utilised because of the unsanitary conditions. There is no place to keep their belongings. Rag pickers, richshaw-pullers, vendors need some space to keep their bags. Sometimes they are picked up forcibly and pushed in shelter homes to show action on the ground. Disrespectful behaviour of the staff is forcing them to sleep in the open. The government and the NGOs should provide them bankets and mattresses. A doctor should be appointed for their regular medical check-up.Shashi KiranCentralised agency should be roped inDuring winter when mercury plummets, life becomes a hell for those without shelter. Though homelessness is a challenge for every civilised society, it becomes a humanitarian issue, especially during night for beggars, construction workers and migrants. In the absence of any reliable data of such persons, relief operation is not an easy task. The administration must come forward to provide temporary shelters in case there are no permanent provisions. At district headquarters, a centralised agency overlooking and coordinating efforts of the NGOs must be established with a toll-free number. It is generally observed that some individuals, NGOs and religious institutions engage themselves to provide blankets, clothes and food to homeless persons, but their such noble activities are required to be synthesized with concentrated action of the district administration, which can be solely entrusted with major task of providing shelters, including temporary ones. Both the administration and the willing entities in unison can surely provide adequate and timely relief to our distressed companions.Jagdish ChanderMoral duty to help the needyAs severe cold wave is sweeping the entire north India, there is possibility of dense fog and rain in the coming days ahead. While a majority of people can tackle the chilly winter, it’s the homeless persons who are unable to escape the vagaries of weather. Some of them suffer from starvation, mental illness or have physical disabilities. It is the moral duty of the community to come to their rescue. The need of the hour is to recognise the power within us and provide them bedding and financial support to ensure they recover from a life of desperation. The governments should allocate funds liberally for the purpose. The administration should build enough shelter homes with essential amenities. People should be made aware of the miseries of homeless persons. This will induce a feeling of love, sympathy and kindness for them. A timely help ranging from woollen clothes, eatables, warm drinks, hygiene products and monetary donation to homeless shelter or service organisations will enable the less fortunate to face the winter challenge.Simran & Tajpreet S KangResidents should work in cohesionWith the minimum temperatures droping to low levels, many cities of Punjab are reeling under the biting-cold conditions. For elites, winter is a bit of a rollercoaster. While the haves venture out of home for hilly destinations (celebrating Christmas and New Year), the have-nots struggle to wear cosy clothes and eat hot meals. We should shed indifference and spare a thought for homeless persons, which undergoes nightmarish experiences during bone-chilling winter. Their search for food is severely impacted and they starve endlessly. They are also vulnerable to many cold-related diseases. The administration, NGOs and philanthropists, should work in cohesion and help the needy persons move towards a meaningful future. They should open more night shelters and provide facilities, including beds, blankets, drinking water, food, medicines, electricity and toilets. More and more people should be educated about the pitiable plight of such persons and exhorted to make a difference in their life. There are umpteen ways we can render our bit. We can donate warm clothing, socks and gloves, fruits and grocery, contact the police or a shelter house to save a life, raise funds for or make individual financial contribution to a homeless-serving institution and approach local residents to come forward.D S KangAuthorities should prepare action planWith the onset of winter, mercury is sharply dipping in northern India. In some areas of Punjab and Haryana, the temperature is around zero degrees Celsius. The entire region is expected to be in the grip of dense fog and biting cold. Showers and chilly winds are likely to impact the vehicular movement and routine curriculum, making life miserable of those having no permanent shelters. Such vagaries of weather had adversely affected people in in 2019-20. A number of casualties were reported then, which was primarily due to the lack of planning and inadequate preparedness to help the homeless persons, farmers and livestock. Ironically, the things are no different even now. Temporary shelters constructed in some towns are not properly maintained. Sanitation facilities at these sites are so poor that it becomes a breeding place for many ailments, besides hardships to nearly localities. At a time, when we are celebrate ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, we are unable to fulfil the basic needs of homeless persons. To deal with the issue, the administration should prepare an action plan for effective advance warning and mitigation measures. For instant relief, a dedicated task force of volunteers (government officials and locals) can be engaged to coordinate efforts to save vulnerable persons from severe cold wave. While the religious bodies managing gurdwaras and dharamshalas have always been at the fore front in providing food and shelter, NGOs and philanthropists should also come forward and donate warm clothes, blankets and quilts for the needy people. No service is above saving lives under unsavoury conditions!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathPhilanthropists should come forwardDuring the late ’60s and early ’70s, Garibi Hatao and Roti, Kapada aur Makaan were very popular slogans in our country. But these were overlapped by economic liberalisation policy of 1991. The previous culture of establishing dharamshalas, clinics and hospitals and educational institutions for the deprived has gone to the winds. There used to be one or more dharamshala near every railway station and religious place in our country being established and run by local philanthropists. Near Amritsar railway station, two dharamshalas, an ENT hospital and a family ward of VJ hospital were established by local business houses. Similarly, they contributed liberally in the sphere of education. Lala Har Sahai Mal contributed for establishing Sri Durgiana Temple. But with the passage of time, that spirit of coming forward to uplift the poor has evaporated. Now, they make mandatory contribution under Corporate Social Responsibility only. A charitable hospital at Mall Road charges Rs150 per patient per visit as consultation charges without giving any medicine. Similarly, many old-age homes are running with exorbitant charges. So, the only solution is the revival of old spirit of donation as governments, which don’t have money to pay monthly salary to their staff, can hardly do anything. The poor state of affairs at two shelter homes — one near Goal Bagh and another near Hukam Singh Road established by local administration are a proof of it.Naresh JoharTime for authorities to contemplateUnequal distribution of wealth is a matter of concern. Some people have too much, while others too little. The latter has to confront multifarious troubles due to absence of resources. They can’t even have access to basic necessities. In bitter cold, slum dwellers are always seen lying outside on roads and covering themselves with mere piece of cloth. Commuters see and ignore them. However, some people take out time from their busy schedule to help the needy and offer a blanket or so to protect them from cold. Predominantly, the administration should contemplate and set aside some resources to provide shelter and food to slum dwellers. Instead of spending money extravagantly on hoardings of political faces, government should provide basic amenities to those below poverty line. Campaigns and seminars should be conducted in order to inculcate a sense of empathy and humanity in residents and also seek their suggestions. Secondly, residents who are blessed with everything and have enough money, should go for charity to help the needy in this cold weather. It is not possible to provide help to all, but every individual can sacrifice a little something and divert this towards the welfare of the homeless.Sukhmeet KaurWhere is Nat’l Urban Livelihoods Mission?The city temperature dropped to -0.5°C a day before. If the well-off people, who have all resources, were shivering in their cosy bedrooms, just imagine the fate of those homeless facing the cold wave out in the open. This scenario is common in all cities. Centre’s National Urban Livelihoods Mission, aimed at providing shelter for the urban homeless, is lost in the files. This plan is a legal guarantee to provide shelter to the homeless. Even the Supreme Court has issued guidelines to the state governments to build shelters for the homeless. But no one is extending a sympathetic ear to the needs of the poor, it seems.Harsh JoharBuild shelters with requisite facilitiesThe administration can protect the homeless from biting cold and related health risks by making separate shelters with requisite facilities, whereby warm rooms should be provided. Residents can also help the homeless people by giving them warm clothes, blankets and quilts.Sanjay ChawlaDepute outreach teams on streetsThe piercingly cold poses a tough survival challenge to those who don’t have a roof over their heads and sufficient woollen clothing. Undoubtedly, providing shelter to the homelessness is a major issue. Although there are shelters in the state, yet their number is insufficient. Most shelters get filled by 8pm and many don’t know about other nearest shelters that are crying for occupancy. Consequently, the homeless remain a neglected lot. Under the Supreme Court guidelines, all state governments are legally bound to build dignified permanent shelters for the homeless, but nobody cares. Resultantly, there is not much change visible on the ground because of lack of initiative on the part of the state and local governments. The state administration should follow the SC guidelines in letter and spirit to alleviate the homeless from biting cold. The supply of housing units for people with low incomes should be increased considerably. It is obligatory for it to provide treatment, rehabilitation and residential placement. The harsh weather brings with it health risks such as hypothermia as many destitute live in unsheltered locations leaving them vulnerable to the weather vagaries. The administration should depute outreach teams on the streets to offer services and shelter. Residents should donate warm clothes, gloves, socks, blankets, extra pair of shoes, toothpaste and other items. If possible, they should buy them something hot food or beverages. It is an individual’s choice whether to offer monetary aid or not, but the administration and public’s cooperation can certainly go a long way in protecting the homeless from the biting cold and related health risks.Tarsem S BumrahNeed fully-equipped night sheltersTheMet Department has warned of a cold to sever cold wave in northern India, including Punjab. Such severe cold conditions pose a tough survival challenge for those who do not have a roof over their head and adequate winter clothes. The administration should always be prepared and have a plan to protect the homeless from cold. There is a dire need for shelters for the homeless, which should be equipped with mattresses, blankets, lockers, bathing and toilet facilities. Under the SC guidelines, the state and the city need to follow the central policy and state guidelines in letter and spirit. Residents, too, should come forward to help the homeless in whatever way they can. Once, the SC had admonished UP’s Chief Secretary for directing the need for an ID to avail the night shelter facility. When the destitute need food or shelter, their helplessness should not be put to further shame.MS KhokharIt’s a collective responsibilityShort-term goals like temporary shelters in the cold must be provided by local village panchayats, municipal commissions and district administration. The possible way is to use the government places as temporary places for residence for the homeless. One possible way seems to set up donation agencies, where people can donate old clothes for the homeless, awareness could be raised through media to help the poor and the homeless out in the winter. It’s not the government’s duty alone but a collective responsibility. ‘Poverty’ and ‘hunger’ seems to be barriers in development. Though the government has long-term goals, it must take vital short-term goals. Voluntary agencies and govt agencies can both work together to meet this goal.Sparsh AthwalPeople’s participation can play pivotal roleThe homeless are vulnerable to the cold weather, as they have limited means to protect themselves and their loved ones. The administration can open up places like the ‘Wall of Kindness’ at Cantonment Area, where people can donate clothes for the needy. ‘Voice of Amritsar’ is a famous Facebook page that organises ‘Joy of Giving’ campaigns every year, where interested people can participate for donations. The administration must run awareness campaigns to promote such initiatives among the masses, so that more participation of people is ensured. Moreover, people should select the items they don’t need anymore and donate to help the poor because as famous Greek author Aesop said: “No act of kindness, no matter how small, is ever wasted.”Jatinderpal Singh BatthNeed to set up weather countersCities like Chicago are dotted with weather counters meant to provide protection to pedestrians or morning walkers from sudden downpour or snowfall. Amritsar is not as advanced, yet. It is exposed to the extremes of temperatures — too hot in summer and too cold in winter — and these extremes are getting more unrelenting. No one should be surprised if the city has snowfall some day, as predicted by climatologists. Such extremes of cold are too harsh to be taken lightly as they pose a tough survival challenge for the homeless or the inadequately clothed. Philanthropists offer new blankets and shoes to mendicants including many children. Used garments and beddings can also be distributed. Each family can contribute something or the other. There is no dearth of food and clothing but providing shelter against the December cold requires some imaginative approach. You already see the homeless living under flyovers. Some plastic sheets, flexes, could be given to such pavement dwellers to enable them to make their own arrangement till proper shelters for them come up from the government. It’s the third element after ‘roti’ and ‘kapada’. After all, they form a huge chunk of our electorate.Mohan SinghDedicated teams needed to help themDespite warning of intense cold wave sweeping north India by the Meteorological Department, the authorities concerned have been in slumber when it comes to setting up of night shelters for the needy. The same scenario can be witnessed on the roadsides and corridors year after year. The civic bodies should come up with a dedicated wing, which should start working for the welfare of the homeless persons at a particular date. Even NGOs should come forward before the onset of winter and start a drive to collect blankets and warm clothes. As sources of revenue generation reduce due to severe cold, the administration should provide pre-cooked meals at the designated spots in cities and towns for free. The onus to save lives of the needy lies on residents as well. One has to come out of the comfort zone and lend support in every possible way to the homeless persons. Sharing and caring should be the mantra to excel in life. Develop an attitude to help others during such times rather than simply relying on the authorities concerned.Satbir SinghQUESTIONGiven the spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases , should the state government allow the opening of schools and colleges after the winter vacation? Shouldn’t the government switch back to online classes for the safety of students?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 30)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-to-protect-the-homeless-from-biting-cold-355026
