28-12-2021||---||Teachers, nurses & farmers on the warpath||Jalandhar, December 27Continuing education bandh across the region on Monday, around 200 teachers of various colleges of Jalandhar district assembled outside HMV College under the banner of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union, to register their protest against anti-education policies of the state government.The growing support for the cause of teachers can be gauged from the fact that leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, including Kulwant Singh Sandhu, participated in the dharna to show solidarity with the protesting teachers and extend support for implementation of the 7th UGC Pay Commission and scrapping the idea of de-linking the scales from the UGC.Speaking to mediapersons, Dr SS Bains, district general secretary, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union, said Punjab was the only state in India, which has yet not implemented the UGC pay scales for college and university teachers. He also informed that the process of de-linking the pay-scales of teachers from the UGC would hit higher education very badly by draining out the financial assistance from the Centre for colleges and universities of Punjab, which would finally result in a costly education for students.Dr Sanjeev Dhawan, district chief, PCCTU, said the complete education candh would continue in the state and would be intensified further by spreading awareness among masses by organising protests in almost all the constituencies of the state, especially those represented by the Cabinet ministers.He said the teachers would assemble at Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh on December 28 and request PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to accompany them to New Delhi and remind Rahul Gandhi of the promise he made in 2018 regarding the implementation of the 7th UGC pay scales.“If the Punjab Government does not fulfill the demands of the teachers, we will hold a massive protest outside the All India Congress Committee’s office in New Delhi on December 31,” he said.Jalandhar, December 27Nurses under the banner of the Joint Action Nurses Committee, Punjab and Chandigarh, held a rally in the CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency in Kharar and protested against the government. While there are as many as 200 members of the Nurses Committee, Punjab, and the UT in Jalandhar, over 100 nursing association members participated in the dharna in Kharar. They also blocked the Ropar-Chandigarh highway.Assured of a panel meeting by the CM, nurses continued their strike on the highway and will be staying at Kharar till they have a panel meeting tomorrow. In Jalandhar, the dharna has been going on since December 6 everyday outside the Civil Hospital. However, nurses laid siege to the CM’s constituency and held a dharna here today.Their prime demands include fixing of the typographical error of the 5th Pay Commission and pay commission to be implemented from 2006. They said payment of salaries of Rs 29,200 to newly recruited nurses on a new joining, is akin to duping them. Nurses’ pay grade is Rs 4,600 everywhere but the state government has relegated nurses pay grade to Rs 2,800. Similarly, new salaries on joining as per central guidelines amounted to Rs 44,900 but nurses’ salary in the state is Rs 29,200.Nurses who should fall in group B have been placed in group D salary slot by the government. The pay commission has also sought higher pay grades for nurses from the state government. They have also not fulfilled nurses’ demand to be paid allowances on the pattern of the Central government’s pattern. — TNSTribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 27The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee blocked the railway tracks for eighth day on Monday.In protest against the state government’s failure to address their demands, farmers today burnt effigies of Union Agricultural Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, MP Gurpreet Aujla and and also of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi against their recent statements.Farmers also indulged in sloganeering against the government. State organisational secretary Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra said like previous governments, the present state government had also failed to manage the system and in biting winter chill, farmers had to sit in the open to raise their voices.They said if the government doesn’t implement promises made in its election manifesto and the demands agreed upon during the struggle then their agitation will be intensified in the coming days. State treasurer Gurnam Singh Pandori said the government should fulfill the promises it made to farmers.He reiterated the farmers’ demands — Rs 5 lakh help for families of farmers who had lost their lives in the Delhi Andolan, a job for one member of their family and waiving of all their debt, strict punishment for all the guilty in the Lakhimpur Kheri murder and the prime culprit, removal of the serious dearth of fertilisers in farming, guaranteed MSP for 23 crops, withdrawal of hefty increases in oil prices, withdrawal of electricity bill 2020 and the Air Pollution Bill 2020, implementation of the Swaminathan Report, four times compensation and 30 per cent allowance to be given for lands coming under the newly constructed Jammu Katra Highway, stopping the sale of drugs, release of pending dues of sugarcane and basmati.Leaders warned that their struggle would continue as long as their demands remain unmet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-nurses-farmers-on-the-warpath-355375
28-12-2021||---||Radio Ujala Punjab launched at Kapurthala Central Jail||Jalandhar, December 27In a unique initiative, the Prisons Department on Monday launched the “Radio Ujala Punjab”, at the Central Jail, Kapurthala. Additional Director General of Police (Prisons) Praveen Kumar Sinha while inaugurating the project, said the department has launched Radio Ujala at six jails in the state.The entire system has been set up in association with the India Vision Foundation, which is a pioneer in conducting various reformatory projects in prisons. The ADGP said the radio would change the lives of inmates, besides bringing them to the mainstream.Radio Ujala would be run by inmates for three to four hours daily. In Kapurthala, radio jockey Meghna and Lakhwinder Singh were the first one to showcase their hidden talen. The duo broadcasted devotional songs.Inmates who would like to work as radio jockeys would undergo training for three days organized by the India Vision Foundation.Sinha said, “The prime objective is to rehabilitate and correct anti-social elements. Prisoners face alienation and isolation from society. We feel that providing inmates with conducive atmosphere and welfare opportunities inside the jail will help them stay away from the world of crime.”He said in next the few days, the department would start the facility to provide recorded programmes by inmates to their families.Jail Superintendent Gurnam Lal and Superintendent of Police Jagjit Singh Saroa welcomed the ADGP on behalf of the Senior Superintendent of Police. DIG (Headquarters) Surinder Singh Saini, DIG (Headquarters) Amneet Kondal, Additional Jail Superintendent Hemant Sharma, Sudarshan Sharma, Vinay Gupta and Rajiv Gupta were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/radio-ujala-punjab-launched-at-kapurthala-central-jail-355376
28-12-2021||---||EC issues rate list on poll expenses||Jalandhar, December 27Every cup of tea which will be served to a visitor at an election rally by a candidate or his party would be accounted for at Rs 12 in the poll expenses once the model code of conduct gets into force. A sandwich would cost Rs 10 and a plastic chair Rs 9.Almost everything has been included in the rate list which has as many as 201 items. Other than the routine items used in campaigns, various publicity items too will be accounted for. A printed muffler will cost Rs 50, a T-shirt with printing will be added as Rs 165 poll expense, a standee will be tagged at Rs 130, a sticker for Rs 1, cloth banner for Rs 9 per feet, cutout for Rs 165 per feet, kite with printing for Rs 6, a printed cap for Rs 15 and so on.Decorative items have also been included as big garland has been priced at Rs 15 per piece and smaller one at Rs 10 per piece. Flower decoration on stage too finds a mention in the poll expense list with charges kept at Rs 2,200 for 20x20 sq feet area. Siropas and swords often gifted to senior leaders on the stages too have been included for Rs 90 and Rs 750, respectively.Rental charges for setting up offices and hiring of marriage palaces for rally have also been fixed. A party office in rural area will add up as Rs 5,500 cost per month and in urban area as Rs 11,000 per month. Even as local obligations for the parties during elections are common, the poll teams would keep on adding the rentals of marriage palaces at Rs 22000.A local singer’s cost per occasion has been fixed at Rs 30,000 and that of a renowned singer at Rs 2 lakh. Dhadi jatha will cost much less Rs 3,400 and dholi will lead to the addition of Rs 550 per day. Some of the items which have come to use since Covid days too have been added up. These include Rs 15 for spray bottle of 100 ml sanitiser, Rs 3 for a surgical mask, Rs 45 for N95 mask and Rs 35 for a face shield.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ec-issues-rate-list-on-poll-expenses-355378
28-12-2021||Jalandhar||YUVAA Rang Utsav concludes on a high note in Jalandhar||The 7th edition of national theatre festival - YUVAA Rang Utsav which began in the city from November 28, came to a conclusion on December 26 with the staging of the play “All My Sons” at Saigal Memorial Hall in Jalandhar.All the SOPs were followed throughout the event, which showcased a vast variety of regional talent. Theatre groups from across West Bengal (Kolkata), Maharashtra (Mumbai), Rajasthan (Jaipur), Gujarat (Ahmedabad) and Punjab (Chandigarh and Jalandhar) regaled the city audience with their engaging tales. From Girish Karnad’s “Flowers” refurbished into the Bengali adptation “Kusum Kusum”, to the stage being turned into a virtual scrapyard to tell a harrowing tale of poverty regarding Rajasthan’s languishing Mirasis in the play “Bhawariya Kalet”; NSDians’ peppy outing in Mumbai based production “Shree and Blue” to the sombre, poetic literary world of legendary poet Amrita Pritam in the play “Agg Di Ik Baat Hai”, the Rang Utsav encompassed not just myriad cultures but also moods and themes. YUVAA’s very own productions “Chidiya Ghar” and “All My Sons” also put Jalandhar’s home bred productions on stage with the foremost theatre talent.The plays featured at the festival included - Kusum Kusum, (Kolkata); Mere Lok (Patiala); Shree and Blue (Mumbai); Chidiyaghar (Jalandhar); Darwin (Ahmedabad); Bhanwariya Kaalet (Jaipur); Agg Di Ik Baat Hai (Chandigarh); Shaheed Udham Singh (Chandigarh) and All My Sons (Jalandhar). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yuvaa-rang-utsav-concludes-on-a-high-note-355379
28-12-2021||NASA’s long-awaited||James Webb: The big picture||James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), the large infrared telescope, will study "every phase" in the history of the Universe, including the Big Bang, the formation of solar systems that are capable of supporting life on other planets and also, the evolution of our own Solar System. It is also considered a successor of the Hubble Telescope and will extend and complement its discoveries.Because of JWST's longer wavelengths, for instance, it will be able to look further back in time, “to find the first galaxies that formed in the early Universe, and to peer inside dust clouds where stars and planetary systems are forming today”.The telescope will travel to a distance of about one million miles (1.5 million km) away from Earth, where it will undergo about “six months of commissioning in space-unfolding its mirrors, sunshield, and other smaller systems; cooling down; aligning; and calibrating. Astronomers worldwide will then be able to conduct scientific observations to broaden our understanding of the Universe”. It will take about a month for Webb to cover this distance.What are the telescope’s main goals?JWST has four central goals, including to search for the first galaxies that formed after the Big Bang, to determine how galaxies evolved from their earlier formation until now, to observe the formation of stars from the first stages to the formation of planetary systems and to measure the physical and chemical properties of planetary systems and investigate the potential for life in such systems.Webb is carrying four science instruments including the Near-Infrared Camera (NIRCam), the Near-Infrared Spectrograph (NIRSpec), the Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI) and the Near-Infrared Imager and Slitless Spectrograph (NIRISS) with the Fine Guidance Sensor (FGS).How will JWST be launched?JWST will be launched on an Ariane 5 ECA rocket from French Guiana in South America. The rocket system is being contributed by the European Space Agency (ESA). The Ariane 5 is believed to be one of the most reliable launch vehicles and will be responsible for making sure that the telescope reaches its destination in space.Mirror sizeWebb will have an approximately 6.5 meter diameter primary mirror, which would give it a significantly larger collecting area than the mirrors available on the current generation of space telescopes. Hubble's mirror is a much smaller 2.4 meters in diameter and its corresponding collecting area is 4.5 m2, giving Webb around 6.25 times (see calculation) more collecting area! Webb will have significantly larger field of view than the NICMOS camera on Hubble (covering more than Rs15 times the area) and significantly better spatial resolution than is available with the infrared Spitzer Space Telescope.Sunshield SizeWebb's sunshield is about 22 meters by 12 meters (69.5 ft x 46.5 ft). It's about half as big as a 737 aircraft. The sunshield is about the size of a tennis court.OrbitThe Earth is 150 million km from the Sun and the moon orbits the earth at a distance of approximately 384,500 km. The Hubble Space Telescope orbits around the Earth at an altitude of Rs570 km above it. Webb will not actually orbit the Earth - instead it will sit at the Earth-Sun L2 Lagrange point, 1.5 million km away! Webb will orbit the sun 1.5 million kilometers (1 million miles) away from the Earth at what is called the second Lagrange point or L2.A $10 billion price tag?JWST is one of the most expensive scientific platforms in history. The total cost is $9.7 billion and is spread out over 24 years including five years of operations.That may sound like a lot, but it's just 0.0095% of US spending during the same period - essentially a single penny out of $100.“Not only are its costs spread out over more than two decades, but its total cost pales in comparison to human spaceflight projects, infrastructure spending, or even a partial border wall, writes our senior space policy advisor Casey Dreier. Compared to the hundreds of billions of dollars the United States spends per year on defense, social, and medical safety net programs, the James Webb Space Telescope's cost is a rounding error."The European Space Agency, which provided the Ariane 5 rocket and two of the observatory's four science instruments, will pay about €700 million, while the Canadian Space Agency will pay about CA$200 million.What's in a name?JWST is named after James Webb, who served as NASA's second administrator from 1961 to 1968 and felt that the agency should balance the Apollo Moon landings with a strong science program.More than 1,700 space scientists and enthusiasts - including people who have applied for observing time on the telescope - have asked NASA to change the name.The reason? Archival evidence shows that while serving as undersecretary of state prior to his tenure at NASA, Webb participated in discussions regarding the "lavender scare," an effort to purge queer people from government service.In 1963, while Webb was administrator, a NASA employee in Washington, D.C. was arrested, interrogated and fired for making a "homosexual advance."In September 2021, NASA announced that a historical review found no evidence that warranted changing the telescope's name.Webb Vs HubbleOverview Webb often gets called the replacement for Hubble, but we prefer to call it a successor. After all, Webb is the scientific successor to Hubble; its science goals were motivated by results from Hubble. Hubble's science pushed us to look to longer wavelengths to "go beyond" what Hubble has already done. In particular, more distant objects are more highly redshifted, and their light is pushed from the UV and optical into the near-infrared. Thus observations of these distant objects (like the first galaxies formed in the Universe, for example) requires an infrared telescope.This is the other reason that Webb is not a replacement for Hubble; its capabilities are not identical. Webb will primarily look at the Universe in the infrared, while Hubble studies it primarily at optical and ultraviolet wavelengths (though it has some infrared capability). Webb also has a much bigger mirror than Hubble. This larger light collecting area means that Webb can peer farther back into time than Hubble is capable of doing. Hubble is in a very close orbit around the earth, while Webb will be 1.5 million kilometers (km) away at the second Lagrange (L2) point.Technical CharacteristicsMission Lifetime: 5 years (10-year goal)Orbit: L2 (the Second Sun-Earth Lagrange Point) 1,500,000 km from EarthSunshield Dimensions: Approximately 22 meters x 12 metersPrimary Mirror:  6.5 meter diameter apertureSunshield Dimensions: Approximately 22 meters x 12 metersWavelength Coverage: 0.6 to > 27 micronsDiffraction Limit: 2.0 micronsOne-year Sky Coverage: 100%Payload Mass: Approximately 6,500 kgThe mission: The James Webb Space Telescope (Webb) is the next great space science observatory following Hubble, designed to answer outstanding questions about the Universe and to make breakthrough discoveries in all fields of astronomy. Webb will see farther into our origins: from the formation of stars and planets, to the birth of the first galaxies in the early Universe.Story Inputs: NASA, Pics NASA, iStock. Designed by Mandeep Dhir||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/james-webb-the-big-picture-355411
28-12-2021||---||Vikas Garg new  VC of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University||Kapurthala, December 27Vikas Garg on Monday took over the charge as the Vice Chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU). Garg became the 16th VC of the IKGPTU. As per the order issued by Governor, the charge of the VC will be with the Principal Secretary of Technical Education and Industrial Training Department till the appointment of regular VC of the university. Following the notification, Garg has taken over the charge. Raj Kamal Chaudhari was recently transferred from the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vikas-garg-new-vc-of-ikgptu-355412
28-12-2021||Jalandhar||8 new cases  in Jalandhar||Nagar council clerk suspendedNurmahal: Jalandhar Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) (Urban Development) has ordered the suspension of Nurmahal nagar council’s clerk. ADC Himanshu Jain in an official communication to the executive officer said he had visited Nurmahal some months ago and checked development works. Communication said during checking some shortcomings were detected and clerk Dinesh Kumar was directed to note these shortcomings and remove and send a compliance report. The ADC said he visited Nurmahal again and checked the nagar council office and found that the clerk did nothing to remove the shortcomings and even destroyed the list. The ADC directed the executive officer to suspend the clerk. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-new-cases-in-jalandhar-355414
