29-12-2021||Jalandhar||Lecture on work from home for Army wives||Vajra Corps has been constantly working towards empowering the women married to the Olive Green. As a part of this tradition, an online lecture was conducted by the Army Wives’ Welfare Association on the ‘’Work from Home Opportunities for Army Wives’’ on Monday. The event was aimed at increasing the awareness among the families of service personnel about work from home opportunities available to them during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The lecture was delivered by Shambhavi Pande, digital marketer, operations manager, certified trainer and an Army officer’s wife herself. The participation from the families of Vajra Corps was encouraging as the lecture made them aware of various employment opportunities while protecting themselves and their families from the Covid-19 pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lecture-on-work-from-home-for-army-wives-355756
29-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Harvinder Singh is district chairman of Verka Milk Plant, Hoshiarpur||Harvinder Singh was unanimously elected as the chairman of Verka Milk Plant, Hoshiarpur, Ravinderpal Begumpur Jandiala as the Vice-Chairman and Lakhbir Singh Basti Amritsaria as the representative of the Board of Directors of Milkfed Punjab. Giving information, the official spokesperson said the Board of Directors of Verka Milk Plant Hoshiarpur was elected on December 11, in which 11 members were elected. In the meeting of the newly elected managing board of directors, the election for posts of chairman, vice chairman and representatives of board of directors of Milkfed Punjab was held. On this occasion, GM Verka Milk Plant Jalandhar Amit Sharma (Milkfed Representative), Deputy Director Dairy Anil Salaria, GM of Verka Milk Plant Hoshiarpur, Employees Union and Staff of Verka Milk Plant expressed their best wishes to the newly appointed office bearers. Newly appointed Chairman Harvinder Singh on behalf of the entire Board of Directors expressed gratitude to the entire leadership. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harvinder-is-district-chairman-of-verka-milk-plant-355755
29-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DC takes stock of security arrangements at EVM store||The Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Ghanshyam Thori took stock of storage and security arrangements at the EVM store setup in the District Land Records Society complex. The DC also reviewed the arrangements being put in place for counting centres to be established for nine Vidhan Sabha constituencies. He also inspected the place where strong room would be setup in days to come. In presence of AAP representative Harcharan Singh and BSP’s Vijay Yadav, the EVMs warehouse was opened to review the safety, storage and security arrangements for EVMs and VVPAT machines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-takes-stock-of-security-arrangements-at-evm-store-355754
29-12-2021||Jalandhar||Annual prize distribution function at Innocent Hearts, Jalandhar||Commerce Club Function organisedThe PG Department of Commerce and Management organised a Commerce Club Function. The chief guest of the function was Principal Dr Pooja Prashar who lit the lamp to commence the event along with Alka Sharma (Head of the Commerce Department), Shikha Puri (Dean of the Commerce Club) and other faculty members of the department. Shreya Gandhi of BCom Semester III got the first prize in poster making, Jaspreet of B.Com Semester I made it to second position and Rinkle of B.Com (FS) Semester V stood third. Tanya of B.Com (FS) Semester V received a consolation prize. Khushi (Fashion Catalogue) of B.Com (FS) Semester V got first prize in promotional tools, Bipasha Grover (promotional coffee brand brochures) of B.Com Semester III got second prize and Isha (Price List for a Bag Company) of B.Com Semester I got third prize. Consolation prize was awarded to Preeti (pamphlet along with sample bag for handmade bag) of M.Com Semester I. Preeti and Gagandeep (MacDonald’s Logo) of M.Com Semester I bagged first prize, Manisha and Manmeet (PCM SD College Logo) of B.Com Semester III got second prize and Akansha and Rajni (Dabur) of B.Com (FS) Semester V made it to third position.School holds Sports BonanzaA sports bonanza was held in Cambridge International Foundation School. Two days sports events were organised – one by the tiny tots of Nursery and K.G. and second by K.G. II kids. Christmas parade was the main attraction of the celebration that was followed by different activities. Students disguised as Santa distributed candies and chocolates as well. Cambridge International School for Girls also organised a carnival. Several stalls comprising of different activities, games and food were there. The atmosphere was enlivened by Christmas carols and dance performances by the students.Christmas celebratedChristmas was celebrated with great joy and fervour in Seth Hukam Chand S.D Public Sr. Sec. School. Many activities were organised on this occasion in the school. The tiny tots came dressed as Santa Claus and looked mesmerising. Santa made a grand entry into the school. The children spread cheer with their smiles and lovely attires. Principal Priyanka Sharma wished the students on Christmas and New Year. She sensitised the importance of trees and encouraged them to plant more and more trees.Event marks Martyrdom of SahibzadasUnder the guidance of President Ajit Singh Sethi, both senior and junior wings of Guru Amar Dass Public School organised an event to mark martyrdom of four Sahibzadas. On this occasion, divinity teacher Jasjeet Kaur preached and enlightened the students about the life history and sacrifice made by four Sahibzadas. Shabad was recited by Tega Singh, school teacher. A film ‘Chaar Sahibzaadey” was shown to students of the school. Divinity quiz was also conducted. Students recited poems, shabad and also presented speeches.Workshop on embroideryThe PG Department of Fashion Designing organised a workshop on Usha Memory Craft embroidery machine. An expert from Usha company demonstrated the working of memory craft by creating various designs with multitude embroidery stitches. Students were familiarised with the working mechanism of machine and enjoyed creating beautiful embroidery samples and articles. Memory craft machine is useful for the purpose of daily and fashionable stitching. Students of BSc, B.Voc, MSc and that of PG Diploma attended the workshop.NCC Day observedNCC Day was observed in the campus of Lyallpur Khalsa College. The historical significance of this day was that the Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had presided over the function of raising the First NCC Unit at Delhi in 1948. On this day, 35 cadets of Air Wing participated with great zeal and enthusiasm. All of them were smartly dressed up in NCC attire. The chief guest of the day was Padam Shree Pargat Singh, Education Minister, Punjab. NCC Flag hoisting was done by him in the presence of NCC officer’s, ANO’S/CTO’s and cadets.Mathematics Day celebratedState Public School celebrated National Mathematics Day through a special morning assembly organised by the school. Whole assembly was dedicated to National Mathematics Day where students were told about Srinivasa Ramanujan, who is remembered for his contributions to mathematics. Also, latest mathematics news and inventions were shared in the assembly. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/annual-prize-distribution-function-355753
29-12-2021||---||Retd Jalandhar professor couple’s toil bears fruit||Jalandhar, December 28Two flags of kisan morcha say it all outside the residence of retired professors Jujhar Singh Dosanjh and Kuldeep Kaur Dosanjh at Golden Avenue locality here.Though they hail from Dosanjh Kalan village near here, they share that they have always led an urban life but their heart was always close to the fields and this is perhaps what makes them make a good use of their front and backyards and rooftop for growing all seasonal vegetables.In plastic sacks of wheat flour, the couple has sown brinjals and each plant is producing a good crop. In the plastic crates lined with sheets that they bought from vegetable vendors, they have grown carrots, radishes, tomatoes, spinach and fenugreek. In a discarded bath tub, they have grown garlic which too is yielding a good crop.Kuldeep Dosanjh, a retired professor of Punjabi from Lyallpur Khalsa College, showed her backyard too which has a huge mango tree. “We got as many as 50 kg of mangoes from this tree this year. Our pomegranate tree and chikoo tree also yielded a good fruit. Now, I have sown bael and lemon trees. I got the seeds from good quality trees in our village,” she said.She added, “I try to produce my own seeds. From a good quality tomato that I got from mandi, I preserved the seeds and chose to sow them. The result is before you”, she said pointing to the tomato plants growing in pots and each plant having large size green tomatoes. She even showed a plant of Sem Beans growing another pot. “I dried its pod and preserved it to sow it in the right season”, she said.Jujhar Dosanjh, who is still a visiting professor of economics, added, “My job is primarily to get vermi-compost manure from the village and some seedlings from the nurseries. We are also preparing our own manure as we do not throw and kitchen waste or dry leaves and foliage. We are using an old grain storage drum to dispose off everything, which turns into a good, dry manure after two months or so.” The couple is also maintaining a good lawn with lots of flowering of bougainvillea, chrysanthemums, roses and marigolds in their frontal yard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/retd-prof-couples-toil-bears-fruit-355751
29-12-2021||---||No magic bullet to knee health, staying active key||Jalandhar, December 28In this fast-paced world, juggling between personal and professional life can be painstaking, leaving little to no room for self-care. While the onset of lifestyle diseases at an early age is a major concern, knee pain is also becoming a growing concern among people.Typically osteoarthritis affects knees, hips, neck, lower back and hands – including the base of the thumb – and numbers of people with the condition are expected to rise.Dr Shubhang Aggarwal, Director and Orthopedic & Robotic Joint Replacement Surgeon, NHS Hospital, Jalandhar, explains all about knee pain, its causes, symptoms and remedies.Is all knee pain arthritis?In the elderly, knee pain is commonly Osteoarthritis but in the young, especially women, it is mostly chondromalacia which means softening of the cartilage but not flaking off. Other causes may be torn ligaments/meniscii, mostly due to injury.Is arthritis hereditary?Some are clearly inherited, but most are not. Commonly, arthritis of the spine (ankylosing spondylitis) and gouty arthritis are inherited, but osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis show a weak tendency to be inherited. Gout also usually skips a generation, so a grandson may be affected but not the son.Are physically active people more prone to knee pain?Some occupations predispose to arthritis, in particular osteoarthritis. Footballers develop arthritis of knees & ankles due to repeated injuries to these parts received while playing. There is no evidence that someone who is physically active but not exposed to injury, is any more prone to develop arthritis than an individual who does not exercise.Does climate affects pain?Living in a cold damp climate may make you feel your arthritis more than living in a hot, dry one. Change of weather, such as a rise in humidity and a fall in barometric pressure may also make the joints worse temporarily. Climate does not otherwise have an effect on the arthritis and it will not make its course any worse in the long term.Why medical treatment only help some people?This is usually because among the people who improve are those with different sorts of arthritis, some of which get better without treatment. Moreover, certain chronic types of arthritis may vary in their severity from time to time and appear to be cured. In pregnancy and jaundice, arthritis may spontaneously improve for months together.What is ESR?ESR stands for erythrocyte sedimentation rate. It measures amount of inflammation in the body when arthritis is present. A high ESR means a high amount of inflammation. ESR is useful as a guide to the doctor for checking activity of arthritis and monitoring progress.Steroid injections yes or no?Steroids are generally to be avoided except in rheumatoid flare-ups. The most common type – Osteoarthritis does not need any steroids at all.How do I manage pain?“Don’t let arthritis beat you, take control” But how? Treatment of severe pain due to arthritis needs a combination of strategies. We must understand that reason for pain is survival/ safety. Pain protects us from danger. Arthritis medication is only one part of the total plan that will help you reduce your pain, improve joint function and daily-living activities.Arthritis no excuse to workoutArthritis could be the perfect excuse, not to exercise. But research shows quite the opposite. Cartilage – which covers and protects the ends of bones - depends on joint movement to absorb nutrients and remove waste. Movement is actually giving it nutrition.Exercises reduces joint pain and stiffness, builds strong muscle increasing flexibility and endurance. It helps you sleep better, controls weight, decreases depression and gives you more self-esteem. It also prevents osteoporosis & heart disease.Joint Replacement Surgery?If your arthritis is at a stage where it needs surgery to give you relief or the side effects of pain killers is predicted, then you undergo a total or half joint replacement surgery. With the new robotic technology and high quality implants, most people are up and walking on a new hip or knee within a few hours of surgery.How to Fight Actively with Arthritis?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-magic-bullet-to-knee-health-staying-active-key-355749
29-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman arrested with poppy husk||Two arrested with liquorHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers, from different places and recovered smuggled liquor from them during the last 24 hours. The Sadar police have arrested Kulwinder Badhan, a resident of Patiarian village and recovered 12 bottles of liquor from him. Similarly, Tanda's police arrested Moonak Kalan resident Vishal Sabharwal, and recovered 30,000 ml of liquor from him during a naka in the area. Separate cases under the Excise Act have been registered against the accused. TNSElderly woman assaultedHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have registered a case against a woman and her brother for allegedly threatening and assaulting an elderly woman on Monday evening. According to the information, Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Kotla village, lodged a complaint with the police that his son was married to Harpreet Kaur, a resident of Garhi Ajit Singh, District Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar. Her son died in 2017 and Harpreet Kaur remarried. After this, Harpreet Kaur took her share of property by signing an instrument in this regard. On December 25, accused Harpreet Kaur came to her house with her brother Amarjeet Singh and started demanding her share in the property again. She alleged that both the accused assaulted and threatened her. The people around got her admitted to the hospital. The police have registered a case against the accused under sections 323, 451, 506 and 34 of the IPC. OCSPI appoints officer-bearersHoshiarpur: A general house meeting of the Socialist Party of India’s (SPI) state committee was organised at Lala Lajpat Rai Senior Secondary School. Om Singh Satiana was elected state president, Balraj Singh Nangal was elected state secretary general and Hukam Chand Sunkar, was elected state vice president unanimously. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-arrested-with-poppy-husk-355747
29-12-2021||Nawanshahr||Free coaching for Nawanshahr youth||To extend assistance to the youth appearing for competitive exams, the district administration is all set to start free-of-cost coaching under Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgaar and Karobar Mission DC Vishesh Sarangal said the coaching would be provided to the youth for several competitive exams, including SSSB, Punjab PPSC, SSC, Police, Railway Board, Probationary Officers and others. The DC said the aspirants must register themselves on www.pgrkam.com to avail the benefit of free-of-cost coaching classes.Sarangal urged the eligible candidates to come forward and enroll themselves for these classes to get best of the expertise in the field. He said the interested youths could contact on 88727-59915 for any help. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-coaching-for-nawanshahr-youth-355745
29-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Lend your ear to Jalandhar-based podcaster Simerjeet Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 28In what could be called as a proud moment for the city, motivational speaker Simerjeet Singh made it to the top 10 podcasters for the year 2021 on the audio-streaming platform Gaana.On this momentous occasion, Simerjeet Singh, who hails from the Kapurthala Chowk, shared his interesting life journey of how he realised that his powerful voice, coupled with knowledge of linguistic and communication skills, and voice modulation could take him to places.He said: “Till 2007, I was working with the hotel industry. Having served in the US, UK and Dubai, I chose to move closer to his hometown Batala and took up the job of food and beverage manager at Hotel Radisson in Jalandhar. I had travelled a lot and explored the world and thought of a multiple options for myself by then. Even in the job, I knew that I had a natural ability of training and motivating people.”Happy to call himself a ‘change maker’, Simerjeet acknowledges the contribution of his better half, “My wife Tarveen, who was a real estate consultant, too liked the idea of switchover. Basically, she also wanted to take to Reiki counselling and we sort of had a common goal of becoming entrepreneurs in more or less the same line. Now, with newer achievements coming and more milestones being achieved, we are happy having taken that decision.”Other than being a podcaster with 1.2 million listens on platforms such as Gaana, Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts and JioSaavn, Simerjeet, who is known for motivating people with his story telling style and poem narration, is also present on other social media platforms like YouTube where he has over 4 million subscribers. “While on video, we usually end the session in a few minutes and prefer to keep in short and crispy, we have more liberty as a podcaster as people can continue to listen to it while they are doing some household work or even travelling in a car. Once I have captured their attention, people like to listen to the end of my story and the context that I explain with it,” he tells.Armed with training in Neuro Lingual Programming from London, he tells, “I had started with the traditional format of travelling to various institutes and talking to the people there. I used to like that format a lot. But eventually I started with this one around February 2020 with a team of videographers, video editors, sound editors in my studio set up and it helped me get down to a lot of audience in the Covid times.”On choosing an offbeat career, he said, “It was difficult for me to face my relatives. They all used ask me what work I am engaged in. When I used to tell them about making these programmes, their next question is this must be my hobby and that they were asking me about my occupation”.  Among top 10 podcasters of 2021Other than being a podcaster with 1.2 million listens on platforms like Gaana, Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts and JioSaavn, Simerjeet, who is known for motivating people with his story telling style and poem narration, is also present on other social media platforms like YouTube where he has over 4 million subscribers. Happy to call himself a 'change maker', Simerjeet acknowledges the contribution of his better half.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lend-your-ear-to-this-city-based-podcaster-355744
29-12-2021||---||Farmers’ political outfit gets impetus from Jalandhar Potato Growers’ Association||Jalandhar, December 28The Jalandhar Potato Growers’ Association announced to support 22 farmers’ organisations which have formed the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha for contesting the forthcoming Assembly elections.The farmers led by Jaswinder Singh Sangha said they too felt that contesting the polls and taking up the issues of the farming community directly to the Assembly or the Parliament seemed to be the only viable option for raising issues. “All other traditional parties seem to be only politicising our issues for their vested interests and have never taken over matters seriously. So, we too have announced the support to the Samaj Morcha led by Balbir Singh Rajewal,” he said.Sangha said the potato farmers of the region have often felt that their marketing problems have never been handled by the successive governments.“Even in this ongoing season, the potato prices have crashed to Rs 2 per kg in wholesale from Rs 25 per kg in the off season. The common man is still getting the potatoes at a much higher price,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-political-outfit-gets-impetus-from-potato-growers-355743
29-12-2021||---||No takers for Covid-19 ex gratia in Jalandhar district?||Jalandhar, December 28Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today said a total of 332 dependents of Covid-19 victims have applied for the ex-gratia amount, worth Rs 50,000, being given announced by the government.Chairing a meeting of Covid-19 death ascertaining committee (CDAC), the DC said of these, financial assistant was already provided in a total of 104 cases while 76 files have been verified by the health officials.He mentioned that there were as many as 1,496 cases in the district, of which only 332 have applied for this benefit. He stated that the district administration has also approached the families of Covid-19 victims so that benefit of ex-gratia amount could be delivered to all of them.Meanwhile, the DC directed the officials concerned to fast track the process of verification so that disbursal of monetary help could be ensured as early as possible. The DC also instructed the officials to speed up the process so the compensation announced by the Punjab government could be given to the dependent family members of those, who had lost their live due to coronavirus.He also urged the people to submit their applications for getting compensation in the office concerned. Application form and other relevant documents have already been uploaded on the website of Jalandhar administration i.e. www.jalandhar.nic.in and people can get these downloaded from the website to get the monetary help, said Thori adding that the application could be submitted in the office.The DC also said people could call at COVID control room’s no 0181-2224417 for any information in this regard. Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Amarjit Bains, Civil Surgeon Dr. Ranjit Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Varinder Kaur and others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-takers-for-covid-19-ex-gratia-in-jalandhar-district-355741
29-12-2021||---||Huge quantity of drugs seized in 2 seperate cases in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, December 28The Kapurthala police have foiled an attempt by the peddlers to push a huge drug consignment into the state from Madhya Pradesh. As many as 3.75 quintal of poppy husk was found to be concealed in a truck. Four drug peddlers have been arrested in this regard.Those held have been identified as Piara Lal of Jakopur, Surinder of Sabuwal in Jalandhar, Jasbir Singh Kala and Didar Singh of Saincha Kapurthala.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the police have been keeping a close vigil on the activities of narcotics smugglers active in Kapurthala. He said that a police team led by Jarnail Singh, SHO Talwandi Choudhary, was patrolling on Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi highway after a tip-off.The team stopped a truck with Punjab registration number PB-06G-6777 at a check post on Kapurthala-Sultanpur Lodhi Road and recovered 3.75 quintals of poppy husk hidden in a special compartment made in the truck. He said the secret compartment made to hide the poppy husk looked like the floor of an ordinary truck and 350 sacks of basmati rice were placed on it. During the search, the police team found nuts and bolts hidden in the floor and when they were opened, 25 sacks (15 kg each) of poppy husks were recovered.The SSP said this was the third big haul by Kapurthala police since last month following the directions of Punjab Home Minister to check inter-state vehicles specially coming from Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had brought the huge consignment of drugs from Madhya Pradesh, he said.The SSP said that a case FIR No. 127, dated 27/12/2021, under Sections 15 (C), 25, 29, 61/85 NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at police station Talwandi Choudhrian. He told that the accused would be produced in the local courts and would be taken on remand for further interrogation and to arrest the remaining members of the racket.In a yet another action, the Kapurthala police arrested a person involved in 52-kg heroin seizure by Jammu and Kashmir police last month and recovered 100 gram heroin from his possession.The 52-kg heroin consignment was being pushed from Jammu and Kashmir to Punjab but intercepted by the Jammu and Kashmir Police on November 24 this year. The arrested accused has been identified as Happy alias Gabbar of Mehtabgarh, Kapurthala.The SSP said based on specific information, SHO Subhanpur, along with his team, set-up checkpoints at Nadala road near Tajpur, Kapurthala, for the checking of vehicles on highway.The cops spotted a car coming towards them at a high speed but on seeing the police checkpoint the driver of car stopped his i-20 car bearing number (PB09-AJ-5786) midway and started running from the spot. On suspicion, the police party chased him and on frisking, the cops recovered 100 gram heroin from his possession.Third biggest haulThe SSP said this was the third biggest haul by Kapurthala police since last month following the directions of Punjab Home Minister to check the inter-state vehicles specially coming from Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had brought a huge consignment of drugs from Madhya Pradesh. The 52-kg heroin consignment was being pushed from Jammu and Kashmir to Punjab but it was being intercepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/huge-quantity-of-drugs-seized-in-2-seperate-cases-355740
29-12-2021||---||Rail roko protest deferred for now, trains to start temporarily||Jalandhar, December 28Following a meeting with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and assurances given by him over their demands, the members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee today announced to postpone their protest and lifted their dharna on the ninth day from Jalandhar Cantonment railway station.This evening, the farmers packed up their tents and removed all mattresses from the tracks where they had been lodged since December 20. The union leaders announced that they would hold a state-level meeting on December 31 and their next meeting with the CM had been fixed for January 4, after which they would decide the next course of action.With their lifting of dharna, the movement of trains to and fro Jammu, Pathankot and other areas would now get temporarily started. As many as 16 trains towards Jammu had been cancelled for the past nine days ever since nearly 400 farmers led by district president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Salwinder Singh Jania and Kapurthala president Sarwan Singh Baupur had started squatting on the tracks.Even though the farmers had been demanding compensation of damaged crops, compensation and job for the kin of 700 farmers who died during agitation in now-repealed farm laws, more solatium for the acquisition of land for Delhi-Katra Expressway, removal of scarcity of fertilizers etc, the CM is learnt to have primarily accepted their first demand only of extending relief of Rs 17,000 per acre to Basmati growers, whose crops got damaged due to hailstorm. The union members said the CM told their leaders that the fertilizer supply had hampered due to rail roko and once the train movement would resume, the problem would get resolved.Since the farmers had also demanded that the cases registered against them in Delhi by the RPF during agitation be also got cancelled, they said the CM promised to take up the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.As many as 800 farmers were learnt to have been sitting between Jalandhar City railway station-Amritsar section, Sahnewal and Jalandhar City section, Jalandhar Cantt and Pathankot Cantt at Tanda affecting almost a complete movement of trains from Jalandhar. Harpreet Singh, press secretary of the union, said, “All dharnas across the state have been temporarily lifted on the CM’s assurance today. The CM took us a week’s time to fulfill our demands. We will wait for them to get implemented before our January 4 meeting and accordingly take our decision on whether to resume or permanently end our protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-roko-protest-deferred-for-now-trains-to-start-temporarily-355739
29-12-2021||Amritsar||Farmers meet Punjab CM Channi,  suspend 'rail roko'||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) today suspended its ‘rail roko’ agitation following their representatives’ meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi.For the past nine days, the farmers had blocked the rail track in support of their demands at Jandiala in Amritsar, Tarn Taran railway station, Tanda in Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar Cantt, Moga and Fazilka railway stations and at Basti Tenka Wali in Ferozepur, leading to disruption of over 90 trains. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC said seven rail tracks were vacated from 4 pm onwards following an assurance by the CM that their demands would be addressed.The next meeting with the CM has been scheduled for January 8. He said the assurance was given on the hike in relief for basmati crop that was damaged due to hailstorm would be enhanced from Rs 12,000 an acre to Rs 17,000, jobs and compensation to the family members of farmers who lost lives during the course of farm agitation at Delhi borders within a week, and cancellation of the cases registered against farmers after discussion with the Centre. “Besides, the CM responded positively to the loan waiver for marginal farmers,” Pandher said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-meet-punjab-cm-suspend-rail-roko-355737
29-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||No decision on Dalit CM face: Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 28Seemingly aimed at targeting SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in his Ferozepur Lok Sabha constituency, the state BJP leadership today formally announced Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the town for a ‘historic rally’ on January 5. The PM is slated to lay the foundation stone of PGI satellite centre there. The party also denied claims of having decided on putting up a Dalit CM face in Punjab.State BJP president Ashwani Sharma and general secretary Subhash Sharma held a meeting of party office-bearers from across the state wherein they were given a target of ensuring a gathering of 5 lakh people for the rally. The party leaders were told to arrange for 3,200 buses from across Punjab, including 250 from Jalandhar.A party insider said the rally was earlier planned for Ludhiana, but the venue was changed later. “The party decided to launch its campaign through a show of strength on Sukhbir’s turf, especially since the central leadership is unhappy at the Akalis dumping them in the hour of crisis. There are other factors too for choosing the venue. The party recently roped in former Congress minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who is from the area. It is a rural Hindu belt with sizeable BJP following,” said a party leader.Denying claims on putting up a Dalit CM face, Sharma said: “Sentiments of an individual do not reflect the party’s stand. A final call over such a vital decision has to be taken by the parliamentary board of the party,” he said. During Ambedkar Jayanti in April, BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh had made the announcement of a Dalit CM face. Regarding an FIR against former SAD minister Bikram Majithia, he said: “Since the matter is sub judice, it will not be appropriate to comment.”Farmers’ hidden agenda exposedWe had been saying from the beginning farmers have some hidden political agenda behind the morcha. Now, everyone can see for themselves. Ashwani Sharma, state BJP president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-decision-on-dalit-cm-face-punjab-bjp-chief-355710
