30-12-2021||SOME of the biggest achievements in the field of sports and social work that came the Jalandhar way this year were||A year that was...||Rousing welcome to Olympic hockey heroes at MithapurAugust 5, 2021 went as a historic day for Jalandhar as four Olympians from here were a part of the Men’s Hockey squad that won a bronze in Tokyo Olympics. Skipper Manpreet Singh and his team mates Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar hail from Mithapur village that erupted into celebrations. The fourth local lad was Hardik Singh from Khusropur village. Days later, the team returned to a heroes welcome. The Indian team Captain got a third reward in the year as he also became the proud recipient of Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award.Parkash Kaur got Padma ShriA mother to 100 abandoned girls, Parkash Kaur, who runs Unique Home in Jalandhar, got selected for Padma Shri for her social work in January. As she received the award from the President this November, everyone called it a well-deserved recognition. City artist Kimi Juneja showed her talent as she painted her portrait and gifted it to her on the momentous occasion.Palak Kohli in paralympicsThe 19-year-old girl from Jalandhar became the youngest player from India to participate in the Paralympics. She won a special applause at a party hosted by PM Narendra Modi.Braveheart Kusum got bravery awardTeenage girl Kusum, who had last year fought bravely with the mobile phone snatchers, this year won the prestigious National Bravery Award. She received the award from the Indian Council for Child Welfare.Golden boy’s city connectOlympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra too had a Jalandhar connect as he is a student of Lovely Professional University. In fact, LPU had as many as 13 Olympians going to Tokyo this year.Politically speaking BAD YEAR FOR BJPIt remained a politically bad year for BJP leaders whose activity remained suppressed due to protests by the farmers, who were squatting on the Delhi borders demanding repeal of the farm laws. The farmers blocked all their rallies and movement of the leaders remained affected due to massive protests.Jalandhar got its minister – Pargat SinghEver since the Congress government took over in 2017, it did not have any representation in the Punjab Cabinet. It was after Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation as the CM that he finally had his way and became the minister. He managed to get four major portfolios including those of Education, Higher Education, Sports and NRIs. On a flip side, his elevation made city a hub of protests by teachers.Sukhpal Khaira in ED netMonths after Bholath ex-MLA Sukhpal Khaira made a re-entry into the Congress, his path was besieged with thorns. His membership of the Legislative Assembly got cancelled. Days later on November 11, he was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He still remains behind bars.Rana gets advantage of rejigIn the rejig that happened, Rana Gurjeet Singh, who had to step down unceremoniously from the Cabinet earlier, managed to get elevated as the minister again. His elevation, however, came despite a lot of resistance from within.FARMERS RETURN TRIUMPHANTSeveral farm leaders from the region led the year-long protest in Delhi. Manjit Rai of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee became a face of the protest. Simultaneous protests were even carried out in Jalandhar as the unions blocked rail and road for almost a week demanding sugarcane MSP hike. The protest held near Dhannowali rail track paralysed movement of the people badly. But they emerged winners everywhere, including in Delhi and Jalandhar, as most of their demands were accepted by the central and the state govts.Covid pangsEven as 2021 started on a good note, some things did not go the way as expected. The second phase of Covid that hit the city around March led to cancellation of all board exams for the students this year. Their entrance tests got delayed by several months and many students lost their steam.Artist Amit Zauff succumbs to CovidCovid snuffed out 1,496 lives in Jalandhar. Among some prominent city-based people to lose their lives was artist Amit Zauff. The artist made three paintings while taking treatment in the ICU. He, however, left an incomplete fourth painting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-year-that-was-356163
30-12-2021||Jalandhar||24K staff deployed for Assembly elections||Ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll, the district administration has started making preparations so that 16.50 lakh voters from all nine Assembly segment can exercise their franchise in a peaceful environment.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Ghanshyam Thori said since the election mechanism has been set in motion, the administration has already completed several tasks.He said there were a total of 16,50,755 voters in the district as of now, who would exercise their franchise. Of these, as many as 8,58,263 and 7,92,462 voters are men and women, respectively, while 30 voters have registered themselves as third gender.Thori added that the district has 27,042 first time voters (age group 18-19 years), 72 overseas voters, 11,692 persons with disabilities (PwD) voters, 4,56,610 above the age of 80 and 1,920 service voters. The district has achieved the target of preparing photo voter list of all the electors with 100 per cent inclusion of photos of all voters.Similarly, 100 per cent availability of provisions of ramps, drinking water, adequate furniture, proper lighting has also been ensured by the administration besides helpers and wheelchairs at all booths during the polling day for the PwD voters.The DC added that elaborate arrangements have been made for the Assembly elections as a total of 24,237 employees from the civil and the Police Department have been assigned various duties. He said 14,277 polling personnel would be deployed across the district and 9,960 police personnel would be deployed to ensure peaceful elections in the district.He said that a total number of 12,696 employees have been deputed as Presiding Officers (PRO), Presiding Officer-I, II, and III besides 1,219 micro observers, 181 each sector officers and zonal officers. Thori further mentioned that special monitoring teams ranging from Assembly level to district level have been formed by the administration to keep a close tab over the poll expenditure of candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24k-staff-deployed-for-assembly-elections-356161
30-12-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Mahinder Kaur Josh, Badal face-off in Shamchurasi||Hoshiarpur, December 29Mahinder Kaur Josh, former chief parliamentary secretary in the SAD-BJP government and three-time MLA from Shamchurasi, was once considered very close to the Badals.As soon as Akalis forged an alliance with the BSP and gave Shamchurasi segment to the latter, Josh revolted against the SAD.I am determined to make it historical. Our family raised the SAD in Shamchurasi and they have demolished it. Since 1947, the Assembly segment was with the Congress, I snatched it from them for the SAD. Now, they (SAD) have given the seat to the BSP. The people of my area are with me. Mahinder Kaur Josh, Former Chief Parliamentary SecretaryOn Thursday (December 30), Josh would take Sukhbir Badal head on as the latter would address rally at Adda Dosadka in Shamchurasi. Josh would be holding her counter-rally at a short distance away from SAD’s venue.Political pundits said strength at Josh’s rally would decide her political future. The contest becomes even more important as SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami hails from the same constituency and considered a staunch opponent of Josh.While activists of the SAD and the BSP have been working hard to garner support for their candidate Mahendra Singh Sandhar, Josh has been toiling hard to send a strong message to her opponents.Josh said, “I am determined to make it historical. Our family raised the SAD in Shamchurasi and they have demolished it. Since 1947, the Assembly segment was with the Congress, I snatched it from them for the SAD. Now, they (SAD) have given the seat to the BSP. The people of my area are with me and they want me to contest against this injustice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/josh-badal-face-off-in-shamchurasi-356155
30-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road accidents||Train services resume in distJalandhar: The Indian Railways on Wednesday resumed train services after members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee lifted their blockade from the tracks. After all rail lines got cleared, the trains chugged past the city and cantt railway stations as per their routine timetable. As many as 1,000 trains had got affected with some getting cancelled and others short-terminated across various parts of Punjab. The officials said Amritsar-bound Paschim Express was the first train to arrive in Jalandhar. TNSYouth booked for luring minorHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have booked a youth on the charge of luring a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. A migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh told the police that he lived on a tubewell with his family and another person named Raj Kumar. He alleged that Raj lured his minor daughter on the pretext of marriage. OCThree held with 55 gm- heroinHoshiarpur: The police have arrested three peddlers and recovered 55-gm heroin in different cases. According to information, the Model Town police have arrested two smugglers near Bassi Jana village and recovered 25 gm of heroin from them. The accused have been identified as Harjit Kumar, a resident of Harijan Colony, Hoshiarpur, and Trilok Singh, a resident of Dala, Amritsar. In another case, the Bullowal police have arrested Amrik, a resident of Randhawa Barota, with 30-gm heroin. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-356153
30-12-2021||Jalandhar||Bharti Kisan Union comes out in support of guest faculty||The Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has come out in the support of the Government Colleges Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association. Even though chief of the union Joginder Singh Ugrahan did not turn up, the local chapter of his union reached at the protest site and told them that they support the guest faculty.Members of the association have been holding protests in the government colleges across Punjab for the past 57 days. On December 28, the association members held a meeting with Education Minister Pargat Singh, Higher Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and DPI Colleges Upkar Singh. The members demanded that the government should give them a written assurance that they would be retained at their posts even after permanent recruitment. They demanded approval of 696 new posts in the dying cadre through the Cabinet.Prof Hukam Chand , Prof Joga Singh, Prof Gulshan Sangrur, Prof Iqbal Singh Talwara and Prof Sukhchain Singh Malerkotla have been leading the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharti-kisan-union-comes-out-in-support-of-guest-faculty-356152
30-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Kids brave harsh weather along with agitating moms||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 29It has been nearly 20 days since 2-year-old Ayaan from Faridkot is staying put in a tent installed at a vacant plot outside the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh. He is unwell for the past two days, but his parents, both of whom are ETT-TET pass teachers, have decided to carry on with their agitation.We took our son to a doctor as he is suffering from acute congestion. He kept vomiting the entire night. Despite our son’s ill-health, we are not in a position to go back after putting up a strong fight over the issue of slashing of our salaries to half Shikha, motherWe have come from Moga. I am an ETT teacher while my husband is working in an aided school. Both our unions have issues with the state government and we are here for our common struggle. We had no one to take care of our son at home. Suman, mother“We took him to a doctor today as he is suffering from acute congestion. He kept vomiting the entire night. Despite our son’s ill-health, we are not in a position to go back after putting up a strong fight over the issue of slashing of our salaries to half,” said Shikha, a mother.She revealed the difficulties she and at least 10 other mothers were facing in the bone-chilling cold. “We are 180 members and at least 10 of us have difficulty in handling our kids as there is no one in our families to take care of kids. We had to bring them all along. Even though the tents have been double-layered for extra protection, it becomes very cold during the night,” said Shikha.“The nearest public washroom is 1.5 km away in a gurdwara. That is the place where we all take turns to take bath and wash our clothes every morning. Though our tent is in a residential area, it is not easy to ask people around to let us in for using washroom the entire day, especially since even they know that it is an indefinite dharna,” she said.Suman, mother of another child Ishaan, said, “We have come from Moga. I am an ETT teacher while my husband is working in an aided school. Both our unions have issues with the state government and we are here for our common struggle. We too had no one to take care of our son. The biggest problem is that the tents start dripping due to dew and fog every morning. Our mattresses and blankets become wet, which do not dry for days. Since winter is on peak, kids are prone to weather vagaries. We just hope that theystay safe.”The teachers nurture the grudge that the minister has admitted to a departmental error regarding cutting down of their salaries, but has so far found no way to correct the wrong move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kids-brave-harsh-weather-along-with-agitating-moms-356151
30-12-2021||Jalandhar||Intensify testing: Jalandhar DC||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday directed the Health Department to enhance the count of daily doses to 6,000 in order to contain the spread of virus in the district. There are a total of 16,20,680 eligible beneficiaries in the district. Of these 14,98,199 received their first dose and 9,56,126 received their second dose so far.The District Immunisation Officer said 92.44 per cent beneficiaries got their first dose while 59 per cent residents received their second jab. The Deputy Commissioner said remaining beneficiaries should be administered the vaccination at the earliest.While reviewing the status of ongoing vaccination with district level officers, Thori asked them to pull up their socks for vaccination drive related to beneficiaries between 15 to 18 years.He said the health teams will start administering the booster shot from January 10. The DC also reviewed the status of PSA plants in government and private hospitals in the district. Thori was apprised that 12 new and five old PSA plants were functional in private hospitals. He pointed out that the administration was fully geared up to tackle any exigency and intensify testing in the view of Omicron variant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intensify-testing-jalandhar-dc-356148
30-12-2021||---||Covid-19: 13 new cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 29The health authorities reported as many as 13 new Covid-19 cases in the district on Wednesday. The district tally reached 63,615.A total of 62,054 patients recovered from the virus in the district. The district has 60 active cases.With no Covid-19 related death reported from the district today, the toll stands at 1,501. Of the 18,92,640 samples collected in the district by the health authorities so far, 17,55,792 samples tested negative.One tests +ve in K’thalaThe health authorities reported one positive case in Kapurthala district today. With this, the tally reached 18,910.The positive patient is an 84-year-old woman who came from London on December 27. At present, the patient is is under isolation in New Delhi itself.Meanwhile, no death was reported in the district today and the toll remains at 556.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-356147
30-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Vaccination drive for 15-18 age group may get hampered in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 29From January 3, nearly 2 lakh youngsters aged between 15 and 18 years of age can get themselves jabbed, in Jalandhar district. As the big day nears, several issues stare the vaccination drive, including strike of nurses, who have been up in the arms for the past one month. As only Covaxin is approved for the said age group, the vaccine is relatively unpopular in the NRI belt.Of all the beneficiaries administered vaccines in the district, only 2 lakh opted for Covaxin so far. At present, Covaxin is being administered at only two centres out of 100. The Health Department said Covaxin centres will be increased as and when the drive begins (15 to 18 age group).Sources in the department said the rate of vaccination has come down to 4,000 to 5,000 per day from 15,000 to 20,000 daily due to the strike of nurses.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “Covid vaccination is being administered everyday. We will start vaccinating the 15 to 18 age group from January 3. Over 2 lakh people in Jalandhar have already received Covaxin. It is yet to be seen how many youngsters turn up for the shots in this age group. We cannot force them, but those who come will be jabbed. Centres will also be increased on the basis of response.”Health teams prepare for D-Day in KapurthalaIn the view of Omicron variant, preparations for vaccinating youngsters have begun in the district. Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Bir Kaur said the Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation has released directions on vaccinating of children between 15 and 18 yearsShe said only Covaxin has been approved for this age group as per emergency listing procedure. Dr Kaur said Omicron has been deemed as a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation.She said healthcare and frontline workers who have received both the jabs will get a booster dose, which will be administered 39 weeks after the seond dose.Apart from this, those above 60 years with comorbidities, can also take the booster shot after 39 weeks of the second dose following consultations with their doctors.Kapurthala District Immuisation Officer Dr Randeep Singh appealed to the residents to get their kids (15 to 18 years) jabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-drive-for-15-18-age-group-may-get-hampered-in-jalandhar-356145
