31-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Husband booked for seeking dowry||3 arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The police have arrested three smugglers and seized intoxicants in the past 24 hours. Model Town police station, during a naka in the area, arrested a smuggler near SD College and seized 55 gm of intoxicating powder from him. The accused has been identified as Yogesh Kumar alias Vicky, a resident of Deep Nagar. While, Davinder alias Kaka, a resident of Langeri Road, Mahilpur, was arrested by the police recovering 37 gm of heroin. Tanda police have arrested a smuggler Haripal, a resident of Khurda village, from near Nangal Khunga village and recovered 10 kg of poppy husk from him during a naka. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered. OCTwo held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers and recovered smuggled liquor from them on Wednesday evening. The police of Sadar police station arrested Nand Lal alias Sonu and recovered five boxes of smuggled liquor from him during a naka in the area. Similarly, the police of Mahilpur arrested Joni Kumar, a resident of Panchangal and seized 9,000 ml of liquor from him. Separate cases under the Excise Act have been registered against the accused in the respective police stations. OCOne arrested for bettingHoshiarpur: Model Town police arrested Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Prahlad Nagar, on the charge of betting. The police have recovered cash worth Rs 2,000 put on bets and slips bets from him. He has been booked under the Gambling Act. OCInjured soldier dies in hospitalHoshiarpur: A soldier, who was injured in a road accident, succumbed at Military Hospital, Jalandhar. Hajipur police station have registered a case against the unidentified driver. Jagg Singh, a resident of Asafpur village, told the police that his son Kulwinder Singh was working in the Defence Service Corps. On December 17, Kulwinder was returning home when an unidentified vehicle hit him. In critical condition, he took him to Military Hospital, Jalandhar, where he succumbed to his injuries on December 28. The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/husband-booked-for-seeking-dowry-356583
31-12-2021||Jalandhar||Thapar Model Sewer System to come up at Jalandhar's Ballan village||The district administration has cleared all formalities to install Thapar Model Sewerage System in Ballan village at a cost of Rs 2 crore.DC Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday had a detailed meeting with the panchayat, officer concerned and other stakeholders so that the work on the project could be initiated at the earliest. The DC said the work would be started from next week.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Jaspreet Singh said the sewerage system would be setup at around three acres of land having piped drainage system covering the entire village. He also pointed out that besides the sewerage system all village streets would be interlocked at a cost of nearly Rs 26 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thapar-model-sewer-system-to-come-up-at-ballan-356582
31-12-2021||---||12 fresh Covid cases surface in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 30As many as 12 new Covid cases were reported in the district today. The district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached 63,627 with the new cases. As many as 62,055 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar were 71 today. With no new death reported from Covid today the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,501.9 new cases in Kapurthala The Kapurthala district today reported nine cases of Covid today. The patient testing positive included people from 21 to 45 years of age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-fresh-covid-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-district-356581
31-12-2021||---||Police crack Rs 45 lakh Phagwara loot||Jalandhar, December 30The Kapurthala police have solved the sensational case related to robbery of Rs 45 lakh from an employee of a money exchanger in Phagwara. The police have recovered Rs 22 lakh and two cars from the accused.The accused have been identified as Akhil Rawat alias Sonu, a resident of # 122 A in Sector 51-A, Chandigarh, Amandeep Singh Makhan, a resident of Fatehabad, Haryana, and Shami Sharma, a resident of Baltana, SAS Nagar.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said on December 25, Shankar Maini, an employee of Hoshiarpur-based money exchanger, was abducted from the slip road by three masked criminals in a car after which they ran away towards Ludhiana.He said during investigation it came to the fore that Maini was kidnapped as he was carrying Rs 45 lakh in a bag. The police had registered a case under Section 365 of the IPC against three unknown persons.The SSP said a special investigation team (SIT) was formed for conducting the probe.He said the SIT zeroed in on Rawat, whose activities on December 25 seemed to be suspicious. The SSP said during probe he broke down and confessed to the crime.Khakh said they have recovered Rs 22 lakh and a car (registration number CH04-B-0421), which was used in the crime.Rawat disclosed that he along with his friends planned to rob Rs 45 lakh in Phagwara. Rawat added that as Maini came towards Phagwara in a bus with a bag containing money, he asked his men to chase him. Then they kidnapped him in a car with fake registration number PB-10-C-1111 (actual number HR26-VB-8026) and abandoned him near Goraya after looting the cash from him.The SSP they will add Sections 379-B and 472 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-crack-45l-phagwara-loot-356580
31-12-2021||---||2,000 posts of physical education teachers approved: Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceSultanpur Lodhi, December 30After PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu campaigned for Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, Punjab Sports and Education Minister Pargat Singh made it to the town and made a host of announcements for his constituency today.While sharing his experiences with the budding players at Baba Darbara Singh Hockey Academy in Government School Tibba in Sultanpur Lodhi, the Cabinet Minister said under the newly introduced Sports Model of the state, the focus was on to strengthen the sports infrastructure in the primary schools as till the age of 8 years the students could be engaged in sports activities.He said to push the sport culture in the government schools, the department has sanctioned 2,000 new posts of physical education teachers (PET) who would be trained by the international trainers from South Africa as an MoU has already been signed in this regard with the South Africa Sports Federation.He said a new AstroTurf would be installed at school academy besides setting up the 50-seated sports wing at Tibba school. A regular hockey coach would also be appointed in the academy here, he added. Besides, a complete kabbabdi mat would also laid down at Channa Sher Singh village, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-000-posts-of-physical-edu-teachers-approved-356579
31-12-2021||---||Vaccine boost: Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyan launched in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 30To make Punjab completely Covid-free and save people from this dreaded disease, Punjab Government has started “Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyan” for vaccination. The respective IEC van was flagged off to various health centers of the district as per the route plan by Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder KaurSpeaking on the occasion, Dr Parminder Kaur said the main objective of this campaign is to ensure timely implementation of the second dose of vaccine in the district so that the target of 100 per cent vaccination can be achieved at the earliest. She said those who have not yet taken the first dose of vaccine, must take it as it is very important to take both the doses to eliminate disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-boost-har-ghar-dastak-abhiyan-launched-356578
31-12-2021||---||PM to virtually lay stone of medical college in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 30Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the virtual foundation stone of an already-announced medical college in Kapurthala on January 5 when he is slated is visit Ferozepur for a rally.Senior BJP leader Umesh Sharda, who is also the BJP in-charge of all the election booths of Punjab for the coming assembly elections, said that the project is pegged at Rs 325 crore project and will be opened in a 24-acre land on the bypass road adjoining the local civil hospital. As per the plan, the old civil hospital would also become a part of the new building when it starts functioning in 2024. He said indoor beds of the local civil hospital would be increased from existing 100 to 500 beds, which would prove a boon for the patients of Kapurthala.Owing to the lack of medical facilities, the Kapurthala residents are going to Jalandhar for availing good medical treatment. Sharda said that centre had already released Rs 32 crore for this project, which remained unutilised for the reasons best known to the district authorities. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, however, said that the administration has now floated the tenders for the construction of medical college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pm-to-virtually-lay-stone-of-medical-college-in-kapurthala-356577
31-12-2021||Jalandhar||Welcome 2022: Jalandhar residents resolve to make everyday count||While everyone is praying for a peaceful and a healthy 2022, the Jalandharites are planning to start New Year with new thoughts, new ideas and new resolutions.Some city residents shared their New Year resolutions with Jalandhar Tribune. Principal of KRM DAV College, Nakodar, Anoop Watts, said, “ I resolved to contribute for society. It is my dream to get a small school started for the needy. I don’t know exactly how and when it will take the exact shape but there is an overpowering feeling do something creative and meaningful for the mankind.”Students of St. Soldier Inter College, Himani, Neerja, Hansika, Diya, Garima, Shivangi, Jiya, Palak, Himanshi, Karanreet, Sanya and Riya today said their resolution would be to keep smiling, improving self-esteem and trying to achieve all goals. Through a placard campaign, they even urged everyone to adopt the New Year as a new hope filled with opportunities. They even said that they hoped that their every morning in 2022 will begin with a day’s new resolution.Releasing the New Year calendar of IKG Punjab Technical University, Vice-Chancellor Vikas Garg said his aim will be to work with new ideas in 2022 to create more possibilities for progress.Innocent Hearts College of Education celebrated New Year eve with the title ‘A Sparkling Happy New Year - 2022’ incorporating the theme ‘Happiness is not measured by what you hold in your hands, but by what you hold in your heart’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-resolve-to-make-everyday-count-356576
31-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar all set to ring in 2022 with live music, DJ night||As 2022 is set to ring in, the city residents are planning to welcome it with style and elan. The city hotels and markets have come up with their plans and are offering these to residents. Owing to Covid not very elaborate parties have been planned and most hotels are preparing for elaborate buffets, live music and a DJ night.Fortune Avenue Hotel has plans to have a multi-cuisine buffet with arrangements for street food including chat, tikki and golgappa as well as live cooking. Abhishek Bali, from the hotel, said, “Most arrangements have been made for our regular guests who have also got the bookings done. We will also allow on-the-spot walk-in for some limited visitors. Our guests will be regaled by popular DJ Heart Track.”Most other hotels have kept it rather simple. Says owner of Best Western Plus Hotel Kamaljit Hayre, “We will just have simple fine dining at the hotel. But we are organising good New Year parties at our Hotel Continental at Nawanshahr and Nakodar.”Ramada Hotel owner Rajan Chopra said, “We have planned a light, music and fire show at our PPR Market. It will be open for all the residents of the city.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-all-set-to-ring-in-2022-with-live-music-dj-night-356575
31-12-2021||---||1K cops to keep strict vigil on New Year in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 30The Commissionerate Police, Jalandhar, claims to have made elaborate security arrangements for ensuring that residents welcome the New Year peacefully and without any fear.Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh, who reviewed the security arrangements in a meeting here today at the Police Lines, said the Commissionerate Police is fully committed to maintain law and order at every cost and foolproof arrangements have been put in place before the New Year eve so that people can welcome the New Year with full enthusiasm. Naunihal Singh said the officials have been directed to beef up security arrangements at all the vulnerable places.Seeking support and cooperation from the people for prevention of crime, Naunihal Singh said the police are at their service round the clock. The CP said over 1,000 police personnel have been deployed to keep a strict vigil in wake of the New Year celebrations. Likewise, he said security has also been enhanced in the city to check any sort of anti-social activity. Naunihal Singh further said for round the clock vigil in the city various patrolling parties of the police have been deployed.The CP further said that senior officers will be personally monitoring law and order situation in the city during the celebrations. Naunihal Singh appealed the people to welcome the New Year with full gaiety and enthusiasm by adhering to the Covid protocol and following the law and order norms.On the occasion, Joint Commissioners of Police Sandeep Malik and Ketan Parekh, Deputy Commissioners of Police Jagmohan Singh, Gurmeet Singh and JS Teja along with others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1k-cops-to-keep-strict-vigil-on-new-year-in-jalandhar-356574
31-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Withdraw cases, fill vacant posts, say jobless teachers in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 30Members of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha (an umbrella body of 11 teacher organisations) took out a flag march here on Thursday. A cavalcade of over 100 vehicles rallied across Education Minister Pargat Singh’s constituency.Will keep fightingDespite assurances, our demands have not been met. On Dec 15, we met the Education Minister. He posted about it online, but our demands still remain unaddressed. Even after the code of conduct is implemented, we will keep raising these demands. — Vikramjit Singh, Democratic Teachers’ frontThe flag march started from the Urban Estate Phase 2 area and headed towards Pargat’s residence at Dashmesh Colony. It passed through Jandiala and halted at Sarhali village. Slogans were raised against the Chief Minister, the Education Minister and the state government. The march would continue on Friday too.While the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha alone represents over 1 lakh teachers in the state, its prime demands include recruitments to over 30,000 posts of teachers lying vacant in the education department, withdrawal of cases filed by the government against teachers protesting in various stirs, reversal of various decisions taken to victimise teachers, clearing of pending promotions and stalled transfers of many teachers.Vikramjit Singh, from the Democratic Teachers’ Front, said: “Despite assurances, our demands have not been accepted. We staged a protest on December 8 and on December 15, we held a meeting with the Education Minister. He posted about it on the social media but our demands still remain unaddressed. Even after the code of conduct is implemented, we will keep raising these demands.”A number of protesters have been staging dharnas and agitation before the residence of the Education Minister recently. Ahead of the 2022 elections, various teacher outfits have started a series of agitations here — some of them have even been going door to door to mobilise support for their protests and also propagating against the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-cases-fill-vacant-posts-say-jobless-teachers-in-jalandhar-356425
