01-10-2020||Almost 28 years after one of the worst communal outrages in the history of independent India||Babri acquittal||While awarding the disputed site at Ayodhya to Hindu claimants, the apex court had noted on November 9, 2019, that the demolition was ‘an egregious violation of the rule of law’. The settling of the land dispute, however, paved the way for giving a quiet burial to the demolition case, which was no longer considered to be politically encashable. But the fact that a televised monstrosity — which had a ghastly aftermath in the form of riots that broke out in several states, followed by the 1993 Mumbai bombings — has gone unpunished is a new low for the country’s criminal justice system.Even as the construction of Ram Mandir is underway, the razing of the Babri Masjid continues to be a festering wound for Indian democracy and constitutional values. It’s a telling reminder of the abject failure of Central and state governments to prevent a free-for-all. Mandir-masjid politics might have outlived its utility, but the scourge of communalism rages on, as witnessed during the February 2020 riots in Delhi. Alas, the State continues to be as powerless as ever before the rabble-rousers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/babri-acquittal-149278
01-10-2020||The lack of clarity over the farm laws is now more than apparent with Haryana barring farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan from bringing paddy and bajra for sale in the state’s markets. The decision by the BJP-JJP coalition government has come at a time when paddy procurement has just begun and in neighbouring Punjab||Haryana ban on outside crops||Haryana’s decision is contrary to the claims made by the Centre that farmers would be free to sell their produce anywhere, with Prime Minister Modi accusing the Opposition of disregarding their welfare and favouring only the middlemen. To justify its policy, the state has blamed unscrupulous traders who procure crops from outside at a lower price and then sell it in Haryana at a higher MSP. While the state has made it mandatory for farmers, even those from outside the state, to register and mention the area on which the crop was sown to weed out fake entries, the lack of support price in the adjoining states is a matter of concern because the government has clarified that the MSP regime would remain. There are already demands that crop sale in any area should only be at the support price. It also calls for coordination between the states to help farmers navigate the official requirements.The Centre has been claiming that the agricultural reforms will be progressive, but it is hard put to dispel the notion about the farmers not being shortchanged because of the diversity in agricultural operations across the country. The dilemma of changing the lop-sided nature of farming without affecting the stakeholders is proving to be a challenge. More than convincing, transparent mechanisms will be needed to inspire trust and allay apprehensions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/haryana-ban-on-outside-crops-149270
