03-10-2020||IN a welcome decision aimed at sending a strong message of zero tolerance to sexual crimes against minors||No laxity in minors’ rape||That it leaves no room for the convict to be shown indulgence or given bail should aid in curbing the heinous crime that has seen no signs of waning despite tightening of laws. Rather, offences smacking of deviant behaviour and serious aberrations in society have risen. As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report released in January, a shocking 109 children were sexually abused every day in 2018. Necessitating strong action and deterrence is the ugly fact that this figure constitutes a 22 per cent jump in such cases from the previous year. Incidentally, the latest NCRB data released this week shows Chandigarh at the bottom of the disgusting pile: with 112 rape cases recorded in 2019, with over 50 per cent of them minors, the city has earned the notoriety of registering the highest rate of rapes in the country. The only consolation is that in 2017, the Chandigarh POCSO court was the swiftest among the UTs and the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Moved by the plight of the large number of vulnerable and defenceless children — both boys and girls — falling prey to predators stalking society, with long-term repercussions, the Supreme Court had in 2019 taken suo motu notice and issued directions to the states to fast-track the cases. Showing sensitivity in the matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had in February ordered the posting of seven judicial officers in Punjab and 14 in Haryana to try offences registered under the POCSO Act. Now, hope rests on swift justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-laxity-in-minors-rape-150177
03-10-2020||Having failed miserably to curb crime against women||Unreasonable curbs||Despite the judicial rap, things have not changed on the ground. The abuse of power was starkly visible on Thursday when Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were stopped on the Yamuna Expressway by the UP police and not allowed to march towards Hathras, about 150 km away. The cops had clearly been ordered to prevent them from coming anywhere near the victim’s family. Can two persons constitute an unlawful assembly? It won’t be easy for the state police to give a plausible answer.Taking a leaf out of their UP counterparts’ book, the Delhi Police on Friday warned against any gathering around India Gate in view of the imposition of Section 144. The order was apparently aimed at Delhi’s ruling party AAP, which had planned a protest at the spot against the Hathras gangrape and murder case. Such highhandedness is a brazen attempt to silence dissent. It shows Indian democracy in a poor light. It’s inevitable that the court would have to intervene yet again to remind the authorities of the dire need to restrain themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unreasonable-curbs-150178
