05-10-2020||The inauguration of the strategically important||Atal Tunnel opens||It would take 15 minutes on an average to travel from the south portal of the horseshoe-shaped tunnel, located 25 km from Manali, to the north portal in Sissu, Lahaul valley. Designed for daily traffic density of 3,000 cars and 1,500 trucks, it reduces the road distance by 46 km between Manali and Leh and the travel time by four to five hours. The tunnel is a defining moment for the intensive Central push towards better border connectivity. Though it has the potential to link Ladakh to the rest of the country all 12 months of the year, as it would bypass Rohtang Pass that is snowbound during the winter, passes like Thanglang La and Baralacha La can still cut off road access to Leh in extreme weather conditions.The immediate change would be felt in Lahaul and also Spiti valley, as the tunnel promises to transform the winter cut-off existence patterns. For the locals, however, the significance of the tunnel opening is also riddled with apprehensions of hectic trade and business activity threatening the traditional ways of life in the serene and remote mountain areas. While exploring the tunnel as a huge business opportunity for the travel industry, the Himachal government would face a challenging time regulating and educating tourists. Going by the reckless expansionist experience in Manali, maintaining an ecological balance and cultural sensitisation should remain the top priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/atal-tunnel-opens-151222
05-10-2020||The claims of good governance by the BJP-led government at the Centre have suffered a severe jolt with one of the key states ruled by it||Hathras shadow on Bihar poll||The onslaught by a determined Opposition will put pressure on the Yogi government and any delay to act will threaten not just the prospects of the BJP, but also its alliance partners that have mostly deprived sections as their constituents. Even within the BJP, the manner in which the incident was managed has drawn criticism. The advent of Lalu Prasad Yadav in Bihar had marked the end of upper-caste domination in politics and successive governments saw no reversal in this trend. The present JDU-BJP alliance ensured social cohesion by welding the aspirations of the downtrodden with upper-caste apprehensions and the Hathras episode can put pressure on the JDU, for it cannot afford to cede ground to the RJD and LJP, parties that are eager to prove a point or two to three-term CM Nitish Kumar under young leaders.What puts the BJP in an unenviable position is the fact that the prospects of its own government in MP may get affected in the bypolls. With its primarily Dalit vote bank, the LJP may find it difficult to defend its relations with the BJP, whose coalition dharma is under a cloud with the Shiromani Akali Dal having already walked out. Bihar needs a renewed thrust on development, having seen the return of migrant workers in large numbers, to prevent social tension. Creating a caste divide by pandering to insecurities is not called for at a time when collective efforts are needed to fight the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hathras-shadow-on-bihar-poll-151212
