07-10-2020||A horrifying crime was committed in Hathras district last month. It may or may not have been rape||Smelling a conspiracy||There is nothing conspiratorial about the fact that UP reported the most number of cases of crimes against women in 2019, as per a report of the National Crime Records Bureau. The state also recorded the highest number of crimes against girls under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act last year. With such an abysmal record, the state authorities ought to go after the criminals, not the protesters. Nevertheless, dubbing the Hathras protests as a move to destabilise the Yogi Adityanath government, the police have launched a crackdown reminiscent of the ruthless methods used to quell the anti-CAA agitation in December last year. The attempt to connect the two disparate protests is another diversionary tactic.Criminalisation of dissent is what governments are resorting to whenever they find themselves in a tight spot. But the ploy of blaming it all on the Opposition and unleashing probe agencies on political rivals is too predictable to be credible. The Hathras aftermath demonstrates the insecurity and incompetence of the state government. The Centre, whose own credibility is under a cloud, can remain a mute spectator to the goings-on only at its own peril.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/smelling-a-conspiracy-152039
07-10-2020||Underscoring criminal negligence at all levels in the Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital of Bathinda is the offence of a deadly nature||Criminal negligence||The investigation into the charge that the Civil Hospital failed to alert the blood donor, the recipient and the authorities even after learning about the HIV-positive status of the donor in May corroborates the systemic failure. Exemplary punishment to all — from top to bottom — is called for. For, it amounts to nothing short of putting a patient’s life at risk. It constitutes a breach of faith of the one who comes to get healed. There are at least two known unfortunate patients who have been administered the infected blood: a woman in May (who was, criminally, not even informed about the contaminated transfusion) and now, a thalassemic child. As they battle for life with compounded problems, the guilty must be given swift and just retribution.At the same time, the case raises the importance of educating the blood donors about the importance of ensuring that they are infection-free before they set out to make the noble and life-saving deed. A study published in 2015 revealed that around 3 per cent of the donors who come for blood donation at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, are infected with various diseases, including HIV, hepatitis and venereal ailments. Significantly, the infected patients were notified about their status that clearly spelt a no to using their blood for transfusion. The study also entailed upon the blood banks the necessity of embarking on post-donation counselling that not only encompasses information on infection status but also referral for medical care and their treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/criminal-negligence-152027
