09-10-2020||IN a democracy||Shaheen Bagh||There can’t be any quarrel with the court’s observation that ‘democracy and dissent go hand in hand’. Also, one would agree that roads and public spaces can’t be blocked indefinitely. But to say that demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in ‘designated places’ alone could be problematic as such earmarked places aren’t available in every part of the country. Instead of providing such places, the UP authorities have imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) till October 31 in Hathras district to prevent people from gathering to protest against the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman.Holding that repetitive orders under Section 144 would be an abuse of power, the Supreme Court had, in January, ordered the authorities to forthwith review the existing prohibitory orders. While dealing with the lockdown in J&K following the nullification of Article 370 of the Constitution, the court had said, ‘The power under Section 144 cannot be used to suppress legitimate expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights.’ Right to protest works as a ‘safety valve’ and protects the constitutional order. Denial of this right is fraught with serious consequences for the state system and democracy. It would have been better if the court had ordered the authorities to set up ‘designated places’ in each district and taluka to allow people to vent their ire on issues that matter the most to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/shaheen-bagh-153034
09-10-2020||With the investigation into the alleged suicide of a Covid-19 patient at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla on September 22 pointing a finger of suspicion towards medical negligence||Covid ward woes||But, sadly, the stigma and scare attached with this highly communicable contagion have left some unfortunate patients struggling for proper attention and facilities. The Shimla case mirrors the plight of many a hospital and quarantine centre, as allegations of overcharging and general neglect abound. Thankfully, as the prescribed protocol allowed home isolation and quarantine, patients with mild symptoms have been having the solace of being looked after by their kin. But those in critical state require clinical care. They would do with some better facilities. Like the now chastened Shimla hospital, others too would do well to cheer up patients recuperating in Covid wards by providing them with communication channels, TV and newspapers, yoga sessions, etc, so that they are not overwhelmed by depression/stress. Allowing visits of relatives and food from home can also boost their morale.With the case tally going past 68 lakh in India, people are learning to live with the disease. They are boosted by the recovery rate of over 84 per cent and the recent dip in the number of cases per day — though accompanied by a decrease in the number of tests. But the sheer caseload means that the battle is still uphill for those with complications and needing medical attention. Well-equipped and well-staffed hospitals are their main hope. Nobody should be driven to suicide for lack of efficient assistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-ward-woes-153035
