14-10-2020||The serenity of City Beautiful was shattered by gunfire in recent days||Shootouts in Chandigarh||Also read: The police and the administration had so far been preoccupied with Covid-related duties in the city, which meant that all energy was focused on enforcing rules related to the lockdown. With life gradually returning back to normal, it is time for the usual law and order routine to take precedence through vigil and verification. Being the capital of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh serves as a convenient stopover for gangsters from both states, calling for greater coordination between the authorities of these states and the UT to avert such episodes.That the incident involved youngsters and student leaders points to another factor. The lockdown has affected life on the campus and Panjab University has been no exception. Offline classes have virtually ceased and students had to leave with hostels being vacated. Because of Covid, there is also uncertainty over the holding of the students’ union elections this year. In the absence of activities, outlets to channelise the energy of the youth have been minimised.Student bodies at Panjab University have always set a precedent, giving leaders to the mainstream political parties and even electing a woman president to head the students’ union. In such a backdrop, the tendency among the student groups to flaunt association with criminal gangs because of the raw power it helps them wield is unfortunate. The use of arms in incidents of crime points to their easy availability and their supply chain needs to be snapped. Gun culture will only serve to destroy the city’s unique character.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/shootouts-in-chandigarh-155389
14-10-2020||The question supposed to have been posed by the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court to Hathras District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar has in it encapsulated the most disturbing aspects of the terrible tragedy that struck the helpless 19-year-old girl on September 14||The Hathras question||If this statement is indeed true, the court has identified the real issue in its very first hearing. The Valmiki girl would not have got brutalised and then her body would not have been snatched away by the law had she been rich or influential. Also, the Uttar Pradesh Government would not have been in a hurry to declare her ‘not raped’ or initiate a witch-hunt against her family’s supporters had the accused been someone else. The caste, class and religious identities of victims and perpetrators seem to dictate a certain kind of official response.Prashant Kumar of the UP Police should have viewed the video clips of the victim’s statement before claiming that there was no proof of rape, clutching at the forensic laboratory report of the 11-day-old sample, which obviously could not have had semen in it. Whereas the three video clips, according to new reports, are consistent testimony against the accused. The first was recorded while she was lying outside the Chandpa police station with flies hovering over her, the second at the district hospital and the third at the Aligarh medical college. In all these, she clearly names the accused and uses the term ‘zabardasti’ and explains she was strangled because she resisted rape. And that’s clinching evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-hathras-question-155384
