17-10-2020||THE Centre has finally blinked to break the deadlock with the states over GST compensation. The Union government will borrow up to Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of the states to meet the shortfall in collections. The intervention comes in the wake of the GST Council’s failure to arrive at a consensus over the Centre’s proposal that the states should borrow themselves against future GST collections to bridge the revenue gap. When this tax regime was rolled out in July 2017||GST breakthrough||The amount borrowed by the Centre will be transferred to the states as a back-to-back loan in lieu of release of GST compensation cess. This move is expected to bring uniformity and rule out the prospect of differential rates of interest that states may be charged individually for mobilising funds from the market. The Centre had in August given two options to the states — to borrow Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market. On the demand of several states, the sum of Rs 97,000 crore was raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore. However, some states, particularly those not ruled by the BJP, remained reluctant to come on board.With the onset of the festive season, the states need to make the most of the borrowing to reboot their economy. The focus should be on boosting demand and giving a much-needed fillip to consumption. Though the national unemployment rate fell to 6.67 per cent in September from8.35 per cent in August, as per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the labour force contracted by 46 lakh last month in towns and cities. It’s imperative that job creation goes hand in hand with revenue generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gst-breakthrough-156898
17-10-2020||Even as teaching has been shifted to the online mode ever since the schools were shut down in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic in March-end||Special kids suffer loss||Most educators are still struggling to adapt to the e-teaching technique, into which they were suddenly pushed, while the parents of children with special needs feel overburdened as they have been forced to put in personal efforts to keep their wards educated. Often, the exercise has frustrating results, as the constraints of limited resources, ability and time boggle them. Sadly, lack of accessibility to education has pushed their children further out to the margins. That they should be so disadvantaged is pitiable, for even in normal times, it is only around 25 per cent of the special children with disabilities whose parents overcome the huge odds at every corner to send them to school.The authorities have failed these kids by not yet evolving e-programmes for mass home-schooling geared to their specific needs. The ongoing ‘Inclusive Education for Disabled’ initiative in Punjab, for example, is short on the infrastructure required to make education inclusive and accessible universally to the special kids. Covid-19 should spur the government to innovate and tailor its special education programme to benefit them. At stake are lakhs of needy. As per the 2011 Census, there are nearly 79 lakh children with disability, constituting 1.7 per cent of the total child population.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/special-kids-suffer-loss-156900
