19-10-2020||The novel coronavirus is proving to be a tough bug to crack. In a huge disappointment||Remdesivir falls flat||The finding of the Solidarity trial puts the spotlight on the dark underbelly of the profit-driven, multi-billion-dollar pharmaceutical industry. It is shocking that lakhs of patients have been given pills that now seem to have been of no value. As they count their losses (in India, Covid beds in private hospitals cost upwards of Rs 50,000 per day), they may also have to deal with the health repercussions of ingesting these medicines. However, unsurprisingly, remedesivir-maker Gilead has cast a doubt on the study, notwithstanding that its sample size is bigger and more inclusive (covering 30 countries, including India) than any other. Interestingly, the company signed a billion-dollar deal with the European Commission to supply remdesivir a week after it was informed of the WHO conclusions.While the virus shows no sign of receding as it ravages the world in waves — dipping in India and rearing its head again after a lull in Europe and America — scientists are racing to find the vaccine to combat the disease. Hope rests on the clinical trials at advanced stages, with the flattening of the curve or herd immunity being elusive. But universal vaccination is estimated to take a couple of years, necessitating the urgent need for a medicine to manage the disease. Till then, the world has to live with the virus and without paranoia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/remdesivir-falls-flat-157826
19-10-2020||While the decision of the Supreme Court to appoint a retired judge as a one-man committee to monitor the measures taken to prevent the burning of crop stubble in the states of Punjab||Farm fires under scrutiny||The Supreme Court, on the other hand, has clarified that the appointment of the committee is not an indictment of any agency and that its only concern is that people in Delhi-NCR should be able to breathe clean and fresh air. The panel is expected to undertake physical surveillance of the fields where stubble burning takes place, suggest methods to prevent it and submit fortnightly reports to the court which implies that it will have to depend on the cooperation of the states — ruled by different political parties — which themselves have been unable to check the problem.Justice Madan B Lokur (retd), with his experience of having headed the Green Bench, will need to take into confidence all stakeholders like farmers and government agencies. With the stir over agriculture reforms persisting, it has been difficult to dissuade the farmers from burning stubble. Incentives and punitive measures have not been much successful and creating awareness will be important, for which the committee will be assisted by NCC cadets, NSS volunteers and Scouts & Guides. Looking for individual success stories may help, for success breeds popularity. The task is cut out for the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/farm-fires-under-scrutiny-157842
