22-10-2020||Two incriminating reports in the past couple of days once again point to an annual feature of this time||Gasping for clean air||The Ballabgarh case, mirroring the smogginess that has become an annual feature of the northern region, points the finger at the unabated burning of paddy stubble in the fields of Punjab and Haryana. Compared to last year during this time, farm fire instances have risen three-fold in Punjab and just six farmers booked for lighting their stubble. Haryana has seen a rise of 70 per cent in the cases. It underscores the need for the states to tighten the screws on the offenders and also facilitate more farmers with machines geared to curbing the toxic fumes. The reluctance to take action due to fear of further agitating the peasants who are already on the boil over the Centre’s contentious farm laws cuts no ice. Any laxity towards ensuring a cleaner air means many more gasping for breath.In this context, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s call to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to hold regular meetings with the CMs of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP makes sense. While it may be too late for this season, constant monitoring at the highest level is bound to help in the long run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gasping-for-clean-air-159136
22-10-2020||The fact that MSP (minimum support price) doesn’t even find a mention in the laws enacted recently by the Centre has fuelled mistrust among farmers||Discord over MSP||‘Guaranteed’ MSP is certainly music to the toiling farmers’ ears, but it’s far easier said than done. It’s the Centre that fixes the support price of various crops, as per the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). The Commission takes into account several factors: the cost of production, demand and supply, price trends in the domestic and international market, and inter-crop price parity. It’s a one-size-fits-all policy applicable across the country. The Punjab Bills, aimed at addressing the fears of the farming community over the possible dismantling of the MSP regime, don’t seem to have created an alternative architecture to ensure governmental purchase at an assured price.With Central agencies procuring crops at best at the fixed MSP, some states have been offering a bonus — over and above the support price — to compensate farmers. The CACP has cautioned that such moves create distortions in the market and affect the ‘balance of crops’. Moreover, considering issues such as overproduction and inadequate storage, states can’t do much on their own to ensure a good bargain for the majority of the growers. A legally enforceable MSP won’t preclude distress sale unless the Centre and the states work in tandem for the sake of those who make the granaries overflow — even during a pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/discord-over-msp-159137
