28-10-2020||Chief minister of 15 years||Bihar votes||The Rashtriya Janata Dal, the former ruling coalition partner ditched by Nitish to realign with the BJP in 2017, has been quick to cash in on the palpable anger on the street. The main Opposition party has propelled the development deficit and unemployment as key election issues, but translating the momentum into votes is what counts. For the RJD, that could be an uphill task. Made more difficult by NDA ally Lok Janshakti Party, which has muddled the electoral tussle by fielding candidates against Nitish’s party. The BJP senses in it an opportunity to go one up on JD (U).The caste arithmetic and shifting alliance configurations are a hallmark of Bihar elections, a robust political battlefield, but with historically low voting levels. The turnout would be of particular concern for every party this time, given the pandemic threat. With 7.3 crore voters, the Bihar Assembly election is not only the first major electoral exercise in India since the Covid-19 outbreak, but also the largest in the world so far. For the Election Commission, its successful conduct would count as a remarkable achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bihar-votes-162069
28-10-2020||Amid a legislative tug-of-war and political one-upmanship||Freight trouble||Throwing its weight behind the farmers, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha had passed three farm Bills on October 20 to counter the Centre’s laws. The move prompted farmer bodies to relax their ‘rail roko’ stir, allowing the movement of goods trains while taking into consideration the shortage of coal and fertilisers. However, the Railways legitimately does not want conditions and stipulations that cannot be complied with. The protesters should not block the lifeline any longer.The longer this stalemate lasts, the harder it will hit the economy not only of Punjab but also of the neighbouring state of Himachal Pradesh and the union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Notwithstanding their differences over the farm laws, the Centre and the Punjab Government need to ensure that economic activity is not disrupted. With over 200 farmer unions from various states having decided to launch nationwide protests in the first week of November against the farm Acts, both governments must find a middle ground at the earliest. The Centre, in particular, needs to do a lot more to bridge the trust deficit. Though they have been on the warpath for over a month, farmer bodies are still awaiting a meeting with the Union Agriculture Minister. Their representatives had walked out of a meeting with the agriculture secretary in New Delhi a fortnight ago as no minister was present to hear them out. Giving short shrift to the protesters will only worsen the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/freight-trouble-162053
