30-10-2020||The invocation of Ram Mandir by PM Narendra Modi during his election rallies in Bihar on Wednesday||Raking up Ayodhya||Bihar was among the states that bore the brunt of the lockdown. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the state’s unemployment rate was a staggering 46 per cent in April-May this year. Though it fell to 11.9 per cent in September, still higher than the national figure of 6.7 per cent for the corresponding period, the CMIE has cautioned that such a drop is misleading as the labour participation rate and the employment rate are going down as well. The stark reality is that only one out of every three adult Biharis is employed.Reviving livelihoods in a time-bound manner should take precedence over other matters. The promise made by the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Yadav to sanction 10 lakh government jobs has prompted the BJP to announce — almost as an afterthought — the creation of 19 lakh employment opportunities. However, the party — which has shared power with the JD(U) for the past three years — needs to explain first why 4.5 lakh government jobs are still vacant in the state, as claimed by Tejashwi. The BJP doesn’t seem to have learnt much from the stinging losses in the pre-Covid polls in Delhi and Jharkhand, where local issues resonated with the voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/raking-up-ayodhya-163191
30-10-2020||The decision of the Centre to form a commission to monitor air quality specifically for the Delhi-NCR region is welcome in intent||Combating air pollution||While air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region, especially during the winter months, has generally been attributed to the burning of crop stubble in Punjab, Haryana and UP, there are other reasons too that need to be looked into. Delhi itself witnesses a spike in air pollution due to construction activities, burning of garbage and other factors. With the paddy harvesting season almost over, the extent of damage they cause will have to be ascertained. Delhi had implemented the odd-even scheme and advocated the use of electric vehicles. With Diwali just weeks away, it is now beginning an anti-firecracker campaign and pitching for the use of green crackers. But with reports ranking Delhi among the most polluted states along with Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, concrete measures will be needed. Reconciling the aims of the commission with resumption of economic activities will remain a challenge.The pandemic and the lockdown saw an improvement in air quality because of a decrease in emissions which points out how the environment is inextricably linked to human health. Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, which have fared better in monitoring air quality, were also among the states/UTs where the lockdown was enforced strictly. With curbs on road transport, rail services and air travel still to resume fully, the situation will offer a test case for the commission to study the factors that contribute to air pollution in Delhi-NCR and take steps to improve the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/combating-air-pollution-163189
