01-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi to start normal run from April 15||Ludhiana, March 31The Northern Railway has announced that another New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express train (04053/54) would also start its normal run from April 15 (operating once a week on Thursdays).The train 04053 would leave New Delhi at 7.20 am and arrive in Amritsar at 1.30 pm (with a three-minute stoppage of 11.08 am to 11.11 am at Ludhiana). On return journey, the train 04054 would depart from Amritsar at 4.50 pm and reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt 6.50 to 6.55 pm at Ludhiana. The train would fill the gap left by 02029/30 Swarn Shatabdi Express which runs on all six days of the week except Thursday.The Railways have also announced two more summer special trains to provide additional connectivity of New Delhi/Delhi to Jammu Tawi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra.The (02265/66) Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Tri-weekly Special Express would go into operation from April 11, 2021 till further notice on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday from Delhi and from April 12 on every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday from Jammu Tawi.The train (02265) would leave Jammu Tawi at 10.20 PM and reach Jammu Tawi at 7.15 am with one halt on the way at Ludhiana (2.37 to 2.47 am) while on return journey, the train 02266 would depart from Jammu Tawi at 7.15 pm and reach Delhi Sarai Rohilla at 3.55 am with a 10 minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.20 to 11.30 pm).The (02445/46) New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Superfast Special Express would operate daily from March 31 and April 1, 2021 from New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra respectively till further orders.The 02445 train would leave New Delhi at 8.50 pm and reach Shri Mata Vishno Devi Katra at 8.05 AM the next day with a 10 minutes stoppage at Ludhiana (1.05 to 1.15am). On return journey, the train 02446 would depart from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra 7.55 pm and arrive New Delhi at 6.55 am with a 10 minute halt at Ludhiana (2.10 to 2.20am).Other commercial halts of the train would be at Panipat, Ambala Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Pathankot Cantt, Kathua, Jammu Tawi, Ramnagar and Udhampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delhi-amritsar-shatabdi-to-start-normal-run-from-april-15-233077
01-04-2021||Amritsar||Worrisome March: Amritsar witnesses 719% rise in cases, 575% in deaths||The health authorities reported a total of 5,278 positive cases in March against 644 cases in February.With an increase of 719.56 per cent as compared to previous month, the district witnessed second highest number of positive cases in March. The authorities had reported 5,939 cases (highest number) in September 2020 during the first peak.In March, casualties also increased by 575 per cent as compared to February. The district health authorities reported a total of 81 Covid-19 related deaths in March. In February, the authorities reported 12 deaths.As a major relief, the mortality rate has decreased considerably as 203 deaths were reported in September 2020.The surge in positive cases and casualties started during the second half of February. In January, 533 cases and 26 deaths were witnessed in the district. With a daily average of 170 cases, fourth highest number of casualties were reported in March due to the pandemic since January 2020.Meanwhile, the health authorities reported a total of 296 new positive cases and three deaths on Wednesday. With this, the total count of positive cases and death toll increased to 21,010 and 676, respectively. The fresh cases include 216 influenza like illness cases and 80 contacts of positive patients.The deceased have been identified as Dalbir Kaur, a 67-year-old from Airport road, Narinderpal Singh, a 67-year-old from Ram Nagar on Sultanwind road and Hardeep Kaur of Pheruman village near Beas.In the ongoing drive against the Covid-19, the district achieved a milestone by inoculating 1,01,484 beneficiaries today. The health authorities 87,452 persons have been partially vaccinated (given the first shot) and 14,029 have received their second dose as well.The health officials said 19,682 healthcare workers (HCW), 23,319 frontline workers (FLW) and 44,551 persons above 45 years have been partially vaccinated. Additionally, 7,581 HCW, 6,263 FLW and 185 persons above 45 years have reveived their second dose. A total of 3,294 persons were vaccinated today at different health centres in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/worrisome-march-amritsar-witnesses-719-rise-in-cases-575-in-deaths-233036
01-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC staff resumes sanitation work||The safai karamcharis and other employees of the Municipal Corporation (MC) resumed their duties and started lifting heaps of garbage here today. In the last five days, around 600 metric tonne of garbage had piled up on the city streets. After ending the strike, the safai karamcharis have to make hard efforts to lift the heaps of garbage.However, the union leaders claimed that they would clean the entire city in two days but the workers have to make extra efforts to tackle the situation.Ashu Nahar, president, Municipal Youth Employees Federation, said, “We have resumed the work and major heaps would be lifted till the evening. The city would be cleaned within one or two days”. The union activists claimed that MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria had assured them to fix their meeting with Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra to address the issues.“We are demanding to recruit 800 safai karamcharis to streamline the sanitation work in the city. Apart from this, 195 sewermen should be recruited. The MC has sacked 46 frontline workers, who were recruited after outbreak of Covid-19. We are struggling for their reappointment. Other demands would be addressed on local level,” said Ashu Nahar.It is worth mentioning that on the call of five separate unions of MC employees, the workers had suspended the lifting of garbage on Friday. Even after meeting with Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu the employees not ended the strike. Finally after the intervention of MLA South, the employees called off their strike on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-staff-resumes-sanitation-work-233037
01-04-2021||Amritsar||Former ITBP officers to hold rally on April 4||To mark its third anniversary, the All India ex-ITBP Personnel Welfare Association (AIEPWA) is organising a contact and idea exchange rally on April 4 at 50th battalion campus in Amritsar.Commandant Mohinder Singh (retd), ITBP and secretary of AIEPWA, Punjab, said today that in rally the regular members, including retired officers, widows and dependants of deceased ITBP Himveers will also take part. MS Bhurji, ITBP Inspector General (retd) and AIEPWA president will also participate in the rally.Formed on April 25, 2018, the AIEPWA is a maiden initiative of retired ITBP personnel, which aims to unite ex-ITBP Himveers to work constructively in the welfare of their brethren, widows and dependants to ameliorate their well-being and dignity. The association is the only national-level organisation of ex-ITBP officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-itbp-officers-to-hold-rally-on-april-4-233039
01-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar civic body falls way short of property tax target||The Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) collected around Rs 22.50 crore as property tax till Wednesday evening (last day of the fiscal year). The MC had set a target of Rs 34 crore for 2020-21.Officials of the property tax wing said as residents were making payments online, thus final figure could be ascertained after midnight.The MC has witnessed a shortfall of around 4 crore as compared to 2019-20 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.During the financial year 2019-20, civic body had collected Rs 26.34 crore till March 31, however, this year, the department collected Rs 22.50 crore. The pandemic has been a major factor behind the low recovery. Even after relaxations in the lockdown, recovery of property tax could not be revived.Officials of the property tax wing claimed that rented properties contribute a good amount in property tax. Moreover, a large number of tax payer property owners claimed in their self-assessment forms that their tenants didn’t pay rents from March to September. “Property owners made such claims that tenants didn’t pay rent, but we will scrutinise their self-assessment forms and verify buildings physically,” said civic body officials.As there was slow down in market, the MC didn’t press commercial establishments on humanitarian grounds, else, the collection would have been more, officials said.Pardeep Rajput, Nodal Officer , Property Tax Wing said,“We witnessed major shortfall in rented commercial buildings. Last year, we collected Rs 1.44 crore from a shopping mall, but this year they have paid only Rs 1.26 crore. Apart from this, hospitality and tourism sector has not revived and owners of such properties were reluctant to pay tax.” Now, the MC has set a target of Rs 35 crore for 2021-22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-falls-way-short-of-property-tax-target-233040
01-04-2021||Amritsar||Interruption in early childhood learning  poses big challenge for parents, schools||The spike in the Covid-19 cases and subsequent curbs by the state government has made parents wary again.Especially those, whose kids were supposed to attend kindergarten and nursery classes. Post reopening of schools, admissions for new sessions for early learning classes had begun, but extension of curbs till April 10 and further uncertainty about resumption of offline classes for primary classes has made parents delay kindergarten enrolments and wait till the chain of infection slows down.This situation has made it challenging for early childhood education sector to continue the process of learning that usually begins at the age of 2.5 years to 3 years.Anupama Mehra, principal, Spring Blossoms, said: “It’s unfortunate situation for kids who are at the age where school learning begins and for parents as well, as they have to go through the phase of uncertainty. Last year, parents were apprehensive because shift towards online learning was new and took time to find its place in the usual system.”“This year, despite interruptions in regular offline learning, school system is well equipped to take up challenge of online learning for kindergarteners and primary classes. For most parents apprehensive of online classes, it is challenging to sit down with toddlers and make them learn, but depriving the child of a learning experience is also not a solution,” said Mehra.While enrolments for nursery and playschools were quite slow and most primary schools have been addressing prevalent issues by reaching out to parents. Adapting by creating virtual playway tools, storytelling and keeping convenient timing for classes, schools have been promoting hybrid model of learning.Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera School, said, “Playway or kindergarten learning happens mostly by experience and through alternate education tools with a lot of planning. Challenge for teachers as well as parents remains to make the child connect with what’s being done virtually while also ensuring that learning continues. Education system has to be put back on track through hybrid model of schooling and delaying early education can impact child’s speech, cognitive and other learning patterns.”While educators insist that early education must not be delayed despite the pandemic, parents remain skeptical of the whole situation. Shivani, a mother of a four-year-old said, “My son was supposed to start school last year, but due to the lockdown we delayed his admission and made use of digital learning platforms to keep him apprised. This year, we planned to begin with his schooling, but with another surge in the Covid-19 and uncertainty over when physical classes will begin, we are left stranded again. Managing zoom sessions, organising learning tools and helping with home assignments take up a lot of time and its not feasible with working parents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interruption-in-early-childhood-learning-poses-big-challenge-for-parents-schools-233042
01-04-2021||Amritsar||BJP dividing people on religious lines: Farmer leaders||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) organised a massive protest at Bhagatawala Dana Mandi (the district’s biggest grain market) on Wednesday against the three controversial agri laws.Speaking on the occasion, farmer leaders accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of trying to divide community on religious lines, especially after the recent manhandling of BJP’s Abohar MLA Arun Narang. Farmer leaders said the BJP was trying to portray the incident as a clash between Hindus and Sikhs.They said the incident, though shameful and condemnable, happened with a member of the party which has been hell-bent on destroying the livelihood of the farming community.Sarwan Singh Pandher of the KMSC said, “Today’s gathering was a meeting of farmers to chalk out the future course of action. We will hold dialogue with diverse groups of society, including shopkeepers and traders to inform them about the ill effects of three agri laws.” He said the intended laws would not only destroy the agrarian sector, but would also make lower economic groups miserable. Pandher said more than 4,000 farmers took part in the event today. Meanwhile, sources in the CID Wing said more than 6,000 farmers were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-dividing-people-on-religious-lines-farmer-leaders-233043
01-04-2021||Poverty in their family had been overcome with hard work||Tarn Taran Diary: Hitting sixers in life||Like dad, like daughterLady Sub-Inspector of Punjab Police, Sonamdeep (pic), too, is the honour of the ‘Pink Corridor’ displayed in the office of District Administrative Complex (DAC) in Tarn Taran. Born in Khan Rajada (near Goindwal Sahib) village, Sonamdeep after doing her graduation from Sri Guru Angad College Khadoor Sahib, did her postgraduation (police administration) from Maharaja Ranjit Singh Police Academy, Phillaur. She worked as an SHO Verowal and Chohla Sahib in Tarn Taran district and presently is the SHO Fattu Dhinga (Kapurthala). Sonamdeep has three sisters and a younger brother. Her farther Tarsem Singh is a marginal farmer and her mother a homemaker. When Tarsem was blessed with three daughters he pledged to make them self-reliant. Sonamdeep‘s elder sister, who was a college teacher (an assistant professor), is married in Canada and the younger sister is an advocate. Tarsem’s efforts also deserve three cheers, setting a respectable example for the society.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-hitting-sixers-in-life-233045
01-04-2021||---||Mobile shop looted in Chheharta||Amritsar, March 31Three bike-borne persons loot a mobile showroom owner at gunpoint and decamped with expensive mobile phones last evening. The robbers struck at Har Electronics on Subash Road Chheharta around 9 pm. The robbers had their faces covered and committed the crime in one minute.Deepak, son of shop owner, said he was locking the shop and his father Har Kishan was holding a bag containing 20 expensive mobile phones.Meanwhile, three miscreants came on a motorcycle. Two on them alighted from the bike and one person put a gun on Har Kishan’s belly. Other one started snatching bag from him. When Har Kishan denied giving bag the robber starter loading the gun to shot. Deepak shouted and asked his father to leave the bag.The robbers fled with mobile phone bag. Deepak claimed that they run toward Azad Nagar road. On getting information, a team of the Chheharta police station reached the spot. Ravinder Singh, Additional SHO, Chheharta police station, said CCTV cameras installed at shop were defunct. Police teams are scrutinising footage from CCTV cameras installed at nearby establishments. The police have registered a case and started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mobile-shop-looted-in-chheharta-233047
01-04-2021||Amritsar||Grocery store worker shot dead in Amritsar's Kashmir Avenue||Two unidentified armed persons shot an employee of a departmental store dead in the Kashmir Avenue area falling under the Majitha Road police station here late Wednesday evening.Following the incident questions are being raised over the law and order situation as curfew restrictions were imposed in the night due to rising Covid cases.The deceased was identified as Sunny. As the news flashed, senior police officials including DCP Parminder Singh Bhandari reached the spot and started investigations.Anil Kumar, owner of the departmental store, informed Ghetto police that after closing down the shutters he used to take the entire sale of the day with him. He said today two unknown bike-borne persons came outside his shop and called him. He said three of his employees— Sunny, Karan and Love— were present in the shop at that time. He said when he did not come out, the accused entered the shop and pointed a pistol at him and started abusive language. He said his employee Sunny came between them and tried to pacify the accused.He said the accused did not desist and started indiscriminate firing. One of the gunshot hit Sunny who fell down and started bleeding profusely. On seeing this, the accused fled away. He was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him dead.The police teams were analysing the CCTV cameras at the departmental store and nearby areas to find clues about the suspects.Bhandal said that the police were working on different theories to crack the case. He said robbery could one of the reasons behind the incident but nothing can be said at the juncture as further investigations were underway. All entry and exit points of the city has been sealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grocery-store-worker-shot-dead-in-amritsars-kashmir-avenue-233048
01-04-2021||Amritsar||SC panel forms 4-member team  to inquire Chogawan incident||A two-member team of the Punjab State SC Commission visited Chogawan village on Wednesday. Team members Raj Kumar Hans and Deepak Kumar Verka visited residence of Baldeb Singh, son of Banta Singh, a resident of Chogawan, to settle grievance of a Dalit family.SDM Ajnala Deepak Bhatia accompanied the team as they examined the situation, taking the statement of the complainant. The complainant had raised charges of causing financial loss, injuries and demolishing a house. After hearing the arguments, the commission members decided to constitute a four-member SIT to review the matter. The team includes DDPO (District Development and Panchayat Officer), BDPO (Block Development and Panchayat Officer), Tehsil Welfare Officer, under the supervision of SDM to scrutinise the matter. The committee has been directed to look into all facts and send the status report of the inquiry before April 15 by e-mail to the Punjab State SC Commission so that the commission can decide on further course of action regarding the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sc-panel-forms-4-member-team-to-inquire-chogawan-incident-233049
01-04-2021||Amritsar||GNDU exams postponed||Workshop dwells on PC-PNDT ActAmritsar: The district Health Department organised a workshop to create awareness on Pre-conception- Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Prevention Act (PC-PNDT) here. Presiding over the event, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said efforts were being made to balance the sex-ratio in the country and surprise inspections were being conducted at ultrasound centres in the district to check violation of the laws. Dr Singh said registration of all patients undergoing the ultrasound scans and maintenance of record was compulsory for all centres. TNSBike snatched at gunpointAmritsar: Three unknown armed persons snatched a bike from a man near Verka bypass on Tuesday. The victim, Sarabjit Singh alias Sabha, stated in his complaint at the Verka police station that he was going to home on his motorcycle from work. Around 6.30 pm, when he reached the bypass near DAV International School he stopped his bike and went to attend nature’s call on roadside. Meanwhile, three unidentified persons came on motorcycle. They took key of motorcycle from his pocket and fled. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-exams-postponed-233051
01-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Baba Gurbachan Singh Manochahal’s kin get back land||After a 28-year legal battle, the family of Baba Gurbachan Singh Manochahal has got back about three-kanal land at Naushehra Pannuan from the district police.The police have vacated the possession and the police post, which was working from the baba’s land, was now shifted to Government Senior Secondary School at the village. The school building had been declared unsafe and was facing closure.The school was working from a new building. ASI Jaspreet Singh said the police were renovating the building on its own as the department had released no grant.Baba Gurbachan Singh Manochahal was the self-styled commandant of the Bhindranwala Tiger’s Force of Khalistan. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-gurbachan-singh-manochahals-kin-get-back-land-233018
