02-04-2021||Amritsar||Wear masks, maintain social distancing at Golden Temple, SGPC chief asks devotees||SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Friday asked devotees to follow the COVID-19 safety protocols while offering prayers at the Golden Temple here.The administrative officials of Amritsar district, including Deputy Commissioner (DC) Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Sukhchain Singh Gill, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vikas Hira and of the Municipal Corporation on Friday held a meeting with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president at the SGPC office.“The sangat (pilgrims) paying obeisance at Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib should follow the instructions given by the health department. The pilgrims should wear masks, use sanitisers, take care of cleanliness and keep a distance between them to prevent the spread of the disease,” Kaur said.She said that due to the increasing cases of COVID-19, everyone needs to be careful.The SGPC president also asked the administration officials to pay special attention to the cleanliness of the roads leading to the Golden Temple and its surroundings.Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira apprised the SGPC president and officials about the arrangements being made by the district administration to contain the spread of COVID-19. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wear-masks-maintain-social-distancing-at-golden-temple-sgpc-chief-asks-devotees-233691
02-04-2021||Amritsar||Five booked for smuggling||Woman hurt in firing; 6 heldTarn Taran: One woman was injured in firing over a minor issue at Bhathal Bhai Ke village here on Wednesday. SHO, Chohla Sahib, Inspector Paramjit Singh said the police had registered a case against 10 persons of the same village. Six of them were arrested. The police said seven of the accused had been identified as Kartar Singh, Jasbir Singh, Karamjit Singh, Paramjit Singh, Palwinder Singh, Jugraj Singh and Gurbhej Singh. The police said from the rooftop of Kartar Singh’s residence, the accused fired at the residence of his neighbour Nirvail Singh in which one of his family member (a woman) was injured. The accused had been booked under Sections 307, 336, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. OCVaccination for GNDU staff beginsAmritsar: In the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases, GNDU began its vaccination drive to get its faculty and staff vaccinated here on Thursday. Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu kicked off the drive at the university’s health centre, with registrar Dr Karanjit Singh Kahlon and a team of doctors from the district administration present. Dr Pawan Sharma said all employees, who are above 45 years of age, would be inoculated against the infection. “The eligible employees can get this vaccine free of cost by showing their Aadhaar card from 9am to 2pm. The vaccine is for frontline workers, university health centre staff and employees over the age of 45,” he informed. Today, 57 frontline workers, health workers and employees were vaccinated. TNSMan injured in Accident diesTarn Taran: Jaspal Singh (60) of Kilha Kavi Santokh Singh (Noordi), who was injured in a road accident on March 8 near his residence, succumbed to injuries on March 30 at the PGI Chandigarh. The city police said Jaspal Singh was hit by an unknown motorcyclist when he was walking on the link road leading to Tharu village. Seriously injured Jaspal was admitted to local Guru Nanak Dev Super Speciality Hospital and later referred to PGI Chandigarh where he died on March 30. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC against unknown motorcyclist. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-smuggling-233575
02-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||With blood oozing from feet, octogenarians spend another night on mobile tower||Tribune News ServicePathankot, April 1Two protesting octogenarians spent a second successive night on a 4x4 feet iron platform with blood oozing out from their feet and hands, thus giving jitters to the police and civil administration.The duo had climbed a BSNL tower on Tuesday morning protesting the Punjab Government’s failure to pay adequate compensation to those persons whose land had been acquired for the Ranjit Sagar Dam (RSD) in 1993. The platform is located at a height of 80 feet on a 150-feet tower.For around 60 hours, Saram Singh (82), and Kulwinder Singh (84), managed to display a never-say-die spirit even as Dhar Sub-Divisional Magistrate Nidhi Kalhotra tried pacify the duo albeit unsuccessfully.Their companions have been holding a dharna at the RSD Chief Engineer’s office, adjacent to the site where the tower is located.The duo said, “Despite the fact we are suffering excruciating pain and badly need water and food, we will not climb down till the authorities give a written assurance that the compensation will be paid right now.”Kalhotra asked them to come down and discuss the matter. A member of protesting activists said, “They have waited for 27 years to get relief and the SDM was in no position to fulfil their demands.” Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana has deputed a high-level team of cops, led by SP Gurvinder Sangha, to convince the duo about futility of the exercise.Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said the case for compensation had been referred to the Irrigation Department and “now it was up to them to take a final call”. He, however, urged the protesters to see logic and “come to the table to hold confabulations”. Dyal Singh, chief, RSD Oustees Sangharsh Committee, said, “We are at the end of the tether now. Both protesters are old men and are completely exhausted. Their supply of eatables has come to an end. They took two cans of drinking water, which is finished. The duo are dehydrated and badly need water. Two days ago, when they tried to scale a tank, they had to face a wire meshing following which they developed bruises and cuts. Both of them are bleeding from their feet and hands. The administration is doing nothing. Yesterday, the SP asked us to take recourse to a court of law. We need justice here and now. We have been fighting successive state governments for the last 27 years. Enough is enough.”Sources confirmed that Saram and Kulwinder were in possession of petrol cans. However, the SSP denied this saying “they just had water bottles”. The platform is so small that if one wants to sit, the other person has to stand. Dyal said the then Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira had studied their case and subsequently had prepared a report, which goes in favour of the protesters.“All we request is to implement the findings of Khaira report. The administration should give an assurance and the moment it is done our men will climb down,” said Dayal.Water tanks and telecommunication towers have become favourite spots for protesters. Sources say the idea of climbing these entities to pressurise the government was first mooted and used by unemployed teachers and linemen.“Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal should get entrances of these tanks and towers locked. The is the only solution to ensure these entities are not misused by protesters,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-blood-oozing-from-feet-octogenarians-spend-another-night-on-mobile-tower-233573
02-04-2021||---||Jandiala firing: Youth succumbs||Amritsar, April 1A week after a youth was shot at and left critically injured outside a liquor vend in Gehri Mandi village, the victim, Shubham alias Honey, succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday.Though the police have added charges of murder in the FIR, prime suspect was still out of reach of the police.The police had booked four persons, including Ghudda, Rana, Ghuggi and their unknown accomplice in the case. The preliminary probe hinted at an old enmity between the accused and the victim.Deepak Kumar, father of the victim, said he runs a liquor vend and tavern on Johan Road while his son Shubham worked with him.He said his son was standing outside the vend when four persons came on two bikes while three others came on another motorcycle. He alleged Ghudda fired in air and fled away, while Rana, who was on another bike, fired at Shubham.Deepak said he rushed his son to the Manawala Government Hospital from where he was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. Sub-Inspector Balraj Singh said murder charge under Section 302 of IPC have been added in the FIR and raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jandiala-firing-youth-succumbs-233572
02-04-2021||---||No clue in murder of grocery store worker in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 1Even after 24 hours, the police remained clueless about miscreants who shot dead a grocery store employee in posh Kashmir Avenue on Wednedsay evening. The police was perplexed whether it was a robbery incident or an outcome of personal enmity.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said they were working on different theories to crack the case. The incident had left a question mark on the law and order situation in the city, which witnessed a firing incident on Majitha road today.The deceased was identified as Sunny. Anil Kumar, owner of the departmental store, told the police that after closing down shutters, he used to take the entire sale of the day with him. He said last evening, two unknown bike-borne persons came outside his shop and called him. He said three of his employees— Sunny, Karan and Love— were present in the shop. He said as he did not went out, the accused entered the shop and pointed a pistol at him and started using foul language. A scuffle ensued and the accused were pushed out of the shop.He said the accused started indiscriminate firing and a gunshot hit Sunny, who fell down and started bleeding profusely. On seeing this, the accused fled away. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead.Cops were analysing CCTV cameras of the departmental store and nearby areas to find clues about the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-clue-in-murder-of-grocery-store-worker-in-amritsar-233571
02-04-2021||---||Woman shot dead in broad daylight in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 1A woman identified as Lata (52), a resident of Sandhu colony, was shot dead by several armed persons in broad daylight on Thursday. An old enmity is stated to be a reason behind the incident, which led to panic in the area.Senior police officials reached the spot and started investigations. This is the second incident of firing that led to murder. A grocery store worker was gunned down by two armed persons in Kashmir Avenue on Wednesday evening.Parmod Kumar, husband of the deceased, told the police that they had a dispute with several persons in their neighbourhood. They entered in an altercation with us and their unknown armed accomplices started firing. One of the gunshot hit Lata, who died on the way to a hospital.Sadar police station SHO Parveen Kumar said the police was recording statements of the deceased’s family. The accused lived in their neighbourhood.Prahlad Kumar, son of the deceased, told that he along with his brother, Sunny, worked as labourers. He said around four months ago, Sunny and his maternal uncle Labba, accused his brother of teasing a girl.The matter reached the police, however, the accused failed to prove the charge and later, following the intervention of some persons, both groups striked a compromise.He said the accused had a grudge and today they entered in a verbal dual with his brother. He said a few minutes later the accused along with their unidentified accomplices started firing outside their house. He said a gunshot hit his mother who succumbed while she was being rushed to a hospital. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh said they were conducting raids to nab the accused. He said perpetrators would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-in-amritsar-233549
02-04-2021||---||More pain: 11 fall prey, 332 fresh cases surface in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 1 With 11 Covid-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours by the district health authorities, the toll has increased to 687 on Thursday. The deceased include eight women and three men. The deceased have been identified as Kanwaljit Kaur (60) of Palah Sahib area, Manjit Kaur (65) of Jheetan Kalan village, Usha Rani (80) of Sant Nagar Verka, Balbir Kaur (65) of Ram Tirath, Balwinder Kaur (62) of Verka, Bhajan Singh (65) of Dharar village, Bakshish Kaur (69) of New Amritsar, Paramjit Kaur (45) of Attari, Bhajan Lal (60) of Mohran Wala Kalan village, Jaspal Singh (54) of Ajnala, Ram Bahadur (47) of Wada Naushehra village. The health authorities also reported 332 new cases with which the total count of infections has increased to 21,342. The new cases include 245 influenza like illness cases and 87 contacts of positive cases. With the Health Department reporting recovery of 184 patients, the recovery count reached 17,499. At present, the district has a total of 3,156 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 4,823 persons were administered vaccine during the ongoing drive. The health officials said 20,021 healthcare workers (HCW), 28,753 frontline workers (FLW) and 47,179 persons above 45 years of age have been partially vaccinated, so far.  Additionally, 7,647 HCW, 6,524 FLW and 402 persons above 45 years of age have received their second shot of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-pain-11-fall-prey-332-fresh-cases-surface-in-amritsar-233550
02-04-2021||---||16-yr-old raped, 1 booked in Amritsar village||Amritsar, April 1A 16-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped and raped by a youth of Sattowal village here two days ago.The accused has been identified as Bhupinder Singh, alias Sona, of same village. He was yet to be arrested.The victim’s mother told the police that her daughter worked at a grocery store in Butala village. She said on Monday her daughter went to her job. She said at around 3 pm she got a call from the store that the victim did not come to her job. She said she along with her husband started searching for her and in the evening she reached at the grocery store.She said the victim told her that Bhupinder Singh used to stalk her when she used to come to the store. She said on Monday the accused forcibly make her sit in the car and took her to undisclosed place in Rayya where the accused raped her. She alleged he also threatened to kill her family in case she told anyone about this.Beas police authorities said that the medical examination of the girl was conducted while raids were on to nab the suspect. They said a case under Sections 363, 366, 376, and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.5 booked for tossing turbanThe Tarsikka police have booked five employees of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, including two junior engineers (JEs), for allegedly thrashing a person and hurting his religious sentiments by tossing his turban.The complainant, Gurmit Singh (68), a resident of Muchhal village, told the police that he had filed a case against the accused for demanding bribe for installing a power meter.Those booked have been identified as Junior Engineer Dilbagh Singh, Junior Engineer Kuldeep Singh, Talwinder Singh and Bikram Singh, both linemen and another employee Harma, all posted in Tangra. Gurmeet alleged that on March 24, he had gone to the Powercom office at Tangra after completing the file work for installing an electricity meter at his house.He alleged JE Dilbagh refused to sign, which led to an altercation. He said he had filed a complaint against Dilbagh to higher officials as the latter had sought bribe.Gurmeet said JE Dilbagh along with his colleagues thrashed him and alleged that the accused pulled his beard and tossed his turban.The police said they were verifying the allegations of the complainant while a case has been registered in this connection. The police have registered a case under Sections 295-A, 341, 323 and 379-A of the IPC. The accused were yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-yr-old-raped-1-booked-in-amritsar-village-233551
02-04-2021||Strap||Free bus travel for women commences||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 1Women were able to travel free of cost in government-run buses from Thursday. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira attended a ceremony in this regard at a bus stand.Speaking on the occasion, the Deputy Commissioner said women can now travel for free in all government buses within the state. However, they would not be able to avail this service in air-conditioned buses. Women passengers would also need pay fare after a bus enters any other state.Anil Kumar, general manager, Punjab Roadways (Amritsar) said, “Women have to show an identity card to prove that she is a resident of Punjab during boarding a bus.” He said bus conductors have been instructed to act accordingly and register details of all such passengers.“If a bus is going to Chandigarh, women will be ferried free till Mohali and will be charged fare from Mohali border to Chandigarh.”The two depots of Punjab Roadways in Amritsar have around 175 buses. Over the years, the government buses fleet has depleted and do not ply on most routes, especially in rural areas.A bus conductor on condition of anonymity said, “Around 90 per cent buses plying in the district are operated by private transporters. In such a scenario, benefit will not be much, but roadways will surely suffer loss.” He said more buses should be added to the roadways fleet so that they can give a though competition to private operators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-bus-travel-for-women-commences-233552
02-04-2021|| Our Correspondent ||Tight security cover for BJP leader during his visit to Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, April 1Tight security was provided to Janardhan Sharma, state press secretary of the BJP, during his short visit here on Thursday. The BJP leader too made his visit a little secret as no gathering was organised by the party leaders in his welcome.Sharma came to the residence of Ram Lal, district president of the Muradpur locality. He interacted with the newsmen for few minutes and then left for Ferozpur.  No workers or the district office-bearers of the party were called on his visit.The police had cordoned off the area before the arrival of Janardan. Talking to newsmen Sharma preferred to avoid condemning the SAD but accused the state Congress government for not fulfilling any of its poll promises, including farm loan waiver. He blamed the Capt government for attack on BJP leaders in the state.   He said the Congress government had failed to maintain law and order in the state, hence it must resign immediately. While taking to The Tribune, Janardan said the BJP had the capability to fight Vidhan Sabha poll on all 117 seats and would form the next government in the state. He said the three contentious farm laws were beneficial for the farmers and they would end their agitation soon.  SP (Headquarters) Gurnam Singh and DSP Sucha Singh Bal headed the security arrangements on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tight-security-cover-for-bjp-leader-during-his-visit-to-tarn-taran-233553
02-04-2021||GS Paul||Centre, Delhi govt tried to prevent SAD from contesting DSGMC poll: Sukhbir||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 1SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday alleged that the Centre, in connivance with the Delhi government, tried to prevent the SAD from contesting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) election, but it failed.Sukhbir was here to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple after recovering from Covid. He will later address the ‘Punjab Mangda Jawab’ rally in Ajnala.Sukhbir said, “The Covid pandemic has affected humanity and dented global economy. I have also passed through this phase and am fully recovered now. I have come to the Golden Temple to pray for the well-being of all.”The Delhi Gurdwara Elections department had held the party not eligible to contest the April 25 DSGMC election as it had failed to give an undertaking that it’s a religious party and the symbol ‘bucket’ was frozen pending litigation. However, the SAD challenged it in the Delhi High Court and got relief as the court stayed the order issued by the Delhi minister for gurdwara election while allowing the party to use its old reserved symbol ‘bucket’.Sukhbir alleged that the BJP-led Centre had hatched a conspiracy with Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government, Paramjit Singh Sarna-led SAD (Delhi) and former DSGMC chief Manjit Singh GK to prevent the SAD from contesting the poll.“By God’s grace, we managed to procure a stay on the issue of election symbol of the SAD, which is the only representative body of Sikhs for over a century. If these people think they are popular why do they feel insecure,” he said.On the 2022 Assembly election in Punjab, he foresaw bright prospects for the SAD. “We will contest even on those seats from where the BJP used to field their candidates. Most Congress candidates will forfeit their securities,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-delhi-govt-tried-to-prevent-sad-from-contesting-dsgmc-poll-sukhbir-233160
