03-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Schools to open for practicals||CKD submits reply to Akal TakhtAmritsar: The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Friday submitted its reply to Akal Takht clarifying its stance on non-amritdhari Sikhs as being members of the organisation. On March 31, Akal Takhat had asked the Chief Khalsa Diwan to furnish details of the non-amritdhari persons, who are its members. CKD president Nirmal Singh said the instructions of the Akal Takht jathedar had been complied with. He said, “All members of the religious body are amritdhari (Baptised) and if anyone among the public has any information, it can be brought to the notice of the executive body.” He said taking action against any member without any evidence would be unjustified. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-to-open-for-practicals-234051
03-04-2021||Amritsar||‘Rising power tariff has made life miserable’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would launch an agitation against the rising electricity charges in the state from April 7.The AAP would try to exert pressure on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide free power to people on the lines of the Delhi Government. Ashok Talwar, joint secretary, AAP, said in today’s era of inflation and bad policies of Capt Amarinder Singh-led government, rising electricity prices have made life of people miserable.He said the state government was increasing power prices frequently instead of reducing them. Talwar said the AAP would launch a mass agitation across Punjab over electricity bills, which would force the chief minister to reduce power tariffs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-power-tariff-has-made-life-miserable-234049
03-04-2021||---||18-yr-old youth shot at, injured in Jandiala Guru||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2An 18-year-old youth was shot at in the thigh by four armed assailants in an attempt to snatch his scooter in the Jandiala Guru area here on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Manpreet Singh, a resident of Khalchian.In his complaint, Manpreet stated that he along with his elder brother Des Raj was returning home from Sheikhfatta tomb at around 2 pm. When they reached near Dharar village along the Gunowal-Sheikhfatta canal, his elder brother alighted from scooter to attend the call of nature. Meanwhile, four persons came on a motorcycle and asked him to give the keys of the scooter.When Manpreet refused to do so, they forcibly snatched the keys. “As one of the accused pointed a pistol at me, I left my scooter there and tried to escape. They fired one gunshot with the intention of killing me. It hit me in my right thigh. I fell on the ground. My brother ran toward me and all four accused fled from the spot on their bike,” said the victim. He was rushed to hospital where he is undergoing treatment. On the complaint of Manpreet Singh, the police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/18-yr-old-youth-shot-at-injured-in-jandiala-guru-234048
03-04-2021||---||Students create ruckus at Government Medical College in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2Two groups of youths clashed with each other at Government Medical College here on late Thursday evening. Later, the authorities had to call the police.The incident took place between former and current students of the college. Sources in the college said an old rivalry was the reason behind the incident.College students said the alleged outsiders were consuming alcohol near the girls’ hostels when a few students of the college asked them to leave the place. They alleged the outsiders fired a shot in the air and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons.They alleged even the police were going soft on the culprits. The Medical Students’ Association (MSA), a representative body of the students at Government Medical College, asked the college administration to beef up security on the campus to check such incidents in future. The MSA said the incident was unfortunate and strict action must be taken against the culprits.Police officials said the charges levelled by both the groups were being investigated. “The incident is being investigated and there will be no delay in filing the charges,” said an official on condition of anonymity. He said the police were not acting in haste as the incident involved students who would suffer if a case was registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-create-ruckus-at-government-medical-college-in-amritsar-234047
03-04-2021||---||Toll plaza construction firm workers face villagers’ wrath||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 2Officials and workers of Seagull company, which is granted the contract under the toll-operate-transfer (TOT) mode, on Friday had to face the wrath of villagers when they came to resume the work of constructing the toll plaza at Mannan village on the Amritsar-Khemkaran National Highway. They had to return without starting the work.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, had already been against the construction of the toll plaza here for the last about two years.As the farmers’ body was busy in the Delhi morcha, the officials reached the spot to resume work today. As soon as the news reached the farmers of the area, they gathered on the spot and staged a dharna against its construction. Harjit Singh Mannan and Sukhbir Singh, leaders of the committee, led the protesters. Addressing a gathering, Harjit Singh said as the farmers and other mass organisations were already on the path of agitation against the three farm laws in Delhi, they would not allow the corporate sector to launch work anymore in the field. Harjit said the farmers’ body was opposing the construction of the toll plaza as it would put more financial burden on residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/toll-plaza-construction-firm-workers-face-villagers-wrath-234046
03-04-2021||Amritsar||Live Gurbani kirtan from Amritsar's Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal begins||The SGPC has initiated to telecast live Gurbani kirtan from Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal in Amritsar, dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, till May 1.In collaboration with a private channel, the telecast would be from 10 am to 12 noon from the gurdwara which is the birthplace of Guru. After the customary launching, a prayer was offered by Bhai Rajdeep Singh and the Hukamnama was read by Giani Jagtar Singh, the chief granthi of Golden Temple.Special coins, stamp to mark 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh BahadurOn the occasion, Giani Jagat Singh apprised the life history of ninth Guru, whose anniversary was being commemorated by the SGPC in a series of programmes with Sikh organisations, sabha societies and sangats.Two hazuri raagis of Golden Temple will connect the viewers with Gurbani kirtan on rotational basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/live-gurbani-kirtan-from-amritsars-gurdwara-guru-ke-mehal-begins-234044
03-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC fails to meet tax collection targets||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2All departments of the Municipal Corporation have failed to meet its tax collection targets set for the financial year ending March 31, 2021. Ironically, the advertisement wing of the MC collected only Rs 1.62 crore against Rs 12-crore target. The tax collection of advertisement wing hit due to mushrooming of illegal hoardings and boards all over the city.The property tax wing of the MC recovered lowest amount among four main Municipal Corporations in the state. The property tax wing collected Rs 22.50 crore against the target of Rs 34.40 crore. Even it is less than the amount collected as house tax in 2012-13 financial year.The water supply and sewerage wing of the MC collected only Rs 15 crore against the recovery target of Rs 35 crore. The estate wing of MC collected only Rs 3 crore against Rs 40 crore-target set by the civic body through sale of properties. The estate wing failed to collect rent from MC’s properties and collected only Rs 65 lakh out of Rs 1 crore. Similarly, tehbazari wing collected only Rs 1.69 lakh against recovery target of Rs 1 crore. The municipal town planning wing had to recover Rs 33 crore but achieved 60 per cent of its targeted amount.The department heads and MC senior officials are calming that recovery targets were missed due to the outbreak of Covid-19.Central Jail deposits Rs1.26 crWater Supply and Sewerage Sub-Committee Chairman Mahesh Khanna informed that the water supply and sewerage department of the MC collected Rs 1.26 crore from the Central Jail Amritsar. The amount of Rs 1.4 crore was pending from the jail administration since March 2017.The executive engineer of water supply department Baljit Singh, superintendent Rajinder Sharma and junior engineer Paras Chawla made efforts and recovered the pending amount.“To ensure recovery of arrears from government agencies in the financial year 2021-22, the department was directed to look into the illegal connections in the city and to take action against them under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976,” said Mayor Karmajit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-fails-to-meet-tax-collection-targets-234043
03-04-2021||---||‘Seeds of Change’ to fill gaps in  what is taught in classroom||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2Shramik Bharti, an organisation engaged in the implementation of corporate social responsibilities (CSR) activities, has collaborated with a private bank to initiate Holistic Rural Development Project. The project aims to involve education-volunteers to be trained by an external education expert in 12 villages of Amritsar and Ferozpur. The exercise is to fill in the gaps in the primary education sector in rural belt by engaging local youngsters.The programme, called Seeds of Change, is being pursued by volunteers of Shramik Bharati. Kawaljit Kaur of the organisation is heading the campaign and says that during the need-assessment exercise, it was understood that there was a need for intervention in the primary education system of these 12 villages. “There were lots of gaps in what was being taught in classroom and how students perceived it. The reasons are lack of infrastructure, low interest of students, shortage of teachers and their involvement in other government activities.“Keeping these factors in mind, an implementing strategy was planned. It was planned to improve the infrastructure, develop an activity room-cum-library, and involve education-volunteers to support school teachers through the introduction of interesting teaching-learning methods,” she says.It was during one of these training sessions that Beant Kaur became one such prospective-education volunteer. Thereafter, Shramik Bharti undertook a three-day selection process led by an education expert, the purpose being to choose the best volunteers for the 12 villages. “When Beant was assessed during training by our team, she was a shy, hesitant girl, who had a story to tell. She studied till Class 12, but after the demise of her father, she could pursue her education,” recalls Kawaljit. Initially, when Beant started working as an education volunteer, the school she was assigned to had only one regular teacher for all grades. “Most of the kids would come late to the school, the morning assembly would be unplanned, the teacher was burdened with administrative work, students were not motivated enough to have any interest in studies, and parents too did not feel encouraged to invest in their children’s education,” said Beant.Gradually, Beant became part of the schools’ core system. She now works with students on 17 multiple skill improvement courses. Based on her training to teach multi-level kids, Beant has been using techniques such as story-telling, activity-based methods, games, preparing and effectively utilizing teaching-learning materials, etc, in the process of teaching.“Nintyfive of the students cleared the test to be a part of the regular classes. Those who didn’t were either irregular in attending school or were cases of a special nature,” she informs. Now after four years of being an education volunteer, Beant has been a part of theatre-sessions, leadership-workshops, joy of learning sessions, and teacher-training sessions.Kawaljit says the aim of Seeds of Change project is to create more such education volunteers, who will help and aid young children from rural areas to get quality early education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seeds-of-change-to-fill-gaps-in-what-is-taught-in-classroom-234042
03-04-2021||---||Rs 4.35-crore park to come up in Amritsar's historical Ram Bagh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2Finally, the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) has paid attention to the ignored corner of the historic Ram Bagh and sanctioned funds for the development of a park. The civic body is going to spend Rs 4.35 crore on developing the park backside zone 6 office inside the garden.On the directions of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, the civil wing of the municipal corporation prepared an estimate of Rs 4.35 crore for the beautification of the park. In its meeting, the Municipal Corporation General House gave its nod to the proposal on March 26. Officials of the MC said once they got the approval from the government, the work would be initiated.More than five acres of land has been ignored for years and is being used to dump garbage and debris. There are two paved roads which lead to nowhere. Some influential persons attempted to encroach upon the land in the past. Part of the area had allegedly been encroached by a sports body and a local influential political leader during the SAD-BJP regime.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu visited the area last month and announced to take the initiative to develop the park on the vacant land.“A beautiful park would be developed on the land behind the office of zone number 6. We are concerned about the historic importance of Ram Bagh and enhancing the green cover in the garden,” added the Mayor.It is worth mentioning here that Ram Bagh, commonly known as Company Garden, is considered as green lungs of the city with over a population of 13 lakh. A large portion of the garden is encroached upon by influential persons and entry rights are exclusive for a few persons in those areas.There are only two parks inside the garden where residents can do morning or evening walk. Once the new park is developed, visitors would get space for walking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-4-35-crore-park-to-come-up-in-amritsars-historical-ram-bagh-234041
03-04-2021||Neha Saini||Kewal Dhaliwal’s latest play depicts Guru Tegh Bahadur’s life story||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2Noted theatre director and playwright Kewal Dhaliwal has come up with his latest production based on the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Titled Sees, the play has also been turned into a book by Dhaliwal that was released recently. Documenting and depicting significant moments of the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the play focuses on presenting the Guru’s life story as a unique example in courage, secularism and self-sacrifice.“The idea is that we all have heads but not everyone has got sees. From his journey as a sage to his being selected as the next guru and years he spent meditating in Bakala, the play only highlights the most important moments from his life. His beheading at Chandni Chowk and how he came to the rescue of Kashmiri pandits before that are some of the most striking parts of the play,” shared Dhaliwal.While the play has the usual aspects of grandeur and larger-than-life design as found in Dhaliwal’s other works, one thing that stands out is that Guru Tegh Bahadur is not depicted physically throughout the play.“It’s a two-hour play and we have used the chorus and intangible elements in the narrative to portray Guru Tegh Bahadur. It has been done since, being a Sikh Guru, we could not depict Guru Tegh Bahadur through any person,” Kewal Dhaliwal explains.The play was scheduled to make a stage debut today (on April 1), but due to Covid-19 curbs and recent spike in cases, it has been postponed indefinitely. “We plan to do a live performance only when the situation improves. Given the scale of the production, with its grand sets and costumes and actors that are part of it, I want to stage it first at Sultanpur Lodhi and Anandpur Sahib,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kewal-dhaliwals-latest-play-depicts-guru-tegh-bahadurs-life-story-234039
03-04-2021||---||3 peddlers nabbed with 755-gm heroin, pistols||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2CIA staff arrested three drug peddlers and confiscated heroin and foreign-made weapons from their possession in two separate incidents here on late evening. The police also seized Rs 50,000 of drug proceeds from them.Those arrested were as identified Sunil Kumar, alias Noni Boxer, Kapil Kumar, alias Popli, and Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukha, all residents of Pal Avenue.Talking to mediapersons here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the police seized 755 gm of heroin worth Rs 3.77 crore in the international market, Rs 50,000 (Indian) currency notes, two foreign pistols with five live bullets and two luxury cars from their possession.He said 500 gm of heroin and a pistol were seized from Noni Boxer and Kapil Kumar and 255 gm of heroin and a pistol were seized from Sukhpreet Singh. Earlier, Noni had a case registered against him under sections of the NDPS Act case at the Cantonment police station while Sukhpreet had four different cases, including murder bid, under the Arms Act and the NDPS Act, registered against him at different police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-peddlers-nabbed-with-755-gm-heroin-pistols-234038
03-04-2021||Amritsar||No arrest in woman’s murder so far||Even after 24 hours, the police have failed to arrest the accused involved in the murder case in which a woman was shot dead in Sandhu colony on Majitha Road.The police have booked Sunny Gill and his wife Sandheya, Labh Singh and his son Gora, Sonu Gill and Surinder Kaur, on charges of murder and the Arms Act.Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Sarabjit Singh said a manhunt has been launched to nab the accused who were at large.Lata (52), a resident of Sandhu colony, was shot dead in a broad daylight on Thursday. An old enmity was stated to be a reason behind the incident. Prahlad Kumar, son of the deceased, told that he along with his brother, Sunny, used to work as labourers. He said around four months ago, Sunny and his maternal uncle Labba accused his brother of teasing a girl.The matter reached the police, however, the accused failed to prove the charge and later, both groups striked a compromise. He said the accused had a grudge and entered in a verbal dual with his brother. He said a few days later, the accused along with their unidentified armed accomplices started firing outside their house. He said a gunshot hit his mother, Lata, who died on way to hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-arrest-in-womans-murder-so-far-234037
03-04-2021||---||Police crack grocery store worker’s murder, one held||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2Two days after a grocery store worker was shot dead by unknown assailants, the police have cracked the case and arrested one of the accused while his two accomplices were still at large. The arrested accused has been identified as Rahul alias Pindi, a resident of Kot Alia Ram, Sultanwind Road. The absconders include Satnam Singh alias Mani of Bhai Manjh Singh Sahib Road and Anmol Singh of New Gurnam Nagar.According to the police, robbery was the motive behind the incident, which led to the killing of Sunny, who worked at the grocery store.Store owner, Anil Kumar, along with his brother Nikhil Kumar, and a couple of workers were present at the shop when the accused entered with a motive of loot. However, the victims resisted following which the accused fired at them. One of the bullet hit Sunny, who died on way to hospital.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said with the arrest of Rahul, several cases of robberies have been cracked by the police. He said during preliminary interrogation, Rahul confessed that they had robbed three liquor vends near Chitta Gummat, Civil Hospital and Sangam Chowk, at gun point. He said raids were on to nab Satnam and Anmol, who on the run.The Deputy Commissioner of Police said Rahul has around eight cases of snatchings, burglary and the NDPS Act pending against him, while Satnam has two cases of the NDPS Act, arms and dacoity against him. Similarly, Anmol has two cases of robbery and dacoity against him. The police has been facing criticism over the deteriorating law and order situation after the city witnessed a number of firing, robbery and dacoity incidents in a few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-crack-grocery-store-workers-murder-one-held-234035
03-04-2021||---||6 deaths, 337 new cases in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2The district reported six more deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, pushing the toll to 693. The district health authorities also reported 337 new positive cases, taking the tally to 21,679.The deceased have been identified as 31-year-old Mandeep Singh of Sultanwind Road, 62-year-old Chanchal Singh of Friends Avenue, 55-year-old Neelam, a resident of Fateh Singh colony (Gate Hakeema), 80-year-old Jawant Kaur, a resident of Othian village, 52-year-old Dalbir Singh, a resident of Imperial city locality (Lopoka Road) and 70-year-old Harbas Kaur, a resident of Indira colony (Kot Khalsa). The new cases include 267 influenza-like illness cases and 70 contacts of positive cases.The district health authorities said special efforts were being made to collect samples from the most-affected areas in the district. As part of the drive, 94 samples were collected from the New Partap Nagar area which was notified as a micro-containment zone. Officials said seven of 94 tested positive.Meanwhile, with recovery of 190 patients, the recovery count has also improved to 17,689. At present, the district has a total of 3,297 active cases.The district health officials said 5,024 persons were given the vaccine jab on Friday. These included 221 healthcare workers, 831 frontline workers, 1,631 in the age group of 45-59 years and 1,830 senior citizens who were given the first dose of vaccination. Besides, 58 healthcare workers, 177 frontline workers, 69 persons in the age group of 45-59 years and 208 senior citizens were given the jab.Meanwhile, the district has also started the vaccination drive for those citizens who are above 45 years. “Now anyone above 45 years of age, even if he or she does not have any health condition as earlier specified by the government is eligible to get the injection,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh. He said vaccination for those above 45 years had started on April 1 and the response from public was encouraging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-deaths-337-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-234034
03-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Uncaring attitude of masses keeps brewing like Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 2The continuous indifferent attitude of the people in following the government guidelines regarding coronavirus has been taking its toll as cases are spiralling up, despite the fact that the district administration and the Police Department have been repeatedly appealing the people to follow norms like wearing masks and maintaining distance.The Punjab Police along with health teams were also conducting on the spot testing of offenders besides distributing masks. Nevertheless, a large number of people have been outrageously casual in their approach in midst of second wave.Going by the data, the health authorities said on an average over 300 persons were testing positive, while three to four patients were losing their lives. Only yesterday, 11 patients died and 332 persons had caught the infection.While releasing its data Amritsar rural police claimed that it along with health teams got over 33,000 persons tested during the drive, undertaken since March 19 to check violators. Similarly, Amritsar city police got 13,535 people tested. As many as 800 and 538 people were, respectively, challaned by the rural and city police for violating the guidelines during this period.There are three vans being operated by the police. On Friday, they conducted tests near Skatari Bagh, Islamabad, Khanna Paper Mill and New Partap Nagar area. At these vans rapid antigen tests (RAT) were conducted.Randeep Singh, rural pharmacist officer, who was attached with the van said at Skatari Bagh and Islamabad area over 200 people were tested out of which five turned out positive. Similarly, four persons tested positive out of 69 near Khanna Paper Mill area, while in New Partap Nagar area seven out of 94 were positive.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Parminder Singh Bhandal, said the police was not only taking punitive measures but also spreading awareness against the virus and distributing masks to people with the help of NGOs.“The only way to contain the virus is by following the guidelines diligently and for the betterment of the society, the people should let this sink in,” he said.Dhurv Dahiya, SSP Amritsar rural police said, “Precautions are better than cure. By ignoring guidelines, they were not only endangering their lives but also their loved ones. Better, they should understand this earlier before it’s too late.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uncaring-attitude-of-masses-keeps-brewing-like-covid-19-234033
03-04-2021||Amritsar||SGPC: BJP’s remark on RSS move ‘irresponsible’||The SGPC has condemned BJP leader RP Singh for hitting out at the resolution against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) passed during its general house recently.The resolution was passed against the RSS, the ideological mentor of the BJP, alleging that it was attempting to establish a “Hindu Rashtra”.Following this, RP Singh stated that the SGPC was creating a divide among the people of Punjab whereas it had “failed miserably to stop Sikhs from converting to Christianity” and that as a “cover-up for their failure, they keep raising the false bogey of ‘Hindu Rashtra’”.Related storiesSGPC additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna cited the history that when Aurangzeb was making India Dar-ul-Islam (Land of Islam), the Hindu religion was in danger. Then Guru Tegh Bahadur went to Delhi and sacrificed defending Kashmiri Hindus from persecution and hostility. “Today, during the regime of the BJP and RSS, even in Uttar Pradesh, the minority religions are feeling threatened as these post-Independence rulers are following in the footsteps of Aurangzeb”, he said.Bhurakohna alleged the Sikh history, principles and doctrines of Sikhism were being secretly tampered with by the RSS and that the resolution passed by the SGPC against it was in the interest of the country and the Constitution.“Everyone in the country has the right to practice their religion. Whenever anyone would try to disrupt the unity and integrity of the country with the doctrine of a single religious nation and create a threat to the minority religions, the SGPC, would continue to pass resolutions against such ideologies”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-bjps-remark-on-rss-move-irresponsible-233881
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||$300 mn loan for potable water in Amritsar, Ludhiana||The World Bank and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) have approved $300 million loan for canal-based drinking water schemes under Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project.The move aims at ensuring quality drinking water 24x7 and minimise water losses for Amritsar and Ludhiana. The two cities are currently being supplied water from tubewells. Two other canal-based water supply projects are already under execution in Jalandhar and Patiala.As per the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) report, the groundwater has been over exploited and the quality of water has deteriorated, causing health hazards. Therefore, it has been proposed to change water supply from ground to canal water to ensure uninterrupted potable drinking water supply in urban areas.The project would be co-financed by IBRD (World Bank) loan of $105 million and an AIIB loan of $105 million along with $90 million government funds. For Amritsar, the source of surface water supply would be Upper Bari Doab Canal and for Ludhiana Sirhind Canal. Treatment plant in Amritsar would be of 440 MLD and in Ludhiana 580 MLD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/300-mn-loan-for-potable-water-in-amritsar-ludhiana-233897
