04-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Being humane: Amritsar based physiotherapist runs NGO for animals’ protection||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 3Rohan Mehra, a physiotherapist, is working for protection of animals in the city for years. He started his journey unaccompanied but is now leading the Animal Protection Society, an NGO of over 2,000 volunteers.Being sympathetic towards animals is something which Rohan learnt during childhood years. Apart from his professional desires, Rohan also wanted to work for the animals and save them from cruelty.“I reside in Kot Khalsa area. In my childhood, the Municipal Corporation workers used to visit our area to catch stray pigs. They used to adopt cruel practices while catching them.” Heading for school on rickshaw, I used to dream of becoming something to stop the cruelty. I have made several such efforts in my childhood,” he said.Before constituting a dedicated team of volunteers, it was all a one-man-army show to treat the injured cows, dogs and other animals during road accidents. In 2015, Animal Protection Society got registered and initiated organised work to improve the infrastructure for stray animals in the city.“In 2018, we sat on a dharna outside the city Mayor’s office to increase the capacity of cow shelter. During the last six years, we have treated more than 1,000 cows injured in road accidents. There is no count of stray dogs. Sometimes we rescue five dogs in a day,” he added.Rohan claimed that people forsake their pet animals on city roads when they got old or diseased. “We often found old horses and other pets roaming on city roads in pitiful conditions. We provide treatment, conduct operations and send them to shelters. In case of dogs, we find a dog lover for adoption of injured ones. We spend money from our pockets for this cause.”Apart from taking care of animals, Rohan also vies for FIRs in cruelty against animal cases. “The first FIR against organising dog fights in the state has been registered on my complaint. Last year someone poisoned dogs and we took a legal action. We assure that the police reach the accident spot where any cow was injured and is rescued with help of the MC employees,” he told.Talking about the change that happened with his efforts, Rohan said, “With our continuous follow-ups, the MC is constructing a gaushala near the India Gate and had sanctioned Rs1.5 crore. The sterilisation project has been initiated. Public is getting aware about the cruelty against animals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/being-humane-amritsar-based-physiotherapist-runs-ngo-for-animals-protection-234441
04-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Relocated, a majority of railway staff oblivious to Jallianwala Bagh’s model||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, APRIL 3The festival of Baisakhi is less than a fortnight away and a majority of the Railways employees are oblivious to the existence of the model of the Jallianwala Bagh. The model used to be placed at the railway station’s general waiting hall.The model used to be placed near the current ticket window, adjoining the general waiting hall. Over seven years ago a part of the ceiling had come down, prompting the then Railways authorities to move away the model to a safe place.Then Northern Railway Divisional Engineer had declared the roof opposite booking office and adjoining offices, near the waiting hall, as unsafe on September 9, 2014. Some portion of the roof of the building had fallen during heavy rains 7 years ago. The roof is made of battens and tiles, which were eaten up and became weak. Walls and arches had also shown cracks at various locations.Since then, the model of the Jallianwala Bagh was kept away from the view of passengers.Classified as A-1 category railway station it has two other models. The model of the Golden Temple displayed at the lobby of platform No. 1 and the model of the Durgiana Temple is showcased at the entrance lobby from the Gol Bagh side of the railway station.A retired Railways employee NS Gabarhia said the Jallianwala Bagh model at the station showcased the visitors an important event of Indian freedom movement which had taken place here. “It used to attract the attention of visitors of all age groups”.Ashok Salaria, Area Officer of the Amritsar railway station, said, he was posted here only before the lockdown period. So he was not aware of its location. However, he will consult colleagues to locate the model and reinstall it at a suitable location.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relocated-a-majority-of-railway-staff-oblivious-to-jallianwala-baghs-model-234442
04-04-2021||---||Grocery store worker’s murder: Two more held||Amritsar, April 3The city police arrested the remaining two suspects who killed a grocery store worker in the Kashmir Avenue area on late Wednesday evening.The accused are Satnam Singh, alias Mani, of Bhai Manjh road and Anmol Singh of New Gurnam Nagar area. With their arrest the police claimed to have solved several other robberies and snatching cases that occurred in the holy city in recent past.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation), said that Satnam Singh had opened fire that killed departmental store worker Sunny. The accused has confessed of looting as many as four petrol pumps in the recent past besides snatching a scooter from a woman from New Amritsar area on Thursday.They were identified with the help of CCTV camera footages found from the spot and nearby areas. They had covered their faces while committing the crime. The DCP said that they had entered the shop with an aim of robbery. However, the staff and shopkeepers who outnumbered the three resisted their attempt which prompted them to open fire that hit Sunny.They had procured the country-made weapon from Uttar Pradesh that was used in the crime. They had recently come out on the bail from jail. The police have recovered a weapon, a bike and sharp weapons from their possession.The investigations revealed that Rahul, alias Pindi, had nine criminal cases of NDPS, arms and robbery against him while Satnam and Anmol had four cases each.The three were produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation.Grocery store owner Anil Kumar along with his brother Nikhil Kumar and couple of workers including Sunny were present at the shop when the accused entered there with a motive of loot. However, the victims posed resistance and opposed the attempt following which the accused fired at them. One of them shot Sunny who died on the way to hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grocery-store-workers-murder-two-more-held-234443
04-04-2021||---||Robbers snatch woman’s car,  strike at two petrol pumps||Amritsar, April 3Robbers and unscrupulous elements have been striking at will, thus raising a question mark on the law and order situation in the district. Repeated incidents of murders, snatchings and robberies, hint that anti-social elements do not fear the police.In the latest incident, armed persons snatched a car from a woman in Vrindavan Garden enclave at Nangli village and later committed several robberies before abandoning the vehicle.The victim, Kanwal Seth, said she was going back home after dropping her kids at a coaching centre when the accused snatched her car at gunpoint. She said the incident occurred around 2 pm. Though the police received the information, it failed to sound an alert due to which robbers continued their activities freely.They first striked at Sandhu Petrol Pump in Lopoke around 5.30 pm. Dilbagh Singh, an employee of the pump, told the police that he along with Gurpreet Singh were disbursing petrol when a white-colour car stopped at the pump. He said four persons with their faces covered alighted from the car and pointed pistols at them. He said the accused snatched Rs 19,300 from him and fled away.Later, they looted another petrol pump in Bajjuman village near Batala. The accused first filled the fuel tank of the car and robbed a salesman at gunpoint.Kamboh police station SHO Harpreet Singh said the car was found abandoned in Akash Avenue area. Forensic teams examined the car and took fingerprints of the accused. He said they were scrutinising CCTV cameras to identify the culprits.Meanwhile, another petrol station was looted at Bhinder village falling under the jurisdiction of Khilchian police station. The incident occurred at Gauravjeet Kisan Sewa Kendar Petrol Pump on March 30.Jyoti Parkash, an employee, told the police that around 8 pm, five youth with covered faces and equipped with weapons came on two motorcycles. They fired in air and snatched Rs 3,000 from him.The police said involvement of the same gang cannot be ruled out.A case has been registered under Sections 379- B (2) and 411 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act in this regard.Mockery of law & order?Two booked for robbing Rs 3,000Chatiwind police have nabbed Sunny and Gurjinder Singh, both residents of Varpal, for allegedly robbing Sukhpal Singh of Chabba village. Sukhpal told the police that he was going from his office (Jandiala Guru) to deliver a parcel at Mehma village on his bike. The accused intercepted him near the government school at Varpal and snatched Rs3,000 after pointing a sharp-edged weapon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-snatch-womans-car-strike-at-two-petrol-pumps-234444
04-04-2021||---||Minister OP Soni instructs officials to ensure oxygen stock at hospitals||Amritsar, April 3In a meeting to review the Covid-19 management and vaccination programme, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni asked the officials to maintain the oxygen buffer stock at all hospitals. The minister also asked officials to further expedite the sample collection for testing.Soni said at present, around 5,000 tests were being conducted in the district and around 35,000 in the state. Addressing the mediapersons, Soni said a few political parties were holding rallies without paying any attention to the safety of people, which is a matter of grave concern. He said he would take up the issue with Punjab Chief Minister so that a ban could be imposed on organising such rallies.Soni termed the Ministry of Home Affairs letter to Punjab Government regarding bonded labour as an attempt to malign the image of Punjabi farmers. He said the Centre was deliberately defaming farmers, so that the peasant movement could be weakened.The minister said the three medical college in the state have a total of 4,000 beds, of which 1,500 have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. He said at present bed occupancy was merely 35 per cent and the remaining were lying vacant. He said the infrastructure had been developed in all hospitals for the second wave of the pandemic.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira, CP Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh and Principal Medical College Dr Rajiv Devgan were also present. The DC said in various departments where number of employees was high, the employees were being vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-op-soni-instructs-officials-to-ensure-oxygen-stock-at-hospitals-234445
04-04-2021||---||Inoculation drive picks up pace in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 3After all residents above 45 years became eligible to get the jab, the daily vaccination tally has started to increase, the health authorities said.On Saturday, a total of 7,346 injections were given, which included 2,096 persons in the 45 to 59 year age group. In comparison, 2,671 senior citizens received the jab.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said earlier, Covid-19 vaccination was available for only those in the age group of 45 to 59 years who had some co-morbid condition listed by the government.“Now, as the condition of co-morbid condition has been withdrawn, the vaccination has picked up pace,” he said. The official said prior to April 1, the day on which all persons above 45 years became eligible to get the dose, the district witnessed vaccination of only around 3,500 to 4,000 persons. During the last three days, the daily vaccination count is increasing, officials said.Toll mounts to 700 as seven succumb to virus; 263 +veWith seven casualties reported due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, the toll in the district increased to 700 on Saturday. The health authorities have also reported 263 new cases with which the total count has increased to 21,942.The deceased have been identified as Harinderpal Singh, a 65-year-old resident of New Amritsar; Harbans Singh (56) of Dalam village; Parkash Kaur (77) of Verka; Sarbjit Kaur (75) of Ajnala; Ranjit Kaur (50) of Karam Singh colony; Jagmeet Kaur (55) of Haripura and Paramjit Kaur of Ajnala.The new cases include 188 influenza-like illness cases and 75 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the Health Department reporting recovery of 263 patients on Saturday, the total count has improved to 17,935. The district at present has a total of 3,307 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inoculation-drive-picks-up-pace-in-amritsar-234446
04-04-2021||---||Reduce screen time of autistic kids, says expert||Amritsar, April 3 A seminar to mark the World Autism Awareness Day, ‘Understanding Autism’ was organised by the Global Institute for Childhood Disability (GICD), in association with the Indian academy of pediatrics (Punjab Chapter), and the Rotary Club Amritsar. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Manmeet Sodhi, head department of pediatrics at Government Medical College discussed various types of autism. She explained that the autism can be classified into different types depending upon the behaviour of the child.  She emphasised that the parents should be very careful about their children as the symptoms of autism start showing after the age of two to three years. It is advised that parents seek medical help at the earliest. “The children with autism should not be given mobile phones and should not be allowed to watch television,” said Dr Sodhi.  Dr Sodhi said as estimated one child in every fifty-five new-born child is autistic. “For such children, sensory integration by an occupation therapist is required along with speech therapy and special education as the child grows,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reduce-screen-time-of-autistic-kids-says-expert-234448
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Tussle over gurdwara mgmt in Chabal Khurd leads to firing, 14 booked||Tarn Taran, April 3A tussle between two groups over the control on the local gurdwara management in Chabal Khurd village led to indiscriminate firing on late Friday night, however, no causality was reported.One of the groups was led by Harpreet Singh Latha, sarpanch of the village, while Baljinder Singh and others were leading the second group. The gurdwara has 13 acre agriculture land over both sides and they wanted control over its management.The police said the armed supporter of Sarpanch Harpreet Singh with Dhannbir Singh, Ravinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Dhannraj Singh, Ajmer Singh, his son Gurpreet Singh Harpal Singh and Prithipal Singh with five unidentified supporters have been identified.Local DSP Sucha Singh Bal said the accused armed with weapons went to the house of Baljinder Singh and opened fire. The doors, windowpanes, walls, PVC sheets were damaged with the bullet shots.The members of the family and Baljinder Singh’s aides who were holding a meeting there had a narrow escape.The accused have been booked under Sections 307, 148, 149, 160 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The accused fled from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tussle-over-gurdwara-mgmt-in-chabal-khurd-leads-to-firing-14-booked-234449
04-04-2021||---||Expose Centre’s false propaganda on bonded labour, says KMSC||Amritsar, April 3Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) opposed the Centre’s claim regarding practice of bonded labour in border districts of Punjab.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC, said its an attempt by the Central Government to defame farmers of the state.He said, “The Centre is trying to tarnish the image of Punjabi farmers, who are leading the nationwide demonstration against three agri laws for the last four months. Earlier, they made several attempts to derail our protest, but failed to succeed. Now, the Centre has written to the Punjab Government about the practice of bonded labour in border districts.”Pandher alleged that media trial of farmers has been going on in the country.“Punjabi farmers serve humanity. During the outbreak of the Covid-19, lakhs of migrant labourers left the state and farmers gave them food and other facilities. Soon after the lockdown, labourers again came back to Punjab. It’s a deliberate attempt by the Centre to divide farmers and labourers of other states,” he said.The KMSC gave a call to debunk the false propaganda of the Centre. It’s pertinent to mention that the Centre has written to the Punjab Government that 58 mentally challenged people from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were found working as bonded labourers in the border districts of the state and asked it to take appropriate action.The Home Ministry SAID the BSF informed that these labourers were rescued from border areas of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Abohar between 2019 and 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expose-centres-false-propaganda-on-bonded-labour-says-kmsc-234450
04-04-2021||Amritsar||Spring Dale Senior School, Amritsar celebrates 40th anniv||Spring Dale Senior School celebrate its 40th anniversary with representation of the school team and management meeting in school observing social distancing protocol.Rajiv Kumar Sharma, the principal of school, and a team of senior teachers shared that this celebration is going to be in the form of a series of events stretching over the entire year. The ceremonial beginning was marked by a walk-through of visual wall gallery depicting the pictures covering the important landmarks of the school.Sahiljit Singh Sandhu, chairman, Spring Dale Educational Society and Dr Kirat Sandhu Cheema, director, Spring Dale Educational Society, shared the emotional bondage and an ideological connect with the institution whose foundation was laid by their grandparents on 1st April 1981. It was later nurtured by their parents Late Dr Shivinder Singh Sandhu and Manveen Sandhu. “Our parents wanted the school to be an instrument for the youth empowerment and that they will continue to work tirelessly to conserve and promote this ideological and visionary heritage called Spring Dale Senior School,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spring-dale-senior-school-amritsar-celebrates-40th-anniv-234451
04-04-2021||Amritsar||Burglars strike in Chheharta||Inspite of the night curfew in the wake of the Covid-19, a number of shops were burgled in the last two nights by unscrupulous elements.  According to information, burglers broke open shutters of shops and decamped with cash and valuables in Chheharta Bazaar. Giani Gurdeep Singh, who owns a garment shop in Chheharta Bazaar, told the police that on Friday morning, he received a call from a watchman that shutter of his shop was broken. He said the accused decamped with Rs 1,000 and other material. Similarly, the accused looted Rs 1.10 lakh from his neighbours shop, which belongs to Parvinder Singh.  The accused also stole Rs 25,000 cash and desi ghee from a flour mill by threatning a security guard with dire consequences. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC in this regard. Police set up 70 nakas to keep tab on miscreants Perturbed over the recent robberies and burglary incidents, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill have decided to sound red alert in the holy city in the evening and install special checkpoints at vital locations and roads.  As many as 70 checkpoints were planned out of which 19 would be established in the outer areas while 51 nakas would be organised inside the city.  These checkpoints would be supervised by three Additional Deputy Commissioners of Police rank officials while Assistant Commissioners of Police and SHOs were also asked to remain on roads to keep tab on anti-social elements prowling the city taking the advantage of empty roads when the night curfew is imposed.  Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), on Saturday visited the checkpoints asked the cops to thoroughly check all vehicles entering the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/burglars-strike-in-chheharta-234452
04-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Hazuri Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh’s mortal remains immersed||The mortal remains of Padam Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh Hazuri Ragi were immersed in Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib, Sri Goindwal Sahib, (River Beas) today with full state honours. Bhai Nirmal Singh died of Covid-19 last year. Besides, the family members, even the officials from the district administration, MLA Khadoor Sahib, Ramanjit Singh Sikki ,and a large number of residents were also present on the occasion. The contingent of the Punjab Police presented a Guard of Honour to the departed soul. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hazuri-ragi-bhai-nirmal-singhs-mortal-remains-immersed-234453
04-04-2021||Tarn Taran||3L ml of illicit liquor seized in Tarn Taran village||Rs 9k looted from petrol pumpTarn Taran: Two bike-borne miscreants robbed Rs 9,910 and a mobile set from two salesmen of the petrol pump at Dhand village here on Thursday evening. Salesman Mandeep Singh told the police that the robbers came to the petrol pump as customers and demanded to fill petrol worth Rs500. As soon as the salesman filled petrol, one of the robbers snatched cash and the other one snatched the mobile set from another salesman and fled away. The police said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC had been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3l-ml-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-tarn-taran-village-234457
04-04-2021||Finally||Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur's memorial at Kalanaur||‘Forgetting our heroes’Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa delivered an impressive extempore the other day in Kalanaur. He became emotional while urging youngsters to read “life and times of great men like Banda Singh Bahadur.” His emotional range rivaled the most inspired of actors. He asked youngsters in the audience how many of them actually remembered the Sikh warrior. He was crest-fallen when not even a single hand went up. Then he delved deep into his speech and exhorted the youngsters to devote more time to remembering men who have changed their lives. “Those we love do not go away. They walk, besides us every day. Unseen, unheard but always near. Still loved, still missed and very dear,” he reminded the audience. After taking a break he went on with his speech, which was lapped by the gathering. “I know for certain, we never lose the people whom we love, even till death. They are a part of us in everything we do, every act we perform, every decision we make. Their love leaves an indelible imprint on our minds, in our memories. We find comfort in knowing that our lives have been enriched by these very men. Unfortunately, in an era of materialistic wealth, we tend to forget what these great men stood for,” he opined. Interestingly, towards the end of his extempore, Randhawa was courageous enough to admit that even the political class has forgotten its heroes, be it Banda Singh Bahadur or anybody else. “We politicians have become machines and all our efforts are directed at catching votes. Like you, we too are guilty for having forgotten our heroes. All that matters for us is how to get this vote or that one. This vote-bank politicking should come to an end. The buck should stop somewhere. As politicians, we must be responsible for ushering in a change. After all, change is the essence of growth,” he said. The minister could have gone on and on but when he cast an eye on the audience he saw many monotonous faces. He was virtually forced to put a full stop there and then.No new bus stand for now?Gurdaspur’s new bus stand is surely jinxed. Work was to start this month, but a ‘technical fault’ in the tendering process meant the bus stand will live at its old address instead of moving to its new one on Tibri road for some more weeks or maybe months. ‘Doubting Thomases’ are having a field day. They blame senior officials in the Improvement Trust (IT) for an inordinate delay. The IT had been entrusted with construction process. A cross section of residents strongly feels that some IT officials omitted some important terms and conditions in the tender document ostensibly to ‘help’ a local politician. Senior Chandigarh-based officers of the Local Bodies Department in Chandigarh ‘read the game’, refused to play ball and consequently put on hold the entire procedure. As a wag put it, “for the bus stand, the past is past, the present remains imperfect while the future remains tense.” He has indeed hit the nail on its head! (Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-warrior-banda-singh-bahadurs-memorial-at-kalanaur-234461
