05-04-2021||Amritsar||Farmers' Mitti satyagrah Yatra: Soil collected from Ajnala||Women motivated to join agri stirTarn Taran: Women farmers held an event at Sheron village and asked the Centre to repeal the three contentious agri laws. They also urged their counterparts to play an active role in the ongoing farmers’ stir in Delhi. Sarabjit Kaur Warhian and Baljit Kaur, among others, of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, presided over the meet. Dr Surinderpal Singh Mand, Rajwant Kaur and Kanoopuria asked women to play an active role in the stir. Warhian said there was possibility of lingering of agitation, thus women should form groups in each village. Baljit said the Centre was hell-bent on handing over all profitable institutions in the hands of corporates. She said farmers have to fight to save their land. Women leaders said no politician from the BJP would be allowed to enter villages. OCRs36K looted from collection agentAmritsar: A collection agent was robbed by unidentified bike-borne persons at a petrol pump in Ajaibwali village under the Kathunangal police here on Friday. The victim was identified as James Masih (28) of Ugar Khera village in Gurdaspur. The armed persons snatched Rs36,000 from him. He told the police that he worked in Satin Credit Care Network Limited. He said around 1pm, he stopped at a petrol pump in Ajaibwali village to answer the call of nature. He said two unidentified persons, whose faces were covered, came to him and took out a datar (sickle) and threatened to kill him. They snatched his bag containing the collection and fled from the spot. The police have registered a case and started investigation. TNSSewermen seek regular jobsAmritsar: As many as 195 sewermen and 130 street light workers, working under the Mohalla Sudhar Committees for the last several years, met Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Sunday and demanded regularisation of their services. Deepak Gill, an employee, said 195 sewermen and 130 street light workers have been working at locality- level and get salaries from the MC. The Mayor assured employees to address their issues. to He said in December 2018, a proposal was sent to the government to regularise 195 sewermen. Rintu said once now again they will try to regularise them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-mitti-satyagrah-yatra-soil-collected-from-ajnala-234904
05-04-2021||Open House||Covid-19: Not enough, government should take a hard line against violators||Time to Intensify the vaccination driveThe government apparently seems on the right track, after thousands of new cases in the country and the rising death toll. The extension of micro-containment zones to district-level containment zones will certainly make a dent in these figures. But the ruling BJP is also following the policy of ‘running with the hare and hunting with the hounds’ ie colluding with the Covid and priding in the van. Why can’t they do away with mega rallies and mega road shows? They must. But sadly, on the other hand ‘we, the people of India’ who gave ourselves in 1949, the most sacred document called our Constitution, are, truly speaking, the most irresponsible and least law abiding people of the world and I don’t need any document to prove that. There is hardly any law or regulation we don’t flout and take pride in doing so. Politicians lead us here as well. We cross from under the barrier pole at railway level crossings, drive fast in fifth gear, and that too under the influence of liquor, but in case of an accident claim compensation. Every fact about the coronavirus, the second wave, its fast infecting rate, every risk, every precaution to be observed have been broadcast, telecast millions of times. Every child knows it and takes the necessary precaution, but not the wiseacres. Hence, the government is not totally to blame. The MCA administration is doing bits where it can to maintain social distance. Our own absence of sensitivity and responsibility has to be awakened. If there are some of us not wearing a mask or are getting crowded, it is no occasion to join them. In fact, they should be requested to wear one and if required supplied with one, if not two. They won’t get wasted. There are philanthropists among us who have donated thousands of masks to the police. We can keep one with us in our pocket for one who cannot afford it. Fines? No. Recovering even Rs100 from a daily wager would be a sin. A polite request and drawing his/her promise to wear one would be enough. He/she can be a source of spreading the message. Penalising the well-to-do would of course be in the fitness of things. Keeping physical distance should be accepted as the new normal. And now, getting in the queue to get vaccinated is our ‘religious’ duty crossing all faiths – all this not to underrate the urgency of washing hands. It is even more important than physical distance. The state government has perhaps made a mistake in suspending the well-oiled vaccination drive during the two holidays last week. Its fall out will not be missed now.PROF MOHAN SINGHGovt doesn’t have a concrete planSocial distancing is must but the administration is taking half-hearted steps towards maintaining it at public places. For example night curfew is a superficial exercise. People are freely moving and mingling in quest of their daily chores. In offices, banks, bazaars, streets, bus stands, parks, etc, no distancing, no masks are being adhered to. People are under the impression that deaths are being manipulated to keep them under the constant fear and threat of coronavirus. They suspect that every death is being attributed to the virus whereas people earlier and now too, have been dying of various diseases. If Covid is so prevalent why are the politicians holding rallies and conducting campaigns? Social distancing poses a formidable challenge. How can daily-wagers think about their next source of bread or about keeping a distance from other people? The administration does not seem to have a concrete plan on how to ensure social distancing. The strategy should be to find the infected people and to vaccinate them to stop the spread. The vaccination drive is in full swing, one wonders how the death rate is increasing. The moot question that arises is: doesn’t the vaccine cure the infected ones? ICMR’s Raman R Gangakhedkar said there could be an explosion in the number of cases if states did not take strict steps to ensure distancing. The steps suggested were closure of schools, colleges, gyms, museums, cultural and social centres, swimming pools and theatres. But that proposition did not sound pragmatic because that smacked nothing short of the lockdown. Trains and buses are running with full capacity not giving a hoot to social distancing. Similar scenarios prevail at all religious places where Covid-appropriate behaviour is flouted with impunity. Administrative actions like imposition of fine against the violators have failed to yield the desired results. Harvesting season has set in. How to ensure social distancing there has become a big headache. The only alternative that remains with the people is that they should stay at home as much as possible, should go out only for crucial needs such as groceries and medicines and should avoid non-essential travel. This seems to be a tall order. Can the administration ensure its implementation? However, discrete measures are required to reduce interactions among people and to keep physical distance on-site. A no-visitor policy ought to be implemented and awareness around six-foot rule should be created. Flexible working hours, rotational and staggered shifts can help ensure distancing.Tarsem S BumrahQUESTIONIs resentment of parents on exam postponement justified when they themselves clamoured for closure of schools after mass students tested positive just a few weeks ago?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 8).Govt must Ban all kinds of gatheringsThough there was remarkable decline in the Covid casualties by the end of 2020, but the situation began to take a turn for the worse again this February. Repeated warnings by the epidemiologists that India is likely to face second wave surge, but pandemic-weary people of India, including those of Punjab and Amritsar seem to have shownlack of serious response. As a result, the infections and deaths have started spiking and even surpassing previous day’s numbers. Just a few days ago, a meeting between the central and state-level health officials found a slackness in observing Covid-appropriate behaviour during this resurge. There still is reluctance to use face-masks and a stark indifference towards social distancing, even amongst the acquaintances of the Covid-affected, and delays in taking the critically ill to hospital. These speak of a breakdown in the communication initiatives that had played a critical role in checking the virus pandemic last year. Even much more disturbing is the reported laxity amongst the officials in tracing contacts and monitoring micro-containment zones. Despite continued spike in casualties the administration of not only Amritsar but of the entire state has taken no strict steps to ban the rallies, protests, religious functions and other gatherings. This may be due to the utter reluctance shown by all the political parties in view of the 2022 Assembly elections, because no one is ready to annoy their vote banks.The last year’s bad experience should have stood us in good stead if religious and other festivities like Holi, etc had been banned totally and restrictions had also been followed and imposed strictly.LJS PANESARPolicemen, the mute spectatorsThe administration is taking least steps towards maintaining social distancing at public places. Especially in our city, there is so much laxity that people are roaming free on roads, markets without masks and maintaining distance and the police are totally mute spectators taking no action. Moreover, the people going to the Golden Temple are all without masks, no social distancing is there and the local administration is just sleeping over the matter. Outside and within the Golden Temple area there is no maintenance of social distancing but nobody is worried, neither the local administration nor the SGPC. Due to this attitude, the virus is spreading and deaths are also increasing day by day. The need of hour is strictness for maintenance of social distancing at public places and irrespective of any discrimination regarding this.SANJAY CHAWLAMany more precautions neededCovid-19 has already completed and glutted a year and its end is beyond anybody’s sight, so far. Despite invention of vaccines, the resurge has spread at breakneck speed and has taken the government and the society by surprise. The malady’s spread is exponential and the governments have not been able to assess the ground reality of the large number of people in its grip. Though proper wearing of masks and distancing is essential, yet there are so many other precautions which are a must for overcoming the effects of the pandemic. Putting the fear of punishment at the hands of police and health authorities for not putting the masks and keeping apart from the people by maintaining more than two meters distance, has only a very limited role to play. Time has come when every citizen, welfare associations, mohalla committees, social organisations, and philanthropists need to jump into the war against this life-killing disease. The local authorities must come clean on carrying out the anti-malarial and anti-dengue sprays as the summer has set in. Hundreds of pushcarts on the sides of the roads and on footpaths selling uncovered eatables are the bane of the citizens and are the major spreaders of the disease. The government must mercilessly remove them in the interest of the mankind. This will facilitate the ‘already busy’ Covid warriors in Health Department as they would be spared the annual task of destroying the raw and contaminated eatables. All people must avoid organising social functions and political rallies must be banned, though it may not be possible, looking at the not-too-far state Assembly poll. So far, the health authorities have done extremely well in performing its onerous duty in this colossal crisis. Some individual doctors have proved the dictum, ‘doctors are next to God or they are angels’ right, in this crisis. One lady pulmonologist was herself infected. She was the main doctor to look after the patients in the most prestigious hospital of the city and her private clinic. She was so concerned that after confinement for some days, she started going to the hospital to treat the patients as in her absence no one else could do that. Such a dedicated and self-sacrificing doctor is young Dr Rominder Kaur, who has treated me.Hardish sandhuEvery Citizen must cooperate with govtIn my opinion the government may be taking sincere steps to ensure social distancing at public places, but such efforts prove to be useful only with the cooperation of the fellow citizens. The administration has imposed night curfew, limited the presence of people at public and private events, announced fine if a person is found without a mask, etc but still I witness many people violating the given guidelines. The major reason for such is corruption on a massive scale in our country. A person can easily escape from these guidelines by feeding the concerned official with enough amounts. There are boundaries and steps for people to stand on, in order to keep a distance from each other but the people of our country do not realise the seriousness of this grave situation and ignore as if there is no such thing as the Covid-19 and the government has just made it up for their own advantages. But through this platform I would like to inform and warn all the people of this nation to support the administration in this difficult period of time so that we can go back to normal and prosper as before.LeharPoliticians themselves violating normsThere is an alarming increase in infections in the district resulting in more deaths due to the same. But before putting blame on the public, central and all state governments should be held responsible for it. Neither the central nor the state governments were serious in implementation of preventive measures to stop the spread of deadly virus since the declaration of the lockdown last year. Even prior to it, when it was spreading in the other parts of the world, instead of taking preventive measures we were busy in arranging welcome rally for the US President Donald Trump in Ahmedabad. Anyway, when the Centre announced the first lockdown there were only 536 infected cases in the whole country. But the government gave just four-hour notice for it, thus compelling the migrant workers to leave for their native places on foot thus ignoring the norms meant for prevention of virus. Instead of four hours they should have given dour days notice before implementing the first lockdown. Recently, the new CM of Uttrakhand just after taking the oath withdrew all norms for prevention of coronavirus at Mahakumbh in Haridwar. Similarly, leaders of all political parties, including PM and state CMs are arranging big rallies and road shows for election campaigns in poll- bound four states and one UT, not caring for norms. It is as if all laws, rules and regulations are meant for general public only, our political leadership is above it. In such circumstances it is difficult to stop the virus.Harsh N JoharFuture seems dark and drearyWith surge in cases, ‘social distancing’ protocol to keep in check the spread from potential hotspots has gone for a toss at city’s busiest public places. Both administration and residents are equally responsible for non-adherence to norms. Administration has miserably failed to impose the same at religious places. Gurdwaras, mandirs are being visited by hundreds of people throwing to wind the restrictions on gathering. No spot challan, warning notices have been served by administration to the management of religious places. Situation is no better at the court complex, DC office, offices of banks, insurance companies, etc but worse in city’s wholesale markets, ISBT, malls, marriage palaces showing thumb to administration extant order/guidelines on protocols. Administration can’t be a mere mute spectator to the flouting of norms by the stubborn violators. Police and civil administration should work in tandem to book the offenders to save the lives of law-abiding citizens.Anil VinayakAuthorities can’t do everything aloneNo, the administration is not taking adequate steps to enforce distancing. People at many public places in the city are not wearing masks or maintaining a distance. The authorities can employ some people who can work at the ground level to enforce rules. These people can be disguised as common people among the public and issue on the spot challans to the offenders. But people need to understand that the authorities can’t do everything by themselves and they should help and support the administration by following the rules so that Covid-19 can be defeated.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHGovernment cares for all of usIndia has been surrounded by Covid for almost a year now. There is a lot of multiplication of death rates in the district, more than 6,813. Still many people do not abide by the preventives administered by the government. People without masks are already on the radar of the Health and Police Department. In the communal sites, like malls and parks, people are not permitted to set foot in the respective sites without masks but in the religious places like gurdwaras and temples, people are allowed to enter the premises without it. I must say that the government is much aware about the well-being and safety of the citizens. We can see two-three policemen at every nook and corner of the district. They are performing their obligation with devotion. They are fining the ones who are not following the Covid norms. Also, the ban of religious gatherings without masks should be scrutinised. The citizens should cooperate with government during these scathing times. Moreover, the decision to shut all the malls and gatherings on Holi was a great decision.IzleenSome takeaways to tackle resurge||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-not-enough-government-should-take-a-hard-line-against-violators-234903
05-04-2021||Amritsar||Search operation carried out in Amritsar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/search-operation-carried-out-in-amritsar-234885
05-04-2021||---||No breakthrough  in carjacking, robbery cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Even as hunt was launched against the five-member robber gang that snatched a car from a woman in Vrindanvan Enclave and committed robberies in the city and Batala, there has been no breakthrough in the case so far.Three police districts, including Amritsar (city), Amritsar (rural) and Batala, have been holding investigations to nab the miscreants, but did not succeed. The car was found abandoned in Akash Avenue on Saturday.Harpreet Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said after snatching the car, the gang committed three robberies in Bajjuman village, near Batala, Chogwana and Verka.The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B (2), 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59-A of the Arms Act against unidentified robbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-breakthrough-in-carjacking-robbery-cases-234884
05-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Attack on party worker: Cong leader booked||The Sarai Amanat Khan police on Saturday booked Congress leader Avan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema, who is also sarpanch of Adda Chabal gram panchayat, and his younger brother Munish Kumar, member zila parishad, along with 20 supporters for attack on another Congress worker.Sonu was at loggerheads with local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri for the last more than six months. It was the second criminal case registered against Sonu and his supporters in the last one-and-a-half month. Shamsher Singh of Naushehra village in his complaint said the accused attacked him when he was returning home after watching a kabaddi match from Chahal village, where the accused were also present. Tussle occurred over the announcement of Shamsher Sijngh’s name when he awarded cash prize to the players for showing good performance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attack-on-party-worker-cong-leader-booked-234883
05-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC mulls recarpeting of city roads under PWD, ready to spend Rs4 cr||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Evincing poor response from the Public Works Department (PWD) to recarpet roads under its jurisdiction in the city, the Municipal Corporation has decided to spend Rs4 crore on roads under it.The MC will spend approximately Rs50 crore on all city roads. A major project was approved in the recently held General House meeting. The project would include widening and strengthening of roads, street furniture, painting of central verges, kerb stones and installation of cat eyes (blinking lights) on roads.MC officials said some major roads were under the PWD and it was their prerogative to recarpet and repair these. But Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said these PWD roads were not being maintained properly.“Lakhs of devotees visit the holy city every day. The damaged roads give a bad impression to visitors in the city. Residents also suffer due to bumpy ride on potholed roads. People are not aware as to which body is responsible for repair. They blame the Municipal Corporation and incumbent Mayor and councillors. So, we have decided to recarpet those roads, too, which are under the jurisdiction of the PWD,” the Mayor said.The total amount to be spent on roads under the PWD is Rs4.03 crore. Now, the MC will get NOC from the PWD to recarpet these roads. The MC has Rs48.42 crore from various grants and funds, which includes Rs9.42 crore from the Sewerage Board for water supply south east project, Rs19 crore from the Finance Commission, Rs10 crore, which is the loan of Amritsar Improvement Trust, and Rs10 crore, which was collected from road cutting charges.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that all roads would be recarpeted in the summer season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-mulls-recarpeting-of-city-roads-under-pwd-ready-to-spend-rs4-cr-234882
05-04-2021||---||Migrant labourers protest Centre’s false propaganda||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Irate migrant labourers on Sunday held a protest against the Central Government for labelling them as bonded labourers hooked to drugs on the outskirts of the city.Raising slogans, they burnt an effigy of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and called upon the government not to issue mindless statements creating division in society. They reiterated their pledge in favour of farmers.Rani, a migrant from near Lucknow, said her family had been residing here for the past two decades. She said no member of her family was hooked to drugs. Another protester, Sangeeta of Bihar, said the government failed to generate enough employment.A migrant leader, Mahesh Verma said: “We condemn the Union Government’s statement that farmers of the state got their agriculture-related work done from migrants in exchange for drugs. So far, no such incident has come to the fore. We come here for a livelihood so that we can rear our families and children back home.”“Clearly, there is a face-off between the Centre and farmers over the three agriculture laws. The government should not try to weaken the relations of farmers and labourers,” said the migrant leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrant-labourers-protest-centres-false-propaganda-234881
05-04-2021||---||Wheat procurement: DC reviews preparations in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4As the procurement of wheat is scheduled to start from April 10, the district administration has set up 57 procurement centres in the district.Officials said eight main procurement yards, 11 sub-yards and 38 procurement centres have been set up.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said all arrangements were being made while keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He said farmers would not face any hassle and procurement would be completed in time.In a meeting with officials to review the preparations for procurement, he asked them to raise awareness among farmers and workers at the grain markets regarding precautions needed to avoid infection. District Mandi Officer Amandeep Singh said adequate arrangements were being made under the guidelines for procurement in the mandis from April 10. He said every person, including farmers and laborers, would be required to wear a mask while entering and working in mandis.He said facilities such as drinking water and sanitation would also be made as per the guidelines. He said only those farmers should bring their wheat to the mandi who have been given the slip. “Without the slip (pass) the trailers would not be allowed to enter the mandis,” he said, adding that no other person except the driver of the tractor would be allowed inside the mandis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-procurement-dc-reviews-preparations-in-amritsar-234880
05-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||All India Radio resumes Urdu service from Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4All India Radio (AIR) has resumed the relay of Urdu service from Amritsar’s Gharinda village, near Attari, to cater to its audience in the area and also across the International Border (IB) in Pakistan from Sunday.The service had got disrupted due to the Covid-19. Though different activities were resumed following relaxations, but Urdu service remained a non-starter. Santosh Rishi, Senior Director, AIR (Jalandhar), confirmed resumption of Urdu service and said all programmes will be broadcast from today.AIR officials said Urdu service could not be started earlier as content generation was being done at New Delhi-based office.However, after the Covid-19 pandemic and its induced lockdown, content generation became an onerous task. Unable to garner enough programmes with skeletal staff, Urdu service was temporarily discontinued from Amritsar station (FM 103.6).Harjap Singh Aujla, a veteran engineer, said people were dismayed with the government for snapping 12-hour long Urdu service. “Urdu service of AIR, which started after the 1965 Indo-Pakistan War, has been gaining popularity since its inception. Commencing on shortwave 25 and 31 metre bands and now it has spread its wings on medium wave too,” he said and added that it was an effective tool to beat false propaganda of the Pakistan Government in border areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-india-radio-resumes-urdu-service-from-amritsar-district-234879
05-04-2021||---||10 die, 271 Covid-19 +ve in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4The health authorities reported 10 Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Sunday. With this, the toll has increased to 710.The authorities also reported 271 new positive cases in the last 24 hours and the total count reached 22,213. The new cases include 210 influenza-like illness cases and 61 contacts of positive cases.The deceased have been identified as Jasbir Kaur (67) of Judge Nagar, Manish Kumar (32) of Bal Kalan village, Baldev Singh (74) of Vallah, Bakhshish Singh (73) of Tarn Taran Road, Madhu Bala (59) of Partap Bazaar, Parveen Soni (62) of Kucha Jhurian, Surjit Singh (51) of Tarpai (Majitha road), Gurmeet Kaur (51) of Boparai village, Gurdeep Singh (75) of Guru Nanakpura (Kot Khalsa) and Harjinder Kaur (45) of Bal Sikandar village.The health authorities also reported recovery of 290 patients with which the recovery count in the district has reached 18,225. The district, at present, has a total of 3,278 active cases.Meanwhile, after the government announced that the Covid-19 vaccination will be administered on all seven days of the week, a total of 3,691 persons were inoculated on Sunday. These include 1,682 persons in the age group of 45 years to 59 years and 1,312 senior citizens.The Health Department said 1,05,893 persons have been partially vaccinated while 16,235 persons have been completely vaccinated to date. As per figures available with the Health Department, 58.32 per cent of the registered healthcare workers and 89.67 per cent of the registered frontline workers have received their first dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-die-271-covid-19-ve-in-amritsar-district-234878
05-04-2021||Amritsar||At Golden Temple, adhering to Covid norms mandatory now||In the wake of a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, it has now been made mandatory for pilgrims visiting Golden Temple to follow the Health department guidelines, including wearing of masks, keeping social distancing and sanitisation of hands.A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting between the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and district administration officials today. The meeting was attended by SGPC president Jagir Kaur and Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill, SDM Vikas Hira and municipal corporation officials.The SGPC chief said devotees must follow the instructions issued by the Health department. “Devotees should wear masks, use sanitisers, take care of hygiene and keep a distance to prevent the spread of the disease,” she said.She asked the officials to ensure cleanliness of roads leading to the shrine and its surroundings. As per the information received, the health officials will start a vaccination campaign at Golden Temple here. Meanwhile, the administration officials were honoured by the SGPC president with ‘siropao’ and a model of the shrine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-golden-temple-adhering-to-covid-norms-mandatory-now-233892
