06-04-2021||---||SAD workers burn effigies of Capt, Kejriwal In Naurangabad||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-workers-burn-effigies-of-capt-kejriwal-in-naurangabad-235333
06-04-2021||---||Rural pharmacists to boycott Covid duties||Amritsar, April 5Rural pharmacists staged a protest outside the zila parishad office on Monday and announced to boycott Covid-19 related duties till they were regularised.Kamaljit Chohan, chief, Rural Health Pharmacy Officers’ Association, said, “For the last one year, we have been regularly performing the Covid-19 related duties. From now onwards, we will boycott all such duties in rural areas.”Members of the union said many of them had been working under the zila parishad for more than a decade at meagre salaries hoping that someday their services would be regularised.Navjot Kaur, a member of the association, said despite performing the Covid-19 related duties, the government has not announced any salary hike for them.“Pharmacists under the Health Department and the zila parishad perform the same work, but when it comes to salaries, contractual workers are paid very less than regular employees,” she said.Members of the association said if the government failed to take any notice, they would organise a state-level protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-to-boycott-covid-duties-235334
06-04-2021||---||Govt’s ‘indifference’ towards rising prices receives flak||Amritsar, April 5 Members of the Amritsar Retail Karyana Merchant Association condemned  the government for its indifference towards skyrocketing prices of cereals, pulses, vegetable oils and other essential commodities.  In a meeting held here recently, the office-bearers of the association condemned the attitude of the government and its leaders.  Kuldeep Rai Gupta, president of the association, said their sales of cereals, pulses and different vegetable oils came down during the past some months.  “It shows that the beleaguered consumers resorted to this step after finding their income and salaries curtailed due to the Covid-19 lockdown and their expenditure stressed between increased fuel and power cost.”  He said there was no plausible reason for the price rise except that the political establishment wished the entire trade to be handed over to some corporate houses.” The government’s effort to check black marketing and push sufficient food stock in the market to price rise failed, he said. Buta Ram, another senior member of the association, said prices of all types of vegetable oils, including soya, rice bran, palm, cotton seed, vegetable had increased between 30 per cent and 40 per cent. Similarly, the cost of cereals and pulses rose considerably.  Terming the government shameless, he said it did not even pretend to evaluate the reason behind the sharp rise in the prices and measures to control these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govts-indifference-towards-rising-prices-receives-flak-235335
06-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Retirees lodge protest against govt policies||The retired employees of the state government under the banner of the district unit of Pensioners and Senior Citizen Welfare Association lodged their strong protest for not resolving their current demands for years.  Ajit Singh Fatehchak, district president of the association, was among others, who addressed on the occasion. The speakers took serious note of the dilly-dallying tactics of the state government regarding their demands. The leaders said the report of the 6th Pay Commission was not implemented as yet and many due Dearness Allowance (DA) instalments have not been released and the arrears of the already released DA instalments, too, had not been released. The leaders demanded restoration of cashless health scheme after making a few amendments and increasing of monthly medical allowance to Rs2,000. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/retirees-lodge-protest-against-govt-policies-235336
06-04-2021||---||Centre imposing strict norms through FCI, allege farmers||Amritsar, April 5On the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers protested at three different places in the district to mark ‘FCI bachao divas’.In one of the agitations outside the office of the District Food and Civil Supplies Controller farm leaders accused the Centre of trying to impose stricter norms for procurement of crop through the Food Corporation of India (FCI).Protesters said reduction of permissible moisture content in wheat from 14 per cent to 12 per cent has been done to harass farmers so that the FCI can deny procurement of crops. They also lashed at the FCI for reducing limit of broken grains from 4 per cent to 2 per cent, stating that the available technology of harvesting of wheat in the country was such that bringing down the percentage of broken grains was impossible.“The FCI is just trying to impose strict conditions so that when it’s asked about non-procurement of grains, it can simply say that the produce was not as per its prescribed norms. The guidelines set by it are not possible to achieve,” said Gurdev Singh Jheeta, a farm leader.Agitators said only guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) for crops can ensure economic safety of farmers.Rattan Singh Randhawa, another farm leader, said, “When the country was food deficient, the then Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon and other national leaders had exhorted farmers to grow more food. Now, when the country is food sufficient, the government is trying to benefit corporates at the expense of farmers.”Randhawa said many states in the country get royalty for their mineral resources. “Crops and water are natural resources in Punjab. If the MSP is withdrawn, livelihood of a majority of farmers will be at stake,” he said. Farmers also staged protests outside the FCI’s office and godowns.Widespread dharnas in Tarn TaranFarmers’ unions on Monday lodged their protest by holding dharnas in different parts of the district against the terms imposed by the Union Government in procuring wheat crops.The farmers’ unions, affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the All-India Kisanv Sabha, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Budha) and others, demonstrated near the FCI office here. Pirthipal Singh Marimegha, Daljit Singh Dialpur, Jaspal Singh Jhabal, among others, addressed the gathering on the occasion.The leaders condemned the terms being imposed on the wheat procurement to show the ownership of the land record where the wheat crop was produced and releasing payment on the procured crop directly in the accounts of the farmers. The leaders said there were so many farmers who were tilling the land on a contractual basis and these farmers would be denied to procure their produce.The leaders said all these were the ways just to avoid procurement. Workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, staged a dharna in front of the main office of the FCI in Tarn Taran.Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Tejinderpal Singh Raju and other leaders called upon the farmers to be ready to make any sacrifice to protect their land rights to produce crops at their own wishes.Protest dharnas were also staged in Chabal, Patti and Bhikhiwind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-imposing-strict-norms-through-fci-allege-farmers-235337
06-04-2021||---||SGPC conducts prayers in Uttarakhand gurdwara||Amritsar, April 5The Dharam Prachar Committee of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Monday concluded the Gurbani Path Bodh Samagam at the historic Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata Sahib in Uttarakhand, dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The samagam was inaugurated on March 1 in association with the managing committee of the gurdwara.A special gurmat samagam was held in which Golden Temple Hazuri raagi Bhai Karnail Singh connected the sangat with gurbani. On behalf of the Dharam Prachar Committee, the jathas of Bhai Gurbhej Singh Chaminda Dhadi and Bhai Karaj Singh Kavishar recited the history of the Guru to the sangat.Bhai Ajaib Singh Abhayasi, member of the Dharam Prachar Committee, who was present on the occasion, said it was our good fortune that the 400th birth anniversary of the Guru had come during our lifespan. He thanked the managing committee of Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata Sahib for the success of the gurmat samagam. Meanwhile, the president of Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata Sahib Sewa Singh thanked SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur for conducting the samagam and said it was for the first time that such a function was held in this area, which was highly appreciated by the sangat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-conducts-prayers-in-uttarakhand-gurdwara-235338
06-04-2021||Amritsar||Woman inmate, guarantor booked for jumping parole||A prisoner along with her guarantor was booked  after she failed to return to jail as per the schedule. Inmate Gogi of Chamiari village is serving a life term in murder case. She was granted bail in March 2020 in the wake of the pandemic and was scheduled to report at Women Sub Jail in Malerkotla on February 10. The government had decided to give parole to inmates as prisons were turning into hotspots. Gogi and her guarantor Mukhtar Masih were booked under Sections 8 (2) and 9 of the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (temporary release) Act. Jail Superintendent said in July 2016, Gogi was sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case. In March last year, she was released for eight weeks on parole, which was extended a number of times.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-inmate-guarantor-booked-for-jumping-parole-235339
06-04-2021||---||2 minors raped in separate incidents||Amritsar, April 5  Two minor girls were allegedly lured and raped in separate incidents at Shehzada and Khanpur villages falling under the Kathunangal and Beas police stations, respectively. A 15-year-old girl, who went missing from her house on Friday, was raped at Shehzada village. In his complaint, her father stated that she had gone to lock the door when she went missing. He alleged Gurdev Singh of the same village lured her for marriage and kidnapped her.  He alleged that he took her to a hotel in Amritsar where he raped the victim. The police have registered a case under Sections 363, 366 and 376 the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Similarly, the Beas police booked Golden, a resident of Khanpur village, along with his unidentified accomplices for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl on Saturday. The victim’s mother told the police that she had sent her daughter to market to bring some household item but she did not return. She said they looked for her, but failed to trace her. She said at around 4am, she returned home. She was looking terrified. When the family asked her about this, she told that Golden and his accomplice forcibly took her on bike to a restaurant in Sathiala. She said the accused threatened and raped her.  The police have registered a case under Sections 363, 376, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. No arrest has been made in both cases. Raids are on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-minors-raped-in-separate-incidents-235340
06-04-2021||---||Amritsar district logs 5 deaths, 202 new cases||Amritsar, April 5 The district reported five deaths in the last 24-hours with which the toll increased to 715 on Monday.  The health authorities have also reported 202 new positive cases with which the total count increased to 22,415.  The deceased have been identified as Ravi Singh (35), a resident of Gujjarpura; Raj Rani (75) of Hathi gate; Sawinder Kaur (65) of Kot Khalsa; Krishna Arora, a 78-year-old resident; and Subhash Chandar (68) of Rajasansi. The new cases include 157 influenza-like illness cases and 45 contacts of positive cases.  Meanwhile, with the recovery of 297 patients, the recovery count in the district has reached 18,522. The district at present has a total of 3,178 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive against the viral disease, the participation of people was increasing as a total of 3,713 persons in the age group of 45-59 years were inoculated on Monday. Of the total 6,244 first dose receivers today, the remaining included 2,387 senior citizens, 30 healthcare workers and 114 frontline workers. As many as 921 persons received the second dose in the district on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-5-deaths-202-new-cases-235341
06-04-2021||---||‘Prevent holding of protest rallies’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prevent-holding-of-protest-rallies-235342
06-04-2021||Danish Sharma (22)||‘Online farming lessons kept me sane’||During my quarantine period, I started watching videos on organic farming. I got the theoretical knowledge from the videos. I also got guidance from Umendra Dutt of Kheti Virasat Mission. Now, after recovering, I plan to take a huge piece of land on lease for farming. — Danish Sharma, a social worker“I was alone at home when I got infected as my parents had gone to Vrindavan. I felt a few symptoms and got myself tested. As the report came out to be positive, I immediately informed my parents who had to return in the middle of their tour. Thankfully, their report came negative.I did not meet my parents when they returned and remained in contact with them over the phone. There was a transparent sheet between me and them. They used to watch me from the other side only. They kept me motivated. I spent my time reading books.My friend Rajesh Sidana, who also passed through the similar phase due to Covid, helped me procure medicines and extended his moral support.Though, these were difficult times, as we were hearing all kind of news, and alarming statistics during the pandemic, I kept myself positive and turned to constructive work.During this period, I started watching videos on organic farming. I got the theoretical knowledge from the videos. I also got guidance from Umendra Dutt of Kheti Virasat Mission. I now plan to take huge piece of land on lease for carrying out farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-farming-lessons-kept-me-sane-235351
06-04-2021||Amritsar||Wanted criminal Rajan Mehta dies in Bengaluru, cops unaware||One of the most-wanted criminals of Amritsar, Rajan Mehta, alias Baba, has died due to Covid-19 in Bengaluru. A message regarding his death has gone viral on the social media.Though the police have expressed ignorance over his death, Baba was at number three of the most-wanted list displayed on the official website of the Amritsar police.According to the website, he has 18 criminal cases against him. The last FIR was registered against him in 2009. Since then he has been evading arrest. Among the cases registered against him include attempt to murder, extortion, fraud, theft and under the NDPS Act.Sources said Baba was living with his family in Bengaluru and running a jewellery business. He had also visited foreign countries. — TNSWill verify: PoliceDeputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said he was not aware about Rajan Mehta, alias Baba’s death and it would be verified. He added Baba’s record would be scrutinised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wanted-criminal-rajan-mehta-dies-in-bengaluru-cops-unaware-235039
