07-04-2021||Amritsar||Sonu Sood gets vaccinated for Covid prevention in Amritsar||Actor Sonu Sood on Wednesday took the vaccine for Covid-19 prevention at a hospital in Amritsar, Punjab.He was in Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple before launching the 'Sanjeevani – A Shot of Life’, an initiative to encourage people to get vaccinated and raise awareness as ‘no one is safe, unless everyone is safe’.Sonu is the brand ambassador of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign which kickstarted on Wednesday on the occasion of World Health Day.“After seeking blessings of the Almighty at the Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple), we have to start this drive. I have performed ‘ardas’ for the well being of all," he said.A first of its kind initiative on increasing awareness about Covid-19 vaccination was organised by Federal Bank in the presence of Sonu Sood and Rakesh Asthana, DG of BSF at the Attari border, amid a salutation ceremony by the Jawans.Sanjeevani Ki Gaadi was flagged off in the presence of Shyam Srinivasan, CEO of Federal Bank, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira.The ‘Sanjeevani Gaadi’ will travel across the country spreading information about the Covid-19 vaccine across 5 key districts, starting from Amritsar then covering Indore, Nashik, Guntur and Dakshin Kannada.“There was a need to remove the hesitancy among the people who are thinking whether they should get inoculated or not. The largest vaccination drive in the country against the pandemic was started today. I appeal all to get administered this vaccine at the earliest without fail, so that we may conquer this deadly disease soon and stay healthy. Always put on a mask before leaving the homes, maintain social distancing and always make sure to sanitise the hands,” he said.He said that the Punjabi brethren have extended a helping hand during the dismal situation arising out of Covid and he was proud to be a Punjabi.The initiative comes as India began its third phase of Covid vaccination in the country making the vaccine freely available to those above the age of 45 years. The government plans to gradually bring in beneficiaries from other age groups in what is known as the world’s biggest inoculation against Covid-19.--WITH IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sonu-sood-gets-vaccinated-for-covid-prevention-in-amritsar-235863
07-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar village woman held with sedative pills||Kulwinder’s kin meet SC panelAmritsar: While accusing local police of acting in partial manner, family members of Kulwinder Singh (23), a resident of the Guruwali area, who allegedly died in a road mishap, on Tuesday met Punjab SC Commission’s member Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka here. Joginder Singh, victim’s father, alleged that his son was murdered by three persons while they gave it a shape of an accident. He alleged that despite the fact that they had given statements to the police, it registered an FIR of causing death by negligence against unknown persons. He alleged that the police were acting in favour of the suspects and was not hearing their point of view. He said it was murder and not an accident as being claimed by the police. “Division B police station acted on its own and did not listen to our statements,” he said. Sialka assured the family of taking appropriate action after going through all aspects. Terming it a serious issue, he said the Commission would direct the police authorities to add relevant sections in the FIR. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-village-woman-held-with-sedative-pills-235785
07-04-2021||---||19-yr-old ends life; husband, 3 others booked for dowry death||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 6The Ramdass police have booked four members of a family on charges of dowry death after a newly married woman ended her life by consuming some poisonous substance on Monday. The deceased was identified as Harpreet Kaur (19) who was married to Baljinder Singh of Avan village in June 2020.Besides Baljinder, the police booked his father Sukhwinder Singh, mother Amarjit Kaur and Simranjit Kaur. A case under Section 304-B of the IPC was registered against them.Mandeep Kaur, mother of the deceased, stated to the police that Harpreet Kaur was married to Baljinder on June 5, 2020. She said that several months after the marriage, her daughter told that the accused used to harass her for bringing insufficient dowry. She said they had took up the matter with her in-laws in this regard while pleading that they had already given dowry more than their capacity. They expressed their inability to give more dowry to them.However, she alleged, they demanded Rs 2 lakh for the construction of the house. She said that on Sunday, Harpreet Kaur, called her in the evening. She was crying and told that her in-laws were asking her to bring money. She appeared very perturbed and asked that it was better to die by consuming poison. She said she consoled her and asked that they would come on Monday and talk to her in-laws. But at around 11.30 pm, her sister-in-law called and said that Harpreet consumed some poisonous substance. They admitted her in a private hospital on the Airport road where she died.Police authorities said that efforts were on to nab the accused while body of the deceased was handed over to the family after postmortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/19-yr-old-ends-life-husband-3-others-booked-for-dowry-death-235781
07-04-2021||---||Government staff stage protest in Tarn Taran over ‘anti-employee’ policies||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 6Employees of the various state government departments held demonstrations here on Tuesday. They condemned the state government for its anti-employee policies.Employees of various departments like the Revenue, Education, roadways, Irrigation, Agriculture, Horticulture and others under the joint banner of Sanjha Mulazam Front Punjab and Punjab State Ministerial Staff Union organised a rally at the District Administrative Complex (DAC).While addressing on the occasion, Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, Angrej Singh, Iqbal Singh (Education) and other leaders condemned the government for not implementing the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission.The leaders said the employees had been demanding the release of the Dearness Allowance (DA) instalments and the arrears of DA instalments released already, etc. They also asked for fulfilment of other demands.Employees of Powercom, led by Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, lodged their protest at the circle office of Powercom and burnt an effigy of the state government.Safai sewaks too burnt an effigy of the state government at the local office of the Municipal Council led by state leader of the Safai Sewak Union Romesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-staff-stage-protest-in-tarn-taran-over-anti-employee-policies-235776
07-04-2021||---||Mandi Board worker seeks 1-year salary for working ‘round the clock’||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 6Despite working day and night in the office of District Mandi Officer (DMO), Prabhjit Singh of Mallha village has not received salary for the last one year. He used to work as sewadar in the day time and as chowkidar at night.He had written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Deputy Commissioner,Tarn Taran, demanding the release of his salary.Prabhjit Singh on Tuesday said that he was appointed by the DMO on a monthly salary of Rs 5,000 a year back at peak of the Covid.Prabhjit said he had received only Rs10,000 till date and the official was not ready to release his balance salary. “ Whenever I demand the balance amount he threatens to terminate my services,” he said.DMO Ajaypal Singh Randhawa when contacted said that Prabhjit Singh was just allowed to work in the office with no official orders as he used to come with another lady employee of the office. He added that as he was not the competent authority to recruit any employee, so, he used to give him part of the salary collected from the staff of the office. He said Prabhjit Singh had lodged complaints against him as he was helpless to do anything now.Being a member of Scheduled Caste community, he had also written to the state SC Commission.Prabhjit Singh had sought assistance from the social organisations to get justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mandi-board-worker-seeks-1-year-salary-for-working-round-the-clock-235774
07-04-2021||---||Printers to face music for defacing public property in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 6To curb defacement of public property and stop violation of the Advertisement Policy, the advertisement wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation planned to take action against printers who print flex boards without checking approvals of civic body.On Tuesday, the advertisement wing initiated drive to remove third party flex boards in the city.Sushant Bhatia, in-charge, Advertisement Wing, said, “As per the Advertisement Policy, no one can instal boards or display posters on walls, polls and rooftops. The approval of the MC is required for displaying advertisement and it should be displayed only on designated places. Contrary to rules, people fix flex boards anywhere in the city. Even printers cannot print the advertisement without seeing the approval of MC. We will take stern action against printers and firms who use illegal hoardings.”A team of the estate wing removed third party advertisements at Rani Ka Bagh , Ranjit Avenue (Block A,B,C,D and E) Ramanand Bagh to Jallianwala Bagh, Heritage Street and Katra Ahluwalia.The team comprised Sushant Bhatia, Rakesh Devgan, Arun Sehajpal and staff of the advertisement wing and police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/printers-to-face-music-for-defacing-public-property-in-amritsar-235773
07-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran cops crack 2-yr-old blind murder case||Tarn Taran, April 6The district police, by arresting two persons, claimed to have solved the two-year-old blind murder case, in which Gurmej Singh (45) an SGPC employee, was shot dead on the Tarn Taran-Sri Goindwal Sahib road.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale informed newsmen here on Tuesday that three accused had been nominated for the murder and two of them had been arrested, while one was still at large. The police have also recovered the country-made pistol used for committing the crime, a magazine and five cartridges.The SSP said those arrested are Jashanpreet Singh of Nooradi village and Arashdeep Singh, alias Arash Baba, of the local Police Lines Colony. The one absconding is Amritpal Singh of Bachre, who is presently residing in Kharar.A case under Sections 302, 34 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered by the Sadar police on June 25, 2019.Gurmej Singh was killed on June 25, 2019, when he had gone to nearby Alawalpur village to fetch milk on his motorcycle late in the evening.The SSP said the police teams had tried solving the case but at this stage, the cops had taken it as a challenge and the investigation was initiated under the supervision of DSP (Investigation) Kamaljit Singh.The triggerAccused Jashanpreet Singh revealed that he wanted to marry the daughter of the deceased as he liked her but it was one-sided love. Gurmej Singh and his relative Manjider Singh of Jhander village had beaten him black and blue to mend his ways and he, in a fit of rage, was looking for a chance to kill Gurmej Singh. Jashanpreet Singh took the help of Amritpal Singh to kill Gurmej and Arashdeep Singh arranged a pistol to commit the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-cops-crack-2-yr-old-blind-murder-case-235772
07-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Ludhiana roof collapse a wake-up call?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 6The gruesome accident at an under-construction factory in Ludhiana has acted as a wake-up call for industrialists, district administration and industry officials here and be ready to handle any natural and man-made disaster.Experts are of the view that a robust disaster resilience and response architecture is a must in fast-changing scenarios.Moreover, the nature of disasters is undergoing changes as challenges in the form of urban flooding, borewell deaths, colliery collapses, forest fires, uncontrolled urban development, growing deforestation, rapid industrialisation leading to chemical and radiological accidents are there. The company was involved in lintel elevation of the roof without confirming to the established norms in the accident that occurred in Ludhiana.Not long ago nearly 10,000 quintals of molasses spilled over from the storage lagoons of a sugar mill at Kiri Afghana in Gurdaspur district into a drain leading to the Beas river. Aquatic flaura and fauna, including fish, had perished as oxygen depleted in the water due to the pollution caused by molasses.Fires are common disasters as a majority of factories here don’t have fire-fighting equipment. Many factories in the city don’t comply with safety norms. Most of the industrial units are located in residential areas in the city. It makes the task of rescue workers extremely difficult.A majority of these factories use combustible materials. Apparently, continuous overlooking of safety measures in factories cause fires.Over 20,000 big and small registered industrial units are operating in the city. A majority of these units are operating from unsafe structures.In the organised sector, there are 10 big designated industrial clusters, including two focal points, an industrial area and an industrial estate in the city. The two focal points are situated at Maqboolpura, Vallah Road and Mehta Road, besides an industrial estate at Chheharta.In the city’s master plan, the government had proposed to set up three more major industrial pockets.A plot in Focal Point on the GT Road is earmarked for setting up fire-fighting office. However, it is lying vacant as the government has not bothered to make the move.In the unorganised sector, factories are situated even inside residential areas across the city. For instance, East Mohan Nagar, along the GT Road, Putlighar, Islamabad, Verka, Batala Road, Majitha Road, Nawa Kot, Dam Ganj, Kot Khalsa, 22 Number Phatak and Chheharta.“Factory owners rarely adopt fire-safety measures on their premises. They believe that accidental fires can never take place,” observes Surjit Sharma, a disaster management expert.“Disaster management requires swift reaction and smooth movement to curtail the loss of men and material. A majority of these buildings do not have smoke-detection alarms and sophisticated fire extinguishers,” he said.Some employees at these units must be trained to respond and combat any disaster and its aftermath.Keeping in view a large number of industrial units and their scattered presence, he stressed on the need to have disaster risk-management response team.Many past incidents such as bursting of a boiler in a factory on Ajnala Road and fire breakout at Khanna paper mill are grim reminders available locally. This should have prompted the authorities to take safety measures seriously, he said.What happened in Ludhiana on MondayFour persons died and nine were injured, when the roof of an under-construction auto spares unit collapsed in Ludhiana on Monday. It is learnt that the level of the roof slab (lintel) of the top floor of the multi-storey building was being raised from 6 feet to 9 feet by employing 50 jacks that, too, without soliciting permission from the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ludhiana-roof-collapse-a-wake-up-call-235771
07-04-2021||---||Amritsar doctor robbed of car at gunpoint||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 6The robbers are on the prowl while the police department has failed to nail them. The holy city has witnessed repeated incidents of car snatchings and petrol pumps lootings while the police have failed to make any breakthrough in these incidents.On Monday, another incident rocked the city when armed robbers snatched a car from a doctor at gunpoint in Ramuwal Dhattal village late last evening. The victim was identified as Dr Swaraj Singh, who is son of noted surgeon Dr Navpreet Singh. The accused shot Dr Swaraj on foot leaving him injured before decamping with the car. The incident has left the family and doctors community shell-shocked.The police have registered a case under Section 379 B (2) of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act in this connection while further investigations were under progress. The police said that CCTV cameras in the nearby areas were being scrutinised for finding some clues about the robbers.Dr Swaraj stated to the police that as per his daily routine, he went to Lal Haveli in Ramuwal Dhattal village falling under the Gharinda police station here. He said as he stopped his car at the gate of the haveli, a while colored car came and two of the occupants came out of it. He said one of them shot in the air while second youth shot at him which hit on the thumb of his toe. They snatched his car and fled away.On April 2, around five robbers had snatched a car from a woman in Vrindavan Garden enclave following which they perpetrated four robberies. There was no breakthrough in these instances till now.Dhruv Dahiya, SSP Amritsar Rural, said that police teams had been constituted to identify and nab the suspects. They would be arrested be soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-doctor-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint-235770
07-04-2021||---||3-yr-old mobile seizure case: Amritsar police transfer investigation to CIA||Amritsar, April 6Over three years after around 24 mobiles and other prohibited material were confiscated from prisoners lodged in Amritsar Central Jail, the city police have now passed on investigation to CIA staff here.In July 2017, police teams, headed by the DIG (Prisons), along with an Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police from Amritsar city police commissionerate, had raided the central jail premises. The raid had led to the seizure of 28 mobiles from different parts of its complex. Around 20 inmates were booked by the police in the case registered under relevant sections of the IPC and the Prisons Act.A search operation was carried out in cell blocks, Langar Hall and de-addiction centre. The police had seized smart phones from notorious gangsters. The officials had revealed that the surprise raid was conducted following inputs received that gangsters were using and running their network through mobiles from the jail.Harminder Singh Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police, confirmed that they had received the case for further investigation into it.This has raised many eyebrows that even after a lapse of over three years, the police failed to make any progress in the case. It failed to ascertain how the accused managed to sneak the mobile phones inside the high-security jail complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-yr-old-mobile-seizure-case-amritsar-police-transfer-investigation-to-cia-235769
07-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Convicts use ointment tubes to sneak mobiles inside Amritsar Central Jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 6The prisoners lodged at the Amritsar Central Jail have always found a way to sneak prohibited materials inside the high-security jail. The latest one baffled the jail staff as small phones and intoxicants were found wrapped in ointment tubes.According to information, the staff recovered four mobile phones, 635 intoxicants and 20 cigarettes from the ointment tubes during a checking of a polythene bag handed over by the relatives of the two prisoners identified as Bharat of Chawinda Devi and Davinder Singh of Kot Khalsa area.As the meetings with relatives were not allowed in view of the pandemic, the prescribed medicines were allowed inside the jail complex. The police said the relatives had handed over polythene bags containing clothes and medicines to Constable Pawandeep Kaur and Constable Gurjit Singh on Saturday. During the checking of goods belonging to Bharat, an ointment tube of Soframycin appeared unusual. On suspicion when the tube was cut, the staff found a phone of ‘Kechadda’ company. Similarly, another cell phone was found from the second tube. The staff also confiscated 335 intoxicant tablets from the bag.Similarly, while checking the bag of Davinder, they found two phones from tubes. Also, the officials recovered 20 cigarettes and 300 intoxicating tablets.Another phone was found from a prisoner Sarabjit Singh, alias Harry, of Gobind Nagar in Sultanwind village here. He was lodged in the barrack no. 3 of room no. 3. The recovery was made during a search operation of the barrack.A jail official wishing not to be named said this was a major recovery and investigations were underway whether the medical officer of the jail’s hospital had prescribed the same or not. Nevertheless, it is a significant recovery made by the staff.Following a complaint by the jail authorities, the police have registered two separate cases under relevant sections of the NDPS Act and Prisons Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/convicts-use-ointment-tubes-to-sneak-mobiles-inside-amritsar-central-jail-235768
07-04-2021||---||Hit by Covid-19, staff working under tourism projects face lay-offs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 6The Heritage Walk of Amritsar, an award-winning project of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPM), may witness another blockade in near future as contractual employees of the company outsourced by the board have been given notices of terminating their services anytime. Earlier, a number of employees of conservation projects were laid off.However, officials of the Tourism Department claimed that the projects had been completed so the services of engineers and other staff hired for conservation were terminated. Following the Covid-19 restrictions, tourism activities are yet to resume in the city. The heritage walk is also facing a sharp dip in the number of tourists visiting the city after the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020.The heritage walk, initiated in September 27, 2011, on World Tourism Day by the then SAD government and Navjot Singh Sidhu had played a major role in beginning the project. The initiative of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board had received a good response. But later it suffered several roadblocks over the years. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, around 200 to 300 visitors used to register with heritage walks every day. Now, the counter is closed due to a surge in the number of Covid cases.The walk, which is designed by the Punjab Heritage And Tourism Promotion Board, includes a heritage route inside the walled city that comprises visits to the colonial-era Town Hall, Saragarhi Gurdwara, Akhara Sangalwala Darshani Deodhi, Chaurasti Attari, Katra Ahluwalia, Qilla Ahluwalia, Thakurdwara Duriana Mall and old food establishments along the route.The notice of the outsourced company reads that project work is going to end anytime. It created panic among the employees but it is also worrisome for those who are expecting the government to boost tourism activities in the city with such initiatives.Kanwal Preet Brar, Director, Tourism and Cultural Affairs, said, “The projects were completed so the employees were laid off.”Micheal Rahul, an activist working for the Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board, said, “The city has great potential for tourism but the policies of the government are faulty. It is sad that on the one hand, the state government claimed to promote tourism in the city, but on the other the projects are being ended. Several heritage sites are crying for attention. The heritage walk should continue as it is the only programme which offers stay to tourists in the city, otherwise tourists return the same day after visiting the Golden Temple.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hit-by-covid-19-staff-working-under-tourism-projects-face-lay-offs-235767
07-04-2021||---||Restrictions on resort timings don’t go well with professionals||Amritsar, April 6Members of the Amritsar Resort Welfare Association, Tent Association and other organisations converged at the Court Chowk on Tuesday to hold a protest against the government for imposing restrictions on opening of restaurants and resorts in the wake of resurgence in the number of Covid-19 cases.‘Before closing resorts and restaurants, the government must close rallies, liquor vends and government-run programmes’, read a bunting held by one of the protesters.They asked the government to impose restrictions on the number of people gathered and timing of political parties before putting the entire onus on restaurants and resorts.“Irrespective of the high number of Covid-19 positive cases being reported from the district daily, social and political organisations are not evincing interest in maintaining social distance to play their role,” said Mandeep Singh Manna, a social worker.He accused the Congress and Akali leaders of holding political rallies without impunity. For instance, he pointed out that SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal managed to organise a crowd of over 8,000 people at the SK Resort in Zirakpur recently.Congress party’s Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu managed to pull a crowd of some 300 people at Ward Number 15 here on Monday. Now, the Congress has announced to hold a rally at Attari on April 9. He said apart from political parties, many social organisations were also violating norms but it hardly grabbed the attention of authorities.He challenged the Capt Amarinder Singh government to prevent holding of such rallies in the face of rising Covid-19 cases.He said the neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal were allowing a gathering of 500 persons at any given party to increase economic activity. On the other hand, Punjab’s rules were different for political parties and common people.Ranjit Singh, president of the Amritsar Resorts’ Welfare Association, said: “Resorts and restaurants are being closed at 9 pm. To comply with the norms, the staff had to wind up operations an hour in advance. After harvesting of crops, marriage functions and parties propel the economic activity ensuring sales across segment such as jewellery, food, dairy products, clothing, cosmetics, florists, electricians, labourers, waiters, taxis and others.”Happy Narula of the Tent Association said: “When it comes to financial help, the government does not even reduce the power tariff. For the past one year, these economic establishments have not been allowed to operate, rendering waiters, DJs, labourers and trades associated with the profession jobless.”They also handed over a memorandum to ADC Dr Himanshu Aggarwal. He said their demands included relaxation in the timing and the number of people gathering at marriage palaces, resorts and restaurants. He assured that norms would be relaxed when the number of positive cases comes down, which is only possible when everyone complies with social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restrictions-on-resort-timings-dont-go-well-with-professionals-235766
07-04-2021||---||9 succumb to virus, 248 test +ve in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 6The district reported nine deaths in the last 24-hours with which the toll increased to 724 on Tuesday.The health authorities have also reported 248 new positive cases with which the tally increased to 22,663.The deceased have been identified as Sushil Kumar (65), a resident of Jhujjar Singh Avenue; Willson (45) of Faqueer Singh Colony; Manjit Kaur (72) of Bhakna Kalan village; Kaushalya Devi, a 78-year-old resident of Prem Nagar locality; Gurbachan Singh (75) of Putlighar area; Balbir Singh (78) of Daburji; Gurnaam Singh (67) of Wadala Kalan village; Rakesh Chander (83) of Medical Enclave and Harbans Kaur (38) of Ajnala. The new cases include 203 influenza-like illness cases and 45 contacts of positive cases.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 304 patients, the recovery count in the district has reached 18,826. The district at present has a total of 3,113 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-succumb-to-virus-248-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-235765
07-04-2021||Amritsar||Pakistan invites Sikh jatha for Baisakhi event||Amid Covid threat, the Pakistan Government has decided to host Indian pilgrims on the occasion of Baisakhi.The SGPC will be sending a ‘jatha’ to commemorate the occasion. The main event has been scheduled at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hasan Abdal, Pakistan, on April 14. A contingent of Sikh pilgrims is scheduled to leave for Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border on April 12. They will be able to visit other shrines in Pakistan on different days, including Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib, before returning on April 22.Around 878 passports of aspirants have been sent to the Ministry of External Affairs for visa approval. “We may get the visas this week,” said SGPC chief secretary HS Dhami. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pakistan-invites-sikh-jatha-for-baisakhi-event-235044
