08-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Keeping calm & hoping for the best||TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICEAMRITSAR, APRIL 7Once again the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases has added to the fear of re-imposition of the lockdown and there is nearly 30 per cent fall in business activities, said Karan Verma, director of Aar Vee Group, which has interests in mining, energy, warehousing-transportation and hospitality.“Though the situation is very fluid and keeps changing every day, we do not expect a lockdown we had once witnessed last year,” he said.Karan is hopeful that everything will not be closed again and a partial lockdown would be enough. All commercial activities and even tourist flow had increased in January and February. “Now again, consumer consumption and economic activity are on the decline and there is about 30 per cent fall in business.”The group is primarily associated with the B2B segment having mining rights for gypsum in Jammu and Kashmir, and deals in various kinds of coal, including imported and domestic. It trades about 0.20 million tons of coal per annum and handles cement for ACC and provides warehousing. It also owns Mohan International Hotel in Amritsar.Minimum sustainable business is the demand at this juncture. “It should be kept in mind that the pandemic and its restrictions demand that all human activities should come to a standstill.”The pandemic being once-in-a-lifetime experience has moulded every businessman. A more practical approach and flexible planning to handle events must be in their repertoire. “Last year, our sales had gone down to almost zero as we had to provide comfort to suppliers and buyers. In such a situation, bigger companies had been worst hit, so we took a balanced approach and had to provide assistance to our suppliers and buyers as we had business relations with both over the years.Before the lockdown, the scope online trading was limited, but in the coming years it is expected to take over in a big way. “Post-Covid world would be different as new sectors will emerge and some old sectors may lose their relevance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/keeping-calm-hoping-for-the-best-236171
08-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga---||Despite no lockdown, around 70,000 migrants yet to return||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 7 Around 70,000 migrant workers out of nearly 2.5 lakh, who were engaged in different fields and left for their native places during the Covid-induced lockdown, have not returned so far. This was stated by the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad (UPKP), Punjab, here on Wednesday. Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the parishad, said, “A large number of migrants who cannot earn more than Rs 10,000 per month back home have not returned to join their jobs in the city.”  He said a large number of migrants were treated unfairly by their employers during the Covid-19 lockdown as the balance of their salaries was not paid by their employers. He said many of these employers were shopkeepers and wholesale dealers whose shops are based within the walled city. Goswami said, “Instead of returning here, workers are looking for work in the NCR and Gujarat because they are offered social welfare incentives like the provident fund, ESI, national holidays and minimum wages.” On the other hand, local factories show multiple firms in documents to evade tax and workers working under a unit are shown in different firms, denying them benefits being offered to labourers. “The minimum wages of Rs 8,900 have never been paid to them though they are asked to perform duty more than eight hours.” It was over a year ago that the local ESI hospital was announced to be upgraded to a model hospital. However, no effort was made in this regard. In reality, the hospital invariably remains short of staff. Raju, who works at an embroidery unit, said he had put his house, situated in Preet Nagar locality in the Batala Road area, on sale. “I have asked my family back home to admit both children at some nearest school,” said Raju.  Santosh Kumar, a trained power loom worker, said he was getting work for five days a week and the unit remained closed for two days. “We are not being paid a fixed salary and wages are decided on a piece rate basis. Earning Rs 12,000 per month has become a difficult task. With this amount it is very difficult to feed a five-member family, bear education and medical expenses, besides paying room rent,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-no-lockdown-around-70-000-migrants-yet-to-return-236172
08-04-2021||---||Free bus travel not living up to expectations?||Amritsar, April 7While the state government had earlier this month implemented its decision regarding free bus travel for the women in state, most of the routes, especially in rural areas do not have a single government bus running. The residents stated that the government buses have already been pulled out of the routes in rural areas and at present are running for important destinations only.They stated that though the government has announced free bus travel for women inside Punjab, it would not help much and women in many areas would have to travel in private buses and government buses fleet has depleted during the last two decades.In district, with around 175 buses at the two depots of Punjab Roadways, the passengers are predominantly dependent on private buses as they have a much larger presence.“Until ’90s to 2000, the rural people were mostly dependent on government buses. Afterwards the number of buses has continuously decreased but that of private buses has seen an exponential growth,” said a retired school teacher Gurnam Singh. He added that in the present circumstances, the free bus travel announcement is a joke as there are not many government buses available.The old timers in the Punjab Roadways stated that during their days, it had a fleet of 2,200 buses which has now shrunk to 175. The government bus drivers and conductors are already on warpath against the state government as they are demanding regularisation of their contractual jobs. However, with the new free bus travel for women announced in state, they feel that their chances of getting a regular job have further decreased.While the state government and administration are terming the decision of free travel as an achievement, Ruchika Mehra, a college student, said, “On one hand we are trying for gender equality and on the other hand we are portraying women as feeble who require free bus travel. The service should have been ideally given to economically vulnerable groups, including both men and women and not on gender basis.” She stated that she sees the government decision as a political gimmick which is aimed at developing mileage in the next elections than providing any real benefit to the desired sections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-bus-travel-not-living-up-to-expectations-236173
08-04-2021||---||A ‘dose’ to convince people for Covid vax||Gurdaspur, April 7‘Teeke Naal Jit’ (victory with vaccine), an informative short play about the importance of vaccination drive being run by Health and Family Welfare Department against Covid-19 was staged at the villages of block Kalanaur of district Gurdaspur on Wednesday.The health authorities stated that the motive behind staging the play is to clear all misconceptions among people regarding the ongoing vaccination drive. The play has been directed by Senior Medical Officer, Kalanaur, Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal and scripted by Block Extension Educator (BEE), Naveen Kalia.The officials have decided to choose the artists for the play from among the rural residents and peer educators (sathiyas), who are part of Rashtriya Kishore Swasthya Karyakaram (RKSK).Dr Athwal said: “We are taking every action to promote vaccination in the block and as such we are using the medium of art as a tool for motivating people.” He said that people under the influence of rumours being spread on social media have developed many misconceptions, which need to be addressed at the earliest.BEE Naveen Kalia shared, “The play is about a local boy who promotes vaccination despite opposition from some of his friend.” He manages to convince rural residents to stay away from rumours by providing them with authentic information.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-dose-to-convince-people-for-covid-vax-236174
08-04-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 7 deaths, 325 fresh cases||Amritsar, April 7The district has reported seven deaths in the last 24 hours with which the toll increased to 731 on Wednesday.The health authorities have also reported 325 new cases with which the tally of infected patients increased to 22,988.The deceased have been identified as Sahib Singh (50), a resident of Dashmesh Nagar; Amarjit Kaur (70) of Gurnam Nagar; Chaman Lal (61) of Azad Nagar; Joginder Singh (85) of Jodh Nagar; Nasib Kaur (72) of Daokae; Nirmal Singh (60) of Tirath Nagar and Bhajan Kaur (60) of Jandiala.The new cases include 259 influenza-like illness cases and 66 contacts of positive patients.With the recovery of 213 patients, the recovery count has increased to 19,039. The district at present has a total of 3,218 active cases. Meanwhile, 6,944 persons were given injections on Wednesday.The health officials said 79,067 persons above the age of 45 years have been given injections for Covid-19 so far. Additionally, 20,751 healthcare workers and 26,482 frontlineworkers have also been given injections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-7-deaths-325-fresh-cases-236175
08-04-2021||---||After snatching bike, robbers loot pump in Ajnala||Amritsar, April 7In yet another incident of petrol pump robbery, three unidentified armed assailants snatched a bike near Gujjarpura village and then robbed a petrol station in Ajnala here on Tuesday night.Harvinder Singh, who lost his motorcycle to the armed assailants, said he worked in a private hospital in Ajnala. After his shift when he was heading towards Gagomahal village, three persons standing on the roadside waved him to stop. He didn’t stop the bike.The miscreants, whose faces were covered with cloth, fired gunshots. He got shelter at a nearby petrol pump but the accused reached there as well and snatched motorcycle from him. Harvinder Singh got a bullet injury in the incident and was admitted to the Civil Hospital.Mohit Kumar, SHO, Ajnala police station, said the miscreants then targeted a petrol pump, around 2-km away from where they snatched the bike.Raj Kumar, a worker of the petrol pump, told the police that around 8.43 pm three motorcycle-borne persons reached the station. They filled petrol worth Rs 500 and gave cash. When he was putting the cash in his pocket, one of them slapped him and another person fired a shot in the air. They snatched Rs 6,000 from him and fled towards Amritsar.On being informed, the Ajnala police reached the spot and collected the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the pump. The incident was recorded in the camera and showed three persons with their faces covered.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-snatching-bike-robbers-loot-pump-in-ajnala-236176
08-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Father’s pride!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7Learning the traits of gardening from his mother, noted child specialist Dr KS Manchanda has been growing not only flowering plants, but also vegetables and fruits in the sprawling lawn of his residence located on Ghala Mala Chowk here.He daily works along with his gardener for at least four hours – two in the morning and two at eventide – for maintaining the lawn’s lush.“It gives me immense pleasure and satisfaction to work in my lawn during spare time,” shares Dr Manchanda. He said he got the traits of gardening from his mother, Partibha Kamla Manchanda. His mother has been in the vegetable gardening for past several decades. Seeing his mother working in the garden, he also started producing fresh vegetables in the backyard. “She has the green fingers and everything she sows, grew without any big efforts,” he said.At present he has green onions, tomato, lettuce and mint in the kitchen garden, while seeds have also been sown for new seasonal vegetables. Besides flowering and decorative plants his garden also boasts of fruit trees. He has a chakodra, three mango trees, three kinnoo, a sweet lime, loquat and papaya. He also has a pine tree and three sangwans inside the boundary walls of this house.What is most fascinating is the magnolia tree, which is six decades old, situated right in the centre of the garden. Hear from him. “A former landscape officer with the local Municipal Corporation had once visited my house and revealed that his is the only tree of magnolia in the city,” he proudly tells.Another tree that is dear to him is gardenia, which has aged over 50 years. “Once it was diseased and was dying. It was painful for me…so, I did all I could to save it. Now, it is flowering again,” a smiling Dr Manchanda reminisced. He has never shied from adding some new plants. His wife Dr Pammy Manchanda, former professor of mathematics at Guru Nanak Dev University, and other members of the family also contribute to keeping the garden healthy.He has also dug up a pit for making compost from dry leaves of the garden and the kitchen waste. “Every kitchen waste goes into this composting pit added with dry leaves. Every year I get huge quantity of compost from here, which I use in my lawn, including kitchen garden. I never buy compost from outside,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fathers-pride-236177
08-04-2021||---||Parents take school’s mgmt to task for withholding results||Amritsar, April 7A section of the parents of a private school, situated in Ajnala sub-division are up in arms against the management for withholding the result of their wards for want of submitting pending fee.They filed a written complaint against the school management to SDM, Ajnala. Seeking intervention of the administration, they sought relevant action against the school.In the complaint, they claimed that in no condition, the school administration can stop further education of the students and withhold results. They contested that the fee could be taken in instalments. However, they stated that the said school asked for clearance of all pending dues. In order to exert pressure on the students some of their examinations were held in quick succession.When contacted, MD of the School, Raghbir Singh, said, "Affiliated to the CBSE, the school has been running here since 2005. We waived off the annual charges for the last academic session due to the Covid-induced economic difficulties. Yet, the parents came in group and misbehaved with staff and resorted to jostling with them." He claimed topossess the CCTV footage of the incident and added that barring board classes allother examinations were conducted and no student was stopped from appearing for the exams.Meanwhile, the Ajnala administration approached the school management to submit their reply to the allegations leveled by a section of parents. The school management is yet to give their response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parents-take-schools-mgmt-to-task-for-withholding-results-236178
08-04-2021||---||SGPC clarifies Mohali's Gurdwara Sri Amb Sahib land row||Amritsar, April 7The SGPC has strongly condemned the baseless statements being made by some people regarding the land owned by Gurdwara Sri Amb Sahib at Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali) under the management of the SGPC.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said no land of the gurdwara was sold by the SGPC but it was acquired by GMADA. He said some people were trying to discredit the management of the SGPC and mislead the sangat. Gurdwara Sri Amb Sahib had about 24 acre land at Premgarh Saini Majra village, of which about 12 acres was acquired by GMADA in 2012-13. The compensation for this land was offered at Rs1.69 per acre and accordingly, it came out to Rs19.40 crore, approximately.WHat’s the matter?He said though the land acquisition was done as per law, the compensation amount was contested in Mohali court. “We contested that GMADA should have given us compensation to the tune of at least Rs5 crore per acre, which was the market price,” he said. He further clarified that the amount received by the gurdwara sahib for this land was used to buy another chunk of 59 acres at Bagrian village in Sangrur district, which was worth Rs14.30 crore. “The FDR of the remaining amount is still prevalent in the name of Gurdwara Sri Amb Sahib only,” he said. Advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami said: “In February 2019, GMADA acquired 5,500 acres at Saini Majra, Bakarpur, Patto and Seon villages. Here also, nearly nine acres of the remaining land belongs to Gurdwara Sri Amb Sahib. The GMADA has fixed the price of this land at Rs2.17 crore per acre. Apart from this, GMADA is also offering a land pooling scheme.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-clarifies-mohalis-gurdwara-sri-amb-sahib-land-row-236179
08-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Two sportswomen honoured||Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh honoured two sportswomen of the area with spots kits at his office here on Wednesday.Mandeep Kaur is a hockey player while her sister Veerpal Kaur is a wrestler. Rajwinder Kaur, the eldest of the two sisters, is attending the hockey national camp for the Olympic Games. Veerpal Kaur had won medal in the just concluded national-level tournament held in Karnataka. Mandeep Kaur had also shown good performance in the state-level tournaments.Appreciating the contribution of Sarwan Singh and Balwinder Kaur, parents of the girls and residents of Mughal Chack Pannuan, the Deputy Commissioner while congratulating them assured all possible help from the administration. The girls passed their secondary-level education from Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School here. The three sisters are now ‘role models’ for other girls. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-sportswomen-honoured-236180
08-04-2021||---||‘There is no dearth of work for ones like us’||Amritsar, April 7A farm worker from Bengal, Alam, wakes up at 6 every morning to tend to the buffalo of a schoolteacher. His work includes giving feed to the buffalo and milking it. The owner has given his land on lease. “The family gives me Rs1,500 per month for the work I do. For farm workers, the days are dull until the harvesting begins,” he said. He said he tries to finish his work by 8 am and after having tea offered by the family, leaves for his day’s work.Alam, along with six others from Bengal, lives on the farmhouse of a landlord residing nearby. “The accommodation is free but during the peak of the harvesting season, paddy transplanting season or sugarcane harvesting season, we first prefer to do our landlords’ work than accepting work of other farmers,” he said. He said there is no shortage of work for farm workers but it is tough. “Until the harvesting season, we work with different farmers; sometimes attending to the vegetable fields and sometimes carrying out other works,” he said, adding that in villages, people offer them all kinds of work. He saidat most of the migrant workers also prefer to work in cities.“The people in Punjab, including those from farm worker families, now prefer to work at shops, grain markets or other such places. There is always a demand for farm hands,” he said, adding that now, most of the farm workers are not hired for a day’s labour. “We are paid as per our work. We charge Rs20 for fertilising the fields and Rs30 per hour for removing weeds from fields,” he said.The work was tough and there are no fixed working hours. “Depending on the season, we have to work till late. The paddy transplanting season is the toughest but is the most rewarding. A good farm hand can make up to Rs800 a day in the transplanting season,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/there-is-no-dearth-of-work-for-ones-like-us-236181
08-04-2021||Amritsar||Fire at bus stand police post||Protest near Soni’s residenceAmritsar: The Bharatiya Janata Party Mahila Morcha staged a protest near the residence of Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni over the issue of women security in state. Speaking on the occasion, Alka Sharma, president of the morcha, said in the last four-and-a-half years of the Congress rule in state, no concrete steps had been taken to insure safety of women. She alleged that law and order situation had completely deteriorated in the state during the Congress rule and instances of chain snatching and eve-teasing were on the rise. While the workers of the BJP tried to reach near the residence of OP Soni, they were stopped by the police, which had installed barricades on the way. Sharma demanded that the Chief Minister fulfil all promises made by him before the elections. TNSDivyangs seek spl tricyclesTarn Taran: Divyangs submitted a memorandum to DC Kulwant Singh here on Wednesday for MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa and demanded battery-fitted motorised tricycles for them. The members with special needs under the banner of Angheen and Blind Union, Punjab, in the memorandum said that the administration had organised a special camp for them on March 2 for releasing tricycles. Lakhveer Singh Saini, state president, and Kulwant Singh Lauhuka, district president of the organisation, said that persons with special needs often travel to far off places to do their jobs hence they required motorised tricycles. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-at-bus-stand-police-post-236182
08-04-2021||Residents of the district have a little hope of relief from the noise pollution being caused by vehicles through pressure horn and with the blast-sound created with the silencers installed in the motorcycles particularly with the bullet motorcycles. The problem was not in certain area of the district but each corner has to bear with this menace in the district. No efforts had been made by the authorities till date to tackle this as mostly the erring people were from the higher sections of the society who have no concern with the problem being faced by senior citizens and the women commuters on the roads. The blast sound mostly was just creating to pester females and the school-going girls. The nuisance was being observed the whole day. It is at its peak on the main road in Tarn Taran in the evening||Tarn Taran Diary: Residents annoyed by noise pollution||It’s showtime!The Nat Mandli (team to play one-act play) formed by the students of Government Senior Secondary School, Vein Poin, itself was delivering a good message to the area parents to enroll their kids at government schools. The team is headed by Arashdeep Singh, a student of the school, in which the other characters too were from the school. The one-act Play (nukad natak) namely ‘Navian Paidan’ was edited by Dr Hardeep Singh, teacher of Punjabi at the school. Parveen Padda, principal, said after its successful performance with good results in Vein Poin village the nearby school authorities had started inviting the team to their villages and it had performed in show in nearby Lalpur, Bharowal and other villages. The principal said that the team was playing the role of ‘brand ambassador’ of the Education Department. The team was delivering its impressive message regarding the facilities being given at the government schools like free education, free books, mid-day meal, scholarships and better infrastructure along with a well-qualified staff.Walking lonesome roadGreat enthusiasm among the youths of Malhian village near Tarn Taran went unnoticed though they had been doing their best to make sports popular in their area for more than four years. Most of the residents are from the poor families particularly from the Dalit community and the marginal farmers’ background. A number of youths about five years back emptied the village pond adjacent to the Tarn Taran-Jandiala Guru road and the wastewater was linked with the sewerage lines passing few meters from the village. The pond spread in more than one and a half acre land and had been converted into playground where as many as 150 youths of the village came to play football, volleyball, cricket and also did various physical activities in the morning and evening hours. There was also a Sri Guru Ram Das Kushti Akhara, where more than 30 budding wrestlers do exercise in the morning; four of them have made it to the national level competitions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-residents-annoyed-by-noise-pollution-236184
08-04-2021||Amritsar||Sonu Sood  kick-starts drive with jab  in Amritsar||Actor Sonu Sood took the vaccine for Covid at a hospital in Amritsar on Wednesday. He paid launched ‘Sanjeevani – A Shot of Life’, an initiative to encourage people to get vaccinated and raise awareness.Sonu is the brand ambassador of the Covid vaccination campaign which kick-started from Amritsar with him being administered the first vaccine on World Health Day. “After seeking blessings of the Almighty at the Golden Temple, we have started the drive. There is a need to remove the hesitancy among people over whether they should get inoculated or not. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sonu-sood-kick-starts-drive-with-jab-in-amritsar-236153
