09-04-2021||---||Students demand opening of educational institutions||Amritsar, March 8Students took out a protest march from Khalsa College to Guru Nanak Dev University demanding opening of educational institutions that have been closed down by the government due to the Covid-19 situation.The protest was held under the banner of the Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkar), All-India Students’ Federation (AISF) and Punjab Students’ Union.Lovepreet Singh Marri of the AISF said while the government had ordered closure of schools, colleges and universities on the pretext of the coronavirus, political rallies were being held every day. Student leaders said the system of online classes should be stopped immediately and regular classes should be held by opening educational institutions.Students also burnt the copies of the New Education Policy (2020) stating that it was aimed at centralisation of powers, which would directly affect the executive and administration councils at universities that have elected members.Student leaders said April 8 was specially chosen for the protest as it was on this day that Bhagat Singh had thrown a bomb in the assembly to wake up the government. They said they hope their protest would wake up the Punjab Government.They said higher education had already become costly and out of reach of poor students. Students demanded that efforts be made to provide affordable education in the state. The protest was also joined by the members of Naujwan Bharat Sabha, Government Teachers’ Union, Punjab Istari Sabha and All-India Kisan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-demand-opening-of-educational-institutions-236733
09-04-2021||Our Correspondent ---||KMSC blocks highway, protests farmer’s arrest||Tarn Taran, April 8 The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, blocked the national highway on Thursday after lifting the dharna they were holding for four consecutive days in front of the Sarhali police station. The organisation warned the administration that the dharna would continue till Resham Singh of Shakri village, who was arrested under the Excise Act in a false case, was not released.  Ajit Singh Chamba, zone president, and Satnam Singh Manochahal, district leader of the organisation, were among others who addressed the workers of the organisation and warned the administration to avoid appeasing its political bosses at the cost of innocent people.  The leaders said the Sarhali police and the Excise Department claimed to recover a huge quantity of lahan and illicit liquor from 17 different locations in Shakari village on April 3 in a joint search operation. The leaders alleged that the continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-blocks-highway-protests-farmers-arrest-236734
09-04-2021||---||Stricter entry guidelines at GMC after students’ clash||Amritsar, March 8After the recent clash between current and former students at Government Medical College here earlier this month, the college authorities have brought in strict entry norms for outsiders.The authorities have also banned the entry of city residents, who used to visit for jogging and walks in the morning or evening hours.They have also banned the entry of courier and food delivery boys inside the college and hostel campus. The college is also keeping a check on students — boys and girls — sitting in cars parked inside.As per orders, visitors would have to fill in their identity details and purpose of visit while entering the college. Students and employees, too, would be required to furnish their identity cards.A student at the college said: “Stopping the entry of food delivery boys is unjustified as students have to order food from outside. It seems the orders are more to harass students as they had been demanding action against outsiders.”The decision to ban the entry of early morning joggers has also not gone down well with nearby residents. “When has an elderly, who has gone to the campus for a morning walk, created any trouble? The city does not have many open spaces. If the college authorities are concerned, they should charge a nominal fee from joggers and issue them cards,” said an elderly demanding that joggers should not be stopped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stricter-entry-guidelines-at-gmc-after-students-clash-236735
09-04-2021||---||7 fall prey to virus, 317 test +ve in dist||Amritsar, April 8With seven deaths in the district due to Covid-19 on Thursday, the toll increased to 738. The district health authorities also reported 317 new cases with which the total count reached 23,305 in the district.The deceased have been identified as Sawinder Kaur (70) of Chak Kamaal Khan village; Sukhwinder Kaur (52) of Khatrai Kalan village; Pushp Kumar (65) of Gate Hakeema area; Manpreet Kaur (65) of Kasdowali village; Jasbir Singh (60) of Bhaggupura village; Subash Chander (65) of New Azad Nagar and Nirmal Kaur (65) of Khatrai Kalan village.The new cases include 232 influenza-like illness cases and 85 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 372 patients, the recovery count has improved to 19,411. The district at present has a total of 3,156 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-fall-prey-to-virus-317-test-ve-in-dist-236736
09-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Russian-made weapon smuggling baffles cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8Though the police have launched a manhunt to nab Jaspal Singh, who was absconding following the seizure of 23-kg heroin and weapon in Lopoke area on Wednesday, they claim that this was for the first time that a Russian-made weapon was confiscated, which was smuggled from this side of the international border.“The caliber of weapons recovered is used by Pakistan-based terrorists,” the police sources said.The police in a joint operation with the Border Security Force had gunned down a Pak intruder during the wee hours on Wednesday. Besides 22 packets of heroin, it had seized two AK-47 rifles with magazines and rounds of SAIGA-MK (Russian made) rifle with two magazines and 21 live cartridges from the spot.On Sunday, it seized four sophisticated weapons, including a special AK 47 rifle and an AK 47 rifle besides a China-made pistol and .303gun from near Pul Moran border outpost at the Indo-Pak border.There has been a surge in the smuggling of narcotics and weapons in the recent past. According to the police, the anti-national elements involved in narco-terror module were hell bent upon sneaking contraband and sophisticated weapons in order to create law and order trouble in the bordering state at the behest of their Pak based handlers.“As the wheat crop is standing, it acts as a perfect garb to Pak-based smugglers,” said an official privy to the investigations in the recent seizure of weapons.In yesterday’s seizure, the police had booked Belgium-based Indian national Jagdish Bhura and Jaspal Singh of Gatti Rajoke villagecontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/russian-made-weapon-smuggling-baffles-cops-236737
09-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Bootleggers improvise, use electric furnaces &stills for brewing liquor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8With regular raids on the illicit liquor trade in the past one month, bootleggers are now using electric furnaces for brewing illicit liquor. This has left the cops baffled.On Thursday, simultaneous raids were carried out at Chak Mishri Khan and Khiala Kalan village following a tip-off that bootleggers have started manufacturing illicit liquor again. The police teams had confiscated huge quantity of lahan and illicit liquor during separate raids in March.SSP Amritsar (Rural) Dhruv Dahiya said water heating rods were used by bootleggers in constructing electric furnaces, which were used to brew liquor faster. It was the ninth raid in over past one month. The police have arrested Sandeep Singh of Khiala Kalan village in this regard.The police seized 30-litre illicit liquor, 3,200-kg lahan, two electric furnaces and 24 drums from Khiala Kalan village. Similarly, the cops seized 400-kg Lahan, a running still and two drums from Chak Mishri Khan village.In the past one month, the police have conducted raids at Khiala Kalan, Lakhuwal, Chhapa Ram Singh, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal, Chak Mishri Khan, Jethuwal and Fattewal villages. Dahiya said properties of notorious bootleggers and repeated offenders were being identified and they would be freezed after valuation from competent authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bootleggers-improvise-use-electric-furnaces-stills-for-brewing-liquor-236738
09-04-2021||---||Celebrations of ninth guru curtailed due to restrictions||Amritsar, April 8Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the SGPC has curtailed the programme related to 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The earlier seven-day programme chalked out for the occasion would now be restricted for three days— April 29, 30 and May 1.This was declared by the high-level committee constituted by the SGPC under the leadership of former president of the Sikh body Prof Kirpal Singh Badungar.The birth anniversary of ninth Guru falls on May 1.Badungar told that Gurmat Samagam will be held on April 29, 30 and May 1 at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall Amritsar in which prominent panthic and religious personalities will participate.Sri Akhand Path would be initiated on April 29 at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the birthplace of the ninth Guru, with bhog (culmination) on May 1.However, the Gurmat Samagam would be held in memory of Bhai Mati Das, Bhai Sati Das and Bhai Dayala Singh. Similarly, a Gurmat Samagam dedicated to Bhai Jaita Ji (Bhai Jeewan Singh) would be held on arrival of the nagar kirtan at Sri Anandpur Sahib that started from Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal.The year-round events would be dedicated to Bhai Jaita Ji, Bhai Makhan Shah Lubana, Bhai Lakhi Shah Vanjara and other Sikhs would be organised, if the situation permitted.During this time marathons dedicated to tolerance and human rights would be held at various places and students’ quiz competitions and world-class conferences of teachers and students are also on the cards. Apart from this, slideshows on the life of Guru Sahib and human rights will also be conducted.How it has been planned amid covid||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrations-of-ninth-guru-curtailed-due-to-restrictions-236759
09-04-2021||---||Family of CRPF martyr honoured||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 8The Kalpana Chawla Society honoured Balraj Singh’s family at his native Kaler village here on Thursday. Balraj Singh, commando of the CoBRA battalion (CRPF’s elite unit), had preferred to help his co-jawan putting aside his own serious condition.Balraj Singh was seriously injured in the Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh, a few days back. As many as 22 jawans made their supreme sacrifice in the attack.Balraj Singh received bullet injury at his stomach while his co-jawan Abhishek Pande’s foot was blown in the Naxal blast.Ignoring all his serious condition Balraj tied his turban at the injuries of Abhishek and after walking more than 3-km in the wild area brought him to the helipad to be taken to the hospital.Parwinder Singh of the Kalpana Chawla Society said that as Balraj Singh preferred to save the life of his co-jawan ignoring his condition with his turban.The family was honoured with a turban and a siropa. The society honoured Balraj Singh’s father Jaswant Singh, mother Harjit Kaur, wife Yadwinder Kaur and sisters. The society has appealed the Deputy Commissioner to recommend Balraj Singh’s name to the Central government for gallantry award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-of-crpf-martyr-honoured-236760
09-04-2021||---||SC Commission gives a patient hearing to Dalits||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8Punjab State SC Commission member Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka listened to the grievances of several Dalits, who had arrived from different districts with their problems here on Thursday.After listening to various people, Dr Tarsem Singh said under the leadership of social activist Husnpreet Singh Randhawa, president of the Minorities’ Welfare Organisation, Satnam Singh Gill and Lakhwinder Singh Attari, several victim families visited and shared their grievances.Sialka said a serious case of illegal possession at Peer Baba Gulab Shah tomb in Umarpura village of Ajnala by a Christian man has come to the notice of the commission. “According to the complainant, the occupant is a Christian and the tomb belongs to a Muslim. There were bloody clashes in Umarpura village on April 6, 2021, due to the suspicious role of the police in the possession case. Instead of fair investigation, the police were patronising the culprits,” said Sialka.Sialka said if the Ajnala police fails to listen to the complainant, then the commission might consider visiting Umarpura to look into the matter.He said in most of the complaints lodged with the Amritsar rural police and Amritsar Commissionerate, the complainants were unhappy with the one-sided action of police.Sialks said a serious case of late Kulwinder Singh, who was killed by some upper caste people, has also come to fore, in which victims complained about police inaction.He said the third case was that of children from various districts of Punjab, who had approached the commission to avail the benefit of 5 per cent quota in various posts in the Water Supply and Sanitation Department in the recruitment process. Departmental action was taken to ensure the disposal of the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sc-commission-gives-a-patient-hearing-to-dalits-236761
09-04-2021||---||Aujla forms task force to check pollution||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Wednesday held a meeting over the release of toxic industrial effluents into Tung Dhab drain, which is leading to the contamination of groundwater and poor air quality in the holy city.He directed the formation of a task force under Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, which would submit its findings to chalk out a new plan to prevent pollution in the holy city within the next 10 days. Other members of the task force would be the MC Commissioner, officials of the PPCB, DDPO, Drainage Department, Industries Department, industrialists and NGOs.He asked the department concerned to lay new pipes along the drain for carrying industrial effluents and discharge by dairies.Aujla said laxity in this regard would cost dearly in terms of health of future generations. He said effluents of six drains were being discharged into Tung Dhab drain. He said apart from industrial waste, dairies were also releasing waste into it. To prevent this, a dairy complex equipped with a treatment plant would be raised and asked the District Development and Panchayat Officer to prepare a report regarding the project, said the MP.He said the National Green Tribunal had already issued guidelines to the Municipal Corporation (MC) and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to stop release of industrial effluents and waste by dairies into the drain.Heavy toxic metals, chemicals and industrial effluents have percolated into sub-soil and groundwater aquifers, which have adversely affected human health. Studies have found evidence of eye and skin ailments, endocrine disruptions, cancer and congenital defects among people, besides damaging children’s DNA.Over a period of time, multiple agencies conducted studies and found that persistent release of toxic industrial effluents into the drain resulted in groundwater contamination and poor air quality around it. These studies were conducted by the PGI, Chandigarh, the Human Genetics and Chemistry Departments of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), India, in collaboration with the Aquatic Biology Laboratory of GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aujla-forms-task-force-to-check-pollution-236762
09-04-2021||---||Property tax: 150 cheques dishonoured in last 3 years||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8Around 150 cheques deposited by residents to pay property tax have been dishonoured to date. Even during the last fiscal, cheques amounting to Rs16 lakh got dishonoured. The property tax wing has added this amount in recovery, but money has not been collected. The MC recovered only Rs22.50 crore from the property tax previous fiscal, which also includes dishonoured cheques.A senior official of the MC has prepared a zone-wise list of dishonoured cheques and asked his staff to visit tax payers and recover dues. As per officials of the property tax wing, around 150 cheques have been dishonoured in the last three years.A list has been prepared of those tax payers whose cheques were dishonoured, in order to collect the tax and penalise them. The MC will also take legal action in case these persons do not pay tax.Last year, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal had chargesheeted eight employees of the property tax wing for not recovering charges after cheques got dishonoured in October 2020.According to information, cheques amounting to Rs40 lakh were were dishonoured from 2013 to 2018.During an audit in 2019, the MC officials found that the cheques were in record, but the amount was not recovered. Later, the MC chargsheeted its employees and asked them to revisit the violators and collect tax.Officials said some employees recovered tax from those property owners whose cheques got dishonoured and a senior official of the MC gave them a clean chit.Sandip Rishi , Additional Commissioner, MC, said, “Earlier, we had 150 cases related to dishonoured cheques. Now, we are checking our record. Superintendents have been asked to revisit those persons whose cheques bounced within seven days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-tax-150-cheques-dishonoured-in-last-3-years-236763
09-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Robbers loot Rs 3K from petrol pump||Piped gas will hit biz: dealersAmritsar: Irked over laying of gas pipeline in the city, LPG dealers said piped gas would hit their livelihood. Amritsar Gas Dealers’ Association chief Joginderpal Dhingra along with Anuj Sikka and Manjinder Singh Thekedar met Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. They discussed issues being faced by them after Gujarat Gas Agency started work in the city. Dhingra said, “There are around 40 gas agency holders in the city. We have invested crores. By awarding a contract to Gujarat Gas Pipeline Agency for laying a gas pipeline and providing connections to residents, our livelihood is at stake.” He said roads constructed by the MC after pumping in crores of rupees were being dug out by the firm to lay the pipeline. The Mayor assured them that he would raise the issue with the state government. TNSFire at Congress leader’s houseTarn Taran: Some armed men fired at the residence of Congress Bhikhiwind Nagar councillor last night damaging the main gate and walls of the house. Councillor Yadwinder Singh, however, escaped unhurt. The armed men managed to escape after committing the crime. ASI Malkit Singh, IO, said the accused had been identified as Akashdeep Singh of Pahuwind village, Gagandeep Singh of Chung village, Harinder Singh, Arashdeep Singh and Robin Singh, all residents of Marimegha village. The victim said he went to Bhikhiwind police station in connection with a compromise related to Akashdeep Singh on Tuesday. The latter suspected that the councillor was not willing to conciliate. The accused in a fit of rage came to his residence and opened fire. Raids are on. OC90K-ml illicit liquor seizedAmritsar: In yet another haul, the Amritsar rural police seized a huge quantity of illicit liquor, lahan and operational furnaces on Wednesday. The police teams conducted raids in Khiala Kalan, Lakhuwal, Chhapa Ram Singh, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal, Chakk Mishri Khan and Jethuwal villages. Following a secret tip-off, the police raided at Fattewal village and seized 90,000 ml of illicit liquor, 60,000 kg of lahan and three operational furnaces. The police arrested three persons— Sucha Singh, Kashmir Singh and Paramjit Singh—in this connection. Dhruv Dahiya, SSP Amritsar Rural, said that nabbed persons were operating large network in area. TNSFour mobiles seized from jailAmritsar: Amritsar Central Jail authorities seized four mobile phones and other prohibited material from inside the premises here on Wednesday. According to information, the staff found two polythene bags near watch tower nine. On opening it, the staff recovered four cellphones, three chargers, two headphones, besides 40-gm opium. Some unknown persons reportedly had slung it from outside. TNSMTP Randhawa rejoins MCAmritsar: Municipal Town Planner (MTP) Iqbal Preet Singh Randhawa rejoined the Municipal Corporation office here on Thursday. The Local Government Department had dismissed Randhawa for not taking appropriate action against violator of building bylaws (construction of a hotel on Court Road) on September 28. Randhawa had filed a review petition in the case and after inquiry the Local Government Department resumed his services. TNSWoman dies, husband bookedAmritsar: The Beas police have booked Sunil Datt Joshi of Rayya and his parents on charges of murder after his wife Rajni Sharma (33) died under mysterious circumstances. Rajni’s family said they killed her by giving some poisonous substance. Probe has been launched after taking the possession of the body for postmortem examination. Santa Rani, a resident of Naushehra Chuhar Shekhwa village in Batala, said the accused used to harass her daughter. She said her in-laws gave her some poisonous substance leading to her death. The couple has a daughter from the marriage. SI Shamsher Singh, IO, said the autopsy would ascertain the cause of death. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-loot-rs-3k-from-petrol-pump-236764
