10-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Morning Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi back on tracks from tomorrow||Ludhiana, April 9The second pair of the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (02013/14) will resume its regular run after almost a year from tomorrow.The train was discontinued during the Covid-induced lockdown.The 02013 train will leave New Delhi at 4.30 pm and arrive at Amritsar at 10.30 pm with a three-minute halt at Ludhiana (8.16 pm) while the 02014 will start operating on April 11, leaving Amritsar at 4.55 am to reach New Delhi at 11.02 am with a five-minute stop at Ludhiana (6.57 am).In order to fill the gap left by the other pair of Swarn Shatabdi (02029/30) Express train on this trunk route, Northern Railways has announced to run 04053/54 New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express Weekly Special train from April 15. The existing 02029/30 Swarn Shatabdi Express runs on this route on all days except Thursday.The 04053 Shatabdi train will leave New Delhi (on Thursdays only) at 7.20 am and reach Amritsar at 1.30 pm with a three-minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.08 am) while the 04054 train will commence its return journey from Amritsar at 4.50 pm to reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt at Ludhiana (6.50 pm).According to the railway officials, another summer special train, the 02265/66 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Tri-weekly Special train, was also scheduled to run from Delhi Sarai Rohilla from April 11 and from Jammu Tawi from April 12. The train will have a single halt at Ludhiana in both directions.The 02265 will leave Delhi Sarai Rohilla at 10.20 pm on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday and reach Jammu Tawi at 7.15 the next morning. On return journey, the train 02066 will depart from Jammu Tawi at 7.15 pm on every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday to arrive Delhi Saraai Rohilla at 3.55 am the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/morning-amritsar-delhi-shatabdi-back-on-tracks-from-tomorrow-237166
10-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Injured CRPF jawan discharged||One arrested for raping teenTarn Taran: Gurwinder Singh, a resident of Sarli Khurd, was arrested by the Verowal police for allegedly raping a teenage girl of the same village here on Friday. In her statement to the police, the victim said the accused had been threatening and outraging her modesty for the past year. The accused called her to come out of the house in the midnight of April 4 and took her to some abandoned place when the family members of the victim came to know about the incident. The accused left her behind on the spot and escaped, but he was arrested on Thursday. A case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act had been registered against the accused. OCJudicial officers get vaccine jabsTarn Taran: The Health Department launched a drive to vaccinate judicial officers against Covid-19 at the local Judicial Court Complex here on Friday. Under the supervision of District and Sessions Judge Priya Sood, the drive was launched at the court complex. Gurbir Singh, Civil Judge (Senior Judge), said as many as 73 heads were vaccinated. All the staff members of the courts, members of the Bar Association and their clerks would be vaccinated. OCSchool staff vaccinatedTarn Taran: The entire staff (teaching and non-teaching) of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School has been vaccinated in two phases. The drive was conducted under the supervision of SMO Dr Swaranjit Dhawan at the Civil Hospital. Principal Ranjit Bhatia had also urged his staff to get inoculated to tackle the pandemic. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/injured-crpf-jawan-discharged-237217
10-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Police, Excise teams seize lahan, liquor||In a special drive launched against illicit liquor trade here on Friday, joint teams of the Excise Department and the district police seized a huge quantity of lahan, illicit liquor and related goods from four villages of the border belt. While four accused, including a woman, were arrested, five others had been booked by the police.The operation was launched under the supervision of Excise Officer Navjot Bharti and DSP (Operation) Iqbal Singh when Excise Inspectors Amrik Singh, Jatinder Singh and Purshotam Pathania headed the searching teams. Around 55 police personnel were part of the teams. Excise Officer Navjot Bharti said on the instructions of Rajat Aggarwal, Commissioner, Excise and Taxation Department, Punjab, the operation was conducted in Cheema Kalan, Pandori Ran Singh, Pandori Sidhwan and Kot Dharam Chand Kalan and as many as 16 houses were searched.The teams seized 34,120 kg of lahan, 4,27,500 ml of illicit liquor, one working still, two burners, 34 drums, three containers and a 20-foot-long pipe being used for distillation of iIlicit liquor. The operation, which started in the early morning, continued till noon. Cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act had been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-excise-teams-seize-lahan-liquor-237216
10-04-2021||---||GNDU to start courses for teachers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) will begin teacher education programmes for special students and to create more inclusive environment on campus. School of Education at GNDU has developed a state-of-the-art facility for running BEd special education (multi- disability) and integrated four years teacher education programmes for training teachers. Keeping in mind the lack of special educators in Punjab and professional centre for training, the university has taken up the initiative and has also signed an MoU with the Pehal Government Resource Centre (Special School) and Government Senior Secondary School, Karampura, for commitment to equity, access and quality education, to special students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-start-courses-for-teachers-237215
10-04-2021||---||Amritsar MC, SGPC gear up for Parkash Purb of 9th Guru||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9Heads of various departments of the Municipal Corporation held a meet with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu; MC Commissioner Komal Mittal; Harjinder Singh Dhami, chief secretary, SGPC; Sukhdev Singh, additional secretary, SGPC; and Gurinder Singh, manager, Darbar Sahib; attended the meet. The objective was to calibrate centenary with pomp and show so devotees attending the celebrations would not face any difficulty.The Mayor said they were fortunate to get an opportunity to celebrate the centenary of Guru Teg Bahadur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-sgpc-gear-up-for-parkash-purb-of-9th-guru-237214
10-04-2021||---||Increase agronomists at grassroots level: Experts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9A meeting of Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee, a joint body of agricultural technocrats, was held here on Thursday.The executive body of committee expressed concern over the neglect of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department by the Punjab Government.The committee leaders said that in absence of any agricultural policy in the state, the farmers and the department employees are facing problem for the last many years. In view of the growing number of farming families and newer challenges, there is a need to increase the number of agronomists at the grassroot level, stated committee.Presiding over the meeting, Gurwinder Singh, chairman of the committee said, due to the stagnation in the departmental promotions, the structure of the department is in a state of disarray. “Despite the large number of vacancies at various levels, the officers are not being promoted in time bound manner which is hampering department work,” he added.He added that of the 9 sanctioned posts of joint directors only two are filled while of 53 posts of deputy directors, only 20 are filled. He added that of 934 posts of Agriculture Development Officers 234 are vacant at present.The committee stated that any attempt by the government to abolish various posts of the department in the name of restructuring would be taken notice of the agricultural technocrats. The organisation also demanded that the structure of the Agriculture Department should be strengthened to provide agricultural extension services to the farmers as per the requirements of the time. They demanded that vacancies should be filled and plant hospitals should be set up.On this occasion, Dr Sukhbir Singh Sandhu General Secretary, Agtech-cum-president, Plant Doctors Services Association, Punjab; Sushil Kumar Attri, Convener-cum president Deputy Director Association and Dr Kirpal Singh Dhillon, Secretary General- cum- president Agriculture Officers Association, Dr Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Jalandhar, Dr Kuljit Singh Saini, Chief Agriculture Officer Tarn Taran, and many others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/increase-agronomists-at-grassroots-level-experts-237213
10-04-2021||---||Amritsar MC to scrutinise record of commercial establishments||Amritsar, April 9The Amritsar Municipal Corporation’s officials suspects that some major commercial establishments, especially in north constituency paid property tax by making wrong self-assessments, which led to reduction in collection of tax.Major shopping centres and multi-brand stores have come under the radar of the MC, which will scrutinise self-assessment claims of commercial establishments and also conduct physical verification in some cases.According to information, a list of 35 such commercial buildings has been prepared for physical verification and officials would focus on rent deeds of property owners to figure out the exact details.Sandeep Rishi, Additional Commissioner, MC, said, “The MC Commissioner has asked zonal superintendents to serve upon notices under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act 1976. The self-assessment forms of property owners will be verified. In case of any difference between the actual tax and self-assessment, we will ask property owners to pay the pending amount. In case of non-compliances of directions, further action will be taken.”A number of commercial buildings at Ranjit Avenue, Mall Road, Circular Road and other posh areas of the city, have not paid tax as per norms. Officials of the MC conducted scrutiny at some SCOs and found major difference in actual tax amount and sum deposited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-to-scrutinise-record-of-commercial-establishments-237212
10-04-2021||---||Canadian Punjabi diaspora seeks direct flights to Amritsar||Amritsar, April 9Punjabi diaspora in Canada and NGOs in India have urged to introduce direct air connectivity from Vancouver and Toronto to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport, Amritsar, to facilitate travel keeping in view the year-long celebrations of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the Ninth Sikh Guru who was born in Amritsar.Seeking direct connectivity with Amritsar ahead of the historic occasion, Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener of the Fly Amritsar Initiative, said direct flights to SGRDJI Airport had been a long-pending demand of thousands of Punjabis across Canada and Punjab.Gumtala said Amritsar would be the hub of celebrations of the 400th Prakash Purab, with the Punjab and Central Governments already announcing many programmes in India and abroad for the centennial celebrations. Lakhs of devotees from India and abroad were also expected to travel to the country for the year-long celebrations and members of the Punjabi community were reaching out to the Prime Minister of Canada, their parliamentary representatives, and Government of India for direct flights.“We have sent a written representation to the Prime Minister of Canada, many MPs, including the ones in the Greater Toronto area, Vancouver, Surrey, Abbotsford, Calgary, Edmonton, Winnipeg, and ministers concerned, seeking the fulfilment of this long-pending demand. Last year in March 2020, thousands of Canadian families were stranded in India due to the pandemic-induced shutdown of air travel. It was estimated that the highest number of them among any other region (over 40,000) were stuck in Punjab at that time, said Gumtala.A petition has also been started by FlyAmritsar Initiative with the support of many Canadians to submit to MPs all over Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canadian-punjabi-diaspora-seeks-direct-flights-to-amritsar-237211
10-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Plywood industry of Amritsar suffers massive loss||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, APRIL 9The city-based plywood industry is suffering due to illegally running units in other parts of the state.They pointed out that the demand for plywood from the Covid-induced economic crisis hit the housing sector was already 25 per cent down from what it used to be in 2019. Yet, they are unable to meet the demand due to scarcity of wood.This imbalance in supply and demand shot up the prices of wood in the market. Now, a quintal of poplar tree wood costs Rs1,000 per quintal, which used to be Rs500 after opening of the lockdown. Similarly, at present in the market a quintal of eucalyptus costs Rs750, which used to be around Rs500 about three months ago.The manufacturers complained that due to the scarcity of wood in the state about 150 legible plywood units, 10 of which are in the holy city, were getting inadequate supply forcing them to run their units four to five days a week.Plywood industry is a licence-based industry. No one is allowed to install even a single machine without licence.Gurpreet Kataria, president of Small Plywood Manufacturers Association, claimed that despite sending several complaints to all concerned District Forest Officers (DFOs) and the state head, no action has been taken. He stated that the Supreme Court constituted a Central Empowered Committee for wood-based industry which monitors the licencees subject to the availability of wood.In his complaint sent to the Chairman of National Green Tribunal and Chairman of Central Empowered Committee, he mentioned that “As per norms if someone installs machines illegally then the DFOs are duty-bound to either seal that unit or remove that machine.”The complaint further read, “The licencee shall not install/operate any machine for which the licence is not issued. If the licencee is found to have installed/operate machine for which the licence is not issued to the unit then the same shall be deemed to have withdrawn,” he maintained. He sought a probe to unearth politico-official collaboration behind the illegal racket of units.Jatinder Sharma, Principal Chief Conservator of the Forest Department said: “Whenever any complaint of illegal factory or machine crops up from any part of the state the department takes prompt action.The narrative of the department issuing more licencees was wrong. He added that in order to ensure fair trade practice, promotion of industries, creation of more employment and fair prices to farmers it was necessary to issue licencees to new industrial units. He added that against the target of planting 25 lakh saplings for trade purpose this year the state farmers managed to install 44 lakh saplings. “Will these farmers get fair pricing of their products in the absence of enough plywood factories?” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/plywood-industry-of-amritsar-suffers-massive-loss-237210
10-04-2021||---||2 ASHA workers robbed of cash, mobile phones in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 9In yet another incident, two bike-borne persons robbed two ASHA workers returning to their homes from her duties at the Pandori health centre.Davinder Kaur, a resident of Mudhal village, told the police that she along with Daljit Kaur and Nirmala Kumar was returning going from the Pandori health centre to Mudhal village on a scooter. She said when they reached near the underground railway bridge, two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons brandished a sharp-edged weapon and snatched her purse containing Rs3,200 cash and a mobile set, besides other documents. They also snatched the purse of Daljit Kaur having cash and a mobile phone.The police have registered a case in this connection and started investigation. SHO, Verka police station, Nishan Singh said they had scrutinised the CCTV footage of the incident and the accused would be arrested soon.On Wednesday, an NRI woman was looted by unidentified robbers when she was returning home after withdrawing Rs 1 lakh from the branch of Punjab and Sind Bank at Jandiala. The complainant, Satinder Kaur, told the police that after withdrawing the money, she took a bus from Jandiala and reached the Tangra bus stop from where she took a rickshaw for home.The victim said two bike-borne persons came and snatched her purse containing the amount. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-asha-workers-robbed-of-cash-mobile-phones-in-amritsar-237209
10-04-2021||---||Woman ends life in Amritsar,  husband booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9The Cantonment police have booked an Air Force employee after his wife Abhijita allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan here on Thursday. The husband and his mother were booked following a complaint lodged by the victim’s father.The victim’s father, Ram Chander Butiya, a resident of Biharipur village in Orissa, told the police that Abhijita was married to Tapas Rajan Payak in June 2019. He said around a year ago, he was transferred to Amritsar.Ram Chander said the accused used to harass her and was pressuring her for bringing cash from her family. He said at that time of their marriage, he had given Rs 3 lakh cash and 200 gm of gold ornaments to her in-laws. However, her in-laws were demanding more cash from her.Perturbed over her continuous harassment, she ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her residence. Ram Chander said his daughter had not committed suicide she was murdered by the accused.The police said a case under Section 306 of the IPC had been registered against Tapas Ranjan and his mother Pushplata in this connection while further investigation was under progress.SI Satnam Singh, investigating officer in the case, said raids were on to nab the suspects and the autopsy report was awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-ends-life-in-amritsar-husband-booked-237201
10-04-2021||Neha Saini||Khalsa College, Amritsar student makes it to shooting contingent for Olympics||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, April 9Divyansh Singh Panwar, a budding shooting star from Khalsa College, has been selected for the Tokyo Olympics, sending the whole campus and his teachers in celebratory mood. He will be part of the Indian team going for the Games scheduled to be held this year.Divyansh is undergoing a training camp in Delhi presently and his selection was made following his stellar performances in the recent national and international events. Principal Dr Mehal Singh said a history of sort has been made by Divyansh, who has ensured the slot for the coveted international event. “Our college has a great sporting legacy and we have been at the forefront when it comes to nurturing international-level sportspersons. Divyansh’s achievement is tremendous and we hope that he makes the country proud,” he.Khalsa College’s governing council secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina said it was a matter of great pride that their students have been selected for the Olympics.The 18-year-old is a student of BCA first year and had won medals in shooting at Beijing World Cup in 2019. Continuing his winning streak earlier, Divyansh also bagged a gold in the 10m air rifle team event and a bronze medal in the individual event at the World Shooting Championships held in Delhi last month. So far, he has won a total of five gold medals, one silver and three bronze medals at the World Cup. He will compete in 10m air rifle event.“The fact that he has just entered the Olympics at the age of 18 is a testament to his achievements and skills so far,” said Dr Daljit Singh, head, Sports Department. He said that Divyansh is India’s top athlete in the 10m air rifle event and it is a matter of pride for the entire college for his selection. Referring to the glorious history of past achievements, he said that the college has got this honour after four decades. Prior to this, Bahadur Singh, a shot putter from the college, had shown his brilliance at the Moscow Olympics held in 1980.Along with Divyansh, two other shooters, both students of GNDU, have also made it to the contingent for the Tokyo Olympics. Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar and Sunidhi Chauhan will compete in 50m 3P event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-amritsar-student-makes-it-to-shooting-contingent-for-olympics-237184
10-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||The sun of hope||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, APRIL 9Steady hike in power tariff every year is driving many consumers from diverse sectors like domestic, institutional, commercial and industries to opt for renewable energy.Sumit Aggarwal, CEO of Star Power Distribution Pvt Ltd, says current year is likely to be promising with good investments in solar sector by all segments like residential, commercial, MSME and large industries. About 80 per cent of the rooftop installations come from the Commercial and Industrial (C&I) sector, which is slowly gaining demand. “Demand for residential rooftop solar power is also expected to grow as people look for alternatives to cut expenses and generate revenues,” he tells. Rooftop solar has been the fastest growing sub-sector in clean energy lately, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 47 per cent between 2016 and 2020.The months of the lockdown motivated the residential clients to utilise their idle roofs and save hefty electricity bills, which before the Covid-19 was not a priority. Even the commercial and MSME clients showed interest in investing their roofs for solar investments.Kamal Dalmia, an industrialist, said the government’s Subsidised Industrial Power Tariff (SIPT) scheme offering Rs5 per unit power supply actually cost them Rs7.50 per unit. The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) offers an energy rate of Rs4.83/kVAh for consumption of power not exceeding the threshold limit. Though it costs over Rs1,350 crore per annum burden of subsidy to the government, the power tariff was actually higher than what was being offered in the neighbouring states creating uneven competitive structure.Club together farming, social groups like Scheduled Castes and Industry receive a huge subsidy to the tune of Rs14,000 crore every year. Thus, this reason is enough for the government to come out with attractive policies to incentivise solar energy to attract a maximum number of consumers.Annual growth rate of 88 per cent in solar energy is projected between 2020 and 2025 in the country. So the demand has increased in the city also. For instance, with the assistance of US-based Sikhs the SGPC initiated to install a solar power system at the Golden Temple last month. The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had inaugurated to install solar panels of 60 KW, under the Smart City mission, on the rooftop of its head office building in Ranjit Avenue last year.The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) is in the process to install solar panels with a capacity of 1,900 KW on all the major buildings of the government within the limits of the Municipal Corporation. The project will cost Rs10.25 crore.Already, the Amritsar railway station, Thakur Singh Art Gallery, Guru Nanak Dev University and Khalsa College had installed solar panels to draw power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-sun-of-hope-237173
10-04-2021||---||Nine die, 329 fresh cases of Covid-19 surface in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9The health authorities reported nine Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Friday. With this, the death toll increased to 747. The health authorities also reported 329 new cases with which the total count reached 23,634 in the district.The deceased have been identified as Parkash Kaur (58), of Bhilowal village; Balbir Kaur (54), of Jagdambey Colony; Malook Singh (82), of Ajnala Military Hospital; Balwinder Singh (37), of Gaggomahal village; Umed (50), of Parkash Vihar; Harjinder Kaur (50), of Ajnala; Davinder Kumar (78), of Kartar Nagar, Chheharta; Bimla Devi (58), Baba Bakala and Surjit Kaur (90), of Sunny enclave. The new cases included 231 influenza-like illness cases and 98 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with recovery of 357 patients, the recovery count has increased to 19,768. At present, the district has a total of 3,119 active cases. The health authorities vaccinated 8,013 beneficiaries today.Meanwhile, over 100 staff members, including senior teachers, were vaccinated at the day-long vaccination camp organised at Khalsa College campus here. The camp was organised by the management of the college in collaboration with the Department of Health, said Dr Mehal Singh, Principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nine-die-329-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-surface-in-amritsar-district-237172
10-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||WAYU units, green buffers to tackle Amritsar’s pollution pangs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9The Municipal Corporation (MC) would instal mass air purifier wind augmentation and air purifying units ‘WAYU’ at major traffic junctions of the city and also create green buffers along roads under National Clean Air Programme of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF). The General House of the MCA gave nod to the project in its recent meeting.The city has received a grant of Rs19 crore through the Punjab Pollution Control Board. The MC would spend the amount on 16 separate projects.Following the mandate of National Green Tribunal (NGT), the MC would spend Rs85 lakh on the installation of ‘WAYU’ units. The fog cannon would also be installed for suppression of dust at construction sites at a cost of Rs70 lakh.The civil wing officials stated that the MC would maintain potholes-free roads and conduct patch work through this grant. A truck mounted with chemical based water sprinkle machine would also be procured. With the amount of Rs2 crore, mechanical sweeping machine and 11 litters picking vacuum machine is also to be bought.Apart from this, the MC would create green buffers along roadsides. In which 5-ft high grown up trees would be planted along with cemented tree guard meshes at various city roads. The parks, community places, schools and housing societies would also get green buffers.Water fountains are to be installed at major traffic intersections by spending Rs80 lakh. The provisions would be made of yellow colour thermoplastic parking lines in various city areas.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that all these proposed projects of National Clean Air Programme have been passed by the General House and would be implemented soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wayu-units-green-buffers-to-tackle-amritsars-pollution-pangs-237171
10-04-2021||---||GNDU’s offline exams to restart from April 11||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9Just as schools and colleges remain closed due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases, Guru Nanak Dev University has released an updated date sheet for remaining examinations (offline mode) of its affiliated and constituent colleges.Exams which were postponed after the government asked the educational institutes to shut in the wake of the second wave of infections, will now be held as per new schedule.Earlier, the university had postponed the exams till April 10, but now rescheduled them for convenience of students. New dates of exams are available on the university’s web portal. Timings and centres will remain the same.Prof Manoj Kumar, in charge, Examinations, said exams will commence from April 11 onwards. “All candidates are instructed to contact principals of colleges/head of departments concerned. College principals should ensure that Covid-19 protocols issued by the state government are strictly followed during examinations,” he said.While exams will be held offline, students are also demanding resumption of regular classes. Various student organisations protested in this regard. The entire exercise of conducting exams by GNDU under the Covid-19 situation has been prone to controversies.The university first announced offline exams for odd courses from February 15 onwards. The decision was met with heavy criticism by students who demanded that given the pandemic, exams must be conducted online. After deliberations and multiple meetings with students, the university went ahead with its decision to conduct offline exams as per guidelines issued by the state government.While the exams were being conducted, the state government announced to shut down universities, colleges and schools, once again on March 19, which incited angry reactions from students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndus-offline-exams-to-restart-from-april-11-237170
10-04-2021||Amritsar||Jallianwala Bagh unveiling hit by Covid restrictions||Amid the Covid-19 restrictions, the plan to reopen the ‘facelifted’ Jallianwala Bagh has been put on hold yet again. After skipping many deadlines, the unveiling was proposed on April 13. PM Narendra Modi, who is also the chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, was slated to inaugurate the monument virtually.Trust member and former MP Tarlochan Singh said: “The PM was scheduled to inaugurate it online on April 13 at 4 pm, but after consulting with the CMO, the programme was deferred due to the Covid restrictions till April 30,” he said. The memorial was shut on February 15 last year for renovation. The project was to be completed by the first week of April 2020, ahead of the commemoration of 101th year of Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-unveiling-hit-by-covid-restrictions-236937
10-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar jeweller raided by NIA||A National Investigation agency (NIA) team raided the shop and residence besides a hotel of a prominent jeweller in the city on Friday. The raid continued till the filing of this report. The jeweller, identified as Rajesh, alias Pinki Mehra, has ancestral business in Amritsar.He also has an import and export business. He runs a jewellery shop in the world-famous Guru Bazaar market in the walled city. He also runs a money exchange business.A 12-member team raided ‘Manak Jewellers’ in the Guru Bazaar area at 5 am besides conducting a raid at his residence located on the Race Course Road in Basant Avenue locality. The NIA is investigating into several suspicious hawala transactions made across the border when the name of Mehra figured. However, the agency is still probing his role. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-jeweller-raided-by-nia-236946
