11-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Now, DSP-rank officers to nail robbers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 10Concerned over repeated instances of snatchings in the rural belt, the Amritsar rural police have launched a manhunt to identify suspects and arrest them.The Police Department has been facing flak as a number of incidents have been reported in the rural as well as in the city areas in the recent past, while there has been no breakthrough in these cases.SSP Dhruv Dahiya held a meeting with senior police officials in this regard and devised a strategy for nailing down unscrupulous elements involved in these instances.“Special teams led by DSP-rank officers, including SHOs, have been formed with focus on cracking these cases and put perpetrators behind bars,” said an official.On Wednesday, an NRI woman was looted by unidentified robbers, when she was returning home after withdrawing Rs1 lakh from Punjab and Sind Bank branch in Jandiala. Satinder Kaur, told the police that after withdrawing the money, she was returning home at Muchhal village. She said she took the bus from Jandiala and reached Tangra bus stop, from where she took a rickshaw. Two bike-borne persons came and snatched her purse containing the money.On April 2, several armed robbers snatched a car from a woman in Vrindavan Garden enclave in Nangli village and later committed several robberies before abandoning it. Kanwal Seth was returning home in the car after dropping her children at the tuition, when the robbers snatched her car at gunpoint.After snatching the car, they first struck at Sandhu petrol pump in Lopoke area, snatched the sale of Rs19,300 from the petrol pump employee at gun point and fled away. They looted another petrol pump near Bajjuman village, near Batala. They first filled the petrol to the full capacity in the car and later looted the salesman at gunpoint, it is learnt.Several petrol pumps were looted last month and many cases remained unsolved.The city area also witnessed regular snatchings. Two bike-borne persons robbed two ASHA workers returning home from duties at Pandori Health Centre on Thursday. Similarly, two bike-borne persons snatched the purse of a devotee, who was returning after paying obeisance at the Durgiana Temple. Parminder Singh Bhandal, DCP, law and order, said the police have arrested several snatchers in the past and are making efforts to nab those who have committed these crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-dsp-rank-officers-to-nail-robbers-237426
11-04-2021||Amritsar||One held with country-made weapon||The Mehta police have arrested Jugraj Singh, alias Jass, of Chananke village for allegedly possessing a pistol along with two live bullets.A case under the Arms Act was registered while further probe was on to ascertain its source, the police said.A patrolling party found a youth coming along the drain. On suspicion, he was stopped and searched after which a .32 bore pistol along with two live cartridges were recovered from him. IO ASI Karam Singh said though ‘Made in Jordan’ was written on the pistol, it appears to be country made. He said the accused was brought on police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-country-made-weapon-237427
11-04-2021||---||Procurement begins in dist, but no produce arrives in mandis||Amritsar, April 10Though the procurement of wheat crop has officially started, no produce arrived on the first day at the Bhagatawala Dana Mandi, district’s largest grain market, on Saturday.Officials said harvesting in the district would begin after Baisakhi as the crop is not fully ripe yet.“The harvesting in Malwa begins early. In Majha, the crop starts arriving late. We expect that the produce will start arriving after 8-10 days,” said an official of the mandi board.The officials said a total of 57 procurement centres have been set up in the district. These include eight main procurement yards, 11 sub-yards and 38 procurement centres.The administration has asked farmers to bring fully ripened crop to the yards, so that they do not have to face any trouble. However, farmers are apprehensive this season as the FCI has decreased the permissible moisture limit to 12 per cent.The administration has also restricted the entry of more than one person per tractor-trailer to check the rush at markets during procurement season. It has also taken other measures as single entry and exit points to ensure smooth flow of traffic.Meanwhile, the members of Anaj Mandi Mazdoor Union and Galla Mazdoor Union staged a protest at Dana Mandi in support of the arthiyas who already are opposing direct disbursement of payments to farmers. Pooran Singh, general secretary, Punjab Anaj Mandi Mazdoor Union, said: “While one part of the labour charges are paid by procurement agencies, the second part is deducted from payments of farmers.”He asked if farmers are paid directly, how would workers be paid for their labour?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/procurement-begins-in-dist-but-no-produce-arrives-in-mandis-237428
11-04-2021||Amritsar||‘Input costs set to increase’||Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) blocked Amritsar-Ferozepur road near Chabba village to protest against the abrupt increase in prices of fertilisers, stricter norms for procurement of wheat crop and the state government’s alleged failure to present procurement related issues before the Centre. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC, said the state government has failed in presenting farmers in a proper manner. He said increased prices of fertilisers and cotton seeds would increase input cost, which would affect farming community. Pandher said the government has increased price of DAP by Rs 700 per bag and of cotton seeds by Rs 35 per packet. He also criticised the Centre for decreasing moisture limit in wheat to 12 per cent from 14 per cent. The government has also decreased the limit of broken and discoloured grains from 4 per cent to 2 per cent. Farm leaders said the Centre has started direct disbursement of payment to farmers to create differences among them and commission agents (arhtiyas). “The Central Government is trying to turn one section against the other to end the agitation. All those associated with agriculture are united,” said Pandher. The KMSC leaders said a massive rally would be held to demand repeal of the three agri laws. The committee also announced to organise protests at Ram Tirath, Kathunagal and Jallianwala Bagh on April 11, 12 and 13, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/input-costs-set-to-increase-237429
11-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Police fail to nab man accused of abetting woman’s suicide||The police have failed to arrest a person who was accused of abetting an aged woman to commit suicide last month.Bholi Kaur (50) of the local Muradpur locality had committed suicide by setting herself afire after sprinkling petrol on her as she was disturbed over illicit relations of her married daughter Ramandeep Kaur. Bholi had taken the extreme step on the intervening night of March 9 and 10 at her residence.Though Ramandeep Kaur was married, she was not ready to go to her in-laws’ house as she was allegedly having an illicit relationship with a man of the same locality.On the statement of the victim’s son Gursewak Singh, Ramandeep Kaur and her paramour, Lucky, of the same locality were booked under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC by the police. Ramandeep Kaur was arrested by the police soon after the incident, but Lucky has been absconding since then.Gursewak said here on Saturday that he had appealed to higher police officials many times to arrest Lucky, but no action had been taken so far. He said Lucky, being a resident of the same locality, had been threatening to eliminate his family. Gursewak also appealed to higher officials to intervene in the matter and ensure justice to the bereaved family. ASI Gajjan Singh, IO in the case, said the accused would be arrested soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-fail-to-nab-man-accused-of-abetting-womans-suicide-237430
11-04-2021||PK Jaiswar---||Two arrested for forging property documents||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 10  The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has busted a racket of fraudsters who used to swindle banks by taking huge loans on the basis of fake documents. The accused have been identified as Gurmeet Singh and Jagdeep Singh (former sarpanch). On their interrogation, the police have booked eight persons, including a bank manager while many more heads were likely to roll. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Financial Crimes), Sushil Kumar said those booked include bank manager Simranjit Singh, Kuldeep Singh of Sansara Kalan village and Dr Kulwant Singh of Delhi. He said Gurmeet was the mastermind and he used to forge documents for bank loans. We are conducting raids to arrest them, he said. After the end of the three-day police remand of Jagdeep and Gurmeet, the duo was produced before the court, which extended it to five days. As per  the preliminary probe, the accused had got hundreds of loans passed from a bank through this modus operandi. The ACP said they were investigating four cases registered at Cantonment and Division B police station. The accused did a fraud with Bank of India to the tune of Rs 1.5 crore. The police revealed that the accused used to arrange registries and then change names by forging documents. In several cases, they managed to get the loan thrice on one registry. The police suspect the involvement of the bank staff and several cops in the racket. It has been alleged that the accused had close contacts with certain police personnel and politicians who were trying to influence the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-forging-property-documents-237431
11-04-2021||---||Portal to connect parents with school digitally||Amritsar, April 10Improving public perception of government schools and sprucing up technological and infrastructural facilities, Government High School in Abdal has launched the Student Management System, a portal to connect parents with the school digitally.The first of its kind portal will serve as a tracking platform for parents to get updates on school activities and their wards performance. The portal was launched by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar virtually and will be first implemented in Government High School, Abdal. Deepika Dean, headmistress, Government High School, Abdal, said the portal for each school would mobilise community participation, qualitative improvement for boosting learning outcomes and enrolment drive.She said, “It will strengthen the bond between school and parents. All 300 students will be provided unique ID and password. All requisite data and information about the students will be uploaded on the portal. Students and parents can login to know about each and every detail, including daily assignments, marks obtained by students in class tests or house examination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/portal-to-connect-parents-with-school-digitally-237432
11-04-2021||---||Amritsar district logs 5 deaths, 306 new cases||Amritsar, April 10With five more casualties reported due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the toll in the district increased to 752. The district health authorities have also reported 306 new cases, with which the total count increased to 23,940.The deceased have been identified as Gurbachan Singh (72) of Sudhar village, Sukhwinder Kaur (55) of Sachander village, Jagtar Singh (52) of Bhaniwal Sultanwind, Paramjit Kaur (55) of Khairabad and Narinderpal Khanna (66) of New Amritsar.The new cases include 204 influenza-like illness cases and 102 contacts of positive cases.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 331 patients, the recovery count has increased to 20,099. The district at present has a total 3,089 active cases.The district health authorities said 8,239 persons were given injections on Saturday. With this 1.04 lakh persons above 45 years of age have been given the first dose of the injection. The health officials said total 1.66 lakh persons have been given injections so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-5-deaths-306-new-cases-237433
11-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Crackdown on sand mining||The district police arrested five persons with eight sand-filled tractor-trailers during a search operation from different villages on Saturday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the police parties conducted search at the river sides of Gazal, Jalalabad, Kotli and Bhalojla villages.  Jagdeep Singh, Ravneet Singh, Gurlal Singh, Lovepreet Singh and Sukha Singh were arrested with eight sand-filled tractor-trailers.  They were booked under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21-A of the Mining Act. The SSP said more accused would be arrested as four sand-filled tractor-trailers were lying unclaimed in the Mand area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crackdown-on-sand-mining-237434
11-04-2021||Amritsar||Fire at godown in Rajasansi||500-gm heroin seized from bottleAmritsar: The Border Security Force on Saturday seized 500-gm heroin inserted in a plastic bottle from the Ravi in Ramdass. A spokesman said jawans found a bottle floating in the river. The bottle was tied with a wooden stick to let their Indian counterparts (smugglers) know about the consignment. The BSF jawans seized 500-gm heroin. Further investigations were under progress. TNSFarmer dies in roof collapseTarn Taran: A farmer identified as Chanchal Singh (70) of Aladinpur village was killed when the roof of the tubwell room collapsed on him here on Friday. The farmer, who was admitted to the local Civil Hospital, died on Saturday. In her statement, Harsharan Kaur said her father had gone to the room to switch on the tubewell motor, when the roof collapsed on him. The police lodged a report under Section 174 of the CrPC. A postmortem was conducted. OC383 cases settled in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: As many as 2,394 were taken up for amicable settlement in the National Lok Adalat here, of which 383 cases were settled with a settlement amount of Rs5,92,04,718 on Saturday. As many as 10 benches were constituted in the district. The adalat was organised under the supervision of District and Sessions Judge Priya Sood. Seven benches were constituted in Tarn Taran judicial courts, two in Patti and one in Khadoor Sahib. OCDAV College sem exams beginsAmritsar: The DAV college will begin with semester examinations from Sunday. The administration issued instructions to students regarding the Covid-19 guidelines. “Students will be required to wear masks and must follow physical distancing. The facility of thermal scanning and sanitisation will be available. The exam will run from April 11 to April 26,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, Principal, DAV College. Rajesh said every student would have to enter their roll number, name and mobile number at the main gate. “Also, the Aarogya Setu app should be updated. The exam centres have been completely sanitised. Candidates can also bring a water bottle with them. For the first time, according to the date sheet, students’ sitting plan will also be put on the official website, a day prior to the paper,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-at-godown-in-rajasansi-237600
11-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin & Neeraj Bagga||Can’t leave jobs again, will stay put, say migrant labourers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda/Amritsar, April 10Despite fears of a second lockdown, a large section of migrant workers is staying back to earn livelihood in Bathinda and Mansa districts.The workers said last year’s memories were still afresh and they would continue to work and earn for their survival.Mohan, who hails from Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand and presently works as a cook at a eating joint in Bathinda, said, “We fear that a lockdown might be imposed again as cases are on the rise, but this time, we will not go back. When I went back during the first lockdown, I struggled a lot to find a job.”Another labourer Hari Yadav from Gorakhpur said, “Harvesting season is starting in Punjab, so it is the time when we can earn some money. Moreover, nowadays, getting work is quite difficult, so we can’t leave the job midway. There is no question of going back.”No question of returning homeHarvesting season is starting in Punjab, so it is the time when we can earn some money. Moreover, nowadays, getting work is quite difficult, so we can’t leave the job midway. There is no question of going back. —Hari Yadav, Migrant labourerSidhant Gupta, a trader, said, “Business owners are ready to give all help to their workers on the condition that they should not go back. Last time, after the curbs were relaxed, finding labour was a difficult task.”A Railways official said, “There is no rush of migrants in trains. Routine passengers are boarding the trains.”In Amritsar too, there is no visible panic among migrants to return to their native places.Rajesh, who works at an embroidery unit, said despite the fear of restrictions, he would not return home in panic. He said for a person with family, the travel cost was too much for a long distance. Ram Prakash, a power loom worker, said he was getting work for five days a week. With such a meagre income, it was not possible to afford travel cost of the entire family unless the government pitches in. “I am not being paid a fixed salary and the wages are decided on a piece-rate basis. Earning Rs 12,000 per month has become a difficult task after the lockdown. With this amount, it is difficult to feed a five-member family and bear education and medical expenses, besides paying the room rent,” he said.Ram Jagat, 61, working as a private security guard, is heading back to his native village in Sultanpur district of UP to take part in the elections as his cousin is contesting but there is no fear of lockdown.Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad, Punjab, said, “There are 16 units in the district and each of them has at least 21 executive members, who have been instructed to tell migrants not to panic and adhere to Covid guidelines. So this time, there is no panic among them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cant-leave-jobs-again-will-stay-put-say-migrant-labourers-237390
11-04-2021||Abohar||Cancer Express back on track||The Abohar-Bikaner-Jodhpur train, referred to as ‘Cancer Express’, suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic on March 22 last year, resumed its operations today.Hundreds of patients had been travelling to avail almost free cancer treatment facility at Prince Bijay Singh Memorial (PBM) Hospital in Bikaner.North Western Railway Chief PRO Gaurav Gaur said the 02486 Sriganganagar-Abohar-Delhi-Nanded biweekly train had also been restored. The Sriganganagar-Abohar-Bathinda passenger train had been restored too, said Abohar station in charge Gopal Bansal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cancer-express-back-on-track-237395
