12-04-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Postponement of examination no remedy, respecting safety norms holds the key||Pragmatic learning must be explored"Education is not about answering the question but it's asking the right questions" this terse statement holds deep meaning and it may seem caustic to the pedantic scholars who are much more idiosyncratic towards exam-based learning rather than a pragmatic approach. Revised NEP has taken some iconoclastic measures to bring changes in the learning curve of the students but it cannot happen until parents and administrative structures tend to accept it. Shanti Niketan's model of schooling suggested by reverent Sir Tagore is being neglected in the country and being adopted by the West. It’s high time we looked at what changes could be adopted like open book exams in which question paper could be framed to judge the mental ability to solve unpredictable tasks from the experience and learning taken from the book. Much more pragmatic-based learning should be approached to answer the question of “why” rather than the rote learning approach to spill out answers in exams. Many engineers and educated ones who are being fired from jobs should be asked by the local administrative bodies to get involved to cultivate pragmatic learning methods for students and their parents, so jobless people could get some support and the students could get the real meaning of their education and wisdom.Madhav KhindriParents are dissected in their opinionIn view of the pandemic, the entire world has come to a standstill. Every citizen has become a Covid fighter. At the same time, the students are suffering for their education and scheduled exams, despite their online classes. The pragmatic-based learning should be approached whether they want exams postponed or not. Their uncertain decision can ultimately harm the future of their kids considering their board classes. In my opinion, the parents should go hand in hand considering their decision. It is the need of the hour that precautionary measures for Covid are taken by each citizen. As second wave is nearing its crowning, the government should take stern and authoritarian remedies and measures to curb this virus.Nimish SehgalSelf-contradiction common in our nationThere is nothing surprising. In the first stage, parents of students were asking for closure of schools in view of the rising cases and then afterwards showing resentment for postponement of school exams. We Indians right from an ordinary citizen to the tallest leader in the country believe in this theory of self-contradiction. For example when on March 11, 2020, the WHO declared pandemic we did not react for 15 days but acted on March 25, gave just four-hour notice prior to the lockdown declaration. Even as the case in the country was detected on January 30 last year in Kerala, but we never cared about its impending dangers. Similarly heads of the Centre and state governments are issuing guidelines for prevention of spread of deadly virus and at the same time inviting people to participate in religious gatherings like Mahakumbh in Haridwar. Huge gatherings at road shows and rallies in election-bound state by all political outfits are another example of their self-contradictory behaviour. Hence, to issue self-contradictory statements is part of our national character.Harsh N JoharExam postponement will break momentumCovid-19 has changed the world and physical movement is now restricted to some extent. The recent surge in cases has affected schools and all walks of life even more. Education has suffered a major setback universally. Attendance and participation in school activities is curtailed to a large extent. Educational institutions have been using innovative and interactive techniques to conduct online teaching for the benefit of students. This is a lot of work for the teachers and parents. The important question is regarding examinations to be held now or be postponed. No doubt the postponement of examinations will break the momentum and brings ennui among the students. But this seems to be the way out for holding offline examinations, keeping in view the alarming surge in cases. The students and parents need assurance that the various entrance tests like NEET, JEE, etc will be rescheduled accordingly. If the parents have supporting arguments and solutions for not postponing the examinations, the same may be conveyed to the government through various school bodies.Dr KS ManchandaAccept whatever the decision isThe issue of exams being postponed, everyone needs to understand, that this pandemic is of unknown and unforeseeable proportions. The situation changes instantly and it's important for decision-makers to respond immediately. There are government regulations to be followed, and in this case, the effect on students and examiners also needs to be kept in mind. If postponement or cancellation of exams is deemed necessary, parents need to accept the decision. One of the key lessons learnt during this period is that we need to go with the flow and adapt and changes in teaching and assessment styles is a prime example. By showing resentment, they advocate rigidity, which is something that we don't want to teach the younger generation. World over, systems have been put into place to assess the child's competence, without examination results being the main criteria. The decision regarding postponement or cancellation should be left to the decision-makers, who will have a 360 degree view of the situation, in sync with the rest of the world.Indu AuroraPressure is increasing on all parentsIt is agreed that the parents themselves clamoured for the closure of schools after the mass students tested positive in the last few weeks, but their resentment regarding the postponement of exams is certainly justified. The schools were shut for long and parents have had the opportunity to spend more time, unlike normal circumstances. They have played a great role, worth appreciating, in building healthy coordination between school and students. They have helped their children in switching to the new technology of learning through virtual classes. They are worried about their health but simultaneously are under stress as far as examinations are concerned. The students have been studying the same syllabus for more than a year now. They have already lost interest due to this prolonged session and if the exams are postponed, this extra time will not prove fruitful; it will rather have a detrimental effect on the preparations for the exams. The pressure is increasing more on parents as compared to students. Moreover, the prevailing Covid situation is unpredictable, how long can we keep on postponing the exams.Parminder KaurExams can be conducted in more than one shiftThe resentment is not justified because they were vacillating whether to send their wards to school or not when at certain schools teachers and students were found infected. They demanded immediate closure of schools and some even suggested the cancellation of exams and declaration of results on the basis of tests already conducted. Although the present examination system does not fulfil the purpose of properly equipping the young learners with the intellectual potential and educational equipment, yet some sort of offline testing is necessary. Online exam is just a farce in which the students cheat freely from various sources to obtain excellent marks but when they are examined offline they simply come a cropper. However, frequent postponements don't have salutary effect on students who constantly remain under severe stress and strain. This makes them lose hope and concentration converting them into a bundle of nerves. They get exhausted reeling under anxiety whether exams will be conducted or not. With this, a sense of sheer desperation has crept into parents and students alike. Therefore, the Examination Board should touch up the exam process to cope with the prevailing unprecedented situation. Cannot the exams be conducted in two shifts with two sets of question papers? Already the practice of holding exams with three different sets of question papers in single shift is in vogue. The uncertainty created by the present predicament is adding fuel to the fire of parents' anxiety and angst. It is baffling that the government has eased several restrictions but schools and colleges continue to remain closed. SAD, AAP and others are holding rallies regularly. Does it make any sense? Class VIII board exams which were to commence last month have been postponed till April 10. Parents are afraid that the deadline is likely to be extended further. Better scrap the exam and pass the students like it was done last year. Their grouse is that if that is to be the case, abolish exam system or uphold its sanctity.Tarsem S BumrahBe careful of what you wish forNo, resentment of parents on exams postponement is not at all justified. Increase in cases amongst mass students created need for postponement of exams and it was on their demand that only exams were ultimately postponed. As coronavirus is deadly, parents got fearful and when administration postponed the dates they breathed fire for no logical reason. The parents' resentment is totally unjustified and uncalled for.SANJAY CHAWLAOnline education not a solutionWe are dwelling in a dynamic situation. While the anxiety of parents is appreciated, online education cannot outdo physical schooling in the long run. The fatigue of on-screen academics, the lack of attention span in a home environment, the enormous loss of interactivity and peer counsel apart from required training, discipline, even extra-curriculars have a staggering impact on raising a child. Also, equally important is the pressure on parents, especially those where both work for a living outside of a joint family situation. Even otherwise online education requires tedious parental supervision. Thus unless the situation is critical, preventive vaccination of elders is a key for family health. Equally paramount is physical schooling and examination for child upbringing even in these troubled times. Conduct of examinations in any case can be staggered with ample safety precautions and distancing norms. The SOPs are well-established and the experience of institutions one is connected with is extremely good. Strict adherence to SOPs, duly monitored and recorded, is however required for physical schooling and examinations to ensure the future of kids. The debate is well- balanced on both sides of the argument and a clear message is required so that parents and academicians are on the same page for raising our next generation properly despite the odds of today.Gunbir SinghPostponement is not the remedyThe resurge is again taking a toll on the education and future prospects of children. There can be no substitute to the classroom teaching demanding the physical presence of students. The pandemic has already affected the pedagogy adversely. Virtual teaching in no way to match the standards of the traditional ways.The real classroom engages the pupils with student-teacher participation and interaction. This definitely promotes scientific abilities, cognitive attitude and ingenuity. Virtual teaching doesn't match the attentiveness, interest and participation of students. Some are even faking to be present while being engaged in another activity. Even it's difficult for the tutor to maintain the decorum and discipline. Internet speed, poor connectivity, lack of proper armamentarium is other issue. No doubt parents are concerned and worried for the well-being of their wards. Shutting down of schools/colleges, postponement of exams is not the remedy. It will add to the woes of the already-wounded education system and further lag in the didactic and learning methodology. Need of the hour is the judicious and diligent adoption of all the safety measures and precautions.Dr Raman GuptaHold exams as our future is in jeopardyParents are very thoughtful about the health and wellness of their wards. No doubt, they themselves clamoured for closure of schools and other educational institutions after mass students got Covid-positive but they are also bothered about the future of their kids. The career of the students rely on the percentile and marks in their board classes. So, the worrisome parents for their students' future give the justification for the postponement of board exams. The schools can take examinations under safe circumstances and can let the students sit individually in one class without any social gatherings. In my perspective, parents are justified in resenting the postponement of board exams as it is delaying the next session 2021-2022. Also, examinations should be conducted as soon as possible under strict circumstances. The educational authorities can also create a sort of system that would help in conducting exams in the safest way possible. Being a student, I have always been worried about my future and my career. I, on behalf of parents and students, waiting to appear for delayed examinations, would suggest the education committee to consider the issue and help in conducting examinations as soon as possible.IzleenNo restrictions on other sectorsFrom the last one year I notified that our education sector is highly impacted by the pandemic. Undoubtedly, parents' resentment regarding exam postponement is quite genuine. So here, it's our states' education ministries' responsibility to make ensure that students would never suffer from education loss. A point to keep in mind is that our society knows there are no strict restrictions imposed by the government on other sectors like marketing, transportation, tour and travel, etc. Moreover, public gathering, marriages, parties, malls, theaters and restaurants all are enjoying freedom under certain norms. Even election campaigns under huge gathering are on full swing. Are they not a cause to spread virus? Why government is not agreeing to conduct offline exam by following some basic instructions and safety measures? Every day the Covid threat is increasing and the lockdown seems inevitable. On the other hand, if any family member is positive how will the student appear for the paper? In Punjab's various districts many school teachers and students tested positive. Also, there is no vaccine for children. That's why parents were in favor of school closure. We are also hoping that teachers get the vaccination before the examinations so that everyone is safe while the offline exams are conducted.PARAMPREET KAURWill schools follow Covid guidelines?With the second wave hitting India, the pandemic is far from over. But still, parents are feeling distressed over the exams' postponing. Firstly, the students have already faced a lot of problems like network issues due to which teaching was not efficient. All exams were also online so far, so they were out of practice to write examinations, even if there is an extra half hour. Secondly, in rural areas many students have not enough money to buy smartphone for online learning. Few days back, nearly 80 per cent parents from urban and rural areas have said they would not send their children to school in this situation when virus spread and deaths rates were quickly rising. The common fears include mandatory wearing of masks, social distancing and proper sanitisation. Whether school authorities would address students properly under the pandemic norms or not is also suspense. Finally, it's time to resolve parents and students' troubles by understanding their problems related to offline as well as online learning and exam conducting.Baljeet Kaur JohalStudents' health is of paramount concernParents should firstly discuss the matter among them and take a common stand regarding opening of schools as flip-flopping on this issue can be dangerous for the students. As per my opinion, exams should not be conducted in such a scenario as the second wave is slowly picking up pace. Students can be pressurised to follow the guidelines inside the school premises but outside it is a whole different story. Given the tender age, they might be hesitant to even wear a mask due to peer pressure. Parents should realise that health of the students is more important than exams as the latter can be conducted anytime but health once gone is very difficult to get back.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHFollow appropriate behaviour religiouslyWith new cases flooding the country at 100,000 or more daily, and with the trends pointing to a certain crisis in the coming four or five weeks, it is difficult to say whether or not schools should be opened. Since students have been away from a formal classroom for more than a year now, the warp and woof of the entire system of education, including all stakeholders stands torn asunder. Though online classes do keep the teachers and students busy, they cannot replace a well-seated class facing a flesh and blood speaker and the blackboard. But notwithstanding this sad state of affairs, this decision had better rest with the authorities who have the full statistical profile with them. It cannot be decided by public opinion. However, it is plain futile or ridiculous to apply different parameters to government schools and private schools. And yes, it is naive requiring teachers to attend school for holding online classes from there only. It doesn't remain online. Perhaps we can call it 'school-line'. It is a very serious issue and if mishandled now, is replete with disastrous consequences. The best approach should be to stick to mask wearing, frequent hand washing and keeping physical distance. It is our national duty to get vaccinated as early as possible and restrict our errands to the most urgent only, and stay away from crowded places. I think vaccinating teams should reach centres of employment like Amritsar Railway Workshop, Guru Nanak Dev University, MC offices, etc. Venues of permanent centres should be prominently displayed at public places. It is a war-like situation. Daily caseloads and fatalities are flashed in all newspapers but they should not be misunderstood. They are not to scare you, but caution you. Meanwhile, rumour mongers should be kept at an arm's length. Lastly, Covid-friendly activities like road shows and rallies must be disallowed.PROF MOHAN SINGHResentment of parents justified Ankur GuptaQUESTIONIn the past few months, there has been an increase in crime incidents such as firing, snatching, robbery. Do you feel unsafe amid the scenario and think that the police need to take drastic steps to curb such incidents in the city?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/postponement-of-examination-no-remedy-respecting-safety-norms-holds-the-key-237956
12-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Three held with 300 gm of heroin||AAP protests power tariff hikeAmritsar: Raising their voice against hike in electricity tariff, local unit of the AAP held a press conference here on Saturday. Party’s state joint secretary Ashok Talwar and Baljit Singh Khaira said the Capt government had failed on every front. Ashok Talwar said, “AAP is protesting against the hike in power tariff and on the call of the state body the party will burn electricity bills in 16,000 party units.” TNSQuiz contest on 9th Sikh GuruAmritsar: GNDU College, Verka, hosted online quiz competitions dedicated to the 400th birth centenary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Students participated in the competitions that were specifically related to the life history of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Iqbal Singh Bhoma, principal, of the college apprised them of the life and teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur. “The purpose was to make students aware about the teachings of Guru Sahib and the fact that it does not belong to any particular religion, community or sect but for the welfare of the entire humanity,” he said. The college also conducted a webinar on Sunday, where students expressed their views on the sacrifices made by the ninth guru and his contribution to the development of Sikh faith. An exhibition of paintings prepared by students was also exhibited. Shubham Kumar won the painting competition. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-with-300-gm-of-heroin-237957
12-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmers' protest: Labourer dies of heart attack||A worker of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, who experienced chest pain on his way home after taking part in the Delhi protest for two weeks, died during treatment at a Amritsar hospital here on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Barkat (80) (see pic) of Bhojian village, was a farm labourer. He along with his associates left his village on March 20 to take part in the protest. He was returning home on April 7 when he experienced chest pain near Karnal (Haryana). He was admitted to the Civil Hospital from where doctors referred him to GNDH, Amritsar. He died in the hospital. The body was kept at the local mortuary where the postmortem will be conducted on Monday. Mohinder Singh, leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, has demanded compensation for the victim’s family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-labourer-dies-of-heart-attack-237958
12-04-2021||---||“Fake” encounter: SIT records statements of family of victim||Amritsar, April 11An SIT under IG Border Range has started inquiry into the toll plaza “fake” encounter case. On Saturday, the SIT recorded the statements of wife and brother of the deceased, Inderjit Singh of Hoshiarpur. The SIT was constituted after the victim’s family moved the High Court. The court has asked the police and SDM, who was conducting the magisterial probe, to submit report. The court has also asked from the police as to why an FIR was not registered in the matter?The family also told the SIT that the police officers who gunned down Inderjeet gave them “compensation” of Rs15 lakh from their pocket. Sarabjit Singh Verka, principal investigator of an NGO, PHRO, asked if the encounter wasn’t fake, then why did the police give cash to the victim family?“There are several flaws in the previous magisterial probe. The CCTV footage of the incident was deleted but the DVRs were not seized during probe. The FIR was not registered after the incident. Now, everything is in the notice of the court,” he said.Inderjit Singh of Hoshiarpur was gunned down by the police under mysterious circumstances on December 8. Initially, a magisterial probe was ordered. SDM Vikas Heera is conducting the probe.On December 8, the CIA staff was holding a naka at Jandiala Guru toll plaza following snatching of a car from a DSP-rank officer in the Putlighar area, when they reportedly received the information from the Ambala police that a person had snatched an SUV and was heading towards Amritsar via Ludhiana and Jalandhar.Meanwhile, Inderjit reached and he was shot dead by the CIA staff. Fingers were raised over the police theory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-encounter-sit-records-statements-of-family-of-victim-237959
12-04-2021||Amritsar||Six mall owners face music for defacing Amritsar city||Officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) have written to six shopping mall owners in the city to provide information on third party advertisements being displayed on their premises.The MC Advertisement Wing is taking a note of the third party advertisements in which some private firms display advertisements of any other brand or company on their property. Though there was a provision of collecting tax for such advertisements earlier too, the civic body had not been collecting it.Sushant Bhatia, MC Advt wing in-chargeNo one is allowed to deface the city. Displaying any poster or hoarding without the civic body's approval is illegal. It should be displayed only on a designated space. The residents should cooperate with us in this drive to keep the city clean.MC Advertisement Wing Incharge Sushant Bhatia claimed that most of the private firms were displaying third party advertisements on their premises. “As per the advertisement policy of the state, they have to pay a tax for these advertisements. No one is allowed to display any advertisement on their personal property and they have to pay tax for the media displayed on their buildings,” he said.The advertisement wing is also seeking information about the media displayed on the delivery vans and trucks. The department has asked the shopping malls to provide a list of the displayed advertisements and also deposit the tax as per rules. Taking strict action against third party advertisements, the MC has also removed several flex boards, hoardings and banners from various markets in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-mall-owners-face-music-for-defacing-amritsar-city-237960
12-04-2021||GS Paul||SGPC prepares logo dedicated to 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 11A special logo dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur has been designed by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).This logo would also be embossed on the commemorative gold and silver coins dedicated to the centenary.The logo depicts the structure of Guru ka Mahal, the birthplace of Guru located in Amritsar. Beneath it is an inscription of the 400-year-old Prakash Purb and the verse of gurbani relating to the Guru at the top. This logo will be used by the SGPC during the centenary celebrations.SGPC spokesperson and deputy secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said a special panel was constituted in this regard, which has designed this logo and dedicated it to the occasion.A separate panel has also been constituted to decide upon the commemorative coins. These commemorative coins will be of gold and silver. Of these, gold coins will weigh 5 grams and 10 grams, whereas the silver coins will weigh 25 grams and 50 grams.Simarjit Singh, deputy secretary, Dharam Prachar Committee, said the work was underway and these coins would be readied soon and offered to devotees who intend to purchase these.On one side of the coin will be a picture of Gurdwara Guru ka Mahal and on the other that of Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib located in Delhi.Gold and silver commemorative coins were also released on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, which were purchased by a large number of devotees as a centenary commemoration.Recently, a proposal has been prepared by the Centre for releasing special commemorative stamps, postal envelopes and commemorative coins dedicated to the occasion. The SGPC had already submitted designing quotient to the Centre’s panel, as desired. The outline of the centenary celebrations has been curtailed due to Covid threat. The main function is being held on May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-prepares-logo-dedicated-to-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-237961
12-04-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Jallianwala closed, kin of martyrs seek nod to pay tributes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 11While the government has imposed an embargo on holding public gatherings till April 30, the kin of Jallianwala Bagh martyrs has requested the government to allow them to visit the memorial so that they can pay tributes to their ancestors.The government had earlier imposed a ban on all public gatherings, including political rallies, in the state in the view of increased number of Covid infections. Otherwise, too, as the memorial is lying closed since February 15 last year, the families of martyrs feel that they would not be allowed inside.“Last year, too, the bagh was closed but my family members and I managed to visit the place to pay tribute to the martyrs,” said Sunil Kapoor, general secretary, Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters’ Association. Sunil’s great-grandfather, Lala Vasu Mall, a prominent citizen of the city, was killed in the massacre.“My great grandmother was newly married at that time and women in our family do not wear choora (red bangles) on weddings since then. Every year, we observe the month of Vaisakh as a month of remembrance. For us, it was a ‘khooni Vaisakhi’ (bloody Vaisakhi). Visiting the bagh on the day is very important for us,” said Sunil.Meanwhile, Mahesh Behal, president, Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Parivar Samiti, said: “We will be going to the bagh to pay tributes to martyrs like every year on April 13.” He said he had been visiting the bagh to pay tributes to his grandfather and other martyrs of the massacre since 1968.“There is no reason that we will not be going. We will say our prayers,” he said. Behal’s grandfather Hari Ram Behal had sustained two bullet injuries in the incident after which he died.The apprehensions among residents have been caused by the recent developments, as the programme of the Prime Minister, who was to inaugurate the renovated memorial virtually on April 13, was deferred due to Covid-19 restrictions in the state till April 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-closed-kin-of-martyrs-seek-nod-to-pay-tributes-237962
12-04-2021||---||After a year-long hiatus, Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi back on track||Amritsar, April 11The second pair of the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (02013/14) resumed its regular run after almost a year from Sunday morning.With 700 passengers onboard it chugged out of the Amritsar railway station at 4.50 am and was scheduled to reach Delhi at 11.30 in the afternoon. The 02013 will arrive at Amritsar at 10.30 pm after departing from New Delhi at 4.30 pm. In it a chair car costs Rs 720 and executive class Rs 1,200 per person.The train was discontinued during the Covid induced lockdown on March 22 last year. After the lifting of the lockdown the railway administration could not restore the rail traffic as agitating farmers blocked the rail traffic. The rail traffic on the Amritsar-Delhi mainline was restored only after the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) had lifted their 169-day long sit-in at the Jandiala Guru railway station on March 11.Then a pair of New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (via Ludhiana) had resumed operation from March 13. It daily arrives at 1.25 pm and departs for Delhi at about 5 pm.Northern Railway has announced to run 04053/54 New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express Weekly Special train from April 15. The 04053 Shatabdi train will leave New Delhi (on Thursdays only) at 7.20 am and reach Amritsar at 1.30 pm with a three-minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.08 am) while the 04054 train will commence its return journey from Amritsar at 4.50 pm to reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt at Ludhiana (6.50 pm).Meanwhile, the railway station wore a deserted look as people scared of surge in the Covid-19 cases were avoiding travel. So only one food plaza, a vend and two trolleys were opened at the railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-a-year-long-hiatus-amritsar-delhi-shatabdi-back-on-track-237963
12-04-2021||---||Covid-19: Amritsar district logs 10 deaths, 274 new cases||Amritsar, April 11As 10 deaths were reported in the district in the last 24-hours, the toll increased to 762 on Sunday. The health authorities have also reported 274 new cases with which the total count has reached 24,214.The deceased have been identified as Sukhchain Singh (40) of Bhullar village, Ravinder Kaur (50) of Milaap avenue, Balbir Singh (65) of Batala Road, Madan Lal (55) of Indira Colony, Tarsem Lal (60) of Nehru Colony, Surinder Kumar (53) of New Nehru Colony, Veena (71) of Tagore Colony, Pritam Singh (51) of Khairabad, Ninder Kaur (83) of Baba Bakala and Sukhman Singh (64) of Attari.The new cases include 178 influenza-like illness cases and 96 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has also reported the recovery of 230 patients with which the recover count improved to 20,329. The district at present has a total of 3,123 active cases.The district health officials said a total of 5,859 persons were given the Covid vaccination on Sunday. The officials said 1,15,996 citizens above 45 years of age have been given the first dose so far, while 4,010 have been fully vaccinated. Additionally, 22,318 healthcare workers and 20,695 frontline workers have been given the first dose. Meanwhile, 8,679 healthcare workers and 7,825 frontline workers have received the second dose.Tarn Taran reports five Covid deathsFive persons infected with the virus died in the district on Sunday, taking the toll to168. The officials said 29 fresh cases of Covid-19 were also reported on Sunday taking the active case tally to 573. The bodies were cremated under set norms by the teams of the Health Department at their respective cremation grounds.Around 165 colleges affiliated to GNDU conduct offline examsAmritsar: Around 165 colleges affiliated to GNDU conducted offline examinations at nearly 220 centres here on Sunday. The exams were earlier postponed after the government had asked educational institutes to shut in the wake of the surge in Covid cases. Prof Manoj Kumar, in-charge, examinations, said the exams commenced on Sunday and would continue till April 26. He said nearly 92% of students took examinations in the morning shift and a little over 93% in the evening. He said given the Covid-19 scenario, the response of students was appreciable. The absence of 7% students is recorded in any examination during normal circumstances, he observed. DAV College Principal Rajesh Kumar said 725 students of different undergraduate classes appeared in exams. Of them, 72 were absent. “Generally, eight to 10% of students remained absent in the past exams as well. So, comparatively, the number of absentee students was not much,” he said. “Moreover, we have many students who hail from J&K, who are admitted under the scholarship scheme and some from other states who could not appear in the exams. They can re-appear as the university had made arrangements for such students,” he said. All guidelines of Covid-19 were followed. The entire exercise of conducting exams by GNDU was upset several times under the changing government policies influenced by the Covid-19 situation. The university first announced offline exams for odd courses from February 15. The decision was met with heavy criticism by students who demanded that given the pandemic, exams must be conducted online as they had received their lectures also online. After deliberations and multiple meetings with students, the university went ahead with its decision to conduct offline exams. While the exams were being conducted, the state government announced to shut universities, colleges and schools once again on March 19, which incited angry reactions from students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-logs-10-deaths-274-new-cases-237953
12-04-2021||Nothing seems to be protected at the ‘protected monument’ of the Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh||The  end? Wrapped in beauty of rich flora and fauna, the scenic Ram Bagh  has been tinkered with.||The Ram Bagh was constructed on the pattern of Shalimar Bagh in Lahore. It was named after fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das. After the annexation, the British renamed it as Company Bagh. The building housed DC’s office and later it was converted into a museum.The entire complex, including the Summer Palace, watchtowers, Hamamghar, Machhi Ghar and two gateways were declared as a protected monument by the Punjab Government in October 1997, while it was also declared a monument of national importance by the Indian Government in 2004.Despite this, the heritage garden witnessed many mindless changes — thanks to the authorities who raised many concrete structures on the premises. The garden which was rich in its flora and fauna has lost much in absence of any care.Machhi GharThere are two similar structures on the eastern and western sides of the Summer Palace. It was located on the eastern side of the palace. Originally, it was a record room for the staff of the Maharaja’s darbar. However, the British after annexation opened an aquarium and therefore it later became popular as Machhi Ghar.MunshikhanaIt is located on the western side of the Summer Palace where Maharaja’s staff used to stay.BaradariMade of red sandstone, it was preserved by the ASI.Maharaja Ranjit Singh panoramaPanorama is a visual documentation of life and victories of the legendary ruler. The main attraction of the panorama is a gigantic 12m tall and 100m-long panoramic painting depicting six major battle expeditions of the Maharaja. The battle expeditions depicted in the painting are supplemented by large circular foreground diorama displaying numerous mannequins of prominent warriors, soldiers, animals, weapons and so on. A specially designed creative illumination of the large painting and the foreground diorama, supported by battlefield sound effects in the background enhances the level of the experience of the viewers. The Maharaja’s grand darbar in Lahore has been recreated in the panorama hall through a large three-dimensional dioramic presentation where Maharaja is seen with his chiefs, nobles and also the poor and destitute.Deorhi Ram BaghThis is one of the main entrances to the Summer Palace which is currently under the occupation of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) which has ‘preserved’ four watchtowers, Baradari, Hamamghar and Machhi Ghar. As per the ASI, Deorhi comprises fortified citadel having the Darbar Hall in the centre, two pavilions on the eastern and western sides and two gateways on the northern and southern sides. Its facade contains beautiful projecting balconies, decorated with ornamental floral designs in lime plaster. Towers surmounted with kiosks are added at corners on both inner as well as outer sides. A beautiful Baradari built in red sandstone and decorated with floral and geometrical designs stands on the terrace. Summer PalaceThe main heritage structure where the legendary Sikh ruler used to live during his visit to the holy city while travelling to Lahore has been under preservation for over a decade. The Punjab Heritage and Tourism Board is currently preserving it. As per officials, the conservation work was near completion; the deadline has been extended several times. According to them, it is now likely to be finished by June. Later, the government planned to open a museum in the building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-end-wrapped-in-beauty-of-rich-flora-and-fauna-the-scenic-ram-bagh-has-been-tinkered-with-237599
