13-04-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: No power, villagers feel the heat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12With a view to protecting wheat fields from burning, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has stopped supplying electricity to rural feeders during the daytime which is causing trouble to rural residents and their animals.Residents of many villages say that for the last one week, they have been witnessing power cut of around 8 to 10 hours during the daytime. “Power cut during the daytime causes a lot of trouble. People need electricity for water, fans and refrigerators,” said Hardev Singh, a resident of Chogawan.Rural residents say that for the past many years, PSPCL is adopting this method during the day. “The same method would be used till all wheat fields are harvested,” said another resident Joginder.Dry wheat stubble is highly combustible and can catch fire from even a single spark. Every year many instances of burning of crop are reported across the state. Residents complain that old and faulty transmission system is the reason behind such accidents but instead of rectifying the root of the problem, the power corporation has found this easy but troublesome method.Joginder Singh, a dairy farmer, said, “We need water for animals. We try to store as much as we can but still it is not sufficient.” He said power cuts during the daytime force them to clean the dairy premises and complete other chores at night. He said the electricity department should focus on upgrading its infrastructure instead of using such ad-hoc measures.An official of the power corporation on condition of anonymity said, “Apart from sparks caused due to a short-circuit, the fields sometime catch fire due to sparks produced by friction of iron parts in agricultural machinery.” He said many times farmers approach them and ask them to stop power supply during the daytime. “Transmission lines need to be upgraded and higher-ups are aware of the situation,” he added.AAP activists burn power bills against high tariff in punjabThe activists of Aam Aadmi Party burnt the copies of electricity bills at Lohgarh Chowk to protest against high electricity tariff in Punjab. Leading the protest, Ashok Talwar, joint secretary, AAP, Punjab, asked if Delhi, which does not have any electricity generation plant, can provide power at lowest price, then why can’t Punjab? Talwar said instead of providing any relief to consumers, the prices in the state were frequently increased. AAP has started a state-wide agitation on the issue of high electricity tariff, he said. “The government will be forced to reduce the prices of electricity, as it is burning holes in the pockets of common consumers,” he said. The party workers were exhorted to take the agitation to every village, every mohalla and every street. Raising slogans against the state government, AAP leaders said workers would go door to door to collect information about the electricity bills. They said this would connect party workers with the masses. Those present on the occasion included Vikramjit Vicky, Mandeep Monga, Vijay Thakur, Ajay Noel and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-no-power-villagers-feel-the-heat-238285
13-04-2021||---||Gang of vehicle lifters busted by Tarn Taran police||Amritsar, April 12Hours after snatching a car from a Mohali resident from outside a private hospital on circular road on late Saturday night, the Tarn Taran police claimed to have arrested two persons with the car.They have been identified as Harmit Singh, alias Heera and Rashpal Singh, alias Pal, both residents of Algo Kalan village. Their accomplices Lovepreet Singh, alias Love, of Beharwal village; and Malkeet Singh of Tarn Taran, were also identified. Two of them reportedly have political links.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said they received a tip-off that the accused were roaming in the area with illegal weapons and the stolen car, following which a checkpoint was set up near Bhikhiwind area and the accused were nabbed. Preliminary probe revealed that the accused were high on drugs when arrested. The police were verifying their credentials.Police sources said Harmit had three criminal cases against him, while Rashpal had two.The accused had snatched a car from Amritpal Singh, a resident of Mohali, after injuring him with a sharp weapon outside a private hospital on circular road. The victim was sleeping in the car, as his newborn was admitted to the hospital. He told the police that he works as a security guard and was stationed at a port in Dubai for the last six years. His wife Navneet Kaur had delivered a baby, but due to poor health of the newborn, he was admitted to the hospital.On Saturday night, he was taking a nap in his car, when three young men approached him and asked him to open the car’s door. As soon as he lowered the glass, one of them said they were in an emergency and would be thankful if he (Amritpal) helped them in reaching their destination.Amritpal Singh said he told them that he was taking care of his family and they should take a lift from someone else. After this, all three robbers forcibly lowered the glass of the car and somehow opened the door and forcibly entered inside. Amritpal resisted the move and the accused attacked him with a sharp weapon. They injured his back and arm and fled with his car, two mobiles and cash.The entire incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras. The Majitha Road police had registered a case against unidentified robbers. In a nutshellThe accused had snatched a car from Amritpal Singh, a resident of Mohali, on Saturday after injuring him with a sharp weapon outside a private hospital on circular road. The victim was sleeping in the car, as his newborn baby was admitted to the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-by-tarn-taran-police-238286
13-04-2021||---||Man escapes from Lopoke police custody during Covid test||Amritsar, April 12A drug peddler, nabbed by the Lopoke police two days ago, escaped from police custody, when he was taken to the hospital for the mandatory Covid test.Ranjit Singh along with Sahib Singh, both residents of Chogawan, were arrested on late Saturday evening near Tapiala for allegedly possessing 12-gm heroin. They were booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at Lopoke police station.On Sunday, both were brought to Bhai Dharam Singh memorial hospital located in the E-block of Ranjit Avenue for Covid testing before being produced in court and taking on police remand. Assistant Sub-Inspector Angrej Singh said as he took Sahib to the doctor for testing, Ranjit pushed ASI Balraj Singh. As a result, he fell and the accused fled away.The police have registered a fresh case under Section 224 of the IPC against Ranjit at Ranjit Avenue police station and efforts were on to arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-escapes-from-lopoke-police-custody-during-covid-test-238288
13-04-2021||---||Chronicling farmer deaths, Anuroop Kaur shares stories of Singhu ‘martyrs’||Amritsar, April 12Documenting farmer deaths at the Singhu border and the impact they have had over the course of the farm agitation, Anuroop Kaur, a tutor from Delhi University, has taken it upon herself to not just chronicle the martyrs of farmers’ movement, but also the reasons behind those deaths.Talking to writer Amandeep Sandhu during an online session with Majha House, Anuroop said her blogs were not just about numbers or body counts, but a glimpse into the psychological toll the entire movement is taking on those sitting at the Delhi borders.“As a supporter of farmers’ movement, I used to frequently visit Singhu border. When the deaths occurred, it felt important to me to document these, or else these sacrifices would go in vain,” she shared. That’s when she started giving an account of farmer deaths through her blogs.As a supporter of farmers’ movement, I used to frequently visit Singhu border. When the deaths occurred, it felt important to me to document these, or else these sacrifices would go in vain. Those deaths were sad, more so because they were being ignored by the government and not being acknowledged. That's when the sadness turned into anger. As a result, I have documented 363 people's deaths on the border so far. —Anuroop Kaur, documenting farmers’ death at singhu“Those deaths were sad, more so because they were being ignored by the government and not being acknowledged. That’s when the sadness turned into anger. As a result, I have documented 363 people’s deaths on the border so far,” Anuroop said, adding that the toll could be higher as she started documenting these from November onwards.While referring to Mukesh, a teacher at a school in Rohtak who committed suicide on April 6, 2021, after accusing the government of anti-people policies, Anuroop said: “I tried finding out why people were so furious. When we visited the border and met farmers, we realised that many of them were suffering from depression. They tell about physical discomfort, but they don’t realise that they are suffering from depression and other mental disorders as well due to such a long sit-in. There are other reasons besides depression such as heart attacks, etc. The important thing is to understand that a death is not just a statistic but a trauma the person’s family face. They also have to face financial difficulties which we cannot understand,” Anuroop explained.Dr Simmi Waraich, a psychologist, who was also one of the speakers, said most people live under a misconception that there are only farmers on the border. “Those sitting at the borders have braved so much that it impacts their mental health. Hence, there are so many reasons behind these deaths.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chronicling-farmer-deaths-anuroop-kaur-shares-stories-of-singhu-martyrs-238289
13-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Man robbed of Rs 5.27 lakh||Two motorcycle borne miscreants robbedRs 5.27 lakhs from a salesman of a local shopping mall ‘Easy Day’ here on Monday from the busy and the main road area.The salesman Harjit Singh reported the incident to the local city police station SHO Inspector Gurcharan Singh who said that the next step would be initiated after the completion of investigation. Harjit Singh, said that he was going to deposit the amount in the bank and kept the cash bag in the luggage box of the motorcycle. When he started the motorcycle one of the robbers pulled the cash bag from the luggage box of the motorcycle. His associate was waiting at the next step. Both fled away from the spot. The police party reached the spot very late. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-rs-5-27-lakh-238290
13-04-2021||---||7 succumb to virus, 315 test +ve in Amritsar dist||Amritsar, April 12With seven deaths reported by the Health Department in the last 24 hours, the toll increased to 769 in the district. The department also reported 315 new cases on Monday, with which the total count increased to 24,529.The deceased have been identified as Kashmir Singh (70), a resident of Fateh Singh Colony; Jagtar Singh (24) of Khanpur village; Shallu (66) of Nag Kalan village; Venus, a 71-year-old woman from Anmol Colony; Harjit Kaur (45) of Attari; Paramjit Kaur (65) of New Azad Nagar and Sukhwinder Kaur (55) of Dashmesh Nagar.The new cases include 227 influenza-like illness cases and 88 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 280 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 20,609. At present, the district has a total of 3,151 active cases.8,888 persons get the jabThe district health authorities reported that 8,888 persons were given injections for Covid-19 on Monday. These include 7,678 persons who received the first dose of the vaccination and 1,210 who were given the second dose.Of the total 7,242 residents above 45-years of age, 121 healthcare workers (HCW), 250 frontline workers (FLW) received the first dose, while 824 residents above 45 years of age, 136 HCW and 250 frontline warriors received the second dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, a vaccination drive for MC office employees was organised on Monday, where 190 employees including three senior officials; secretary Sushant Bhatia, MTP Narinder Sharma and XEN Baljit Singh were inoculated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-succumb-to-virus-315-test-ve-in-amritsar-dist-238291
13-04-2021||---||Jeweller shot at in Amritsar for resisting robbers||Amritsar, April 12Three armed persons shot at a jeweller in a failed robbery attempt at Fateh Singh Colony falling under Gate Hakima police station here on Monday.The victim was identified as Sahil (23), a resident of Gillwali Gate area, who has been admitted to a private hospital for treatment. The police officials reached the spot and started probe. They have been scanning the CCTV cameras in the area to find clues about the perpetrators.Assistant Commissioner of Police Parvesh Chopra said Sahil was running a jewellery shop in Fateh Singh Colony for the last several years. He told the police that he was sitting in the shop, when three bike-borne persons entered his shop. They had covered their faces. He said as they tried to rob him, he resisted their attempt, following which they shot him in the leg.As people started gathering, the accused fled from the spot leaving the robbed ornaments behind.The ACP said though there was no breakthrough in the case so far, efforts were on to identify and nab the perpetrators. The Gate Hakima police have registered a case against unidentified persons for now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jeweller-shot-at-in-amritsar-for-resisting-robbers-238293
13-04-2021||Amritsar||Petrol pump robberies:  Four arrested||The city police claimed to have busted the gang that was involved in different petrol pump robberies in Amritsar rural belt besides Tarn Taran areas.The police have though maintained a silence of their arrest so far, sources, however, revealed that the police have nabbed four robbers and their interrogation was underway.There has been a surge in the robbery incidents in the Amritsar district and Tarn Taran also. Amritsar rural police constituted special raiding parties led by DSP-rank officials to nab the miscreants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/petrol-pump-robberies-four-arrested-238294
13-04-2021||---||Amritsar: Move to reconstruct historic Ahluwalia Gate at Ghee Mandi welcomed||Amritsar, April 12A meeting of the Sultan-ul-Quom Nawaab Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society was held under the chairmanship of its state president Pardeep Singh Walia here today.Members of the society expressed gratitude towards Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu for initiating work of reconstruction of the Ahluwalia Gate at Ghee Mandi.The foundation stone for the gate was laid in 2003 and a resolution for the same was passed unanimously by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation.Walia said the British had demolished the Ahluwalia Gate in 1849 and to support the claim a trust had provided old maps and other materials to the civic body. On the basis of these documents, the MC has initiated the process of reconstruction.The society also appreciated the efforts of Punjab Ahluwalia Trust chairman Charanjit Singh Walia for the reconstruction work.The society also demanded that a statue of Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, Jassa Singh Ramgarhia and Baba Baghel Singh be installed at the Heritage Street.Others present in the meeting included, senior vice-president Gurmeet Singh Walia, financial secretary HPS Walia, general secretary Surinder Singh Walia, Harinder Singh Walia and Simarpal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-move-to-reconstruct-historic-ahluwalia-gate-at-ghee-mandi-welcomed-238295
13-04-2021||---||‘Schoolchildren should understand importance of reading good books’||Pathankot, April 12A novel based on tales woven from the rich tapestry of Hindu mythology was released in the city on Saturday by Dr Samrendra Sharma, former member of the Punjab Public Service Commission.The book — Balan and Dheera: A Tale of Kaliyuga — is a work of fiction and has been penned by Mayank Mahajan. “It is a tale of a serial killer driven by a mission to fulfil an ancient ritual. The novel takes the reader through a gamut of emotions. Its emphasis is on ancient Indian civilisation and also carries an element of science fiction,” said Mahajan.Sharma, who is also a former Principal of SMDRSD College, Pathankot, delivered an elaborate lecture on the habit of reading. “A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, while a man who never reads only lives one. The book is rare in the sense that it assimilates so much of content on a single story. I hope Mahajan comes up with more such works that keep a reader on the edge. Reading has many benefits and hence there are many reasons why we have to develop reading habits. Besides helping you acquire knowledge, it also keeps the brain active and engaged and helps reduce stress. It also expands your vocabulary. Reading is to the mind what exercise is to your body. Reading good books feels like we are having a conversation with the best minds of the past centuries. It is the best state to keep absolute isolation at bay,” said Sharma.“Unfortunately, in the present days of internet and social media, reading has become anathema to youngsters. Schoolchildren should understand the importance of reading good books. Youngsters should keep in mind that an hour spent on reading is an hour stolen from paradise,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schoolchildren-should-understand-importance-of-reading-good-books-238296
13-04-2021||Amritsar||Jandiala police book six for travel fraud||The Jandiala police have booked six persons, including three Ahmedabad residents, for allegedly duping a local resident on the pretext of sending him abroad.Gursharanjit Singh, the victim, told the police that the accused defrauded him of Rs15.65 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad in search of greener pastures.Those booked were identified as Surjit Singh; Anjali Bath; Kanwaldeep Singh, all residents of Ajnala Road; Vishal Patel; his wife Mona Patel and Tejas Patel, all residents of Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Sub-Inspector Surjit Singh said no arrest has been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jandiala-police-book-six-for-travel-fraud-238297
13-04-2021||---||Interactive session on chemistry held||Amritsar, April 12Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Chemistry Alumni Association with the support of Chemical Society organised a live interaction session on the theme “Our Alumni Our Pride”.Chemistry Alumni Association and Chemical Society Teacher in-charge Er Parambir Singh Malhi welcomed the guests and introduced them about the theme of the event.Prof Sukhprit Singh addressed the audience and elaborated the role of the Department Alumni Chapter and applauded the efforts of the team for organising such events. He said the main idea behind organising the event was to motivate the students and make them aware of some challenging opportunities in the field of chemistry.Prominent alumni, including Dr Ravinder J Singh, Director, Mayo Clinic Endocrine Laboratory, USA, interacted with the students. Dr Singh narrated his experience at the GNDU and guided them on how to prepare for a successful career in the field of chemistry in India or abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interactive-session-on-chemistry-held-238299
13-04-2021||---||113 out of 217 get jobs at employment camp||Amritsar, April 12Private companies from diverse sectors hired 113 applicants out of 217 who appeared at the employment camp held under the Capt Amarinder Singh government’s flagship shceme – Ghar Ghar Rozgar, at Employment Bureau here on Monday.Companies like SBI Life Insurance, Google Pay, Simba Quartz, MAX Life Insurance, NIIT and several others hired unemployed qualified youth after interview.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Ranbir Singh Mudhal said the Local Employment Bureau would hold nine employment camps this month. These camps would be held at Government ITI, Baba Bakala on April 16, at Employment Bureau office on April 19, Government ITI, Chhogawan on April 22, Government Polytechnic, Chheharta on April 23, Government ITI, Ajnala on April 27 and Saroop Rani Government College for Women, on April 29.District Employment Bureau Office Deputy Director Vikram Jeet said the Rozgar Mela was held while complying with the guidelines of the Covid-19. He said social distancing was maintained among the participants, no candidate gained access without wearing mask and disinfectants were liberally used. He called upon the candidates to make most of these camps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/113-out-of-217-get-jobs-at-employment-camp-238300
13-04-2021||Amritsar||GNDU shuffles staff, makes new appointments||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Academic Affairs Dean Prof Hardeep Singh and Students’ Welfare Dean Prof Anish Dua took over their charge recently in the presence of senior officials of the university.Academic Affairs former Dean Prof Sarbjot Singh Behl has joined as the OSD to the Vice-Chancellor’s office.Meanwhile, other appointments were also made by the university in a move to shuffle staff. Prof Manoj Kumar has been appointed as the Examinations Professor In-charge, Dr Mohan Kumar as the UGC Human Resource Development Centre Deputy Director and Dr Anish Kumar Dua joined as the Capacity Enhancement Programme Director, in addition to the charge of the Students’ Welfare Dean. Prof Bikramjeet Singh Bajwa has been appointed as the Alumni Association Dean. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-shuffles-staff-makes-new-appointments-238301
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Agri stir activist dies in Tarn Taran village, cremated||Tarn Taran, April 12A farmer, Kashmir Singh (65) of Pandori Ran Singh village, who had returned from Delhi due to illness a fortnight ago, died on Monday and was cremated at the village cremation ground with full honours.The deceased farmer was the member of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, and was actively participating in the agri stir since November.He fell ill a few days ago in Delhi and the leaders of the organisation asked him to go back for treatment. He, however, died on Monday at his native village, 20 km from Tarn Taran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-stir-activist-dies-in-tarn-taran-village-cremated-238306
