14-04-2021||Lahore||Over 800 Indian Sikh pilgrims affected by protests in Pakistan finally reach Panja Sahib||Over 800 Indian Sikhs, whose journey to Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Pakistan to attend the Baisakhi festival was affected due to the road blockades imposed by the supporters of a radical Islamist party, finally reached their destination in Rawalpindi on Wednesday.The Indian pilgrims had reached Lahore via the Wagah border on Monday to attend the festival.But their journey was affected by the road blockade by supporters of Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) demanding the expulsion of the French envoy over the publication of blasphemous caricatures in France.On Tuesday afternoon, the visiting Indian Sikhs left for Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hassanabdal in 25 buses which were escorted by the police and the Rangers.“Owing to the TLP protest that blocked roads, the Sikh yatrees reached Hassanabdal at 4 am on Wednesday after over 14 hours of journey which otherwise is covered in three hours,” an official of the Punjab government told PTI.    They attended the main event on Wednesday in which several local Sikhs also participated.The Indian Sikhs are scheduled to visit other holy places in the Punjab province of Pakistan during their 10-day stay in the country.  The TLP, which bagged 2.5 million votes in the 2018 general elections, blocked the roads across the country following the arrest of Saad Rizvi, son of Khadim Hussain Rizvi who died a few months ago. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-800-indian-sikh-pilgrims-affected-by-protests-in-pakistan-finally-reach-panja-sahib-239059
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Farmers pay tributes to Jallianwala Bagh martyrs||Farmers under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha paid tributes to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre by organising a gathering on road outside the memorial, which was closed in February last year for renovation.The farmer leaders said 102 years ago, the British government killed hundreds of peaceful protesters who had gathered to protest against them. The farmers said the present government at the Centre was moving on the same lines as over 350 farmers have died during the ongoing protests at Delhi borders but it had failed to accept the justified demands of the farming community.The leaders exhorted farmers to take inspiration from the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre and continue the protest till the three controversial laws were repealed. The farmer organisations also criticised the government’s plan of setting up a ticket counter outside the memorial. They said people would launch another agitation if the government did not abandon its plan to set up the ticket counter.Leading the protest, farmer leader Balkar Singh Dudala said: “Like the British government, the present rulers, too, are working against the common masses.” He said the three agriculture laws would destroy the farming community and benefit the corporate.Another leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said: “The farmers’ protest at Delhi borders will soon complete five months. The government is indifferent and focused more on elections. Any sensitive government would have by now addressed the issues of the agriculture sector.” He said the protest would continue till the demands of farmers were accepted. Others who addressed the gathering included Davinder Singh Chattiwind, Harjit Singh Jheeta, Mehtab Singh Sirsa, Bachittar Singh, Hoshiar Singh Jhander and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-pay-tributes-to-jallianwala-bagh-martyrs-238852
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Misplacing Jallianwala Bagh’s model pains its ‘original architect’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/misplacing-jallianwala-baghs-model-pains-its-original-architect-238853
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Five more succumb to virus, 302 test +ve in Amritsar||The district health authorities reported five deaths on Tuesday taking the toll to 774. The Health Department also reported 302 new cases with which the tally of infections reached 24,831.The deceased have been identified as Nirmal Kaur (65) of Waryam Nangal village; Lal Singh (80) of Krishna Square; Surinderpal Kaur (58) of Guru Nanak Nagar; Raghubir Singh (61) of Attari and Surinder Kaur (75) of Pandori Lubana village.The new cases include 220 influenza-like illness cases and 82 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 225 patients, the recovery count has improved to 20,834. The district, at present, has a total of 3,223 active cases.Meanwhile, 4,379 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday. The Health Department figures reveal that till date 1,20,517 persons above 45 years of age have been partially vaccinated, while 4,806 have been completely vaccinated.Further, 22,487 healthcare workers and 21,199 frontline workers have been partially vaccinated and 8,867 healthcare workers and 8,138 frontline workers have been completely vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-more-succumb-to-virus-302-test-ve-in-amritsar-238854
14-04-2021||---||Robbers’ gang busted: 6 held, 12 booked||Amritsar, April 13In a major success, the Amritsar police have busted a gang of robbers and claimed to have cracked as many as 29 cases. The accused were also involved in murder of a woman (Lata) in Sandhu Colony on Majitha Road on April 1.The police have arrested six members of the gang while remaining six of their accomplices were still on run and raids were on to nab them, said the police.Those arrested include Vishal Kumar alias Bhaiya of Fatehgarh Churian Road; Akshay Kumar; Jobanjit Singh and Ranjodh Singh; Jaspinder Singh alias Baba and Jaskaran Singh alias Jass. Their accomplices Suraj; Prince of Nangli; Harpreet Singh alias Waheguru of Indira colony; Mani Singh alias Mota; Sandeep Singh alias Gattu and Lavish Malli of Greenfield on Majitha Road were still at large said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations).Bhullar said their interrogation led to cracking of as many as 29 robbery incidents, including a murder. The gang was active in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala, besides they had committed a robbery in Ludhiana as well.Vishal, who had come out of the jail was the mastermind. He said the gang had planned to rob banks in Haryana and Chandigarh.Jaspinder and Jaskaran were students of Class XII while Jobanjit works at a clinic. Vishal used to sell garments online.The police have recovered two country-made pistols, three sharp-edged weapons and two bikes from their possession while more recoveries were likely to be made, said Bhullar.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations) Yugraj Singh said the accused confessed their involvement in murder of a woman on the 88-feet road on Majitha Road on April 1. It was Vishal, who shot her. Two neighbours had a dispute as the assaulters accused the victims of teasing their girl. The matter had gone to the police, but the accused had failed to prove charges.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said the gang had committed 12 snatchings in areas under the jurisdiction of the city police and looted as many as 14 petrol pumps in rural areas. They had looted petrol pumps in Ludhiana and Tarn Taran as well. As many as 17 petrol pumps were looted by them in the last one month. They had snatched two cars, four two-wheelers and three mobiles phones.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said raids were on to nab the remaining robbers. Their links with gangsters were also being looked into, he said. The arrested robbers were produced before the court, which sent them on police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-gang-busted-6-held-12-booked-238857
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Wheat harvesting to pick up pace in Amritsar next week: Experts||Though procurement of wheat had officially started on April 10, the Agriculture Department and mandi board officials said harvesting would pick up pace next week in the district.This year, the government had advanced procurement date by five days. Last year, the procurement began on April 15.Shift from post-harvest Baisakhi to pre-harvest festEarlier, Baisakhi celebrations were held after harvesting wheat crop. However, with change in climate, crop varieties and technology, festival these days, especially in Majha, harvesting begins a few days after Baisakhi. The much acclaimed poem, “Vaisakhi”, by Lala Dhani Ram Chatrik is a testimony to the fact how farmers celebrated the festival after completing all works associated with wheat harvesting.Mandi board officials said that only negligible amount of harvested wheat arrived in grain markets and most dana mandis in rural areas have not received even a single grain to date.Usually, wheat harvesting in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts begins after Baisakhi. As the Centre has further reduced permissible moisture limit in wheat from 14 per cent to 12 per cent, farmers would have to delay harvesting for a few more days to ensure that they do not have to face any trouble in grain markets.“It’s a matter of 10 to 12 days once harvesting process starts. In the coming days, combine harvesters from Malwa where harvesting begins early, will start arriving here,” said an Agriculture Development Officer. He added that a visit to rural areas revealed that fields still looked green as grains have not dried up as yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-harvesting-to-pick-up-pace-in-amritsar-next-week-experts-238859
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Changing scenario of government schools on department’s mind||Officials of the Education Department held an enrolment drive at the Heritage Street to mark Baisakhi and foundation day of the Khalsa on Tuesday.An admission drive was also held to create awareness among the public about the transformation of government schools, their performance and the level of education being imparted there owing to the modern technology and policies issued by the government.A canopy was set up at the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Chowk, with information on facilities available at government schools. Street plays and cultural dances were performed and on-the-spot enrolment was offered there.Punjab Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, who was in Amritsar to launch the drive, talked about state-of-the-art methods of teaching and improving infrastructure provided at government smart schools. He also released a calendar and stickers prepared by a district team of the department dedicated to the admission drive. DEO (secondary) Satinder Bir Singh, DEO (elementary) Kanwaljit Singh and Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan were also present there.Krishan Kumar said a massive enrolment drive was underway in the state and such drives were being carried out at various Baisakhi fairs in Amritsar, Anandpur Sahib and Damdama Sahib. He said masses were being made aware about the changing scenario of government schools be making announcements using public address system of gurdwaras and door-to-door visits at some villages recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/changing-scenario-of-government-schools-on-departments-mind-238860
14-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Clean air in Amritsar? Well, not so soon!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 13Despite various Central regulatory bodies including National Green Tribunal and Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs issuing directions and funds to improve the city’s air quality, not much is visible on the ground.The city was listed in the non-attainment cities under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which means the holy city does not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS).Under the NCAP, three cities including Amritsar Jalandhar and Ludhiana were identified in Punjab based on the air quality data from 2014 to 2018. Municipal Corporation Amritsar received Rs19 crore to improve the air quality in the city under NCAP.Though the objective of the programme is to reduce the industrial emissions on a priority, industries are not in the purview of the MC. City-specific action plans have been prepared, which includes maintaining of pothole-free roads, procurement of water sprinkling, mechanical sweeping machines, creation of green buffers along roadside, making parks and open areas green, installation of water fountains at major chowks, paved roads, infrastructure for parking, CNG-based crematorium, installation of air purifiers and installation of gobar gas plant at gaushalas.Initially, MC passed 16 proposals to spend the grant in December, but after getting project details, the proposals were revised as per the mandate of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).As per the government programme, the MC has to take measures for strengthening the monitoring network, reducing vehicular/industrial emissions and increasing public awareness to improve the air quality.Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said: “We received a grant of Rs19 crore and made a city-specific plan to improve the air quality. The industry is not in MC’s purview. The meetings are being conducted in this regard and projects under NCAP would be implemented soon.”In September 2020, the Central Government had launched NCAP as a long-term, time-bound, national-level strategy to tackle the air pollution problem in a comprehensive manner with targets to achieve 20 per cent to 30 per cent reduction in particulate matter concentrations by 2024 keeping 2017 as the base year for the comparison of concentration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clean-air-in-amritsar-well-not-so-soon-238861
14-04-2021||Amritsar||No cattle, horse fair in Amritsar on Baisakhi||With Covid-19 restrictions in place, centuries-old cattle and horse fair was not organised on Baisakhi. However, a few horse lovers did reach Vallah Mandi.The 14-day fair at Vallah starts seven days before Baisakhi and continues seven days after the festival. The cattle farmers, especially horse breeders from across the state, participate in the event, where buyers from Jammu & Kashmir, Rajasthan and Delhi arrive to purchase animals.How it startedKarnail Singh, a horse owner from Khankot said: "I have been visiting the fair since my childhood. The Baisaki fair is not being held from the last two years. But some regular visitors did visit. No trade of cattle was organised."The cattle fair is organised biannually by the Panchayat Department on Diwali and Baisakhi. Farmers said other milch animals are prominently brought to the fair on Diwali, but horses occupy the centrestage during the fair.The fair was started by Guru Hargobind, the sixth Sikh Guru, to fulfil the need of horses for his martial military. The British government made it an organised event as horse show and cattle fair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-cattle-horse-fair-in-amritsar-on-baisakhi-238862
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Dhaba owner among two arrested with intoxicants||The rural police have nabbed a dhaba owner for allegedly selling sedative pills.The Kathunangal police station confiscated 1,200 intoxicant tablets, 4-kg dry bhang, 1-kg bhuki and Rs25,000 cash during raid at his dhaba located at Kathunangal.In a statement issued here, police authorities said Ranjit Singh, a resident of Sarchur village in Ghaniye Ke Bangar, runs a Vaishno Dhaba, where he used to sell intoxicants. During the raid, the police also seized a car from the spot. A case under Sections 22 (C), 15, 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against him. He was produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation to ascertain the source of the contraband.Meanwhile, the Gharinda police arrested Gurpreet Singh of Kasel village for allegedly possessing 8,500 intoxicant tablets. Gurpreet Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said some unidentified persons used to order the contraband through phone. A case under the NDPS Act was registered and further probe was on to ascertain the links.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhaba-owner-among-two-arrested-with-intoxicants-238864
14-04-2021||Amritsar||A slew of development works  in East Assembly constituency||Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated work on recarpeting of roads at Krishna Nagar, Jorra Phatak in Ward Number 25 of East Assembly constituency here on Saturday. The work is being done at a cost of about Rs45 lakh and benefit benefit the residents of areas falling under Ward Numbers 20, 21, 22, 23 and 25.Addressing the gathering, Mayor Karamjit Singh said that development works worth crores of rupees were being carried out in all wards of the city. In a similar vein, recarpeting of roads is initiated at a cost of about Rs45 lakh to solve the problems faced by residents of these wards. He said earlier development works had been initiated to provide safe drinking water and improve the sewerage system in the area. The Mayor said development work had been carried out in almost every ward of the city to solve the problem of water and sewerage. However, the remaining areas will be developed soon.Mayor Karamjit Singh said work on recarpeting of roads was being done on a priority basis. The modern smart LEDs have been installed in all wards of the city. Street lights have been installed and we are committed to providing roads, proper sewerage systems and safe drinking water in every area.Councillors Mandeep Kaur, Amarbir Singh, Jasmeet Singh Sodhip, Ajay Kumar, Rajwinder Singh, Vinod Kumar, Raj Kumar and Nand Kishore were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-slew-of-development-works-in-east-assembly-constituency-238865
14-04-2021||Amritsar||Three booked for noise pollution||Man robbed of scooter, cashAmritsar: An ex-serviceman was robbed of his scooter and cash by two armed persons in Khiala Kalan village on Monday. Sumittar Singh of Khiala Kalan village said he was going to Chheharta for some work, when two motorcycle-borne persons signalled him to stop and one of the accused attacked him with a weapon leaving him injured. The accused fled with his scooter. He said besides his mobile phone, he had Rs12,000, an ATM card and other documents which the robbers took with them. A case was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-noise-pollution-238866
14-04-2021||---||Unite against poor economic policies: Jathedar||Amritsar, April 13Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said everyone must unite in response to the economic policies of the government, while delivering his video message on the occasion of Khalsa Sirjana Diwas here today.Congratulating the sangat on the historic occasion, he said they must seek blessings of the Gurus as Guru Gobind Singh had created the Khalsa Panth at Takht Damdama Sahib on this day in 1706.He said people, whether involved in business, agriculture or daily wage work, were being driven to financial losses due to the government’s policies.“We must unite by becoming ‘Amritdhari’ (baptised) and resolve economic problems,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unite-against-poor-economic-policies-jathedar-238702
14-04-2021||Bathinda||Special lecture on ‘Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrdom to Freedom’||To commemorate the 102nd anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, today organised a special lecture on ‘Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrdom to Freedom’. Editor of The Tribune, Rajesh Ramachandran, was the keynote speaker at the programme conducted as a part of the ‘Aazadi ka Amrut Mahotsav ’series.While introducing the keynote speaker, Dr Rajinder Sen mentioned that The Tribune had brought out an edited volume on ‘100 Years of Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrdom to Freedom’. In his keynote address, Ramachandran stated that ‘Baisakhi’ and ‘Jallianwala Bagh Massacre’ were the reminders of the oneness of our nation.During his lecture, Ramachandran also highlighted the distinguished role played by The Tribune newspaper and its Editor Kalinath Ray in inculcating a sense of unity and patriotism among the readers during those times. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-lecture-on-jallianwala-bagh-martyrdom-to-freedom-238706
14-04-2021||Neha Saini||Healing trees: IRS officer Rohit Mehra starts a tree hospital and ambulance in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12From using plastic bottles to create vertical gardens and popularising the concept of micro-gardens and seed balls, IRS officer Rohit Mehra, who is known for his ‘green ideas’ has now come up with probably the nation’s first tree hospital and ambulance service.For the initiative, Mehra has been working on several sustainable ideas to preserve green wealth and encourage low-cost and eco-friendly lifestyle ideas. Opening a tree hospital is just one of the many green initiatives this IRS officer has come up with. 32 kinds of services offered“The idea behind the tree hospital and ambulance service is to safeguard our plants as everything in our ecology is dependent on them. We offer 32 kinds of services such as removal of outgrowths, tree guards, nails, transplantation services for heritage trees, immunity boosters for plants and trees as required and provide expert care and advice to those who seek it,” said Rohit. Within just a month of its operation, Rohit and his team of 20 volunteers at the hospital has already received more than 300 queries.“People call us to help them preserve some heritage trees in their backyards that have been compromised due to concretisation. Some seek help to protect plants from insect attacks and to provide them with immunity boosters. We also help in unpoisoning of plants,” he said.The unique services have attracted the interests of city residents. Rohit has converted an e-rickshaw into a green ambulance that stocks necessary plant medication and the required equipment. He has also been creating awareness regarding preservation of green belt in the local community.Through his latest initiative, Rohit wants to encourage people to learn to live in harmony with the nature. “I am a firm believer that trees are our ancestors and we cannot survive without them. Just like a human body or any other living being requires regular nourishment and care, trees too require care and protection,” he said adding that he aspired to expand the idea of tree hospital to other cities, including Ludhiana, where he was posted at that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/healing-trees-irs-officer-rohit-mehra-starts-a-tree-hospital-and-ambulance-in-amritsar-238298
