15-04-2021||---||Dr Ambedkar remembered on 130th birth anniversary||Amritsar, April 14 Leaders from government and different parties paid homage to Dr BR Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary here on Wednesday. Chairman Punjab Warehousing Corporation Raj Kumar Verka, who was the chief guest on the occasion  at the district-level programme held at District Administrative Complex here said that a chair in the name of Baba Sahib would be established in Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and a memorial dedicated to him would be established with the investment of Rs 120 crore at Kapurthala.  Reiterating the commitment of his government to elevate the standard of living of Scheduled Castes, he said the government had initiated a scholarship scheme for the students coming from reserved categories in the name of Dr Ambedkar. He said the architect of the Constitution provided an equal status to all citizens of the country.  Talking to CM during the virtual programme he demanded that salaries of the safai karamcharis must be hiked and they must be given regular jobs. He sought implementation of the 85th amendment.  Verka informed that the state government would invest 30 per cent of funds from its own resources for the welfare schemes for the SCs. He said jobs under the SC quota would be filled on priority and the students from the reserved categories would be provided economic assistance in gaining higher education.  In a separate programme, Cabinet Minister OP Soni, paid floral tributes at the statue of Dr Ambedkar in Town Hall. He said the present dispensation increased the amount under the Shagun Scheme being given to Dalit families and revival of post-matric scholarship scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-ambedkar-remembered-on-130th-birth-anniversary-239324
15-04-2021||---||Amritsar artist Smiley Chowdhary creates art from waste||Amritsar, April 14Creating a series of paintings and murals made from all kinds of waste material, based on the theme of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, artist Smiley Chowdhary and her team has dedicated the art work to the city.The art work has been created under the skill training project undertaken by FICCI FLO, a year ago. The series called ‘The Golden Era’ depicts the Maharaja and glimpses of his life and reign.Smiley, who is an executive member of FICCI FLO, has been pursuing art for the 10 ten years and working with waste is her forte. She has been training 100 girls from Missiondeep, a non-profit organisation, that supports education of girls from poor families. Smiley and her team led by Meeta Mehra, chairperson, FICCI FLO city chapter, presented these murals to DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira.“These paintings have been made by using waste material including fibre, glass, fabric waste, other plant-based waste. The project work on this has been going on for over year-and-a-half and these paintings will be displayed at the new administration building complex, in line with its heritage inspired architecture,” Smiley said.Previously also, Smiley has worked on several art projects with FICCI FLO. She mostly works with crude materials such as cement, wood, iron, bamboo, GRC, fibre, wax, glass, paper, ribbon and turning the mundane materials into intangible art.FLO has been running several mentorship programmes for girls from Missiondeep, imparting skill training as part of providing them employment opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-artist-smiley-chowdhary-creates-art-from-waste-239325
15-04-2021||---||Amritsar DC takes stock of wheat procurement arrangements||Amritsar, April 14The wheat procurement season for 2021-22 has started in the district and all departments, including the Mandi Board, the Food and Civil Supplies Department, various procurement agencies, farmers and labourers are keen on receiving the produce. This was stated by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira here on Wednesday.The DC said till last evening 600 metric tonnes of wheat had been procured. Khaira along with other officials reviewed the arrangements made for wheat procurement.He said during this season wheat would be procured by Food Corporation of India and all the procurement agencies at the MSP of Rs 1,975 fixed by the Government of India. He said according to the estimates of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, 7 lakh metric tonnes of wheat was expected to reach the mandis in the district. In view of which wheat procurement targets have been set for various agencies, including Pungrain, Markfed, PUNSUP, Warehouse and FCIKhaira said keeping in view of the outbreak of Covid-19, arrangements had been made at 54 procurement centres to ensure the health and safety of the farmers. However, wheat grains had not yet reached all mandis of the district.Jaspreet Singh, Additional Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies, Punjab, had been given the responsibility of checking the overall procurement of Amritsar which would conduct a surprise inspection of the mandis every week. The DC said in view of the situation created due to Covid-19, the state government would procure wheat by following the guidelines of the Health Department. “For the prevention of coronavirus, a token system had been introduced in the mandis so that farmers could bring wheat in the mandis in a planned manner.“Besides, the Punjab Mandi Board has taken steps to maintain strict social distancing norms in the grain markets of the state. Every person has been instructed to stay at a distance of at least 2 metres. Besides, sanitisers and soaps have been provided in the mandis for washing the hands,” said Khaira.He asked farmers, commission agents, government and private employees, traders, labourers to wear masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dc-takes-stock-of-wheat-procurement-arrangements-239326
15-04-2021||Amritsar||Trials for girls’ sports academy postponed||Keeping in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases the SGPC has decided to postpone the trials for the selection of the players for its Girls’ Sports Academy. In view of the enthusiasm for sports among the girls, the trials were scheduled for April 15 and 16 at GNDU, Amritsar. The dates for these trials will be rescheduled, which will be communicated to the players, officials told.  SGPC had recently organised trials for its Girls’ Sports Academy on March 13-14 at PAP Ground in Jalandhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trials-for-girls-sports-academy-postponed-239327
15-04-2021||Neha Saini||Cancellation of Class X exams a ‘sensible’ move by CBSE||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, April 14Considering the second Covid-19 wave in the country, the CBSE on Wednesday finally decided to cancel the Class X exams.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting attended by the PM and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. While the CBSE Class XII exams have been postponed further, Class X students will be promoted and graded on the basis of ‘objective criterion’.With the decision finally putting to rest the anticipation of teachers, students and parents across the country, prominent educators from city shared their views on the new development and whether it’s going to have any impact on students or not."It comes across as the best and most sensible decision under such unprecedented circumstances. As such, most schools had already conducted internal assessment for Class X as a backup process and grading in Class X does not hold much importance as Class XII results," said Rajiv Sharma, principal, Springdales Public School.Dipanshu Sharma, a Class X student from Senior Study II, said: “The fact that the exams have been scrapped due to Covid-19 situation feels like a respite, but it is disappointing as well as we had prepared hard for the exams all year long despite the pandemic. Since it was necessary to do so, students should now focus on the next class and year ahead and hope that the academics resume normally soon.”Rijul of Springdales Public School, said: “I feel the decision has spoilt our chance to perform better as my pre-board performance was not great since nobody expected this outcome. Most of the year, it was difficult for students as well to make the transition from classroom learning to online learning and we hoped the exams would be postponed. But now, we do not have a chance to score like we intended to.”"Health wise, it seems a good decision as given the rise in number of Covid-19 cases, it will be a challenge to conduct exams. But as an educator, I feel examinations must have been conducted, as it might appear unfair to students who have been working hard throughout this challenging year. The criterion by the CBSE to keep the option of taking exam for students who wish to do so later comes as a respite." — Anita Bhalla, Principal, Bhavan's SL Public School"It's a sensible decision under given circumstances. I believe for parents and students, exams might be a priority, but for the CBSE, multiple aspects of health of students, teachers and everybody involved in the process remains a priority. Also, this will give benefit of doubt to those students, who had trouble coping with the online mode of learning as not all students could access online classes in equity." — Vinodita Sankhyan, Principal, Shri Ram Ashram School"It is a sensible decision under given circumstances. It was the need of the hour to come up with a decision that considers health of students rather than academic performance."—Rajiv Sharma, Principal, Springdales Public School||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cancellation-of-class-x-exams-a-sensible-move-by-cbse-239368
15-04-2021||---||Vehicle thieves have a field day||Amritsar, April 14 Thieves stole five motorcycles and one scooter during the last 24 hours in the city.  In the first incident, Sankhlap Sharma in his complaint lodged with the Ranjit Avenue police station stated that his motorcycle was parked outside IELTS Centre Western Overseas in Ranjit Avenue which was stolen by some unidentified person.  ASI Gurdeyal Singh, investigating officer in the case, said a case under Section 379 of the IPC had been registered in this regard. In the second incident, victim Amritpal Singh in his complaint to the police stated that he had parked his motorcycle outside his house in the street which was stolen by some unidentified person. The Sadar police have registered a case in this regard. In the third case, Ashu said his Splendor motorcycle was stolen by some unknown person from outside JJ Enterprises on Madan Mohan Malviya Road. The Civil Lines police have booked an unidentified person in this regard. In another case of Civil lines area, Davinder Singh in his complaint to the police stated that his Activa scooter, which was parked outside Adlakha Hospital Race Course Road, was stolen.  ASI Vinod Kumar posted at the Lawrence Road Police Post stated that a case had been registered against an unidentified person. In another case of theft, some unidentified persons stole a bike, which was parked outside the house of Vishal Kumar in the B-division area. On the complaint of Vishal, the police have registered a case. The Gate Hakima police booked an unidentified person on the complaint of Saurav Mahajan for stealing his motorcycle. Mahajan stated that he parked his bike outside his house which was stolen by some unknown person.  No culprit has been arrested in any case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-thieves-have-a-field-day-239369
15-04-2021||---||Non-payment  of dues: 3 shops sealed in Amritsar city||Amritsar, April 14 The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) sealed three shops at Deendayal Upadhyay market and in Hathi Gate area here. The shop owners had not paid dues. The MCA had sold the shops through an open bid and the buyers had to pay the pending amount in instalments. The MC has a large number of such properties where occupants have not paid the pending amount. On the orders of MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, Estate Officer Dharminder Jeet Singh along with his team and police force sealed two shops at Deendayal Upadhyay shopping complex and one shop in the Hathi Gate area.  Dharmendra Jeet Singh said a list of properties sold by the Municipal Corporation was being prepared and the shops of those occupants, who did not pay the dues, would be sealed and the initial amount deposited by them seized by the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/non-payment-of-dues-3-shops-sealed-in-amritsar-city-239370
15-04-2021||---||Amritsar civic body yet to make effort for Water Plus certification||Amritsar, April 14 Though the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had introduced the Water Plus (+) component under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in 2019, the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) is yet to adopt the protocols in the city.  Several cities of the state have already applied for the certification after providing the required infrastructure but here most of the officials of departments concerned in the MCA are not aware of the Water Plus (+) component of the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM). Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MCA officials are hoping for improvement in its rankings under Swachh Survekshan 2021 but the infrastructure for one of the major components is missing in the city. The certification would help the city to improve its rank in the survey. Moving beyond Open Defecation Free (ODF), ODF+ and ODF++, the Water Plus (+) protocol aims to provide guidelines for cities to ensure that no untreated waste water is discharged into the open environment. The Municipal Corporation (MC) is releasing sewer water in Tung Dhab drain and Sewerage Treatment Plants (STPs) are also insufficient as compared to water discharge. There are some areas on the outskirts where toilets and waste water is not being discharged in sanitary outlet in the absence of sewer line. Dr Yogesh Arora, Municipal Health Officer (MHO), said, “The Water Plus component is not under our preview as the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) wing takes care of it.” Despite repeated attempts, Anurag Mahajan, Superintending Engineer, O&M, did not respond to the phone calls. Other officials of the department were not aware of the Water Plus certification. Manjit Singh, Executive Engineer (O&M), said, “We have three sewerage treatment plants functional in the city. The capacity of STPs at Bharariwala and Gaunsanbad is 95 MLD each. Another STP at Chatiwind with a capacity of 27 MLD is also functional. Over 90%area of the city is covered with sewer line.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-yet-to-make-effort-for-water-plus-certification-239371
15-04-2021||---||11 die, toll mounts to 785 in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 14The district health authorities reported 11 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 785.The Health Department also reported 316 new cases with which the tally of infections reached 25,147. The deceased have been identified as Amrit Singh, 84, of Bhai Manjh Singh Nagar; Moti Khurana, 73, of the Mall Road; Sewa Singh, 76, of Jandiala Guru; Prabhjot Singh, 25, of Dhendel Mehta Chowk; Manjit Kaur, 40, of Dheriwal village; Upkar Singh, 70, of Gurnaam Nagar on the Sultanwind Road; Deepak Kumar, 45, of Bharat Nagar on Batala Road; Sneh, 60, of New Golden Avenue; Santosh Sharma, 80, of Majitha House; Amarjit Kaur, 70; Adarsh, 75, of Loharka Road.Of 316 positive cases, 229 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 87 are contacts of positive cases. As many as 250 patients have successfully recovered.Meanwhile, 5,494 persons were vaccinated on Wednesday. Figures reveal that till date 1,91,508 persons have been vaccinated.Health officials and police personnel checked the compliance of masks among people. They asked violators to abide by the Covid-19 norms to secure their health. They visited various parts of the city such as localities inside the Hakima, Khazana and Lohgarh gates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-die-toll-mounts-to-785-in-amritsar-239372
15-04-2021||---||A tribute to Jallianwala Bagh’s avenger||Amritsar, April 14Author Anita Anand, whose new book ‘The Patient Assassin’ is based on Shaheed Udham Singh, participated in a web session hosted by Majha House to mark the anniversary of Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The book is a winner of the Pen Hessell-Tiltman 2020 award and is already into its second edition as Anita shared her personal connection with the most significant incident in India’s nationalist history.“I have a strong personal connect to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre as my grandfather was a survivor and all his life he lived with the survivor’s guilt that he lived while all his friends who were there on that fateful day died,” shared the BBC journalist and noted writer.“My book traces the life of the legendary Punjabi hero and martyr Udham Singh. We must remember and appreciate that Udham Singh was just 20, when he witnessed the massacre and swore to himself that one day he would avenge the thousands of innocents who died at the hands of Gen Dyer. To stick to that one abiding life-long aim, day by day for more than 20 years is not an easy thing,” she stressed.Her book talks about the significant details in the life of Udham Singh, as he pursued his path, like the handful of the soil rendered red by the flowing blood from Jallianwala Bagh that he kept with himself as a constant reminder of his pledge and the sacrifice of innocent and unarmed men and women and children. “I felt compelled to tell his story not only because of the personal link, but also because his life and passion hasn’t received as much attention as it deserves. His inexorable move towards his goal is singular and inspiring because of his lasting devotion to his oath,” she said.Her book shows that Udham Singh first moved to Africa where he worked at what was known as the lunatic line — called so because of poor living conditions, pitiful wages and rampant wild lions and thus death — to stay alive. From there, he moved to the US, where he learned the art of blending in with locals by donning western clothes. “His last move was to England and he spent years there cultivating contacts and connections that would somehow bring him close to his target, who moved in high security. Off and on, he would go to Russia to get the weapons he required,” she said.Anita said most of her research was sourced from Udham Singh’s diary, which accounts his days spent in prison, leading to his execution. Talking about his personal life, she said he might have married while in Africa, as there are some records of some woman, but it’s not quite confirmed. She accompanied all this information with some rare photos collected over the years of painstaking research, which was her humble way of paying attention to Punjab’s martyr hero Udham Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-tribute-to-jallianwala-baghs-avenger-239374
15-04-2021||Amritsar||Rajasansi Air Force Station pays homage to martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rajasansi-air-force-station-pays-homage-to-martyrs-of-jallianwala-bagh-239385
15-04-2021||Though the ruling Congress captured most of the wards in the Municipal Council||Doubts over election to local bodies chief||Education Department goes all out to persuade parentsOfficials of the Education Department are leaving no stone unturned to increase the enrolment of children in government schools. The department had launched ‘Each One, Bring One’ move to increase the admission. Sushil Kumar Tuli, District Education Officer (Elementary), and Deputy DEO (E) Paramjit Singh said, “ Staff members of government schools, including heads, are motivating parents of kids for admission in government schools.” Members of the school staff are establishing contacts with village panchayats and representatives of social organizations for admissions in government schools. Flex boards had been installed in each village at the common place. Nukkar nataks are being displayed in villages. The department is taking all steps to advertise the facilities provided to children in government schools. Education Officer Paramjit Singh said pamphlets were being distributed among the residents. The school staff was daily making announcement through the common public address system in the villages. He said comparison to last year this year students strength had increased 17 per cent. He said certain social organizations, retired teachers, were also coming forward in helping the Education Department move. District Education Officers had specially appreciated the best efforts of Kuljit Kaur Mand, head teacher of Government Elementary School, Nandpur (Block Naushehra Pannuan) for her remarkable efforts to increase admission in school.Rs11.48 crore for social welfare schemesThe state government is all set to release Rs 11.48 crore to the beneficiaries under different social welfare schemes. The bills in this respect were submitted to the District Treasury Officer (DTO) a few days back by the District Social Security Officer. Karam Singh, DTO, said the money would be transferred to the bank accounts of all eligible beneficiaries. The DTO said the office of Capt Amarinder Singh had issued instructions to release the social security pension without any delay.Yes! I am lucky enoughSarwan Singh, a farmer of Mughal Chack Pannun village (Tarn Taran), is feeling lucky enough being the father of three honest, hardworking, dedicated and excellent daughters who have excelled in international sports. Sarwan Singh is the holder of mere one acre land and to pull the daily domestic expenditure he operates three-wheeler. The daughters are Rajwinder Kaur (22), Mandeep Kaur (21) and Veerpal Kaur (20). Rajwinder Kaur, who is doing her BPEd from Bathinda, is a member of national hockey team for Olympic Games. Mandeep Kaur is a state-level hockey player and Veerpal Kaur had won medal in the recently concluded national-level wrestling tournament held in Karnataka. Sarwan Singh said he was ready to make any sacrifice for her daughters. Mandeep Kaur and Veerpal Kaur were recently honoured by Kulwant Singh, Deputy Commissioner, with sports kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doubts-over-election-to-local-bodies-chief-239386
15-04-2021||Amritsar||Fire Service Day observed in Amritsar||Tributes paid to Dr BR AmbedkarTarn Taran: Various social organisations and political parties paid floral tributes to Dr BR Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary on Wednesday. In the virtual district-level function chaired by Capt Amarinder Singh, MLA Dr Dharamber Agnihotri and Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, among others, paid tributes to Dr Ambedkar . The MLA highlighted pro-poor policies of the state government on the occasion. Prithipal Singh Marimegha of the CPI while addressing a rally organised by the All India Kisan Sabha and the FCI Workers Palledar Union in Harike Pattan condemned the Centre, which was trying its best efforts to change fundamental spirit of the Constitution, which gives special rights to the Scheduled Caste in the form of reservation in jobs. The Safai Sewak Union led by Romesh Kumar Shergill remembered Dr Ambedkar and demanded better job avenues for weaker sections. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-service-day-observed-in-amritsar-239387
