16-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Virsa Singh Valtoha, Akali ex-MLA acquitted in murder case||Former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha was today acquitted by a local court in the 38-year-old murder case of Patti-based Dr Sudarshan Trehan, who was shot at his clinic.The case was reopened around two-and-a-half years ago by presenting fresh challan by the district police.With other lapses in the reopening of the case, the district police had to face embarrassment in the court for not maintaining proper record.Five witnesses were examined in the court but the prosecution failed to prove the charges and keeping all facts presented by Valtoha’s advocate JS Dhillon, the court of Charanjit Arora Additional District and Session Judge acquitted him. Valtoha said he was wrongly framed in the case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virsa-singh-valtoha-akali-ex-mla-acquitted-in-murder-case-239592
16-04-2021||Amritsar||1 booked for raping minor in Amritsar||Woman robbed of earringsTarn Taran: Two snatching incidents were reported in the district on Wednesday. In Akbarpur village, Joginder Kaur was at her grocery store when two motorcycle-borne snatchers entered the shop and snatched her earrings. After the victim raised an alarm, villagers came to her rescue and held one of the snatchers. The accused have been identified as Inderjit Singh and Gurjant Singh, both residents of Makhi Kalan. The accused have been booked under Section 379-B of the IPC. In the second incident, motorcyclists snatched Rs 81,000 from Sanjeev Kumar of Cholha Sahib on Wednesday near Billianwala village. The complaint said after snatching money, the accused managed to escape from the spot. A case under Section 379-B of the IPC has been registered against the accused, said the Investigating Officer, Sarwan Kumar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-booked-for-raping-minor-in-amritsar-239725
16-04-2021||Streets surrounding Darbar Sahib are centuries old and have direct link with the lives of the Sikh Gurus and pilgrimage is considered incomplete without visiting these city sites. Tribune Correspondent Manmeet Singh Gill and lensman Sunil Kumar take you to a spiritual journey in the holy city||Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Amritsar||The holy city, which is known world over for the Sikh shrines, including the Golden Temple, has numerous places of religious and historical value in lanes surrounding Darbar Sahib. For most of the visitors, including Sikhs, visiting the Golden Temple is the foremost thing on their itinerary. But for devotees, their pilgrimage is not complete till they visit most places (gurdwaras) associated with the Sikh Gurus. Gurdwara Bibeksar SahibSituated on the banks of Bibeksar sarovar, the place was frequented by Guru Hargobind Sahib, who held discussions with the Sikhs at this place after his wrestling and martial arts training sessions. The present gurudwara was built during the period of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Manji SahibDedicated to the fifth Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev, it’s the place where he composed gurbani of Sukhmani Sahib while sitting under the shade of a ‘Beri’ (tree). The gurdwara is located on the bank of a sarovar near gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. Gurdwara Pipli Sahib Situated around 1 km away from the Amritsar railway station, Guru Arjan Dev personally welcomed devotees coming from Afghanistan and north-western districts for the excavation of sarovar at Darbar Sahib. The place was subsequently turned into a resting place for devotees. Gurdwara Bibi KaulanThe place is named after Bibi Kaulan, who was an adopted daughter of Qazi of Lahore. The samadh of Bibi Kaulan lies at the western end of Kaulsar gurdwara. It’s stated that her father had pronounced a death sentence for her for showing devotion for the Sikh Gurus. She had found refuge at the place. The sixth Guru had directed devotees to take a dip in sarovar at Mata Kaulan before taking a dip at holy sarovar at the Golden Temple.Gurdwara Toba Bhai ShaloBhai Shalo was a prominent Sikh during the period of Guru Ram Das, Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Har Gobind. He was instrumental in bringing traders and artisans of 52 castes to the city when it was being developed. He was in charge of the city and collected food for langar. Originally a dharmshala, the place, now a gurdwara is visited by people seeking blessings for a son. People donate cow dung cakes and take a bath in the holy tank. Gurdwara Guru Ka MahalAs the name signifies, it was a residential place for Gurus and their families. The ninth Sikh master, Guru Teg Bahadur, whose 400th birth anniversary is being celebrated this year, was also born at this place. Situated to west of Akal Takht across Guru Ka Bazzar, the place was originally a modest hut built by Guru Ram Das in 1573. The place was subsequently enlarged and beautified by Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Hargobind Sahib. The house was later converted into a gurdwara. Gurdwara Baba Atal SahibIt’s a nine-storey octagonal tower, over 45m in height, near Kaulsar sarovar and to the south-east of the Golden Temple. At this place, Baba Atal Rai, nine-year-old son of Guru Hargobind passed away on September 13, 1628. A simple memorial in honour of Baba Atal was raised on the site originally. Construction of the present edifice commenced after the Sikh misls had established their authority in Punjab. The cornerstone was laid in 1770 and first three floors were completed by 1784. The upper floors were constructed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The first six storeys are larger than upper ones, which rise above the central sanctum. The doors on the ground floor, four in number, are decorated with embossed designs, on brass and silver sheets. Interior walls and the ceiling are covered with murals depicting scenes from lives of Guru Nanak, his two sons and nine successors, Guru Gobind Singh’s four sons and Baba Buddha. Samadh Sardar Jassa Singh AhluwaliaIn the vicinity of gurdwara Atal Sahib is a memorial of Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia. Under his leadership, the Sikhs ruled Delhi and Lahore and he had earned the title of Sultan-Ul-Quam. After Abdali had demolished the structure of Darbar Sahib, Jassa Singh had contributed Rs 9 lakh for reconstruction of the building. Gurdwara SantokhsarBefore Guru Arjan Dev became Guru, he came at this place on the instructions of the third Sikh master, Guru Amar Das, to find a place for excavation of the holy tank. As per a tradition, when the place was being dug, Yogi Santokh Muni was found meditating underneath. It’s stated that Muni told Guru that he had been meditating for long and breathed his last. It’s first of five holy sarovars in the holy city and was completed in 1589.Gurdwara Ramsar SahibSituated alongside Ramsar sarovar, the smallest of Amritsar’s five holy ponds, the place is associated with the fifth Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev. The Sikh holy book, Guru Granth Sahib, was edited and compiled at this place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spiritual-journey-of-gurdwaras-in-amritsar-239719
16-04-2021||---||Another ‘Pehal’ for special children||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15As government schools across the district have been consistently running campaigns to highlight infrastructural development during the pandemic, ‘Pehal’, the only government-run school for children with disabilities in the city, has been making efforts to connect digitally with students, despite several limitations.Dharminder Gill, coordinator, Pehal Resource Centre, said awareness programmes being run by schoolteachers focus on providing education to children with disabilities and impart them skill development training under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan. “Unlike mainstream schools, we have to focus on convincing parents of special children to not deny them basic learning and skill education. The programmes have been made child specific. We are encouraging a home-based learning set up, where special educator and one family member work together to make the child learn without any gaping holes. It’s a challenging task,” he said.Pehal has already enrolled 127 students in the current session, which is a slight dip from previous years. Gill said they were limiting number of students due to the changed scenario.“As our teachers have to adopt a different strategy to impart education, we are not aiming for high number of enrolments. Teachers have to coach family members of wards as well. Those who do not have means or family support to get through digital transformation of learning are being reached out individually.”While most parents were familiarising to the new concept, the school has been imparting virtual physiotherapy classes for students with physical disabilities and online training for athletes.“We have several students who take part in Special Olympics. So, making up for the lost time due to pandemic, we are giving them counselling and online practice sessions. Our dance team has been selected to participate in Indo-Nepal Dance Sports Championship scheduled to be held in June,” said Gill.Meanwhile, to cope up with dearth of special educators in the district, Pehal has tied up with GNDU’s Department of Education to provide teachers and infrastructural support to the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-pehal-for-special-children-239710
16-04-2021||---||Hindu leader Sudhir Suri alleges threats by gangsters||Amritsar, April 15Controversial Hindu leader Sudhir Suri on Thursday alleged that he was receiving threats from alleged gangsters for reaching a compromise in an instance in which a car was collided with his bus around nine days ago.He had alleged that the occupants of the car indulged in firing and the incident had led to the injuries to the passengers of bus owned by him. He said he along with his security personal handed over four suspects to the local police at that time. He said a revolver, car and keys of the car used by the accused were also handed over to the police. A case of murder bid and under different Sections of the Arms Act was registered by the police in this connection. However, the police let off a youth who later turned to be a close associate of PA of a local political leader. Later, his videos with weapons went viral and local BJP leadership was trying to save him.Suri alleged that he was also getting threat calls from gangsters lodged in jail and outside on bail for reaching on compromise or be prepared for the dire consequences. Suri alleged since the incident, he was getting threats from radicals from different mobile numbers of foreign origin. He said links of these gangsters with foreign-based Khalistani organisations should be looked into.In a letter shot to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, national chairman Shiv Sena Taksali said that after the registration of an FIR in the case he was constantly getting threats from notorious gangsters of Punjab. He urged the Chief Minister for ‘quick security review’ including deployment of additional security at the earliest.He also demanded an FIR against the cops who let off one of the suspects at the behest of his political bosses.Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), said that the police had already registered an FIR in the incident and raids were on to nab the remaining suspects. He said he had asked Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh to submit a report regarding the allegations of Sudhir Suri of letting off of a youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hindu-leader-sudhir-suri-alleges-threats-by-gangsters-239709
16-04-2021||GS Paul||Open Jallianwala in 15 days: Martyrs' kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15Kin of Jallianwala Bagh martyrs have given an ultimatum to the Centre and the state government to reopen the historic site within a span of 15 days. Amid the Covid -19 restrictions, the proposal to reopen the ‘facelifted’ Jallianwala Bagh for the public was put on back burner.After skipping many deadlines, the Bagh was proposed to be dedicated to the public on April 13 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, was supposed to unveil the renovated historic site virtually from New Delhi. At the eleventh hour, the programme was deferred as the state government had imposed ban on public gathering till April 31.Mahesh Behl, who had lost his grandfather advocate Lala Hari Ram Behl in the 1919 massacre, said that if the governments did not open Jallianwala Bagh within a fortnight, they, along with their families, would have no option but to stage sit-in outside the historic Bagh. “We will stage dharna at the gate of Bagh where our ancestors had laid down their lives to lay the foundation of freedom struggle”, he said.He said that every year martyrs’ families pay homage to the departed souls on April 13, but this time they were not allowed by taking an ‘excuse’ of Covid threat.“In 2020 during the lockdown, it was justified to close it and we accepted that. But now when the religious places like the Golden Temple, the Durgiana Mandir and other public places could be thrown open, what was the hitch to open Jallianwala Bagh?”,he asked. Due to renovation work, the memorial has been lying closed since February 15, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-jallianwala-in-15-days-martyrs-kin-239704
16-04-2021||---||Amritsar's 42 villages pass pact not to back peddlers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15As many as 42 villages have come forward and passed resolutions not to support any person who has been arrested or booked by the police for peddling drugs.The effort has been made to nail drug peddlers in rural belt. The police have been encouraging village panchayats to pass such resolutions with the hope that it would act as deterrent.“Once panchayats and people stop cooperating with drug traffickers, it will definitely discourage peddlers from indulging in such acts,” said a senior police official.He said passing a resolution means, village panchayats or people from that particular village would not help a drug peddler in getting bail.These 42 villages fall under the jurisdiction of eight police stations, including Lopoke, Kathunangal, Jandiala, Rajasansi, Majitha, Kamboh, Ramdass and Chatiwind. The resolution read, “The village panchayats will not help any person involved in selling drugs. If anyone is booked by the police, the panchayat will not help in getting bail.”Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dahiya said the police have been holding meetings with village panchayats for quite some time now. “Once people come forward and refuse to help peddlers, it will act as deterrent. People will think twice before indulging in illegal drug trade,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-42-villages-pass-pact-not-to-back-peddlers-239682
16-04-2021||---||Congress takes control of 4 civic bodies in Amritsar district||Amritsar, April 15Two months after results of civic body elections (three municipal councils and two nagar panchayats) were declared in the district, presidents and vice-presidents of four local bodies were elected on Thursday. Putting aside all the speculations, Deepak Arora of the Congress was elected president of Ajnala nagar panchayat unanimously.Raminder Kaur Mahal, who contested on the Shiromani Akali Dal ticket, and later joined the Congress has been elected senior vice-president.The Congress had suffered a setback in Ajnala where Akalis won eight wards out of 15, but managed to elect their office-bearers after Mahal joined Congress.MLA Harpartap Singh Ajnala and Youth Congress leader Kanwar Partap Singh Ajnala congratulated the elected office-bearers.Sanjeev Kumar Lovely has been elected president of Jandiala Guru municipal council, while Randhir Singh Malhotra has been elected vice-president. MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala and members of the municipal council were also present on the occasion. The Congress had won 10 wards out of 15 in Jandiala Guru.Gurpal Singh Sindhi has been unanimously elected president of Ramdas municipal council. It’s for the first time that the Congress won civic polls in Ramdas. The Congress won eight wards while SAD registered victory on three wards.The election was suspended in Majitha as 11 elected members out of 13 were not present. In Majitha, Akalis had managed victory in 10 wards. Congress got only two wards, while an Independent also won from Majitha. Only two members associated with the Congress were present and both took the oath.In Rayya, Aman Sharma has been elected president, Sarabjit Kaur senior vice-president and Amarjit Kaur, vice-president. The Congress had swept 12 wards out of 13 in Rayya.The elections were held for three municipal councils (Jandiala Guru, Ramdas and Majitha) and two nagar panchayats (Ajnala and Rayya) on February 14 and results were announced on February 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-takes-control-of-4-civic-bodies-in-amritsar-district-239680
16-04-2021||Amritsar||10 deaths, 365 new cases of Covid surface in Amritsar district||With 10 more Covid-19 related deaths in the district during the last 24 hours, the toll has increased to 795 on Thursday. The health authorities reported 365 new cases. With this, the total count has increased to 25,512.The deceased have been identified as Davinder Kaur (48), a resident of Mallian village; Shobhna (49) of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar; Tejinder Singh (49) of Vijay Nagar; Gopal Kaur (81) of Jujhar Singh Avenue; Paramjit Singh (67) of New Pawan Nagar; Bakhshish Kaur (75) of Sathiala village; Sonia (50) of Jaura Fatak; Raj Kumar (82),of Baba Deep Singh Avenue; Lakhwinder Singh (48) of Ajnala; and Tripta Arora (75) of MM Malviya road. The new cases include 271 influenza-like-illness cases and 94 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with recovery of 185 patients, the recovery count has increased to 21,269. The district, at present, has a total of 3,448 active cases.In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 5,921 persons were inoculated on Thursday. Of these, 4,921 persons were administered the first dose while 1,060 were given the second shot. Health officials said 4,725 persons above 45 years of age, 75 healthcare workers (HCW) and 121 frontline workers (FLW) were given first dose today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-deaths-365-new-cases-of-covid-surface-in-amritsar-district-239676
16-04-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Not easy to give Covid sample here||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15People who turn up for Covid testing were a harried lot as they had to wait for long for their turn at the sample collection centre in Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital on Thursday.According to the Covid-19 protocol, apart from residents who either are contacts of positive patients or have any symptoms, patients coming to the Civil Hospital OPD, including pregnant women, are required to give their samples for testing.Rajni Sharma, a resident of New Amritsar, complained, “We had reached the centre at 11 am but nobody collected our samples till 1.30 pm. The general public was waiting helplessly at the centre but no health employee was available for the task.”Karanveer Kaur, attendant of a pregnant woman, said, “We reached the centre around 10 am but till 2 pm our sample was not collected.” She blamed the administration for making poor arrangements at the centre.They complained that though a few fans had been installed at the waiting shed, most of the time they remain switched off. “There also are no arrangements to ensure social-distancing and lives of many people are at risk as many of those who wait at the centre for a test might be Covid-positive,” rued another visitor.The visitors demanded that in view of the summer season, proper arrangements should be made at the centre and also more sample collection booths be set up. “It is the duty of the administration to ensure the safety and comfort of the employees and the staff must ensure that no patient suffers due to any laxity,” said a visitor Balbir Singh.Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department stated that a problem was reported from the hospital and they would look into it. “If needed, more employees would be deployed to collect samples,” said a senior functionary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-easy-to-give-covid-sample-here-239669
16-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar warp knitting industry facing existential crisis from Bangladesh, Gujarat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 14Double challenge from Bangladesh and Gujarat has put the local warp knitting industry, a form of textile, in existential crisis.The city has between 400 and 600 manufacturing units using polyester yarn. Before Covid, the industry was recording an annual turnover of around Rs2,000 crore.From footwear to aero planes, this fabric is used in the manufacturing of multiple products. Being a highly labour intensive industry, these units provide direct and indirect employment to thousands of people. Known as fashion fabric, warp knitting is prominently used in party wear dresses. However, it is used in manufacturing a range of items such as shoes, school bags, automobile vehicles, furnishers, curtains, bed sheets, briefcases, sportswear, helmets, travelling accessories, men and women wear, upholstery of cars, home textiles, travelling accessories besides many other items.Rajiv Sajdeh, chairman CII, Amritsar Chapter, said: “The Union Government has extended tax-free status to Bangladesh origin products under the Free Trade Agreement (FTA). So, textile is coming from Bangladesh without any custom duty. On the other hand, Bangladesh is getting cheaper raw material for rolling out warp knitting from China on account of low custom duty being offered by China. Encouraged from good sales, many Chinese firms have opened their direct offices in Bangladesh.”The cost of delivering locally spun finished product is further escalated for local firms as the main market of their product is in West Bengal, which is close to Bangladesh. So, Bangladesh has acquired a good share of the market in WB.On the other hand, the local industry is getting polyster and nylon yarn at higher prices from far off locations of the country, which further adds to their product cost.HS Swani, operating one of the oldest warp knitting units in the city, said: “Gujarat has already captured the markets situated in the central and western parts of the country owing to its close geographical location. They have many other geographical advantages too. As the raw material comes from Maharashtra and Gujarat, they get it cheaper than the local units here, who have to pay extra on freight cost. Unlike local industry, Gujarat is situated close to ports from where it can export without investing much on transportation. The Gujarat government levies lower power tariff than Punjab. We have to shell out more in freight for transporting raw material from Gujarat and Maharashtra.”An entrepreneur dealing in knitting fabric, Jatinder Sharma, said many Amritsar-based skilled knitting artisans shifted to Surat to run the warp knitting industry there. Competition from Gujarat-based knitters slowed down the growth of local industry considerably.“Surat-based warp knitting industry has recorded multiple time progress during the past one decade, while there used to exist no such industry before,” he said.He said: “Besides anything else, the industry requires marketing for its products. Keeping in view its wide use in a spectrum of products, this variety of textile has markets all over the world yet the government never bothered to take stock of the situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-warp-knitting-industry-facing-existential-crisis-from-bangladesh-gujarat-239384
