17-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar Police suspect role of gangsters||The city police have been suspecting the involvement of gangsters in robbery bid in which a goldsmith was shot at by unknown robbers four days ago. Though the police have zeroed in on an alleged gangster Tanishiq Bedi having several criminal cases against him, yet they said the investigations were under progress and everything would be clear when accused were arrested. Three armed robbers had shot at a jeweller in a failed robbery bid in Fateh Singh Colony, falling under Gate Hakima police station here on Monday.The victim was identified as Sahil (23), a resident of the Gillwali Gate area who was admitted to a private hospital for treatment.Jaswinder Singh of the Gillwali Gate told the police that he has a jewellery shop in Fateh Singh Colony. He told the police on Monday that his son Sahil was sitting in the shop when three bike-borne persons entered his shop. They pointed a pistol at his son and threatened to shoot while asking to handover all ornaments. However, his son resisted and they fired a shot which hit the counter and his leg.As people gathered, the accused fled away from the spot leaving the robbed gold ornaments behind. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-suspect-role-of-gangsters-240014
17-04-2021||Amritsar||24x7 potable water supply project launched in Amritsar||The Amritsar Municipal Corporation on Friday launched 24x7 water supply project in the city, which is funded by World Bank and the Punjab Government. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said treated water supply was their main objective and finally, surface water will be utilised for this purpose.“Raw water will be drawn from UBD canal. World Bank has already approved 70 per cent of funds and the balance (30 per cent) will be paid by the state government,” said the Mayor.The project, he said, was aimed to improve water supply and would be one of the biggest investments in the water treatment, clean water tanks, transmission lines and overhead storage reservoirs. Supply of raw water systems, treatment plant of 440 MLD, clear water pumping systems, transmission lines up to 120 km, demolition of overhead tanks and construction of overhead reservoirs will be part of the project. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said the project was tendered out last year by the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) and after completing all necessary formalities, L&T has been selected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24x7-potable-water-supply-project-launched-in-amritsar-240018
17-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Safai sewaks hold protest in Tarn Taran||Lahan, illicit liquor seizedAmritsar: Yet another raid at Khiala Kalan village falling under the Lopoke police station here led to the recovery of illicit liquor and 'lahan' from the village. This was third raid at the village while 10th in the rural belt in past one and a half months. The police confiscated 30 litre of illicit liquor, 3150-kg 'lahan' and an electric running still besides 27 drums during the raid at the residence of Ranjit Singh who was nabbed by the police in the operation. This is for the second time that an electric running still has been seized by the police. The police have also found usage of LPG gas cylinders for easy and fast processing in manufacturing of illicit liquor. The police officials said that the properties of bootleggers nabbed during one and a half months were being identified which would be freezed after valuation from competent authority. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-sewaks-hold-protest-in-tarn-taran-240019
17-04-2021||---||Trader booked for murder bid in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 16The Cantonment police have booked a property dealer and shopkeeper on charges of attempt to murder and criminal trespass after he ran his car into a neighbouring shop over a minor dispute of organising langar (community kitchen) in front of his shop.He was identified as Atul Sharma, a resident of Ranjit Vihar on Loharaka Road.The complainant Kirpal Singh, alias Bobby, told the police that he runs a shop of property consultant on Loharaka Road while the accused runs a paint and property dealing shop adjoining to him. He said on Thursday the accused parked his car outside his shop and barged into his shop using abusing language. He said other neighbouring shopkeepers gathered at the spot and got him separated.He said a few minutes later the accused hit his rashly driven car into his shop with an intention to kill him. He said his shop was damaged and he was injured.Giving details, he said four days ago all members of the market committee had organised a langar outside his shop and a large gathering was assembled. He said anger over this he started quarreling. He said members of the market committee got the area outside his shop cleaned. However, the accused kept a grudge.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 452, 323 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code in this regard. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trader-booked-for-murder-bid-in-amritsar-240023
17-04-2021||---||Covid-19: 7 fall prey to virus, 412 new cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, April 16With seven more Covid-19 related deaths reported in the district during the last 24 hours, the toll has increased to 802 on Friday.The health authorities reported 412 fresh cases in the district. With this, the total count has increased to 25,924. Out of the new cases, 306 were suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) and 106 were contacts of positive cases.The deceased have been identified as Dalbir Kaur (60) a resident of Kotla village, Geeta Rani (68) of Chowk Moni, Balbir Singh (50) of Tahli Sahib, Omprakash Nanda (80) of a resident of Celebration Enclave, Aneeta Panesar (57) of Bhilowal village, Harjinder Kaur (68) of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, and Raj Kumar (58), a resident of Dam Ganj.With recovery of 230 patients, the recovery count has increased to 21,499. The district, at present, has a total of 3,623 active cases.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira asked government employees to get vaccinated till Saturday. He said all heads of the departments must ensure that their staff gets inoculated and asked them to submit a report by Monday.He asked people who come in direct contact with masses, including hotel employees, shopkeepers, traders, sarpanches, councillors and vendors, to get vaccinated.ISOCARE: App for home-quarantined soonThe district administration is going to launch ‘Isocare’ app for assisting those Covid-19 patients who have been isolated at home. For this, officials were imparted training at the Amritsar Municipal Corporation on Friday.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said those government employees who have gone opted for home isolation would be kept under observation. He said after evaluating its success, even masses could download this app.He said Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and Amandeep Hospital were using this app to stay in touch with positive patients.This app offers convenient registration of patients, live supervision of their health, their queries, live chat option and other details.The ADC accepted that there was a shortage of Covaxin and the government was aware of the situation. He added that 18,000 doses of Covaxin were received today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-7-fall-prey-to-virus-412-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-240010
17-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Reforms: Pathological labs to be set up in all Punjab jails||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 16As part of the ongoing process of reforms in jails, pathological laboratories are being established in all Central, district and sub-jails of the state following which inmates will no longer be taken outside the prison premises for tests.Dubai-based businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has agreed to fund the entire project through his charitable organisation Sarbat Da Bhala. The cost of each lab has been pegged at around Rs 25-Rs 30 lakh. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has already given his nod.In the first phase, six prisons — Gurdaspur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Faridkot — will be coveredJails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa rushed to Patiala on Thursday to work out the modalities with Oberoi’s team. Dr Daljit Singh Gill, a former Deputy Director of the Punjab Health Department, has been asked to ensure that no teething problems delay the venture.In the first phase, six prisons — Gurdaspur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Faridkot — will be covered. Apart from routine tests, electrocardiogram (ECG) tests, which are used to detect heart problems and monitor the heart’s status in many situations, too will be conducted.Oberoi’s charitable organisation has opened scores of labs across the state. “It is for the first time that we are establishing labs in jails. At other labs, we charge just 10 per cent of what is charged by private labs. In the labs to be opened in prisons, this 10 per cent fee will be given to us by the jail authorities. I have asked Dr DS Gill to use his experience and expertise to make sure the labs are established by the end of May. Our teams will visit the jails next week to select the exact sites,” said Oberoi.Randhawa said he had asked his officials to identify sites within the jails premises within a week. “It is said that nobody truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails. A nation should not be judged by how it treats its highest citizens but by how it treats its lowest ones,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reforms-pathological-labs-to-be-set-up-in-all-punjab-jails-240012
17-04-2021||---||Pay advertisement tax, Amritsar Municipal Corporation tells IELTS centres, mobile companies||Amritsar, April 16Targeting IELTS centres and mobile communication companies, the Advertisement Wing of the Municipal Corporation sent notices to more than 10 major firms and brands to show record of tax payment for displaying advertisements in the city.Recently, a major IELTS centre having five branches in the city had displayed a large number of hoardings and flex boards. Similarly, a few multinational mobile companies too are promoting their products by displaying their boards in every market of the city and have also installed a large number of hoardings and flex boards.The advertisement wing officials claimed that most of these firms had never paid a penny for these advertisements. “We can see the advertisement flex boars of IELTS centres, mobile companies and service provider companies on every nook and corner of the city but don’t have any record of the tax that they had paid for advertising their brands in the city. So, we have sent notices to these firms.”Advertisement Wing In charge Sushant Bhatia said the notices read, “We didn’t get any payment of advisement tax from your firm for long. So it is instructed to provide the details of all your displayed third party advertisements on any building, shopping mall or pole within the limits of the Municipal Corporation. All details of the advertisement material should be submitted within three days.” As per the policy, no firm can display its advertisement without the permission of the MC and will have to pay advertisement tax for the purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pay-advertisement-tax-amritsar-municipal-corporation-tells-ielts-centres-mobile-companies-240020
17-04-2021||---||21-year-old falls off auto after robbers snatch her mobile in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 16A 21-year-old girl died after two bike-borne persons pulled her out of the running auto-rickshaw for snatching her mobile here on late Thursday evening. The victim, identified as Rajni of Kartar Nagar, sustained critical head injury that led to her death. The police reached the spot and started scrutinising CCTV cameras in the area to find some clues about the perpetrators.According to information, Rajni, who worked in a showroom, was returning home on an auto-rickshaw after her duty. Amit Kumar, brother of the victim, told the police that she had held her mobile phone in her hand and was returning home in the auto-rickshaw. He said it appeared that the two motorcycle-borne persons were following her. She said the accused tried to snatch her mobile phone but she did not let it go.Following this, an unidentified miscreant pulled her along with the mobile on the road. He said she fell on the road and fell unconscious while the accused fled away with the mobile.The people gathered at the spot and rushed her to hospital where doctors declared her dead. Her family members were also informed who reached the hospital.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said the perpetrators would not be let off and would be arrested soon. He said a case had been registered in this regard and further investigation was under progress.Meanwhile, unidentified snatchers robbed a local resident, Manisha Arora, of her mobile phone when she was waiting for an auto-rickshaw near Dr Karam Singh Hospital on Circular Road. She was going to Chand Avenue. She said two unidentified persons came on a motorcycle (PB-02-BR-0379) and snatched her mobile. The police have registered a case while further investigation was under progress.Similarly, in another incident a video went viral in which two bikers snatched a purse from a woman. The accused dragged the victim to a distance leaving her injured. The incident took place in Sandhu Colony area. However, the victim did not lodge a complaint with the police in the regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/21-year-old-falls-off-auto-after-robbers-snatch-her-mobile-in-amritsar-240021
17-04-2021||---||Fire breaks out at house in Namak Mandi in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 16A fire broke out at a house in Namak Mandi on Thursday night. The firefighters managed to douse flames on second and third floors of the house. The entire structure caught fire as it was mainly counstructed with wood.A portion of house also collapsed due to heat. Flames also reached wooden balcony of neighbouring house, but timely action by firefighters saved it from further damage.The Fire Brigade Department officials said they received a call at 8.15 pm and they sent four fire engines to douse the flames.Due to narrow lane, fire engines failed to reach the site and firefighters had to use 150-ft long pipes to bring fire under control.Residents alleged that owner Rakesh Arora himself set the house on fire. They said the house owner and his wife Sangeeta clashed following which the latter left the house around 15 days ago. Sangeeta also alleged that her husband set the house on fire. Ranjit Singh, SHO, Gate Hakima police station, said, “Area residents and wife of Rakesh Arora is alleging that he deliberately set the house on fire. We will investigate the matter and take appropriate action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-breaks-out-at-house-in-namak-mandi-in-amritsar-240022
17-04-2021||Amritsar||Admn in fix as farmer unions plan rallies in Amritsar amid Covid||Cocking a snook at the state government’s directions against holding social, religious or political gatherings in the face of the Covid-19 threat till April 30, farm organisations have announced ‘kisan rallies’ in Amritsar.While the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has scheduled a congregation on April 18 at Bhagtanwala grain market, a group of farmers under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has announced an identical programme at Kukkranwala village in Ajnala the following day.Terming these programmes illegal, Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said any violator of the directions would be liable to face legal action.Nonetheless, Punjabi actor Sonia Mann, who has been participating in the farm struggle at the Delhi borders under the umbrella of SKM, today announced a ‘kisan mahasabha’ at the Kukkranwala village stadium on April 19.Asked about the Covid threat, the daughter of Baldev Singh Mann, a Left activist killed by militants in the 1990s, said if the government was so conscious about the health of its citizens, how could it ignore the cause of farmers and elders who had been so vulnerable at the Delhi borders struggling against the farm laws. She claimed prominent farm leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Joginder Singh Ugrahan, have given their consent to participate in the programme. KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said farmers were never afraid of curbs in the garb of Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-in-fix-as-farmer-unions-plan-rallies-in-amritsar-amid-covid-240056
17-04-2021||Amritsar||3 from MP nabbed with 30 illegal pistols||Busting an interstate module of weapon suppliers, the Amritsar rural police have arrested three Madhya Pradesh residents and confiscated 30 illegal weapons from their possession. Those arrested have been identified as Crore Singh, Ram Singh Patwa and Chander Pal.According to the police, the suspects used to supply weapons to different parts of Punjab, besides neighbouring states. The suspects were nabbed from Burhanpur district during a special operation. The arms seized included 25 .32 bore pistols, five .30 bore pistols and 32 magazines, besides an Alto car and a bike.DGP Dinkar Gupta said acting on specific inputs, a police team from Amritsar rural led by Majitha ASP Abhimanyu Rana and DSP (Detective) Gurinder Nagra arrested Crore Singh and Chander Pal near the Burhanpur bus stand on April 10.Ten .32 bore pistols and 10 magazines were recovered from their possession, while third suspect Patwa was nabbed near Gurdwara Badi Sangat in Burhanpur, along with 15 .32 bore pistols, five .30 bore pistols and 22 magazines.Patwa said the consignment had been supplied to him by Rahul, an MP-based weapons manufacturer and smuggler, whose name has cropped up in similar seizures by the Punjab Police in the past six months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-from-mp-nabbed-with-30-illegal-pistols-240097
