18-04-2021||---||Roller skaters bring laurels||Amritsar, April 17Students of DAV Public School excelled in the 58th National Roller Skating Championship organised by the Roller Skating Federation of India at United Sports Club, Dhelpur, Mohali, from April 1 to April 11.Over 3,000 players participated in the annual championship, where DAV school’s team, including Rahul Rai and Mehak Gupta bagged gold and bronze medals, respectively.Rahul Rai (Class XII) clinched the gold medal in Lap Road Race while in rollar skating prodigy Mehak Gupta bagged bronze medal in 100m Road Race. Mehak also got selected for trial and national.Principal Anita Mehra school applauded the efforts of the students and blessed them for their future endeavours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roller-skaters-bring-laurels-240736
18-04-2021||Tarn Taran||1 arrested with 5-kg poppy husk||Heroin, sedatives seized, six heldAmritsar: The city police have arrested six persons, including a woman, on charges of drug peddling in separate instances. The Gate Hakima police arrested Mohit Kumar and his mother Prem Lata, both residents of Varyam Singh Colony, for allegedly possessing 48-gm heroin, besides the police also confiscated 2.05 lakh of alleged drug proceeds and a mobile phone from their possession. Two of their accomplices Hritik of Varyam Singh Colony and Mamta of Mohkampura area were still absconding. Meanwhile, the Kotwali police have arrested Gurmail Singh of Boot village in Kapurthala for allegedly possessing 11,400 intoxicant tablets while Islamabad police have seized 660 sedative pills from Ravi Kumar of Katra Karam Singh and Paramvir of Chitta Katra. Similarly, Rohit Kumar of New Mohini Park was held with 150-gm opium. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-arrested-with-5-kg-poppy-husk-240738
18-04-2021||The luxury bus donated by Dubai-based businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi to the Gurdaspur district administration has hit a road block even before it had travelled an inch. The bus was initially given last year to Punjabi University||Luxury bus hits a road block||All the King’s menPolitically speaking, after days of being in a state of inertia, the steel town of Batala has become hyper active. The spotlight is on the post of the first ever Mayor of the city. In 2017, then MP Sunil Jakhar’s efforts had led to the municipal committee being upgraded to a full-fledged corporation. Now the time has come to ‘elect’ its first citizen. Next week, 36 ‘city fathers’ will sit down, have a cup of tea and then proceed to ‘select’ a candidate after which a sham of an ‘election’ will follow. The script has been written by Cabinet minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa who is the king and the kingmaker, both rolled into one. Everyone has been asked to follow the script in letter and spirit. Any deviation, or dissension, will be treated as a rebuke towards the king. The king has his favourites and one of them is Sukh Teja. He is his eyes and ears in the city. A few days ago, the ‘king’ ‘appointed’ a committee whose main members were Cabinet minister Sukh Sarkaria and Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. The committee was asked to arrive at a consensus after holding a meeting with the councillors. The outcome was as obvious as saying that Mozart was musical. For the record, the committee instead of directly saying that the next Mayor should be Teja, actually veered around to the theory that the “next mayor should be a Jat Sikh.” The next step, in logical progression, was to say that that particular Jat Sikh should be Sukh Teja. This was music to the king’s ears. He got what he wanted thus reducing the official meeting to be held on April 19 to a mere formality. There were murmurs that the first citizen should be from the Hindu Khatri community. But then these murmurs being murmurs quickly died down. The king had played his cards to a nicety. He did not have to use his aces to achieve his goal of elevating his ‘Man Friday’ to the Mayoral post.Young painter trying to revel on the big stageThe rule is that students of architecture rarely venture into the world of art. Karandeep Singh Bajwa (24) is an exception. And it is always an exception that proves a rule. Painting was his passion when he was still in school. The young architect, who has graduated from the Chandigarh College of Architecture, is now holding a week-long exhibition of his works at Chandigarh Lalit Kala Academy (CLKA) which was scheduled to commence on April 17 before the weekend lockdown came in. The show, named Black VIBGYOR, will be inaugurated by Guru Jyothi Pattabhiram, Chairperson and Founding Director of Bangalore based charitable organisation Sadhana Sangama dedicated to promoting yoga and cultural activities. Karandeep is the son of Assistant Commissioner (Excise) Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa and Shaheed Major Balwinder Singh Bajwa. The youngster is adept in using raw charcoal in his works. The passion for painting ran deep when Karan was still in Little Flower Convent School, Gurdaspur. He was fully supported by his mother who “sacrificed a lot just to keep my passion for painting afloat.” The young artist spends a lot of time in the serenity of Manali where, as he says, comes up with new ideas. “Painting is self discovery. Every good artist paints what he is. I do not paint dreams and nightmares. I paint my own reality and the reality of things happening around me. I create my own works with my own mind. An artist who plagiarises produces pictures of little merit because he takes the works of others as his standard. This reminds me of the protagonist of Ayn Rand’s classic, The Fountainhead. Howard Roark is an architect par excellence but when somebody, like his bête-noire Peter Keating does, tries to copy his designs he demolishes his own work to ensure nobody in future plagiarises it.” As for the mother, she is a proud woman. “I have always backed Karan. “Every canvas is a journey all of its own,” she says.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/luxury-bus-hits-a-road-block-240740
18-04-2021||---||Six deaths, 357 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 17With six persons dying in the district due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, the toll increased to 808 on Saturday. The district health officials also reported 357 new cases, taking the total count of infected persons to 26,281.The deceased have been identified as Sadha Singh, an 80-year-old from Baba Deep Singh Avenue; Pal Singh, a 69-year-old of Harsha Chhinna village; Charanjit Singh, a 68-year-old from Baba Bakala; Sukhdev Singh, 62-year-old from Khiala village; Narinder Singh, a 55-year old from Sathiala village; and Balwinder Singh, a 48-year-old resident of Ajnala.The new cases include 235 influenza-like illness cases and 92 contacts of positive patients. The district has also reported the recovery of 235 cases with which the recovery count has improved to 21,734. The district at present has a total of 3,739 active cases.The district health officials said 7,769 persons were given injections for Covid-19 on Saturday. So far 1,36,036 residents above 45 years of age have been given the first dose of the injection, while 6,742 have been completely vaccinated. Meanwhile, 22,713 healthcare workers (HCW) and 21,697 frontline workers (FLW) have been partially vaccinated and 9,333 HCWs and 8,737 FLWs have been completely vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-deaths-357-new-cases-in-amritsar-240724
18-04-2021||---||Man kidnapped, brutally thrashed in Rajasansi||Amritsar, April 17  A man was kidnapped by armed persons in the Rajasansi police station area when he was returning home on a bus here on Thursday.  The victim identified as Jagjit Singh, a resident of Harsha Chhina Kukkarawal village, was brutally thrashed before he was thrown on the road near the Machhi Talab area and the police started a manhunt after getting the information of abduction.  On his statement, the police have booked seven persons, including Harry and Sukhpinder Singh of Harsha Chhina, Rupinder Singh of Shensara Kalan village. He stated to the police that on Thursday late evening he was returning home after closing down his shop in Gumtala on a bus. He said when the bus reached near the Machhi Talab area, the accused travelling on an SUV and a swift car intercepted the bus by firing in the air. He said three of their accomplices were already in the bus. He said they pulled him out of the bus and bundled in the SUV. They tied his hands behind and put a cover on his face. He said they took him to a tubewell room at an undisclosed place. He said they brutally thrashed him with leather belts due to which he fell unconscious. He said he heard them to throw him in the Ravi. He said later they threw him on a roadside near Raipur Khurd village.  The victim said he somehow managed to remove cloth from his face and found a house. He said he reached that house and sought help. He said as there were no clothes on his body, they gave him clothes and called his family.  He said his family, along with the police party, reached there and took him to the police station where a complaint was lodged against the suspects.  Dilbagh Singh, chowki in charge Kukkarwala, said that as they received the information of abduction immediately an alert was sounded in the area and police teams were send for search. He said due to this, the accused got afraid and threw him on the roadside.  He said a case had been registered and raids were on to nab the suspects. About the reason, he said the accused were suspecting that Jagjit had given the mobile number of their woman relative to some other person who was harassing her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kidnapped-brutally-thrashed-in-rajasansi-240725
18-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Marginal farmer comes up with agri tools hiring centre||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 17Though marginal farmers in the state are facing huge financial crisis due to low income, Satinder Singh of Hamza village in Majitha block has set an example for his counterparts.Satinder, who owns one acre and six kanals, runs agricultural tools hiring centre. He owns 22 machines and provides his services to more than 10 villages of the block.In 2005, Satinder found that most farmers around his village used to grow vegetables.During cultivation, marginal farmers had to wait for pea seeding drill machines, as only influential farmers had drills and other equipment. He managed to buy a pea seeding drill machine and worked hard.In 2008, laser-leveller technique was getting popular among vegetable growers. He wanted to buy it, but no bank was ready to approve his loan as he owned a small chunk of land. As a result, he was unable to purchase it.During his field visit, the then Deputy Commissioner, Kahan Singh Pannu, came to knew that he was willing to buy laser leveller. Pannu himself arranged a bank guarantor for Satinder.Keeping in mind the equipment required by nearby farmers, Satider bought straw reaper, husk fan, vegetable-bed maker, tomato planter and kneeler, water drain maker, laser levellers, rotavator, wheat drill, paddy direct sowing machine and various types of reapers in the last 10 years.“A person works to fulfil his passion or due to compulsion, I had both. My elder son went aborad after completing his BTech and younger son helps me at hiring centre. I have provided them quality education due to this business. Elese, a marginal farmer cannot fulfil basic needs. There is no substitute for hard work. The Agriculture Department always imparts me best knowledge about latest techniques,” said Satinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/marginal-farmer-comes-up-with-agri-tools-hiring-centre-240726
18-04-2021||---||Police ask licence holders to deposit extra weapons||Amritsar, April 17  After the Government of India amended the Arms Act 1959 under which a licence holder can keep a maximum of two weapons, the police have asked licence holders to deposit extra weapons at their respective police stations or with arms dealer without any delay. Earlier, a licence holder could keep three weapons on a single licence. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said those having more than two weapons on a licence should deposit the same at their area police station or with arms dealer. They would also initiate the process of disposing it or its sale permission with arms licence branch here. He also warned the licence holders against giving their weapons to some other person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-ask-licence-holders-to-deposit-extra-weapons-240727
18-04-2021||---||Farmers forced to go for early harvesting, blame it on rains||Amritsar, April 17 Though wheat harvesting was expected to pick up pace next week, the inclement weather has created fear among farmers. As a result, they have started harvesting their crop. The area witnessed mild showers in the last two days. Even on Saturday evening, the area received mild showers for around 10 minutes. Farmers said if it did not rain again during the night, they would be able to harvest crop the next day. Meanwhile, grain markets in the district have started seeing arrival of the agriculture produce. Mandi board officials said a total of 6,716 MT of wheat has arrived at different grain markets in district on Saturday. Officials said panic harvesting can lead to more moisture content in grains and farmers would be forced to wait for procurement. After the start of procurement on April 15, a total of 13,163 MT of wheat arrived in grain markets of the districts. The mandi board officials said around 6,686 MT crop has been procured by different government procurement agencies. Officials said 4,189 MT wheat was procured today. They said maximum produce (1,640 MT) was procured by Markfed, followed by 1,199 by Pungrain. The PunSup has procured 925 MT, Punjab Warehouse around 450 MT and the FCI has purchased merely 3 MT produce, so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-forced-to-go-for-early-harvesting-blame-it-on-rains-240728
18-04-2021||---||Scan stories of India’s borders with lawyer Suchitra Vijayan||Amritsar, April 17 According to Suchitra Vijayan, a lawyer, human rights activist and now an author, crossing a border is an act of privilege that she discovered through travelling 9,000 mile journey over seven years to India’s borderlands.  Sharing stories of her travel and people of communities living in these borderlands and their connect with their past and our present, in her book Midnight’s Borders – A People’s History of Modern India, Vijayan interacted with members of Majha House.  Vijayan had travelled through the borders of Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland, to explore the history of communities living there and how colonialism and later border conflicts impacted their lives.  She visited places where India shares boundaries with Myanmar, Bangladesh, China and Pakistan. She also explored the history of divisive politics with Partition of India and the Citizenship Amendment Act in present time.  “I wanted people to read the book as it took me 10 years to conceive the idea, travel and publish it. My journey as a journalist and human rights activist took me to five continents, cities of conflict and sites of genocide. My very first travel was to Afghanistan border with Pakistan. People living in these borderlands, especially in region of conflicts, are living face-to-face with violence, statelessness, survival and lot of issues that have been overlooked,” she shared.  She said she had started her journey in India in 2014 and through the end of her travel she witnessed how fragmentation of identities had begun at deep levels. “When I first travelled to these places, the questions I encountered were not specific in nature. But towards the end of my travel, in 2018-19, something changed,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scan-stories-of-indias-borders-with-lawyer-suchitra-vijayan-240730
18-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Rain spells misery for farmers in Tarn Taran||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-spells-misery-for-farmers-in-tarn-taran-240731
18-04-2021||---||Vax drive starts for teaching staff||Amritsar, April 17After student fraternity and teaching unions’ call to consider teachers as frontline warriors and get them vaccinated, massive vaccination drives have commenced at several city colleges and schools.Under the guidelines issued by the Amritsar Civil Surgeon and the state government, teachers are being inoculated on priority. A mass immunisation drive for its teaching and non-teaching staff began in GNDU. Similarly, vaccination camps were organised at several colleges such as Khalsa College and DAV College also.The Principal of the DAV College today took the first shot of Covishield vaccine at the vaccination camp organised at the college, where people over the age of 45 were inoculated. “More than 200 people were vaccinated at the camp. As the number of cases is increasing at an alarming rate in the nation, protecting every segment of citizens, especially those who are vulnerable to infection becomes a priority,” he said.Khalsa College too carried out the drive for 100 of its staff under the supervision of Dr Neelam from the Civil Surgeon Office and Medical Officer Dr Charanjit Singh. In the coming weeks, Mount Litera School too will hold a camp for its teaching and non-teaching staff and also families of its students. GNDU’s health centre too offers vaccination for university employees’ family members.Immediately after the CM announced shut down of educational institutes in the wake of emergence of second wave of Covid in the state, student fraternity came out on roads demanding rollback of the decision. The said after losing out on normal education for a year, especially the segment without proper access to digital media or internet connectivity, they wanted resumption of offline classes. With large scale vaccination drives being conducted at all government schools, colleges and universities, the authorities concerned hope that the move will help reopening of educational institutions soon.“Till date we have inoculated over 3,000 teachers at various government and private institutes. The aim of the drive is to ensure that all government departments that have employees above the age of 45 get the vaccine. A list of heads of departments has been prepared for all government departments and from Monday onwards, we will begin their vaccination. Meanwhile, vaccination drive is already underway for all government school teachers. At present, vaccination is being carried out at 320 centres in the city, with 75 centres in collaboration with private sector.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vax-drive-starts-for-teaching-staff-240732
18-04-2021||---||Fire Department committed to keep masses safe: Amritsar Mayor||Amritsar, April 17The Fire Brigade Department conducted a mock drill along with fire team of VR Ambarsar Mall in the city.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal and Additional Commissioner Sandip Rishi, were also present on the occasion.Additional Divisional Fire Officer Lovpreet Singh said, “Main objective of the mock drill is to create awareness among masses related to fire safety. We have involved a team of shopping mall to train them to tackle any untoward incident. People were asked to give passage to fire engine during emergency.”“We are committed to keep the city and residents safe. The fire safety week is being observed to make public aware. We also paid tributes to fire fighters who lost their lives in the line of duty. We have dedicated staff in the department and use modern equipment,” said the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-department-committed-to-keep-masses-safe-amritsar-mayor-240733
18-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar Mayor inaugurates potable water supply works at Swiss colonies||Residents of Swiss colonies, fighting for development works for long, on Monday heaved a sigh of relief when Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated the water supply works here.  The work for the potable water supply in Swiss City, Swiss Land, Swiss Green and Roseland Colonies started with the cost of Rs 1.5 crore. A tubewell was inaugurated on the spot.  The Mayor said no stone would be left unturned to bring the facilities and basic amenities for area residents.   Addressing residents on the occasion, Mayor Rintu said that roads, drains, sewerage, security were also under consideration and efforts were being made to provide all these facilities. The resident hoped that other works would also be completed within the stipulated time as promised by the Mayor.  Residents welfare association vice-president Jasbir Singh Bandesha, Karanbir Singh Mann, Neha, Prof BS Randhawa, Harjinder Singh Bamrah, Raghubir Singh, Dalbir Singh Khalsa, Jatinder Singh Jathedar and Racchpal were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-inaugurates-potable-water-supply-works-at-swiss-colonies-240734
18-04-2021||Amritsar||Review meet held ahead of  Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th birth anniversary||A district-level meeting to review the arrangements being made to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur was held in the conference hall of the District Administrative Complex here on Friday. Mayor Karamjit Singh, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) officials, besides officials of various departments of district and police administration and Municipal Corporation were present to mark the 400th birth anniversary.On the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh sated that on behalf of the Municipal Corporation we had already discussed with SGPC so the devotees attending these ceremonies should not face any difficulty.Talking about the arrangements to be made for the celebration he assured that whatever duties or responsibilities were assigned to the Municipal Corporation, all officers and employees of the civic body would work as a team. The service will be performed with due diligence and other functions which fall under the purview of the officers of the MC will also be performed diligently. He said government buildings in the city and all gates of the old city would be decorated with colorful lights. Temporary encroachments on roads would be removed.“I have instructed the Municipal Health Officer, Dr Yogesh Arora, to keep all three roads leading to Gurudwara Guru Ka Mahal clean. It should be cleaned thrice in a day and once at night”, added Mayor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/review-meet-held-ahead-of-guru-tegh-bahadurs-400th-birth-anniversary-240735
