19-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: SAD leader booked violating Covid norms||Three men snatch cop’s bike, bookedAmritsar: Three unidentified persons robbed a motorcycle from a constable of Punjab Police at Bhani Gillan village here on Saturday. Prabjot Singh of Manga Sarai village in his complaint to the police said that he was returning from duty on his motorcycle. Around 7.15 pm, when he reached near Bhani Gillan village three unidentified persons intercepted him and forcefully snatched his motorcycle and fled the spot. A case was registered under Section 379 of the IPC at the Kambo police station. ASI Tarsem Singh said further probe was on. TNSTubewell in Green Land areaAmritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated the newly installed tubewell under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project at the Green Land area of Ward No. 19 in North Assembly constituency here on Sunday. The project is worth Rs20 lakh and will address problems of water shortage and provide clean water to residents of Green Land and adjoining areas. He said no work in any part of the city would be left unfinished, adding that parks in every area of the city were being renovated and those that remained would be renovated soon. Meanwhile, LED lights have also been installed in every ward of the city. He said new drinking water pipes and tubewells had been installed to solve problems related to drinking water. TNS3 girls abducted in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Two teenage girls were abducted from grain market Chohla Sahib under mysterious circumstances on Friday, while a 20-year-old girl was abducted from Chandigarh locality in Fatehabad village on Thursday. The victim’s father said in his complaint to the Chohla Sahib police that his 15-year-old daughter and 13-year-old niece went to Gurdwara Sri Guru Arjun Dev on Friday to wash clothes, but did not return. He alleged that the girls were lured and abducted on the promise of marriage. The family of labourers had come to the town from Zira for wheat harvesting. The police have registered a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC against unidentified persons. Meanwhile, the Goindwal Sahib police have booked Gora Singh of Fatehabad on the charge of abducting a 20-year-old girl from Chandigarh locality of Fatehabad. The mother of the victim told the police that the accused abducted the girl on the pretext of marriage. The police have registered a case under Section 346 of the IPC against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-sad-leader-booked-violating-covid-norms-241182
19-04-2021||Open House||Police, public both need to be vigilant in checking crime||Track criminals using GPS-equipped appWith an increase in crime in the city, safety of citizens is at stake. To curb criminal activities, we need to find the originating point and the circumstances that lead people to commit such crimes. The police will have to be more vigilant. Drastic measures need to be taken to hold back such activities. A GPS-equipped mobile app could be used to tackle this problem. A "one-push panic button" should be provided in that app, on pressing which information about the user's location is sent to the nearby police stations. This will be useful only if the police take quick action and trace the robbers on time. Also, a GPS chip linked with that mobile application could also be installed on vehicles to trace their path.Sachin SharmaCCTV cameras a must at crowded placesTo check crime rate in the city, a plan to install CCTV cameras at all crowded places was announced in June 2011 by then local MP Navjot Singh Sidhu. The same should be implemented at the earliest. It should be made mandatory for all big commercial establishments to install CCTVs inside and outside their establishments. On September 28, 2018, under the smart city project, four parking sensors were installed on the Mall Road to control illegal parking and theft of vehicles but the project was abandoned without any valid reason and should be revived at all major roads. The police should get more autonomy and political interference should end. Moreover, policemen should be deputed in civil dress at crowded places on weekends to keep a tab on any unlawful activity. Also, higher official such as DCs, ADCs, SDMs and all IPS officers at the district level should visit commercial markets to have first-hand information and interact with traders of the area and extend a sympathetic ear to their problems with regard to the law and order situation on a regular basis.Naresh JoharPromote citizens of good conduct as role modelsFor the overall development of the society, it is important for the authorities to ensure safety of the public. To check the crime rate in the city, there is a need to use improved high technology by the police to nab anti-social elementsCitizens of good conduct and celebrities should be promoted as role models on social media to set an example for the residents to follow. If someone is stopping or preventing any kind of crime (in any way or proportion) then the police should make their videos viral as a message and sign of motivation for others. Criminals who joined the mainstream must be highlighted positivelyThere is a need to encourage humanity in our society. Spirituality too should be promoted so that people do not deviate and commit crimes in societyThe issues of unemployment, drug abuse and begging should be ended as these are leading to a spike in crime incidents in the cityThe number of CCTV cameras installed should be increased. Camps on learning techniques of self-defence should be organised and made mandatory for girls and children to ensure their safety. — Manmeet Pal KaurInstall CCTVs at every chowkMost effective step to curb such incidents would be installation of CCTV cameras at every chowk and main areas in the city. The police need to take action on these incidents and should conduct immediate investigation to nab the culprits. Proper steps can be taken along with the usage of suitable technology.Harsimran Singh GhaiPolice-public cooperation requiredThe increase in crime incidents amid the pandemic has become a cause for concern. The threat of these activities has been giving sleepless nights to the authorities and residents. Residents are grappling to eradicate this menace but if no serious measures are made to check this, then it will expose the vulnerability of the police in ensuring safety of the people. Under the current circumstances, the police need to take firm steps such as problem-oriented policing (strategic planning, proactive attitude and multiple solutions). Also, areas where more crime incidents are reported (high-risk zones) should be identified and be classified for better surveillance. Although it's not only the police who need to work on this, implementation of problem-resolution mechanism involves cooperation of social services, education sector, urban managers, business associations, local representatives, community organisations and citizens.ShravilQUESTIONAs the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is at its peak, will night curfew in the state help in restraining the spread of the deadly virus?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 22).Public outcry against crime need of the hourLord William Bentinck had eliminated Thugs and Thuggery in India by 1831. For the last over 15 years, I have been regularly reading news reports of snatching purses, gold chains, bangles, ear-rings, rings and mobile phones with utter dismay and seriously thinking about the lax governance. Apart from these, there are reports of breaking of the window glasses of cars to take away laptops and other valuables by brandishing daggers or even pistols by criminals creating fear and a sense of insecurity among the general public. Predominantly, women are targeted mostly - be they are Indians or foreigners. The news reports of arresting and busting snatchers' gangs appear in almost equal numbers, but never making any change in the ground reality of consistent escalation of this most feared crime. There has never been any vociferous outcry against this crime whereas many other petty issues ignite public ire in the form of processions, dharnas and road blockades.Hardish SandhuPolice must take strict actionOver the past few months, the city has witnessed a spurt in crime incidents such as firing, snatching, robbery, etc. Every day many such incidents are reported. Criminals are fearlessly commit crimes and go scot-free. It seems that the safety of residents has already been compromised and the law and order situation is getting worse by the day. The police need to take not only drastic steps but also speedy action to curb such incidents in the city.Sanjay ChawlaTime-bound action will help curb crimeAmid the pandemic, people are not only fighting the virus but also crime. Due to a sharp increase in number of criminal incidents recently, people expect, rather demand, the police to take drastic measures to control such incidents such as no political interference in registration of an FIR and investigation of crime cases, senior police cops to mandate their professional supervision, time-bound redress measures and action taken reports. These steps will surely improve the situation at the ground level.TS BhattiRemove policemen from VVIP dutiesHow can our police solve any criminal case effectively when a large number of police personnel are deputed as security guards of VVIPs. Every other day, Amritsar Police claim of busting a car snatching gang, in reality there is no let-up in the incidents of the crime. The incidents of snatching have tarnished the image of the holy city. We hope that the police do not become complacent after apprehending some criminals and busting criminal gangs. The Amritsar Police have to be more vigilant to check the rising incidents of snatching and other crimes in the city. It has been noticed that after cracking a case the police feel smug and lower their guard. The possibility of some bad apples in police force conniving with miscreants for some share in the ill gotten booty cannot be ruled out. It is high time only a limited number of policemen were deputed on VIP security. A special well trained police squad equipped with advanced electronic gadgetry as well active cooperation of residents will go a long way in checking the menace.LJ SinghPrompt action, chasing of criminals mustThe police are not doing anything to improve the situation of increasing incidents of car-jacking and snatching in our cities. Our 'guardians of the citizens' have become rather immune to such incidents taking place on regular basis.They have failed to plan a suitable strategy to tackle this problem. Police force must be deployed at various vulnerable locations with suitable electronic gadgets to remain in touch with their other officers and keep a tab of all anti-social elements. Prompt action and chasing the criminals is the need of the hour. To some extent, we too must share the blame for our indifference, when we do not help the victim by striving to caution the other passersby to stop these culprits from fleeing the spot easily. Loud howling and shouting such as 'catch the thief' etc may help in nabbing them. Will it be an offence to suspect some elements in our police force itself, who may be conniving with culprits to get away.Thorough interrogation/ debriefing of duty police persons near the place of such incidents will also help in establishing the role and competence of concerned policemen.PL SinghCitizens must report incident on timeCertainly, there has been a tremendous increase in the crime incidents like firing, snatching, robbery, etc. Yes, I do feel unsafe amid this scenario. I want to be an IPS officer, therefore I have always been engrossed towards watching crime-based programmes such as Savdhaan India - India fights back, Crime patrol and CID etc. These shows depict the crimes being carried out at a large scale and how the police solve these cases and track the criminals. This shows that the police perform their duty with full responsibility, but should be more aware of all these incidents. The citizens too should inform the police about the incidents in time and file an FIR. Such incidents can be reduced only if the citizens cooperate with the police and trust them.IzleenMake, enforce more stringent lawsLawlessness is growing unabated at an alarming rate. Who does not feel unsafe and insecure amid such a scenario wherein the criminals are striking with impunity as and when they please? It speaks volumes about the inefficiency and incompetence of the police who have miserably failed to break the backbone of the criminals prowling in broad daylight. The police must take drastic steps to curb crime incidents. It should ensure obedience to the law and try to make 'the rule of law' a reality. The present law follows a circuitous procedure to punish the guilty. More often than not, the real culprits go scot free which acts as an encouraging factor for the prospective criminals to commit more crimes. Right education is needed to make the citizens socially and psychologically healthy. Besides, law should be made more stringent and should be enforced rigorously. We have the police with all their weaponry, surveillance and round-the-clock vigil, yet incidents of firing, snatching and robbery take place frequently. The police and the public will have to work in tandem to get rid of the menace. All residents of a vulnerable area should be sensitised about the danger lurking near them. Security and police personnel should remain alert all time particularly during festive occasions and at crowded public places. The people should report any suspicious looking person immediately to the police before he strikes. The police must proceed with a well-thought out and well-planned strategy to check the perpetrators of crime incidents. Public too should take up the responsibility to install advanced security systems at their homes. The district police should set up a special cell for the assistance of people to make them feel safe and secure from the vultures of crime. The Cell should endeavour to ensure effective and prompt response to the people's distress call. Fear of judiciary must be instilled in the minds of the criminals to halt the advance of the crime graph.Tarsem S BumrahMake use of technology to track criminalsToday's Indian society is dominated by unlawful activities. Survey reports of recent months witness the spread of crimes like robbery, theft, snatching and illegal firing in Punjab. Need for money, lack of opportunities and easy access to weapons influence youngsters to commit crime. Zeal to own latest gadgets, passion to drive luxury vehicles and hosting grand parties to impress friends are basic reasons behind deviation towards crime. Mainly, high consumption and addiction of drugs, liquor and illegal firing during parties paves a way towards crime zone for youngsters. Though the police have increased surveillance on roads and put up check points across the cities but the situation does not seem to be improving as most of the time these steps are not implemented at ground level. The police have to take some serious steps to tackle this situation. It's the duty of the government to provide them with latest technology, gadgets and vehicles for their convenience.Parampreet KaurKnow difference between need & wantAs per crime rate chart, the crime rate has increased by 47 per cent in Amritsar cityin the past three years, in which 65 per cent of the crimes included those related to corruption and bribery, 53 per cent was related to people dealing with drugs, 43 per cent and 37 per cent related to theft and robbery respectively. The increase in crime incidents in the city is due to increase in number drug addicts; continuous increase in Arms licence to youngsters; lack of standard in education system, where schools, colleges and universities are teaching children to be more money-oriented instead of making them understand the difference between needs and wants; unemployment; unfair judicial system; poverty and gangster culture which influences youngsters in a negative way. To curb the crime incidents, the police should treat people equally and make an independent and fair probe. The police must make effective use of their surveillance systems such as CCTV cameras and alarm system specially placed at public places during night.Ankur GuptaWake-up call for the policeIncidents of purse-snatching and theft have become common in the city. Last week, a well known surgeon Dr Navpreet Singh's son was shot at and his car was seized near Chheherta. I spoke to about ten people and almost everyone narrated similar unpleasant incidents. Recently in my neighbourhood, a scooter thief disguised as a rag picker, stole the vehicle from a house and fled the spot in broad daylight. The incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed at a shop opposite to the house. If the crime rate came down drastically last year, it was probably due to the nation-wide lockdown. Things are now back to square one, cyber crimes too are rising at an alarming rate. We often read about one or the other gang getting nabbed by the police, but hardly any of them are convicted. The police know what to do to tackle the problem well and have highly competent officers, but there is no political will.Mohan SinghUnemployment the main reasonThe scenario in the state is the result of a weak government and governance. Unemployment is one of the reasons behind increase in rate of crime. Incidents such as murder, robbery, rape, snatching, firing and fraud are on rise and the police are not doing anything to check these activities. While the people are living in a complete sense of insecurity due to this lawlessness, our political leaders are busy in back stabbing each other and not paying attention to the needs of the residents and make strict laws and take steps to curb crime rate in the state. Political vendetta has weakened the system and corruption is everywhere. The government must know its role and duty and do the needful to check the crime rate for the convenience of the public.Indu AuroraRemain alert while out in public placesIncidents of firing, snatching and robbery have spread like a disease in our city. Gone are the days when life was secure and peaceful and people lived a carefree life. A few days back, a heart wrenching firing incident was reported which made me wonder and question the meagre existence of humanity left in the society. A person's life is precious than anything else and people need to always remember this. Unfortunately, there is no end to similar cases of firing, snatching and robbery in the past few days. One has to remain alert and cautious while out in the public places and the police too need to take some drastic steps to ensure safety of the people.Manvi MalhotraReward persons helping victimsIt is such a shame that the holy city is witnessing so many crime incidents recently. I do feel unsafe in such a scenario and the authorities should take more strict action against the anti-social elements behind these incidents. More number of CCTV cameras must be installed throughout the city so that any wrongdoing can be rectified instantly. Any person who helps the victim in a crime incident can be rewarded with cash to ensure active participation of the residents. Both the people and authorities must come together to make the city peaceful and safe.Jatinderpal Singh BatthTime to work as a communityThe citizens are going through tough times due to the present situation of lawlessness in the nation. While the rising rate of unemployment, stalled businesses and Covid-induced lockdowns badly impacted the lives of the rural and lower middle class people, the increasing rate of crime is adding to the woes of the people. It is high time that we work as a community and not at individual level to improve the situation in our society and stay vigilant. The police and the government should chalk out plans and policies to keep a check on the increasing number of crime incidents in the city. Police patrolling too needs to be increased to prevent such incidents.Kush Arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-public-both-need-to-be-vigilant-in-checking-crime-241181
19-04-2021||Amritsar||3 armed men loot café owner on Amritsar-Jalandhar highway of Rs 16K||Three unidentified armed assailants robbed Rs16,500 at gunpoint from the owner of Barista café near the toll plaza on Amritsar-Jalandhar highway on Saturday.Damanjit Singh said he owns a café and restaurant on the highway at Bandala village. Around 9.30 pm, when he was about to leave and counting the cash, two motorcycle-borne men entered the café and one of them pointed a gun at him. Damanjit said the accused threatened to kill him and asked him to give the cash. Daman opened the cash counter for them and they took Rs16,500 from it. They again threatened him and asked him to stay calm.When Damanjit went out from the café to chase them, another armed accomplice, who was standing outside, pointed a gun at him. All accused had covered their faces. The complaint said the accused crossed the central verge of the road and took the motorcycle parked on the other side. They fled towards Tarn Taran. ASI Tajinder Singh, IO in the case at Jandiala Guru police station, said: “A case under Sections 379-B, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered. The CCTV footage is being examined. The accused will be arrested soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-armed-men-loot-caf%C3%A9-owner-on-amritsar-jalandhar-highway-of-rs-16k-241176
19-04-2021||---||Army officer booked by Kathunagal police for duping people of Rs 47L||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 18The Kathunagal police on Sunday booked a serving Lieutenant Colonel on the charge of fraud after he allegedly duped his close relatives on the pretext of getting them recruited in the Army. The accused has been identified as Baljit Singh, a resident of Ram Tirath Road.According to information, Baljit Singh reportedly duped a number of people and most of them were his relatives. Balwinder Singh, complainant and father-in-law of the accused from Kaironangal village, said, “He took money from around 20 persons on the pretext of providing them jobs in the Army. My daughter was married to him in 2016. He started promising to provide our relatives jobs and collected around 47 lakh from more than 20 persons in 2017. He took Rs 2.5 lakh from one of our cousin brothers’ son at our home. So, I had lodged a complaint in this regard and the police booked him after holding an inquiry.”Earlier on the complaint of Sanjiv Singh of Kaironangal village, the police had booked Baljit Singh in January for duping Sanjiv Singh of Rs 3 lakh after promising him a job in the Army. Cases were registered following an investigation by the Superintendent of Police (Punjab Bureau of Investigation).According to Balwinder Singh, three police complaints were still pending against Baljit. A separate investigation is also being carried out by the Army battalion concerned.Sub-Inspector Harparkash Singh (investigating officer in the case), posted at the Kathunagal police station, said, “We will write to him to join the investigation. As the case is related to the recruitment fraud, the Army authorities are carrying out a separate investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-officer-booked-by-kathunagal-police-for-duping-people-of-rs-47l-241175
19-04-2021||---||Amritsar shopkeepers told to follow advertisement policy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 18The advertisement wing of the MC has called market associations of the city to adopt uniform display boards outside their shops to give a smart look to markets.MC officials claim that the advertisement policy of the state does not allow installing large boards outside shops. “No one can install boards wider than 3 feet. It is a violation of the advertisement policy. Some firms even hang 20-feet wide and lengthy boards on buildings. It is not only a violation of law, but also looks ugly and defaces city,” said Sushant Bhatia, in-charge advertisement wing of the MC.Bhatia would convene a meeting of all prominent market representatives, especially in the Ranjit Avenue, Lawrence Road and Civil Lines area, to install uniform boards outside shops.“Now, when the MC is spending crores of rupees to lift the face of the city under Smart City projects, traders and residents should also contribute to make it beautiful. The uniform size of boards will change the face of markets. We will ask traders to do it voluntarily but in case of major violation, we will write to senior officials of the MC to take appropriate action,” Bhatia said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-shopkeepers-told-to-follow-advertisement-policy-241173
19-04-2021||---||Wheat grain analysis: Strict norms by FCI fail to match ground reality||Amritsar, April 18Stricter procurement norms like reducing the upper limit for presence of broken and shrivelled grains in wheat produce imposed by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) from the current season has started giving trouble to farmers as well as procurement agencies.Farmers’ associations had earlier, too, protested against the new norms, which include reducing reduction of permissible moisture limit from 14 per cent to 12 per cent and reduction of limit for broken grains from 4 per cent to 2 per cent.Sources in the Agriculture Department said a committee of the district heads of state procurement agencies — Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup, Punjab warehouse and central agency FCI, which was constituted to assess the quality parameters of wheat grains in market, has also recommended purchase under relaxed norms. The committee had collected samples from grain markets in Amritsar and Tarn Taran, which were later analysedThe grains were analysed for the parameters as lustre loss, damage, slightly damaged, shrivelled and broken grains.The committee report (a copy with The Tribune) stated that lustre loss ranging from 2 to 5 per cent, slightly damage (due to rain and heavy winds) ranging from 4 to 5 per cent, shrivelled grains (caused by heavy rain causing water-logging in fields) from 4.5 per cent to 11 per cent were observed.Sources said as 60 per cent of the wheat crop is expected to arrive in the markets during the next two weeks, the office of the Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner has also written to the Department of Food and Civil Supplies about the situation, so that the issue could be taken up with Central government authorities.A field officer of a procurement agency said: “If the norms are not relaxed, farmers will have to face harassment and value cut. Harvesting in the district will pick up pace in the coming days, which will cause inconvenience to the procurement agencies as well as farmers in case the norms are not relaxed.Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner writes to DFSC Tarn Taran: Keeping in view acute problems in procuring wheat produce in the district, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh had written a letter to the Director Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Punjab, to take up the matter with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) immediately. The DC in the letter said inspectors of different procurement agencies had brought the matter to the notice of the district procurement committee regarding the arrival of broken and shrivelled grain and the percentage of lustre loss. The DC office wrote a letter to Amritsar-based Assistant General Manager (AGM), FCI, to know the exact position. The FCI official in response to the letter said as wheat arrived in mandis, the percentage of lustre loss ranging from 2 per cent to 5 per cent had been observed in different lots. “Rain and heavy windstorm also affected the produce slightly from 4 er cent to 5 per cent,” said AIG FCI in the letter. The DC said as the arrival of the wheat crop coming to the grain markets was not up to the mark, the procurement work was being affected badly. The DC demanded to take the matter with the FCI officials at the Union-level seeking relaxation in the specifications for the smooth procurement of wheat crop. The Saturday rain and hailstorm worsened the situation and farmers’ organisations have started demanding relief for the loss to the crop due to rain. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-grain-analysis-strict-norms-by-fci-fail-to-match-ground-reality-241172
19-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Nagar kirtan in Tarn Taran on ninth Sikh Guru’s birth anniversary||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-in-tarn-taran-on-ninth-sikh-gurus-birth-anniversary-241171
19-04-2021||---||Amritsar district sees highest-ever one-day spike of 742 cases||Amritsar, April 18In the largest single-day spike since the outbreak of Covid-19, the district reported 742 positive cases on Sunday. With this, the tally of infections has increased to 27,023.The district reported 11 more casualties in the last 24 hours, with which the toll reached 819. The fresh cases reported on Sunday included 596 influenza-like illness cases and 146 contacts of positive patients. The deceased have been identified as Paramjit Singh (75) of Mahilanwala village, Narinder Kaur (73) of Inderpuri (Kot Khalsa), Pyara Singh (75) of New Partap Nagar, Seema (53) of New Amritsar, Amrik Singh (63) of New Azad Nagar, Parminder Singh (69) of Medical Enclave, Harbhajan Kaur (80) of Mahilanwala village, Kuldeep Kaur (55) of Maqboolpura, Milkha Singh (68) of New Amritsar, Anayat (65) of Jassarwal village and Joginder Singh (60) of Baserke Gillan village.District health officials also reported the recovery of 305 patients with which the recovery count increased to 22,039. At present, the district has a total of 4,165 active cases.It was in September last year that the district had reported highest number of 400 cases in a single day. The number of positive cases and casualties due to the disease has seen a sudden spurt since the second fortnight of March.In this month, the district reported 6,013 positive cases and 143 deaths. Even in September last year, when Covid was at its peak, the district reported 5,939 positive cases and 203 deaths. The increase in infections has worried health officials and residents. The number of cases and casualties started declining towards the end of September and rising in the middle of March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-highest-ever-one-day-spike-of-742-cases-241170
19-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Talking of 2nd wave? Well, here’s how it escalates||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 18Even as very few trains and buses are being plied locally due to the fresh surge in daily infections amid the second wave of the pandemic, the occupancy rate in both forms of transport is extremely high, throwing all Covid-19 norms to the wind.A visit to the Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra ISBT laid bare the shocking fact of jam-packed buses being plied and extremely high passenger footfall at the terminal.Since free of cost travel was offered to women by the government, an upsurge in the number of women passengers has been recorded. Despite strict warnings, passengers are not heeding to the directions to comply with the Covid-19 norms. Instead, they were complaining against local officials for not operating all buses.Sources at the ISBT said 600 buses, including all 250 state-owned buses, are plying daily from the ISBT. They said passengers en masse have shifted to government-run buses, depriving private-run buses an opportunity to earn. As a result, a large number of private players have exited the profession. So, the total number of buses being plied from the ISBT, which used to be 1,500 daily before the lockdown, has come down to about 600 .Caring two hoots for the surge in Covid cases, most of the passengers were seen without masks. They did not even bother to maintain social distancing and were freely mingling with each other. Not only this, as soon as the buses for their destinations arrived, there was a competition to board first. Notably, most of the passengers were women and a large number of them were with their kids.Suman, a passenger, said she was going to travel to the Dinanagar area of Gurdaspur, where her parents reside. Accompanying her two kids, she said she would naturally avail the free travel facility as the scheme was recently introduced by the government. She said she normally visits her parents after two to three months. Otherwise, she praised the move of the government, adding that it was for the first time that a scheme for all sections of women was offered.Swaranjit Kaur, another passenger, said she was travelling to meet the family of her brother at Dera Baba Nanak. “A housewife neither has time nor enough money to spend on herself and free travel in buses offered her an opportunity to revive links with distant relatives.”Similarly, there is no visible hustle and bustle at the railway station platforms as the Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and railway authorities are strictly enforcing the lockdown norms by not allowing any person without a ticket and valid reason. However, adhering to Covid-19 norms inside the train is almost impossible. Reason: Cent percent occupancy in 12 pairs of trains being plied from the local railway station on a daily average. Before the lockdown, 65 pairs of trains used to operate on an average.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/talking-of-2nd-wave-well-heres-how-it-escalates-241169
19-04-2021||---||Farmers ignore Covid norms, hold rally in Amrisar||Amritsar, April 18Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) lodged their protest against the Centre’s farm laws at the Bhagtanwala grain market here and paid homage to those who lost their lives during the course of struggle on the Delhi borders.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Amritsar DCIllegal event puts everyone at riskThe Mandi Board Department had issued a warning against holding a gathering. But the farmers didn’t pay heed to it and conducted an illegal event, putting the lives of several persons in danger. This could never be ignored.Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said despite warning, they continued to flout the guidelines laid down in the light of Covid spread.“The Mandi Board Department had issued a warning against holding a gathering. But the farmers didn’t pay heed to it and conducted an illegal programme, putting the lives of several persons in danger. This could never be ignored,” he said.Nonetheless, KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government resorted to torpedo the farmers protest under the garb of Covid spread.“The farmers and labourers have a very strong immune system. Instead of coronavirus, the ill-will policies of the governments will kill the farmers and we were fighting for our survival and future of the next generations,” he said.They demanded that the procurement of wheat should be carried out without any conditions. The condition of depositing the fard should be abolished, the crisis of bags should be resolved immediately and the lifting of wheat in mandis be expedited and farmers be compensated for the loss of crop due to inclement weather conditions.“We are prepared to continue the struggle until our demands are met. We fight for repealing the laws, the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, the Straw Pollution Act 2020, enactment of law guaranteeing MSP, and waiving debt as per election promise of the government”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-ignore-covid-norms-hold-rally-in-amrisar-240913
19-04-2021||Tribune New Service||Excommunicated, Sucha Singh Langah visiting Golden Temple||Amritsar, April 18Former SAD minister Sucha Singh Langah has apparently been paving the way to come back in the mainstream if his regular visits to the Golden Temple and Akal Takht for the past few days are any indication.Langah was excommunicated by Akal Takht on October 5, 2017, after a video, showing him in an objectionable position with a woman, went viral. This is considered an immoral transgression in the Sikh religion.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar has been rejecting his repeated pleas of clemency. An official of Akal Takht said Langah had been making attendance at the Golden Temple to pray for the past three days but he had not given any fresh application at Akal Takht Secretariat.“He has been coming to pay obeisance at Akal Takht and listening to the diwan of Dhadi Sabha but doesn’t meet anyone,” he said.There has been talk in the Panthic circles that Langah has been making ground to come back to the mainstream politics eyeing the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/excommunicated-sucha-singh-langah-visiting-golden-temple-240925
