20-04-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Rising cases a cause for concern||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19Amid the increase in number of Covid cases in the district, residents, especially traders, feel the government might announce restrictions on the movement and working hours to deal with the situation. As the fear of the lockdown is growing, residents are anxious.The recent development in Delhi, where the state government announced a seven-day lockdown and in Rajasthan, where a 15-day lockdown has been announced, has given rise to such speculations among residents in the city.No doubt, ever since the start of pandemic, the Covid situation at present is at its worst as the number of daily cases has seen an exponential rise. Residents said a lockdown would give rise to another set of problems.A look at the month-wise figures of positive cases and casualties reported from the district reveals that in the current month, it has reported the highest number of 6,355 positive cases ever since the start of the pandemic. Earlier, the highest number of 5,939 positive cases was reported in September last year, when the first wave of infection was at its peak.Sukhwant Singh, a trader, said the way the number of positive cases is increasing daily, a demand for lockdown might be made by a section of society in a few days as they are worried. “It can be in the interest of the general public, but it will be devastating for the traders,” he said.The traders expressed that if the neighbouring states such as Rajasthan have announced a lockdown, the Punjab Government, too, might follow suit in the coming days. Residents said the general public needs to be more aware of the health hazards.“We cannot live our entire lives in lockdown. We all need to change ourselves. Still, a large number of people can be seen flouting guidelines and consider that there is no such disease,” said Bhavna Sharma, a schoolteacher.Amritsar district logs 12 deaths, 342 new casesAmritsar: The district health authorities on Monday reported 12 deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 831. Moreover, the district also reported 342 new cases taking the total to 27,365. The deceased have been identified as Narinder Singh (48) of East Gobind Nagar on Sultanwind Road, Paramjit Kaur (60) of Kale Ghannupur village, Chand Rani (70) of Vikas Nagar, Baldev Raj (50) of Pakharpura village, Sukhjit Kaur (55) of Harar village, Gurmej Singh (50) of Ajnala, Surakhsha Gupta (50) of Ram Bagh, Satnam Singh (72) of Ashok Vihar (Ram Tirath), Harjit Kaur (59) of Mehma village, Manjit Kaur (69) of Baba Bakala and Manjit Kaur (71) of Wajir Bhullar village. The new cases include 243 influenza-like illness cases and 99 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 300 patients, the recovery count has increased to 22,339 in the district. At present, the district has a total of 4,195 active cases. The district has reported a total of 155 deaths in the month of April so far. It is the second highest number of deaths reported in a single month. The district had reported the highest number of 203 deaths due to Covid in September last year when the first wave of the virus was at its peak. Though the number of positive cases has surpassed the peak of the previous year, the number of casualties is comparatively low. Medical experts stated that in the changed scenario, residents and medical experts are experienced and are well aware of the situation than they were last year. The shortage of oxygen cylinders has been reported from different places. Even Guru Nanak Dev Hospital has started using its buffer stock kept for emergency situations, leading to speculations on social media that the hospital has exhausted its stock of oxygen. However, the hospital authorities later clarified that buffer stock is kept for such situations so that orders for replenishing stock could be made in time. Even the Medical Education Minister clarified that there was no shortage of oxygen. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-cases-a-cause-for-concern-241651
20-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||High freight charges, demand and supply gap affect fruit prices||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19High freight cost and change of season have upset the supply and demand equilibrium of fruit in the local market, resulting in the exceptional hike in fruit prices.A majority of fruits comes from different parts of the country. Ours is a border district, situated at the tail end of the country. Hence, freight cost invariably remains high. So, it pricked us the most as the freight cost was increased between 30 to 40 per cent after the diesel rate was exceptionally hiked. — Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, A wholesale fruit traderRitu, a housewife, said a majority of seasonal fruits were being sold at Rs100 per kilogram in the market. She said the government had been disseminating the message of boosting immunity to fight Covid-19. However, it has failed in providing enough jobs and halt the trend in cutting salaries of those who are even in the organised sector as a fallout of Covid-19.Manjit Singh, an employee, said escalation in fruit prices was another financial burden passed on to the people. He said offering wholesome food to a family became an onerous task as prices of groceries were increasing frequently.Two varieties of mango — Safeda and Sandoori — are available in the market and are being sold at Rs100 and Rs120 per kg, respectively, in the retail market. Apple is being sold at Rs200 and above per kilogram. No variety of grapes is available below Rs100 per kg. A kg of pomegranate is being sold between Rs80 and Rs100 per kg. Even melon is being sold between Rs40 and Rs50 per kg. The summer season has just started and most of the crop is coming from states like Andhra Pradesh.Apple available in the market is coming from cold storages as its season was already over in February. Similarly, the season of pomegranate was already over and the new crop would start coming after a month from Maharashtra, followed by Gujarat. As the season of grapes is concluding there is a short supply of it.He added that sincethe Rozas were underway the overall supply of fruit was short from its originating regions as the demand of fruit was extremely high from those states where Muslim population was concentrated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/high-freight-charges-demand-and-supply-gap-affect-fruit-prices-241652
20-04-2021||---||2 suicides in a day rock Amritsar city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19A Patiala resident identified as Harwinder Singh (40) ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance at a hotel located near the Kesari Bagh area here on Sunday.In a nutshellOn the basis of a suicide note recovered from the spot, the police have booked two persons, including a woman on the charges of abetting suicide.Those booked were identified as Manpreet Kaur and her son Kamaljit Singh of Khanpur Warring village in Rajpura area. According to the police, he took the extreme step owing to a property dispute.Pakhar Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that his son went away from home without telling anybody. On Sunday, he got a call from a hotel that Harwinder had taken a room on rent in the hotel where he consumed some poisonous substance. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, where he died.Gurminder Singh, SHO division B police station, said in the suicide note, he said the accused had been harassing him by lodged false complaints against him. He said a case under Section 306 of the IPC was registered against the duo and raids were on to nab him.Meanwhile, a married woman identified as Paramjit Kaur committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan in Bhilowal village here on Sunday. Following the complaint of her father Bansa Singh, a resident of Mardi Kalan village, the police have booked her husband Judge Singh for abetting suicide.Bansa Singh told the police that Paramjit Kaur (33) was married to the accused around four years ago and the couple had a son from the marriage. He said Judge Singh was an acute alcoholic and used to thrash Paramjit after consuming liquor. He said his daughter used to obstruct him from consuming liquor. This had become a common cause for quarrel between the couple. He said she had told them a number to times about this and they had also asked him to desist.He said on Sunday, he got a call from her in-laws that she had ended her life by hanging with the ceiling fan. The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC in this regard and efforts were on to arrest him, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-suicides-in-a-day-rock-amritsar-city-241653
20-04-2021||---||55-yr-old Goindwal Sahib resident shoots self with revolver||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 19A man living with his wife in the residential quarters of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Goindwal Sahib, 25 km from here, committed suicide by shooting himself from a close range with his licenced revolver last night.Was under depressionThe deceased has been identified as Dr Surinder Singh (55), whose wife Vijaypal Kaur is working as sewing teacher at JNV, Goindwal Sahib, for the last 30 years.The deceased was a manager at Nijjar Agro, Jandiala Guru, and used to travel from Goindwal Sahib daily in his car. He was under depression for the past one week.He fired from a close range when his wife was sleeping in the room. On hearing the gunshot, she woke up and saw her husband dead. She immediately informed the police and SHO Inspector Jaswant Singh reached the spot immediately with the police force.The deceased belonged to Dhupsari (Batala) village and was living here with his wife. His elder daughter was married and settled in Canada and son was also well-settled. Inspector Jaswant Singh, SHO Goindwal Sahib police station, said on the statement of Vijaypal Kaur, wife of the deceased, a report under Section 174 of the CrPC was registered. The postmortem was conducted at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-yr-old-goindwal-sahib-resident-shoots-self-with-revolver-241654
20-04-2021||---||Mystery shrouds death of  25-year-old youth||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19Mystery shrouds the death of a youth identified as Nirmal Singh (25), a resident of Kathunangal village, falling under Kamboh police station here. He was found dead on late Saturday evening.My son Nirmal Singh was a carpenter and was working at Loharaka road. On Saturday, he went to work but did not return. In the evening, I got a call that Nirmal Singh was found badly injured near Jethuwal village. — Gurmit Singh, Father of the deceasedAccording to the police, he had sharp weapon injury marks. Yaadwinder Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said a case of murder was registered, while further investigations were underway.Gurmit Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that Nirmal Singh was a carpenter and was working at Loharaka road. On Saturday, he went to work but did not return. He said in the evening, he got a call from unidentified persons that Nirmal Singh was found badly injured near Jethuwal village. He had sharp weapon injury marks and was rushed to a private hospital in Amritsar city. He said he succumbed to his injuries on Sunday.Yaadwinder said earlier the police registered an attempt to murder case and later the murder section was added in the FIR. He said robbery did not seem the reason, as his bike, purse and mobile was at the spot. The police suspect some personal enmity behind the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mystery-shrouds-death-of-25-year-old-youth-241655
20-04-2021||---||Amid crisis, only hope keeps him afloat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19In 2019, Sanjay Mishra, 55, lost his job after a career spanning over decades in the pharmaceutical business. Undeterred, Mishra turned into a food entrepreneur by opening a small café inside Khalsa College that gradually became a hotspot for students as well as staff on the heritage campus.With just a few months into his new business, 2020 brought the biggest challenge the world could ever face — the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown that followed had unexpected outcomes, especially for Mishra’s new venture that was proving to be a success. But proving his nerves, Sanjay not only survived the hit, but was also joined by his daughter Purti in reviving his small café.“For most beginning something new professionally is tough at the age where people retire. But my father kept his spirits high, even when the lockdown drained most of our savings and whatever profits we had made with our café business. After reopening, we had to let go of our helpers, due to financial restraint. But business came back to usual at a slow pace,” said Purti, 20, Sanjay’s daughter, who is studying. In adversity, the Mishra family came together to save their small venture.“I help my father mostly with his café and when I am busy, my mother joins him. Though we still do not make much in the name of profit from our business now, the earnings are enough to keep the business afloat,” she says. They run the café for restricted time every day, following the new normal and as per guidelines of the district administration.As for Sanjay, his café remains his ‘baby’. “I have survived many obstacles, professionally. Just when most did not think that I could re-invent myself after losing my job, I decided to open my café. Now, I hope the situation improves and my café buzzes again with the usual laughter and stories of students, who I have come to share my life with,” he shares.As for the cost of running his small venture, he is hopeful that his small investment will eventually pay big once the situation normalises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-crisis-only-hope-keeps-him-afloat-241656
20-04-2021||---||Police remand of 3 accused extended||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19The local court on Monday extended the police remand of three Madhya Pradesh residents by one day. They were arrested by the Punjab Police while busting an inter-state illegal weapons supplier module.The investigations carried out so far reveal that Rahul, a notorious MP-based weapons manufacturer and smuggler, was the kingpin and his name was figured in the previous cases also. They had supplied over 30 illegal weapons to gangsters and criminal elements in Punjab in the past over three months. He was also the prime suspect in the seizure of weapons by Patiala Police in September, 2020. The Patiala police had confiscated six weapons at that time. Rahul and other MP-based weapon smugglers use various social media platforms, including WhatsApp, to establish a wide network of contacts in Punjab, for illegal supply of locally manufactured weapons. — Dhurv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar ruralThose arrested were identified as Crore Singh, Ram Singh and Chander Pal, all residents of Burhanpur district. The police had seized as many as 30 illegal weapons along with 32 magazines, a car and a bike from their possession.According to police, they used to supply the illegal weapons in different parts of Punjab besides other neighbouring states.This was the ninth arrest made by the rural police in past four months in the module. Earlier, the police had nabbed Mahesh Silotia and Jaggu from Khargone in MP in January this year. A police team led by DSP Gurinder Pal Singh Nagra had seized 12 pistols and 15 magazines from their possession at that time.Before that the police had nabbed four persons Davinder Singh, Daljit Singh of Faridkot, Karanbir Singh of Harike Pattan and Vikram Sonu of KhemkaranRoad in Tarn Taran in December last year.Dhurv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar rural, said that the investigations carried out so far revealed that Rahul, a notorious MP-based weapons manufacturer and smuggler, was the kingpin and his name was figured in the previous cases also. They had supplied over 30 illegal weapons to gangsters and criminal elements in Punjab during past over three months. He was also the prime suspect in the seizure of weapons by Patiala Police in September, 2020. The Patiala police had confiscated six weapons at that time.Dahiya said Rahul and other MP-based weapon smugglers use various social media platforms, including WhatsApp, to establish a wide network of contacts in Punjab, for illegal supply of locally manufactured weapons.The police were also probing into the alleged links with certain Punjab-based terrorists as Rahul was in contact with several gangsters and hardliners lodged in Punjab jails. He was supplying the weapons to them also. He said Rahul’s links had also been established earlier with Akashdeep Singh who was lodged inside Amritsar Jail, in a drone module busted by the Punjab Police in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-remand-of-3-accused-extended-241657
20-04-2021||---||3 more members of robbers’ gang arrested, arms seized||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19The city police have arrested three more members of the robbers’ gang busted by the local police around a week ago. With their arrest, the police managed to crack 12 more robbery cases occurred in Amritsar and its adjoining areas.Those arrested were identified as Manjit Singh Mota, Suraj and Harpreet Singh. The police seized sharp weapons, two mobile phones and two bikes from their possession.Harpal Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said that raids were on to nab their three more accomplices including Sandeep Gattu, Lavish Mallli and Prince.Earlier, the police had nabbed Vishal Kumar, alias Bhaiya of Fatehgarh Churian Road, Akshay Kumar, Jobanjit Singh and Ranjodh Singh, Jaspinder Singh, alias Baba, and Jaskaran Singh, alias Jass. With their arrest the police claimed to have cracked as many as 29 cases including murder of a woman (Lata) in Sandhu Colony on Majitha Road on April 1. The police have seized two country-made pistols, three sharp-edged weapons and two bikes from their possession.Harpal Singh said that the gang had robbed over two dozen petrol pump. They used to loot the petrol pumps and snatch vehicles at gun point. Suraj was the prime accused behind the killing of a woman in Sandhu Colony on 88-feet road on April 1. They were active in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala areas.Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, said that the accused had brutally injured a man in Hoshiarpur, besides committing some robberies in the recent past. He said raids were on to nab the remaining three accomplices and more recoveries were likely to be made from their possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-more-members-of-robbers-gang-arrested-arms-seized-241658
20-04-2021||---||11,015 MT wheat procured in mandis so far||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19Different government agencies have procured 11,015 metric tonne wheat out of the total arrival of 21,002 metric tonne from separate grain markets in the district so far.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said PUNGRAIN procured 6,085 metric tonne, MARKFED 2,470 metric tonne, PUNSUP 1,765 metric tonne, Punjab State Warehousing 565 metric tonne and FCI has bought 130 metric tonne wheat so far.He accepted that there were some hiccups in the procurement initially due to inclement weather, but prompt action ironed out all troubles.He said keeping in view the surge in Covid-19 positive cases, several steps were being taken to provide a disinfected environment to farmers arriving at the grain markets. Market committees distributed sanitisers and masks among farmers. He asserted that procurement agencies were releasing payment to farmers within 48 hours after the procurement.The DC called upon farmers to bring in dry wheat, so that its procurement could be immediately ensured.At present, wheat procurement was underway at 57 grain markets and temporary procurement centres were opened at 10 rice mills and at four public places in the district.District Mandi Officer Amandeep Singh said arrangements have been made for swift procurement, so that farmers do not stay longer in the market during the second wave of Covid-19. He said special efforts were put in for providing potable water and toilets.Amritpal Singh, a farmer from Dornangal village, said the quality of wheat was evaluated at the arrival gate of Bhagtanwala Dana Mandi. Then, it was cleaned near the gate and subsequently allowed for procurement by different agencies in the mandi. He found apt precautions in the mandi owing to surge in Covid-19 cases.Another farmer Harwinder Singh of Kotli village said he had grown wheat on his two acre land. He said there was no scarcity of gunny bags in the mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-015-mt-wheat-procured-in-mandis-so-far-241659
20-04-2021||---||Jammu resident robbed of Rs 70K||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19Snatching instances continues unabated in the city with two bike-borne persons looted a woman when she along with her aunt were going to a private hospital where her mother was under treatment.Komal, a resident of Samba in Jammu, stated to the police that she along with her aunt Jyoti Devi had come to meet her mother who was under treatment at a private hospital located on the Majitha road here. She said from the Katra Sher Singh area they took an e-rickshaw and was coming to hospital. She said that they mistakenly took the turn towards Batala road. She said as she was asking someone for direction to the hospital, two bike-borne persons came from behind and snatched her purse.She said her purse contained Rs 70,000 which they had brought for the treatment of her mother. The police have registered a case in this connection while further investigations are under progress. Gurmeet Singh, Investigating Officer, said that they were analysing the CCTV cameras in the adjoining areas to find the clues about the robbers while a case under Section 379-B of the IPC has been registered with Majitha road police station here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jammu-resident-robbed-of-rs-70k-241660
20-04-2021||---||Spare a thought for sustainable heritage conservation: INTACH||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19Marking International Heritage Day on April 18, Dr Sukhdev Singh, Punjab state convener and member governing council, Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said all municipal corporations, municipal committees and panchayats should incorporate the heritage regulation laws and by-laws passed by the Punjab Government in 2019 as part of their governance and management of unprotected potential of cultural heritage.Speaking about the sustainable development in adherence to heritage character of cities, he emphasised that the cultural heritage can work as a driver for sustainable development and life.He pointed out that the contemporary crisis in many human affairs was the result of blind adherence of modern industrial development policies without any sensitivity to human life, he appealed to the government to build up the mechanisms of connecting development with cultural heritage.“While it is important to guard the old buildings and monuments as sites and structures of cultural heritage, it is important to make policies to guard our languages, our systems of community values of sharing than snatching our natural heritage of streams, rivers, hillocks,” he said.Dr Sukhdev said it was criminal to let mining continue without following any norms and restrictions. “Although it is possible for the government to give cultural heritage monuments for maintenance and operation on public private mode, yet it is important that the monument rather than profits remain primary and in the centre stage.”INTACH has been actively engaged in assessing and building a network of collaborators in heritage conservation and to promote sustainable development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spare-a-thought-for-sustainable-heritage-conservation-intach-241661
20-04-2021||---||‘Smart School Darshan’ to highlight infrastructure overhaul at govt schools||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19The district Education Department launched ‘Smart School Darshan’ initiative aimed at making people aware about the changing scenario of government schools.The infrastructure overhaul that the government schools across the state went under the ‘Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim’, will be highlighted through guided tours of smart schools across the district by department officials.Under ‘Smart School Darshan’, the government schools are inviting anyone from the civil society to visit schools. While launching the initiative, District Education Officer (SE), Satinderbir Singh, invited Bar Association, Amritsar, this time to visit government school situated at Talwandi Dasuanda village to access and see the changes in the quality of education as well as infrastructure through concerted efforts.DEO (SE), apprised the delegation of Bar Association, led by its president Vipin Dhand, parents and other members of the infrastructural changes in the school such as colour-coded classrooms, tastefully decorated rooms and verandahs with educative messages and art, smart classrooms, computer and science / math/ English/ S St. labs, playgrounds, library, educational parks, shooting range and digital classrooms with LED projectors and latest digital applications. The DEO also demonstrated the conduct of digital education via ‘Punjab Educare App’ developed by the department.The delegation was also apprised of the various welfare schemes such as free mid-day meal, uniforms, scholarships, text books to eligible beneficiaries and nominal fee structure available in government schools.Vipin Dhand, president, Bar Association, Amritsar, said public must avail the benefits of state-of-the-art infrastructural and quality education facilities in government schools instead of paying hefty fee in private schools just in pursuit of quality education for their children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-school-darshan-to-highlight-infrastructure-overhaul-at-govt-schools-241662
20-04-2021||---||Manjot Dhillon is FICCI FLO chairperson||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19Manjot Dhillon, educator and philanthropist from the city, took over as the fourth chairperson of FICCI FLO’s Amritsar chapter. The pan India women organisation that acts as platform for exchange and empowerment for women entrepreneurs and social leaders, has had four-year-old city chapter that has been engaged in several social initiatives.The change of guard ceremony and announcement of the new executive committee was held on Monday. Manjot said this year would be dedicated to the 160th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore and ‘awakening’ will be the theme for the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/manjot-dhillon-is-ficci-flo-chairperson-241663
20-04-2021||Amritsar||Panic as Amritsar's Guru Nanak Dev Hospital switches to buffer stock of oxygen||Amid reports of ongoing oxygen shortage at hospitals, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, associated with the Government Medical College, here had to switch to its buffer stock after exhausting its supply.The hospital administration said the buffer stock was maintained so that suppliers could be notified about the demand in time. However, this created panic among family members of patients at the hospital.Later, Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni clarified a “situation” had arisen which was tackled immediately. “There is no shortage of oxygen in any medical college in the state,” he said. Medical Superintendent Dr KD Singh said: “We always keep a buffer stock of oxygen for such situations. This morning, we had to use oxygen from this stock. We immediately informed our suppliers and the stock was replenished.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panic-as-amritsars-guru-nanak-dev-hospital-switches-to-buffer-stock-of-oxygen-241426
20-04-2021||Amritsar||Farmers warn against ending protest on Covid spread pretext||A large gathering of farmers to oppose the three agricultural laws was organised at Kukranwala village near Ajnala on Monday. Farmers warned the government against taking any action to end the protest forcibly on the pretext of the Covid-19 spread.Farmer leaders said they would oppose any such move with all their might and would not end the protest until their demands were accepted.The event organised by actor Sonia Mann witnessed participation of several Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, including BKU (Ekta) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha president Kulwant Sandhu, Kandela Khap Panchayat (Haryana) president Chet Ram Kandela and Gaurav Tikait, son of Rakesh Tikait.“This gathering is meant to reconnect people from Majha with the farmers’ cause,” said Sonia, whose father Baldev Singh Mann, a leader of Kirti Kisan Union, was gunned down by Sikh militants.Ugrahan said the three farm laws were detrimental to the agricultural sector. He said, “Farmers are unable to meet their expenses even with the MSP but the government is trying to open the sector for the corporate.” He added corporate houses would exploit farmers and offer them lower prices when the prevailing market system collapsed.Commenting on Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement that the Centre was ready to hold talks with farmers, Ugrahan said, Tomar had nothing to offer and needed to get the permission from the Prime Minister before issuing any statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-warn-against-ending-protest-on-covid-spread-pretext-241432
20-04-2021||Amritsar||Repeal farm laws: Tikait’s son to Centre||Gaurav Tikait, son of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, said their struggle would continue until the three farm laws were repealed and a law on the MSP was enacted.Accompanied by other farmer leaders and actor Sonia Mann, he paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and prayed for the success of the farmers’ struggle.He was in Amritsar to attend a farmers’ event at Kukranwala village. “The movement will succeed and the government will have to relent. The Centre was bent on suppressing the farmers’ agitation, but it has ended up being more intensified. Now, the Covid-19 threat has been made an excuse to scuttle the movement, but it will have no impact”, he said. Meanwhile, the SGPC honoured the visitors with siropas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repeal-farm-laws-tikaits-son-to-centre-241439
