21-04-2021||Amritsar||International tourism awards: Partition Museum wins Best Wider World Tourism Project||The Partition Museum in Amritsar has won the Best Wider World Tourism Project award at the British Guild of Travel Writers International Tourism (BGTW) Awards 2020, held this Sunday in the UK, despite stiff competition from other international tourism projects. It was rated as “first class” and the “most innovative and important tourism project” with a positive impact on community, according to Simon Willmore, chair of BGTW.Taking the leadThe Partition Museum beat global tourism projects include the Macon Music Trail in Georgia, USA; the Michinoku Coastal Trail in Honshu, Japan; the Nelson Mandela Capture Site Museum and Visitor Centre in Howick, South Africa; Remando por la Paz/Rafting for Peace in Colombia and the Soqotra Heritage Project in the Gulf of Aden.The Partition Museum launched by The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust (TAACHT) was nominated by BGTW member Meera Dattani and voted for by the 260 members of the BGTW. Winners were announced during ‘BGTW’s Really Big Reveal’, an online broadcast that took place on April 18 due to the pandemic restrictions.Initiated by a group of people led by Kishwar Desai, the Partition Museum called the ‘people’s museum’ was established under The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust. Dedicated to remember the largest mass migration in human history, the Partition Museum has won six other awards, nationally and internationally.The BGTW award scheme, the results of which were postponed into 2021 because of the pandemic, gives Guild members the opportunity to propose new tourism projects that they feel deserve recognition for their outstanding contribution to tourism. Awards are split into three categories: ‘Best UK and Ireland Tourism Project’, ‘Best European Tourism Project’ and ‘Best Wider World Tourism Project’.Kishwar Desai, reacting to the win, said: “We are truly honoured and thrilled to receive this award and thank everyone who has supported it. This museum is dedicated to millions of those unremembered and unrecognised people, who lost their homes and homelands overnight due to the Partition of India. It draws thousands of visitors every month and has become an important part of the tourist itinerary. This award will further encourage others to visit the Partition Museum, learn about the world’s largest forced migration, the repercussions of which last till today, nearly 75 years later.”BGTW chairman Simon Willmore said: “The BGTW International Tourism Awards provide the opportunity for members to nominate the most innovative and important tourism projects they have visited over the last year that they believe deserve wider recognition. The Partition Museum is a first-class example of a tourism project that is having a positive impact on the community and the environment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-tourism-awards-partition-museum-wins-best-wider-world-tourism-project-241985
21-04-2021||Amritsar||6 die, 372 +ve in Amritsar||The health authorities reported six Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Tuesday. With this, the toll has increased to 837.The authorities also reported 372 new positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 27,737. The new cases included 262 influenza-like illness cases and 112 contacts of positive cases.The deceased have been identified as Jaswinder Singh (46) of Ghannupur Kale; Joginder Kaur (75) of Chamiari village in Ajnala Tehsil; Simerjeet Kaur (52) of Kandowali village; Manjit Kaur (71) of Jassar village; Kirti Kumar Seth (66) of Professor Colony and Gurbachan Kaur (62) of Gaggomahal.The health authorities also reported recovery of 315 patients with which the recovery count has reached 22,654 in the district.The district, at present, has a total of 4,246 active cases.2,30,217 persons vaccinated so farThe Health Department said 9,277 persons were vaccinated till 4 pm on Tuesday, taking the count of persons getting the jabs in the district to 2,30,217 (both first and second doses).As per the figures available with the Health Department, 28.41 per cent of healthcare workers have received both doses and 26.12 per cent of the registered frontline workers have received both doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-die-372-ve-in-amritsar-241987
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Bank manager held for fraud||The Economic Offences wing has nabbed a bank manager, who was allegedly a part of the racket of fraudsters, who used to swindle banks by taking huge loans on the basis of fake documents.He has been identified as Simranjit Singh, who was the manager with the Bank of India. He had been evading arrest since the racket was busted by the EO wing after the arrest of two persons Gurmeet Singh and Jagdeep Singh, who was a former sarpanch. He was arrested from near the inter-state bus terminus on Tuesday.Simranjit was produced in court, which has granted five-day police remand for further interrogation, said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Financial Crimes), Sushil Kumar.He said the police have recovered some important documents from his possession, which were being analysed. He said he used to pass the loans after taking his commission. He said the police have sought some more documents from the bank, which he had signed in the past. He said Gurmeet and Jagdeep, who were sent to judicial custody after the expiry of their police remand, would also be brought on production warrant for further probe.Advocate Ravi Mahajan said the bank had provided several documents to him, which would be handed over to the police after going through it. He said the police had registered around four such FIRs and more would be registered against fraudsters.So far, the EO has established fraud worth Rs1.5 crore. However, the figure may increase further as the investigations were still under progress. Among others who were booked include Kuldeep Singh of Sansara Kalan village and Dr Kulwant Singh of Delhi.Gurmeet was the mastermind and he used to forge documents for bank loans.As per the preliminary probe, the accused had got hundreds of loans passed from a bank through this modus operandi. They used to arrange registries and then change names by forging documents. In several cases, they managed to get the loan thrice on one registry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bank-manager-held-for-fraud-241988
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Deorhi in Amritsar's historic Ram Bagh cries for attention||The historical structure known as Deorhi in the summer palace of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, also known as Ram Bagh, is crying for attention.One of the projecting balconies decorated with ornamental floral designs in the lime plast has fallen, while cracks have appeared from different sides in the structure.The Deorhi was handed over to the Municipal Corporation by the British era ‘Service Club’ over a year ago.Resembles Shalimar Bagh in LahoreAccording to sources in the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the structure remained in the occupation of the club for nearly a century. Therefore, it could not be preserved. Sources said the said structure was a replica of ‘Deori Ram Bagh’ — one of the main entrance gates to the Summer Palace, which is conserved and currently under the occupation of the ASI, which runs its office from its premises.As per the ASI, the Deorhi (under its occupation) comprised fortified citadel having the Darbal Hall, two pavilions on the eastern and western sides, two gateways on the northern and southern sides. Besides the façade contains beautiful balconies.As far as the Deorhi (vacated by the Service Club) is concerned, its façade needed urgent repair, said sources in the ASI. They pointed out that a balcony has caved in, while cracks have appeared on different sides.An ASI official pointed out that the process of repair and conservation of the outer façade has already been approved and the department was in the process of floating tenders for the same. The entire process, which got delayed to the pandemic in the previous year, is likely to be completed by July this year. After this, they would again request the MC authorities to hand over the structure to them.Vijay Kumar, a frequent visitor to the historic garden, said it was very ‘painful’ to see the approach of different agencies towards theses heritage structures of immense importance. The government should conserve these structures on a priority, as it could add to most prominent tourist destination for tourists visiting the holy city.The ASI has written a number of times to the civic authorities for handing over the protected monument.At present, three British-era clubs — Service Club, Lumsden Club and Amritsar Club — are being run from the premises.Besides, food kiosks, concrete pathways, children’s park, skating rink, tennis courts and zonal offices of the Municipal Corporation have been playing a spoilsport as far as the historic Bagh’s heritage significance is concerned.The ASI and the Municipal Corporation have entered into an agreement, where the latter would remain the custodian of the garden, but the restoration of the heritage would be done under the ASI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deorhi-in-amritsars-historic-ram-bagh-cries-for-attention-241991
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Repeated delay in exams causing stress among students, say experts||The National Testing Agency (NTA) postponed the April session JEE (Main) 2021 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic adding to the series of announcements of delay or cancellation of exams due to the virus.The UGC-National Eligibility Test (NET) scheduled to be held from May 2 to 17 has also been postponed in view of the pandemic, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ announced on Tuesday.While the move is being considered a necessary intervention under the given circumstances, the repeated delay in the conduct of competitive exams is causing stress among students, say experts.Dinesh Paneri, academic mentor and managing partner at FITJEE, said: “The situation is not new, as earlier, too, there had been a lot of uncertainty over the conduct of competitive exams such as JEE and NEET. Although, authorities concerned tried to consider all possible options under the given circumstances, the delay is already causing stress and anxiety among students. Not just the delay, but the ambiguity on the matter of conduct of multiple competitive exams has had a negative impact on a lot of students and this might affect their academic performance. The four-phase conduct of JEE Main by the NTA, I believe, was not a wise step. Instead, the exam should have been taken earlier, in offline mode, on a single date, following safety restrictions.”Uttamjit Singh from Wisdom Institute, which provides coaching for JEE and NEET, too, shared similar views. “A lot of students are giving up due to the frustration of repeating the entire process of preparing for competitive exams. It’s not easy as it requires discipline and focus and exam re-scheduling has made this tenuous for students,” he said.He said not just JEE (Main) but several other exams, including NEET and those conducted by state service commissions, too, had been re-scheduled. “For ambitious students, their entire academic year is being compromised and it becomes imperative to find plausible solutions,” he said.“One has to make extra efforts to start the entire process of revision, preparing lessons for exams. The delay is frustrating and if it continues, we might face a situation where we’ll have to prepare for CBSE boards and competitive exams simultaneously,” said Sparsh Goenka, a student from DAV Public School, who was supposed to take JEE (Main) in April.Manav Goyal, who got 99.85 percentile in JEE (Main) March-phase, was due to take the exam again in April. He said the uncertainty over the matter was more worrying than the exam re-scheduling. “One ends up waiting for another date despite all preparation. Also, we have to plan the entire academic year. With so many delays and postponement, it becomes difficult to consider all options.”StudentspeakOne has to make extra efforts to start the entire process of revision and preparing lessons for exams. The delay is frustrating and if it continues, we might face a situation where we'll have to prepare for CBSE boards and competitive exams simultaneously. — Sparsh Goenka, a student from DAV school, who was supposed to take JEE (Main) in AprilThe uncertainty in the matter is more worrying than the exam re-scheduling. One ends up waiting for another date despite all preparation. Also, we have to plan the entire academic year. With so many delays and postponement, it becomes difficult to consider all options. — Manav Goyal, who got 99.85 percentile in JEE (Main) March-phaseExpertspeakThe situation is not new, as earlier, too, there had been a lot of uncertainty over the conduct of competitive exams such as JEE and NEET. Although, authorities concerned tried to consider all possible options under the given circumstances, the delay is already causing stress and anxiety among students. Not just the delay, but the ambiguity on the matter of conduct of multiple competitive exams has had a negative impact on a lot of students and this might affect their academic performance. — Dinesh Paneri, Academic Mentor and managing partner at FitjeeA lot of students are giving up due to the frustration of repeating the entire process of preparing for competitive exams. It's not easy as it requires discipline and focus and exam re-scheduling has made this tenuous for students. — Uttamjit Singh, from Wisdom institute||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repeated-delay-in-exams-causing-stress-among-students-say-experts-241996
21-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Man loses mobile, cash to robbers||Medical, sports kits distributedAmritsar: Khanna Paper Mills handed over sports kits and medical equipment to district administration officials under their corporate social responsibility initiative. A team headed by Suneet Kochhar, director, Khanna Paper Mills Ltd, handed over the goods to Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira and ADC Himanshu Agarwal. Suneet Kochhar, managing trustee, Madad Charitable Foundation, and director of Khanna Paper Mill, said the Madad Charitable Foundation was formed in 2011 with the objective to carry out social work. Kochhar said from time to time, the foundation has contributed to Jammu & Kashmir Relief Fund, helping the victims of Jaura fatak accident, distribution of twin bins under the Smart City project for Amritsar city, helping the police and the district administration during the pandemic and giving financial assistance to under privileged children at Nishkam School. TNS2 arrested with 1,450-litre ENAAmritsar: The rural police on Tuesday arrested two persons for allegedly pilfering extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from tankers attached with distilleries. They were identified as Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, of Sanghna village and Shubham Chopra, alias Sonu Mota, of Sultanwind Road. The police have confiscated 1,450-litre ENA from them, while raids were on to nab their accomplices identified as Raju of Sultanwind Road, Jugraj Singh and Satbir Singh of Khaparkheri. Amritsar (rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya in a statement said the accused were involved in the interstate smuggling of illicit liquor. He said they used to pilfer ENA from tankers attached with Ambala and Shahbad distilleries in Haryana. He said following a tip-off, the police confiscated the ENA and an SUV pickup from them. He said their links were being investigated to unearth the entire racket. TNSLiquor seized, woman bookedTarn Taran: The local Sadar police led by ASI Kuldeep Singh conducted a raid at the residence of a widow in Rasulpur village and seized 20 bottles of illicit liquor. The woman, however, managed to flee from the spot. The police said the accused has been identified as Jaspal Kaur. She was booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-loses-mobile-cash-to-robbers-241999
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Inadequate staff at PNB, Butala village, irk residents||Despite the issue of shortage of staff at the Punjab National Bank’s branch at Butala village being highlighted in these columns in November last year, the same problem has cropped up again.Swinder Singh, sarpanch of the village, said after the publication of the news and mounting pressure from villagers, three officials were shifted to the branch. However, one of them managed to take a transfer and two employees perennially remained on holidays, leaving the customers in the lurch.This resulted in tremendous harassment to people, who have to stand in queues for availing banking services.Yadwinder Singh, a resident of Butala village, said he had to wait arduously for a week to deposit a cheque in his account and then encash the same. Apart from this, I had to stand in a long queue for hours for a simple banking service, when there was a surge in positive cases due to the second wave of Covid-19.Another customer Gurpreet Singh said he left behind his farming and domestic work to stand in the serpentine queue at the PNB’s branch in the village. His savings account is with the branch besides he had taken a loan to fund his agriculture vocation.Account holders of about 22 villages are complaining of long processing work and queues to negotiate for their banking work. Residents said the staff strength at the bank’s branch was insufficient and was creating difficulties for account holders. Another nearest public sector bank is situated nearly 8 km away at Baba Bakala.The branch is not an ordinary one as its annual turnover stands at Rs130 crore and the number of account holders are close to 34,000. Account holders are of the view that both account holders and annual turnover would come down in the current fiscal.Ajay Kumar, Branch Manager, PNB, said three officials were transferred in November and two of them had left the job. He said at present there were only three officials at the branch. He assured that public dealing would be improved once four clerks join the branch after a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inadequate-staff-at-pnb-butala-village-irk-residents-242000
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Experts dwell on role of heritage management, sustainable habitats||GNDU Centre for Sustainable Habitat organised an international webinar on the theme ‘Heritage Management and Sustainable Habitat’ to mark the World Heritage Week that began on April 18 — World Heritage Day.Deliberate on importance of 5psThe webinar was chaired by Dr Ashwani Luthra, coordinator of centre. He said the United Nations in its 2030 agenda for sustainable development had acknowledged the effective contribution of heritage management in the making of sustainable habitats by strengthening efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage. “However, while the UN fell short of dedicating an entire goal to heritage management among its 17 sustainable development goals, it has led to a global movement of promoting cultural heritage as an enabler and driver of sustainable development,” he said.The international panel consisted of speakers Dr Ege Yilidrim from Turkey, Dennis Rodwell from UK, Dr Francesca Giliberto from Italy and Gurmeet S Rai from India. The experts deliberated upon five areas of critical importance — people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. ‘Leaving no one behind’, the underlying concept of the UN Agenda-2030, was brought forth and how sustainable heritage management can be a key in this regard was discussed.The webinar was attended by participants from Poland, Algeria, USA, Germany, China, Pakistan, Philippines, Spain, South Africa, Brazil and Cyprus and it concluded with the experts stressing upon the urgent need to review, deliberate and research, and strategise heritage management for urban planning and development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/experts-dwell-on-role-of-heritage-management-sustainable-habitats-242001
21-04-2021||Amritsar||GNDU workshop: Career in cyber security need of hour||Exploring career opportunities in the field of cyber security and solutions, GNDU held a workshop with Macans Infotech and technologies, to apprise students of the specialised courses related to cyber security cloud computing , data protection (for mobiles and other digital devices) and digital forensic investigation for fresh graduates/ PGs, universities, corporates, government sector and the police.The workshop was conducted in collaboration with Technical Student Society, Department of Computer Science.Makarand Wagh, resource person co-founder and director, Macans, said that these specialised fields are now emerging as viable and lucrative career opportunities too. “There is a huge demand in all of the above sectors and there is a need to educate and guide students right from schools to colleges regrading such career oppurtunities. Punjab is a big market and can create qualified cyber security officers or experts by training students in the state right from 10th to 12th standard starting with the basics followed by specialised engineers, technical graduates, non-technical graduates etc,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-workshop-career-in-cyber-security-need-of-hour-242002
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Religious heads told to issue Covid advisory||MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has approached the Akal Takht jathedar, Diocese of Amritsar, Imam and Ram Tirath authorities to issue an advisory in the wake of Covid-19 spread while conducting any religious function.He requested the religious heads to consider advising the members of their respective community to avoid any gathering. While visiting the religious shrines, the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health should be followed sternly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/religious-heads-told-to-issue-covid-advisory-242003
21-04-2021||Majitha||Ex-minister Bikram Majithia condemns delay in procurement||Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday condemned the Congress government for delaying procurement and demanded compensation for farmers for damage to crop and liberty in moisture content limit.The SAD leader, who visited the local mandi also castigated the government for failing to provide adequate gunny bags even after delaying the procurement season from April 1 to April 10. He also pointed out that there was no lifting in the mandis which would result in a wheat glut and cause further misery to farmers if not resolved immediately.Majithia said the delay in procurement had resulted in high moisture content in wheat as well as damage due to rains and high winds.“Shortage of gunny bags was responsible for the reduced procurement with only five per cent of the procurement being done till now. He also asserted that no lifting was taking place and in case it rained there would be widespread damage to the wheat crop lying in the mandis”, he said.He also castigated the government for befooling farmers about the DBT scheme, saying the government knew about it since 2018 but did nothing to avert it. “Now farmers are suffering due to late payment”, he added.Majithia while taking a tour of the mandi also noted that contrary to the announcements made by the Congress government, the government had not taken measures to ensure safety of farmers in the mandis.He said announcements had been made that foot operated taps had been installed in the mandis and that masks and sanitisers had also be made available everywhere. “As per reports received by me from across the state this has not been done at the ground level”, he said.Majithia also asked Capt Amarinder Singh to provide financial relief to people who were most affected by the lockdown and give express directions to the civil and police administration not to impose heavy fines and penalties on people who were already in dire financial straits. He said the government was exploiting money from the people in the name of ‘challans’ and penalties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-minister-bikram-majithia-condemns-delay-in-procurement-242004
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Illegal structure removed from Chamrang Road||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-structure-removed-from-chamrang-road-242005
21-04-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||AAP workers protest delay in info on wards||Aam Admi Party (AAP) volunteers under the leadership of Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal staged a dharna before the Municipal Council gate here today.The protesters had been seeking information regarding ward demarcation and maps of the wards from the civic body officials, the elections to which were expected to be announced soon.They said they would continue the protest till they were provided with the information. The party also raised problems being faced by the residents at the protest.While addressing the protesters, Dr Sohal alleged that officials of the Municipal Council were busy in appeasing their political bosses and had nothing to do with giving better civic services to the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-workers-protest-delay-in-info-on-wards-242006
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Chaos at Amritsar airport when students for direct flight to Toronto asked to get Dubai flight||Utter chaos was created at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, when a large number of students from Punjab, who were supposed to board a direct flight to Toronto (Canada) from here, were asked to take a flight via Dubai last night.The students opposed the move of the authorities saying that it would unnecessarily burden them with expense as they would have to undergo COVID-19 protocol during their stay at Dubai.Around 50 students missed the flight due to chaos. The SpiceJet airline authorities gave different reasons for offloading these students.Most of the students had tickets for the direct flight to Toronto which was scheduled to depart at 9:30 pm on Monday. The students alleged that they raised the question when authorities provided them with Dubai visas.Several students preferred to board the SpiceJet flight with stay in Dubai while some of them raised concerns over COVID-19 protocol during their stay at Dubai.The airline reportedly offloaded more than 50 students. Around 3.30 am, airport authorities asked the students to leave the airport which led to agitation by students and their parents.The chaos continued till 8.30 am, when MP from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujla reached the airport during his return from New Delhi. He intervened in the matter and met with Director Airport VK Seth, SpiceJet station manager Manjor Komal Thakur and CISF authorities.Later Aujla issued a statement that the students became victims of the air ticket fraud being run by agents and asked the police to take appropriate action.The police have recorded the statements of students and their parents in this regard. Aujla asked the residents to be alert about the air ticket frauds while booking the ticket abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chaos-at-amritsar-airport-when-students-for-direct-flight-to-toronto-asked-to-get-dubai-flight-241709
