22-04-2021||Amritsar||Admn to hospitals: Ensure judicious use of O2, check wastage||In view of the shortage of medical oxygen at hospitals, the administration has instructed the hospitals to make judicious use of the gas and check any leakage at usage points. The administration has also asked them to postpone all elective surgeries till next orders.The industries department has also been asked to inform all oxygen supply vendors to halt supply to industrial units so that it could be made available for treatment of patients on priority. After a meeting with the officials at Government Medical College here on Wednesday, Medical Education and Research additional secretary-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal said amid the second wave of Covid-19 in the nation, supply of medical oxygen is limited as its usage has increased.He said all efforts would be made to ensure that no there is no wastage of the life saving gas. Aggarwal also asked the college authorities to constitute an Oxygen Audit Committee to monitor the usage and check wastage at the hospital.Aggarwal said the committee would inspect the wards and check that no leakage of oxygen takes place through the flow meters or pipes. He said the supply lines should be repaired for any leakage and accountability of the concerned staff should be ensured if any leakage is reported. He added that usage of high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) should be made only as per the guidelines of the state government.The administration has also asked the general public to follow all Covid-19 related guidelines. The officials stated that negligence on part of many who are not wearing mask and following other safety guidelines could result in further aggravation of the situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-to-hospitals-ensure-judicious-use-of-o2-check-wastage-242392
22-04-2021||GS PAUL||Guru’s 400th anniv: SGPC 
to telecast live||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 21Following the surge in Covid-19 cases, the SGPC has decided to curtail the grand function planned to mark the 400th Parkash Purb (birth anniversary) of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Besides, a series of events to mark the occasion would be telecast live.The 400th Parkash Purb centenary celebrations were scheduled to be celebrated at Bhai Gurdas Ji Nagar, New Amritsar. But due to rise in Covid cases, these ceremonies will now be held at the Diwan Hall of Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib at Golden Temple complex.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “There was a lot of enthusiasm among the sangat for the centenary celebrations but considering the prevailing situation due to the pandemic, no large gathering could be allowed. A series of events , scheduled at Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal, the birth place of ninth Guru in Amritsar, would be telecast live through various platforms so that the sangat all over the globe could get connected with the historic day celebration while sitting in their homes”, she said.During the centenary celebrations, the requisite web links would be provided to the channels for live telecast of the events scheduled from April 29 to May 1. “It would be open for any channel who wishes to do the live coverage”, she said.She said the decision was taken after holding discussion with the government officials. To cater the Covid patients exclusively, the SGPC has spared Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital at Chattiwind Gate. A total of 100 beds have been provided here and corona vaccination facility is also being provided free of cost.The SGPC has made arrangements for vaccination at Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College Vallah, Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital Amritsar, Baba Buddha Ji Hospital Bir Sahib and at Fuhara Chowk Amritsar.“Despite crisis being faced by the SGPC, it could never step down from performing its duties towards humanity. Our doctors and allied teams have been on job round the clock to treat Covid patients”, she said. Lately, the state government has recognised the services of SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and included its image among the best medical treatment hospitals in the newspapers.However, showing concern over the shortage of oxygen cylinders and vaccines, she said “There is a shortage of oxygen supply for the treatment of Covid patients. Similarly, the availability of vaccine was inadequate. The SGPC had already deposited money in advance for the vaccine. The government should make steadfast mechanism to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen and vaccines. The matter has also been taken up with the Chief Secretary of Punjab”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurus-400th-anniv-sgpc-to-telecast-live-242393
22-04-2021||---||Tougher curbs on unauthorised entry into Covid wing at GMCH||Amritsar, April 21The toll in the district increased to 847 on Wednesday after 10 persons died due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours. The health authorities have also reported 290 new cases, with which the count of positive cases increased to 28,097.The deceased have been identified as Baldev Singh (65), a resident Bandala village; Gurpinder Kaur (45) of Ekta Nagar; Lalit (50) of 88-Ft road; Rajpal Singh (50) of Baba Bakala; Veena Rani (55) of Chabhal Road; Hardeep Kaur (53) of Mooleh Chak village; Vasudev Behal (81) of Bank Colony; Gurmeet Kaur (67) of Jalal village; Tripta (72) of Albert Road; and Harbhajan Kaur (61) of Jawala Nagar.What new rules sayThe new cases include 192 influenza-like illness cases and 98 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 300 patients, the recovery count improved to 22,954. The district, at present, has a total of 4,226 active cases.As the spread of the coronavirus is increasing, the district administration has issued a new set of instructions for Covid-19 patients and their attendants. The administration has warned of strict action against violators for not following these instructions.The instructions state that only one attendant would be allowed at the new Covid wing set up for patients. The attendants would be allowed inside the waiting room of the wing on the first floor of the building only.The administration has made Covid-19 testing for the attendant mandatory considering him or her to be patient’s primary contact. In case the attendant tests positive, he or she, too, would be admitted to the isolation ward.The district administration orders state that any violation including unauthorised entry into the waiting hall for attendants would attract strict action. To make attendants and other visitors follow the required guidelines, the administration has deployed police and hospital security, which would keep a check on visitors.Four booked for violating norms Amritsar: The city police booked four persons, including the owner of a computer centre at the court complex, for violating Covid-19 guidelines here today. Heera Singh from the Police Post Court Complex stated that Sunil Kumar, owner of a computer typing shop at the District Court Complex used to open his shop and people could be found flouting social distancing norm inside and outside the shop. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered against Sunil for violating orders of the District Magistrate. Meanwhile, Maqboolpura police booked Gurnam Singh of Mehta Road and Prem Ram of Almoraha for opening New Lahore Dhaba on Mehta Road till late evening. ASI Bikram Singh stated that the accused were putting lives of people in danger by violating government orders. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC has been registered. Similarly, cops of Ranjit Avenue police station booked Inderjit of Beauty Avenue for opening his restaurant IBM at Housing Board Colony, Ranjit Avenue, during the night curfew. TNSHelpline numbers for Covid patientsCity Control Room Numbers: 0183-2500398, 2500498, 2500598Health Department helpline: 0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline: 104Contact a doctor:1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tougher-curbs-on-unauthorised-entry-into-covid-wing-at-gmch-242394
22-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Fearing lockdown, migrants pack their bags to go home again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 21Fearing another lockdown, migrants have started returning to their native places. However, unlike last year, there is no panic among them this time.Hasan, a mason, who was returning to his native town Purnia, said: “The surge in positive cases in the wake of Covid-19 second wave has compelled me to return to my parental home.”Raju, who works at a textile factory, said all of a sudden factories have reduced their work time from five to three and even two days a week. To save operating cost of factories, many units have shut down. He said they were paid on the basis of meters of cloth rolled out. Calculating all these factors, it was apparent that their income would drastically come down. Hence, it would not be economically viable to stay.To make the most out of the situation, some private public transporters have started plying buses to various destinations in UP and Bihar. The Railways runs only 12 pairs of trains on a daily average, of which only a couple of trains travel to UP and Bihar. So, booking a berth in these trains is an uphill task.They have installed display boards informing passengers that they are plying buses to Muradabad, Bareilly, Paliya, Nanpara, Muzzafarpur, Darbangha and Purnia. The charges per seat in these buses depend upon the number of passengers present at the time of departure. These buses depart for their destinations in the evening.Lockdowns in Maharashtra and Delhi have compelled a large number of local industrial units to either shut their units or slow down manufacturing as advance orders have been cancelled. After the Covid-19 lockdown last year, no industry manufactures on its own unless advance orders are placed for the same. A majority of advance orders from these two states were cancelled after the lockdown.Bobby, a transporter, said migrants were certainly returning but they were not in panic. Their return was a cautious move to avoid a situation like last year, when all means of transport were closed. He said a small number of migrants were returning and most of them would return once the harvesting season was over.Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad (UPKP), said the parishad has requested the railways to start special trains to help migrants return to their homes. He said bookings were not available in trains for the next month, while current booking was already closed. As a result, most of the migrants were travelling by private buses, which are charging exorbitantly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fearing-lockdown-migrants-pack-their-bags-to-go-home-again-242395
22-04-2021||---||Shortage of gunny bags: Dist gets nod to buy used bags||Amritsar, April 21Though intermittent rain during the last 24 hours slowed down the harvesting of wheat crop in the fields, a total of 78,507 metric tonne (MT) of produce arrived in the grain markets till Wednesday evening.Officials of the district mandi board stated that of the received produce, 64,482 MT wheat had been procured by different procurement agencies.Meanwhile, the district has also received the approval from the state government for purchasing used gunny bags which are in good condition and are usable. The permission has been given in view of the shortage of gunny bags.The government had approved the purchase of 4,403 bales (each containing 500 bags) for the wheat crop. Only those bags, which are in good shape, will be purchased. Commission agents have been asked to supply usable bags to the department, which will be distributed in different grain markets. —Rishi Raj Mehra, Dist Food & Civil Supplies Controller Though farmers in many other districts had faced problems due to the shortage of gunny bags, farmers here did not face much problem as harvesting in the district started only recently. The officials stated that the shortage could have created problems in the next few days when harvesting is expected to pick up pace.District Food and Civil Supplies Controller Rishi Raj Mehra said the government had approved the purchase of 4,403 bales (each containing 500 bags) for the wheat crop. He said only those bags, which are in good shape, would be purchased.He said commission agents were asked to supply usable bags to the department which would be distributed in different grain markets of the district.Meanwhile, district mandi officer Amandeep Singh said they had made arrangements to save wheat crop from rain. He claimed that farmers were provided tarpaulin sheets to cover the grain mandis during rain. He said secretaries of all market committees had been asked to ensure that farmers do not face any trouble in case of rain.In the district, 25,079 MT wheat has, so far, been procured by Pungrain followed by 20,667 MT by Markfed, 11,062 MT by Punsup, 3,841 MT by the FCI and 3,833 MT by Punjab Warehousing Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-gunny-bags-dist-gets-nod-to-buy-used-bags-242396
22-04-2021||---||DC orders Covid test every 5th day: 45+ employees irked over decision||Amritsar, April 21Office-goers are irked with the district administration for its latest direction making it mandatory for people above 45 years of age to undergo Covid test every fifth day.Mohit, a private bank employee, said it was tough for employees to stand in queues every fifth day to get tested. He said the move would also cause rush at testing sites.Another employee Amanpreet Singh said it would add to the pressure they already have by playing double role of a parent and a teacher to their children who are confined to home due to the ongoing second wave. He said all government issued restrictions were hitting middle and lower class families hard.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, in his latest orders, stated that those having Covid-negative report could travel to their offices. All employees whether government or hailing from private sector could attend their office only after getting vaccinated. Without getting the jab, they must remain inside their houses and work from home.He also ordered closure of bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres, swimming pool, sports complex and others. People need to take permission for a gathering of 10 persons and only 20 persons are allowed to attend a funeral.Though the duration of curfew is 8 pm to 5 am, factory workers, tourists and those returning home after work are exempted. Other restrictions include no public transport can board more than 50 per cent passengers of its total capacity. Malls, markets, shops and restaurants will remain closed on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-orders-covid-test-every-5th-day-45-employees-irked-over-decision-242397
22-04-2021||---||Woman flees with paramour after killing husband, booked||Amritsar, April 21Two murders were reported in the rural area of the district in the last 24 hours.In the first case, a woman eloped with her paramour after killing her husband on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Hardev Singh (35), a resident of Harsha Chinna Village.The accused has been identified as Sharanjit Kaur, a resident of Wadali in Chheharta area. The police have also booked the paramour of Sharanjit, who has been identified as Raja, a resident of Wadali.Ajit Singh, father of the deceased, said his son Hardev got married to Sharanjit around 10 years ago. They were residing in a separate house and had marital dispute. Raja used to visit their house but no one suspected that he had relations with Sharanjit. On Tuesday, around 8 am, when Ajit visited the home of Hardev, he found the body lying on the bed. Ajit said there was no visible injury on the body. Sharanjit Kaur was not at home, so Ajit suspected that she has eloped with Raja after giving some poisonous substance to Hardev. On the complaint of Ajit Singh, the police have registered a case of murder against Sharanjit Kaur and Raja.ASI Jaswinder Singh, Investigating Officer in the case at Rajasansi police station, said after registering the case, the investigation was on. No arrest has been made so far.Seven booked for killing 26-year-old youthIn another case, seven persons were booked for killing a man at Ram Diwali Hinduan village in Kathunagal area. The deceased has been identified as Baljinder Singh (26), a resident of Ram Diwali Hinduan village. The accused have been identified as Narinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Jaspal Singh, Harjinder Singh, Mukhtiar Singh, Mewa Singh and Ranjit Singh, all residents of Ram Diwali HinduanAmrik Singh, father of the deceased, in his complaint at Kathunagal police station said his son Baljinder was returning from Chawinda Devi after attending the fair on Tuesday. The accused entered into a clash with him and trashed him badly with sharp weapons. After injuring him, the accused fled the spot. Passersby informed the family of Baljinder and he was rushed to the Amritsar Civil Hospital. He died while undergoing treatment.ASI Himanshu Bhagat, Investigating Officer in the case, said a case of murder has been registered against seven persons. All were absconding after the incident. The police are conducting raids at the possible hideouts of the accused, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-flees-with-paramour-after-killing-husband-booked-242399
22-04-2021||---||PUDA removes kiosk hours after protest by shopkeepers||Amritsar, April 21After protest by shopkeepers of Chowk Ghanta Ghar market against the installation of a kiosk of pre-paid taxi operators in front of their market on the Heritage Street, the PUDA on Wednesday removed it.Pallavi Chaudhary, Chief Administrator, PUDA, said the kiosk was removed since it was found incongruence with the Heritage Street’s aesthetic beauty. She said the kiosk was given after following the proper procedure of online tendering. She said the private concern was to give Rs 27 lakh during the next three years in lieu of the kiosk and the pre-paid taxi stand.Sham Mahajan of the Chowk Ghanta Ghar Market Association said the kiosk had eclipsed the front view of the market. He said the flow of tourists was already low in the wake of the surge in the second wave of the pandemic. Those visiting, too, were not visiting the market due to the wrong installation of the kiosk. He said earlier they were uprooted from the original Ghanta Ghar market, situated in front of the Golden Temple and moved to the market about 10 years ago. Now, again their livelihood was jeopardised.In the morning all shopkeepers gathered outside the market. They squatted on the road and raised anti-government slogans. However, they lifted the protest as soon as the kiosk was dismantled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/puda-removes-kiosk-hours-after-protest-by-shopkeepers-242400
22-04-2021||---||Cops accused of being biased||Amritsar, April 21RTI activist and local resident Gurmeet Singh Bablu termed the police probe into the ex-servicemen contributory health scheme (ECHS) embezzlement scam as biased and unfair and sought a high-level probe from a senior police official or the Bureau of Investigations.At present, ADCP Sandeep Malik was holding investigations in the scam, in which 24 persons including doctors and ex-servicemen were booked for allegedly embezzling government funds in connivance with private hospitals by forging medical bills.The case was registered following a complaint by Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander (Station Headquarters), Amritsar Cantonment. He had claimed during an internal investigation that the accused, including doctors and several ex-servicemen, were found guilty of connivance and misappropriating government funds. The armed forces submitted a report to the police and 24 persons, including 14 doctors, were booked for fraud.The Army authorities found that several veterans misled the ECHS cardholders to collect cards and later connived with hospital managements to fabricate record to usurp funds from the Department of Ex-servicemen Welfare. The ex-serviceman lured ECHS cardholders by saying the Centre was providing a relief fund in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and asked for their cards. Later, they made fraudulent admissions in hospitals during the lockdown and claimed hefty medical bills from the department. The police had arrested three persons in the case later.Gurmeet Singh Bablu, president Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh Youth Front, shot a letter to CM Punjab with copies to DGP Punjab and DGP Bureau of Investigations, while alleging that the police discharged various doctors and hospitals from the FIR without involving the Amry authorities, who had lodged a complaint with the local police in this connection. He said the city police acted in a biased manner in investigating the case and gave a clean chit to those booked.He urged the CM and DGPs to set aside this probe and mark a high-level probe from a senior police official or Bureau of Investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-accused-of-being-biased-242401
22-04-2021||---||Majithia asks Centre not to stand on prestige, repeal farm laws||Majitha, April 21Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Wednesday asked the Central Government not to stand on prestige and repeal the three agricultural laws.The SAD leader visited the family of Gurjant Singh at Pandhar Khurd village who was martyred during the ongoing farm agitation. He expressed his heartfelt condolences to the grieving family and also presented a cheque for Rs 1 lakh on behalf of the SGPC.Majithia said the Central Government should not only invoke the Jai Jawan Jai Kisan slogan but also stand by it. “The entire farming community is agitating against the three black laws, but the Centre has adopted an egoistic posture and is refusing to listen to the farmers’ sentiments. Adopting such an attitude towards the ‘annadaata’ will cost the Centre dearly,” he said, adding three other farmers from the constituency, including Rattan Singh, Mangal Singh and Tarsem Singh, also lost lives during the course of the agitation.Talking about the farm suicides in Punjab, he said the Congress government led by CM Capt Amarinder Singh was solely responsible for the same.“The state government has turned a blind eye to the sufferings of the farmers and is refusing to go in for a complete loan waiver as promised. Farmers are ending their lives in despair, the indebtedness as well as the new farm laws, pushed them to end their lives as had been witnessed recently in Dasuya where a father-son duo of Kirpal Singh and Jagtar Singh committed suicide, citing both these issues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majithia-asks-centre-not-to-stand-on-prestige-repeal-farm-laws-242402
22-04-2021||---||KCW gets new principal||Amritsar, April 21Khalsa College of Women (KCW) got a new Principal as Dr Surinder Kaur, Associate Professor, Khalsa College of Education (KCE) today. She joined office in presence of top functionaries of college governing council including honorary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina.Meanwhile, Dr Manpreet Kaur, who was serving as the acting Principal after her retirement two years back, was given a warm send-off.While welcoming the new Principal, Chhina said the KCW was a reputed college for women education in the region and Dr Surinder’s experience would be an asset for the institution offering a number of new professional courses. She is a PhD, having over 20 years of teaching and administrative experience.Dr Surinder, selected for the post following a rigorous interview process recently by the management, said, “It is an honour to be associated with the prestigious college. I will do my best to take the institution to newer heights.”KCGC joint secretary SS Mannan, Principal Jagdish Singh, member Sukhbir Kaur Mahal, Principal Dr Mehal Singh, Principal Dr Harpreet Kaur, Principal Dr Surinderpal Kaur Dhillon and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kcw-gets-new-principal-242403
22-04-2021||The appointment of Dr Arvind Dhillon (in pic) as VC of Punjabi University||Hailed as the new VC||Homecoming for farmers after 143 daysFarmer organisations belonging to this border district have been playing a remarkable role in the ongoing farmer agitation at Delhi borders. Though the agitation had entered in its fifth month, the enthusiasm among the farmers and their supporters was still alive. The state-level leadership of as many as seven farmer organisations had been playing a leading role in the agitation. A number of top leaders have been staying in Delhi since its start from November 2020 and had not visited their families since the start of the agitation. As many as 20 farmers had ‘sacrificed’ their lives while participating in the morcha. Harbhajan Singh, a resident of Shukarchak Cheema village, leader of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, visited his home this week after staying for 143 days in Delhi protest site. He was given warm welcome by villagers and a special gathering was organised at the village gurdwara to honour him. Harbhajan Singh, while sharing his experience in Delhi morcha, said the Central Government had spared no stone unturned to defame the farmer agitation with all its repressive tactics to torpedo the protest. He said the stand of the Central Government had made the farmers thinking more mature and rigid. He said the farmers would continue their protest until the laws were repealed. Harbhajan Singh said that after harvesting wheat crop he would be part of the agitation again. The villagers honoured him with a siropa and prayed for his better health and long life. Hardeep Singh, leader of the sabha while addressing on behalf of the villagers, said that Harbhajan Singh had a special affection for the common causes and was ready to contribute maximum for the society.It’s poll time, again!The district administration is geared up for the Nagar Council, Tarn Taran, elections which were not held with civic body elections held in the month of February in the state. The local government had increased the number of wards from the existing 23 to 25 for the Municipal Council poll. The boundaries of Tarn Taran Nagar Council had been extended to nearby Tharu, Kakka Kandiala and Malia villages after making Kajikot Khurd, Muradpur, Bachre, Jodhpur (partially) part of the city. Previously, the election of the Nagar Council was held when there was SAD-BJP government in the state. The ruling Congress had failed to open its account in the 23-member house. In that election BJP candidates had won from seven wards and the remaining 16 wards were bagged by the SAD. At the time of 2017 Vidhan Sabha election, all seven BJP councillors lost to the Congress. The fight in the Nagar Council election would be very interesting this time as in the last decade it was rare occasion when the ruling Congress had won the heart of town residents. The SAD, AAP, BJP and other splinter groups are fighting it alone, and this would go in Congress’s favour.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hailed-as-the-new-vc-242405
22-04-2021||Amritsar||One held with 32 bore pistol||Boy booked under POCSO, IT ActAmritsar: A boy has been booked for recording and sharing a nude video of a 16-year-old Class IX girl at Jandiala Guru on Tuesday. The victim in her complaint said she met the accused on Snapchat in February this year. The accused used to threaten him to remove clothes during video call. He recorded the videos and shared it with others. A case under Section 354 A, B of the IPC and Section 67 of the IT Act and Section 8 of the POCSO Act was registered at Jandiala police station. TNS20 devotees hurt in road accidentTarn Taran: As many as 20 devotees taking part in the nagar kirtan were injured when their vehicle collided with a roadside tree near Rampur Bhutwind village on Wednesday. The injured were admitted to the tehsil-level Civil Hospital Khadoor Sahib. Family members of the injured resented over non-availability of medical staff in the hospital. Later, all injured were shifted to the District Civil Hospital. SHO Inspector Balwinder Singh said the nagar kirtan dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh Guru was going to Baba Bakala from Vein Poin. When they reached near Rampur Bhutwind driver of the Mohindra vehicle lost his control over it and the vehicle collided with the roadside tree. The SHO said road traffic was blocked for some time but restored shortly. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-32-bore-pistol-242409
22-04-2021||Amritsar||SGPC schools struggle to pay salaries to teachers||The drastic fall in income due to Covid restrictions and irregularities in disbursing “grant” by the state government has taken a toll on the salaries of teachers of SGPC-run schools.According to SGPC officials, against sharing the liability of paying 95% “grant-in-aid” for 10 senior secondary and high schools located in various cities, the state government has been paying just 75%, whereas the rest of the burden is being borne by the Sikh body only. In 2021-2022 budget, the SGPC has allocated Rs 223 crore for education.The SGPC has spared Rs 8.96 crore for the salaries of its 38 aided and non-aided schools. During the current session, an expenditure of Rs 34 crore has been estimated to exceed the actual income from its educational institutions only. It is learnt that due to non-approval of posts in its aided schools by the government, the SGPC on its own had recruited teachers. Hence, no grant was being paid by the government against such recruitment.Balkar Singh Valtoha, general secretary, Government School Teachers’ Union, Punjab, claimed that teachers of schools that run under the SGPC directly were not getting their salaries regularly.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said, “The SGPC’s main source of income is through offerings. Due to the pandemic, the footfall of devotees has come down. The government is providing 20% lesser grant against aided posts which has further increased the burden. Still, the SGPC is committed to pay teachers’ dues, though delay can be there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-schools-struggle-to-pay-salaries-to-teachers-242389
