23-04-2021||---||Amritsar district logs 10 more deaths, 462 cases||Amritsar, April 22With 10 more deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, the toll increased to 857 in the district. The health authorities also reported 462 new cases, with which the count increased to 28,489 on Thursday.The deceased have been identified Gurmej Singh (30), a resident of Bhindi Saidan village; Gurmeet Kaur (70) of Khairewala Chak village; Asha (53) of Gilwali gate area; Kamala Rani (62) of Sultanwind Road; Kiran (62) of Chhehharta; Sukhwant Kaur (56) of Baba Deen Dyal Colony (Verka); Savinder Kaur (60) of New Amritsar; Kulwant Kaur (68) of Muchhal village; Sandeep Kumar (50) of BR Mohan School area and Harbhajan Singh (53) of Hundhpura.The new cases include 342 influenza-like illness cases and 120 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 295 patients, the recovery count has increased to 23,249.Vaccination drive: stock arrives Amritsar: At a time when the shortage of Covid-19 injections had started affecting the ongoing vaccination drive, the district Health Department has received 24,000 doses from the state government. A team of the department had received the injections in Chandigarh on Thursday. “The state had received around 4 lakh doses from the Centre. The districts are given their share of injections on the basis of their case load and vaccine usage,” said Dr Sukhpal Singh, district immunisation officer. Dr Singh said the state government has assured them regular supply in future and people need not panic. “There is enough vaccine for everyone and government is committed for the same,” he said adding that ample arrangements for safe keeping of the vaccines have been made at the Civil Surgeon’s office. In the ongoing vaccination drive, the health department has given first dose of vaccine to 2,02,271 persons while 33,978 have been completely vaccinated till date. Apart from 23,232 HCWs and 28,750 FLWs, a total of 1,50,279 residents above 45 years of age have been partially vaccinated. Further, 10,607 HCWs, 9,929 FLWs and 13,442 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated. With general public reporting shortage of vaccines mostly at private facilities, the number of persons vaccinated daily had gone down in the past two days. On Thursday, the district had reported vaccination of 1,347 persons only. These included 18 HCWs, 121 FLWs, 782 residents above 45 years who received first dose and 106 HCWs, 53 FLWs and 307 residents above 45 years who received second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-10-more-deaths-462-cases-242733
23-04-2021||---||Covid surge: Police tighten noose around offenders||Amritsar, April 22With rapid surge in the novel corona infection cases, the Punjab Police have tightened the noose around the offenders violating curfew and other government guidelines, including maintaining physical distancing and not wearing masks.The Amritsar rural police have registered 28 FIRs in past two days and booked 37 persons so far. The city police have also cracked down on the violators.Ironically, the people are apparently continuing with the lax attitude. On Wednesday, the police booked a shopkeeper who was corona positive and still he opened his grocery shop in Boparai village falling under Mattewal police station here. He was booked under the Epidemic Diseases and Disaster Management Act.“We have registered 16 FIRs on Thursday while yesterday we have registered 12 cases of violations of government guidelines,” said SSP Amritsar rural Dhurv Dahiya. We are requesting to the people for wearing masks and maintain social distancing in order to break the chain of the infection among the people, he added.As there has been a speedy increase in cases, the government has ordered to implement the guidelines in letter and spirit, which is the only way to tackle the virus at present, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal.We have ordered registration of cases against the violators besides issuing challans against them. “There would be no laxity against offenders,” said Bhandal.Bhandal today supervised the arrangements at various checkpoints installed by the police to implement curfew restrictions. He visited nakas (checkpoints) at railway station, Lawrence Road, Novelty Chowk, Circular Road near Trillium Shopping Mall and Ranjit Avenue besides other areas in the Civil Lines.He said the main focus was to check people travelling in cars and not wearing masks, triple riding, vehicles without numbers and pasting black films etc. He said cops were asked to challan offenders who are negligent in following the guidelines.Meanwhile, the city police also registered 10 FIRs against offenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-surge-police-tighten-noose-around-offenders-242734
23-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Running at a loss, pvt bus operators lay off staff||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 22Private public transporters have stopped plying a large number of their buses and laid off drivers, conductors and other staff after the government’s offer of free bus travel to women passengers hit their business.The number of buses running daily has dropped from 1,500 to just 600 at the Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT).Private public transporters are already at economic disadvantage after a spike in fuel prices and taxes such as special road tax of Rs2.7 per km, EMI of at least Rs50,000 which they had bought on loan and high insurance cost on a bus which is between Rs75,000 to Rs80,000 per year.Makhan Singh, whose family has been in public transport profession for the past four decades, said he had not seen such slump in the business earlier, and out of 35 only 10 buses were being plied. “Around 75 per cent of passengers in buses are women. The government’s offer of free ride has weaned away our passengers.”I have not seen such a slump in the business earlier, and out of 35, only 10 buses are being plied. Around 75 per cent of passengers are women. The government's offer of free ride has weaned away our passengers. —Makhan Singh, A public transporter“The government offered travel to women without realising its impact on the transport business,” he said, adding that many transporters, unable to bear the long slump, had turned defaulters as they could not pay EMIs, insurance, taxes and other costs in time.Dilbagh Singh, another transporter, said first the lockdown and later Covid travel restrictions caused them losses for at least nine to 10 months last year. Opening of economy brought little cheers to them as there was a hike of approximately Rs20 per litre in fuel prices, increasing their input cost. He said cost of spare parts of trucks also increased recently and tyres of stationary buses were rotting and quality of machines was deteriorating.Daljit Singh, a driver, said including him, many drivers and conductors had become unemployed and were looking for some other works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/running-at-a-loss-pvt-bus-operators-lay-off-staff-242735
23-04-2021||---||Sushil Kumar Tuli assumes charge as Amritsar's DEO (elementary)||Amritsar, April 22Sushil Kumar Tuli, who has been posted as the District Education Officer (elementary) at Amritsar by the Punjab Education Department, took charge on Thursday. He was welcomed by the officials of the department.Earlier, Tuli was serving as DEO (elementary) Tarn Taran. Rajesh Sharma, Deputy District Education Officer, Amritsar, has been posted as District Education Officer (elementary), Tarn Taran.Taking charge, Tuli said under the leadership of Punjab Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, the policy of the department would be disseminated at the grassroots level to raise the standard of education in schools and connect more students with government schools under the campaign ‘Each One Bring One’. He clarified that no stone would be left unturned in government schools of the district regarding new admissions and other educational activities. He said no teacher, officer or office-bearer would face any difficulty.Rajesh Kumar is DEO(E) Tarn TaranNewly appointed District Education Officer (elementary), Tarn Taran, Rajesh Sharma, said all district teams would function to strengthen the educational system in the district. Officials from the district education office, including Rekha Mahajan, deputy DEO, Amritsar, were present to welcome the newly appointed officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sushil-kumar-tuli-assumes-charge-as-amritsars-deo-elementary-242736
23-04-2021||Tarn Taran||ASI fires at his neighbour in Police Lines, Tarn Taran SSP takes note||An ASI residing at the residential quarters at Police Lines here fired at his neighbour late on Tuesday night.ASI Lakhwinder Singh and his two unidentified associates fired three shots at the house of his neighbour ASI Jaimal Singh and used his service revolver for the same.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale has taken serious note of the incident. He said the two were at loggerheads over dumping of garbage and parking of vehicles in front of their quarters, which created tension in the colony.The SSP has ordered both ASIs to vacate their residential quarters and also suggested the department to take back the revolver from ASI Lakhwinder Singh.The SSP has also written to the higher authorities to transfer both ASIs out of the district immediately.ASI Gajjan Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case under Sections 336 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against ASI Lakhwinder Singh and his associates. No arrest had been made so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-fires-at-his-neighbour-in-police-lines-tarn-taran-ssp-takes-note-242737
23-04-2021||PK Jaiswar||Around 150 Amritsar jail inmates test +ve||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 22The fear of jails becoming a hotspot again looms large in view of rapid surge in the novel coronavirus after around 150 inmates in Amritsar Central Jail tested positive in the last two days.Out of these, over 100 women inmates were found infected with the virus and they were immediately shifted to Malerkotla jail. The remaining patients, who are male, were quarantined on the jail premises here.The jail authorities have blamed resumption of court hearings as the reason behind these cases. Nevertheless, they said the situation was under control, as massive testing of prisoners was conducted on Thursday.Recently, the court resumed its functioning after the lockdown induced by the Covid pandemic. However, the court again stopped court hearings after many staff members and a couple of judicial officers contracted the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/around-150-amritsar-jail-inmates-test-ve-242738
23-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Giving wings to his musical notes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22Having lost his job in Delhi during Covid-19 outbreak last year, Sumit Sharma, an ardent music enthusiast from Jalandhar city, is now creating waves through his music on social media platforms. After completing his education, he preferred to move to Delhi to give wings to his dreams of becoming a musician. But the Covid-induced lockdown certainly turned things differently for him.With no projects in hand, he came back to the city that had sown the seed of music in him. However, compelled to play with tunes and chords of guitar never let him sit idle and he switched to the virtual mode to make a living out of his passion.One of his songs with religious fervour even touched nearly 1.50 lakh views on YouTube. It was also shared by Bollywood singer Jubin Nautiyal.“If you are into any creative field or following your passion, then be ready to expose yourself to the unending struggles. Even if you are successful in one creation, be ready to fail in the other. Hence only consistency, patience, zeal and devotion towards your creativity will give you success eventually,” says the 26-year-old musician, who resides here at Kabir Nagar.While all his peers chose to make a career in the subjects they studied in the college, Sumit, a postgraduate in mass communications, dared to follow his dreams. “From graduation to postgraduation, there wasn’t any occasion when I didn’t perform. Standing on the stage and performing in front of the audience boosted my confidence. The stage performances only pushed me to accept music as a career. While I was juggling to take up music production as full time, I also got the opportunity to teach the subject to my alma matter. It gave me a clarity on choosing a right career path,” added Sumit, who is popular on Instagram and YouTube as ‘That aghori’.Along with making waves on the social media, he also runs a music studio with his partner near Nakodar Chowk here. He collaborates with artistes from the region and playback singers to further polish his skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/giving-wings-to-his-musical-notes-242739
23-04-2021||---||Home deliveries a challenge for standalone restaurants||Amritsar, April 22Restaurants, largely standalone, have once again been put in a tight spot as fresh Covid-19 curbs only allow takeaways and home deliveries, prohibiting dine-ins. The food business that already got hampered due to the lockdown last year is barely picking up. With fresh guidelines and rising cases, it seems the niche restaurants that earlier offered dine-ins only, will now have to cook up fresh strategies to survive the pandemic.Most standalone cafés and restaurants in the city that were concept based or served freshly prepared food, do not depend on third party delivery. Meeta Mehra, owner of Divine Chocolate Factory, a niche café in Ranjit Avenue, says, “Businesses are affected everywhere but we have to adapt to the given situation. We have started fresh food delivery on a limited order basis to keep the business afloat during the crisis. Our employees and staff too are our priority and no one should loose their livelihood.”Some of the oldest running restaurants like Astoria, which has been offering dine-in services for decades, are now turning to home deliveries to keep the business running. Even big hotel chains, such as Taj are now offering home delivery of food to adapt to the post-pandemic foodscape. While the logistics involved with home deliveries and maintaining safety standards are a concern, another challenge for these restaurants is the already existing takeaway chains. “Amritsar is one of the biggest food market is the region and there are multiple small to large food chains running in city for ages. Now, the challenge for standalone restaurants is how to reach out to the customers, who are already familiar with Domino’s pizza or cheap fast food vendors. The entire situation has put us in topsy-turvy as last year has already put strain on food business. Though, we are stressing on home deliveries, the focus is not on profit making but offering quality and safe food,” said Aarti Khanna, one of the managing partners of Kobe.Contrary to dine-ins, home deliveries rely on brand familiarity and budget. “Though we do not compromise on quality and safety of food, competing with takeaway chains has become an added burden,” added Aarti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-deliveries-a-challenge-for-standalone-restaurants-242740
23-04-2021||---||Mini-forest inaugurated to mark Earth Day||Amritsar, April 22Inaugurating a mini-forest in the vicinity of Police Lines, FICCI FLO Amritsar in collaboration with Amritsar Police, celebrated World Earth Day. The foundation of the micro-forest was laid by Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FLO, Amritsar and Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Commissioner Police, Amritsar.Created with help of ‘the green couple’ Geetanjali Mehra and Rohit Mehra, who have earlier too promoted several green initiatives, the mini-forest will have a variety of native, self-sustainable trees. “Keeping sustainability as the credo of the FLO Forest, murals made out of acrylic and ceramic waste have been installed by our team in the area to add to the aesthetics and send a message of reuse and recycle. Through more such eco-friendly initiatives, we hope to cut down on carbon footprints and leaving green imprints,” said Manjot Dhillon.Meanwhile, the Earth Day was also marked by several other programmes across the city. Department of Botany and department of zoology of DAV College organized a panel discussion. Dr Rajesh Kumar, principal, DAV College, stressed on the importance of creating environmental awareness among the people for a more sustainable future. He said that the environmental conservation and sustainable development through implementation of green technology and amalgamation of modern technology with the traditional knowledge has become imperative today. A short documentary titled “Mother Nature” was also screened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mini-forest-inaugurated-to-mark-earth-day-242741
23-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran schools observe Earth Day||Tarn Taran, April 22Earth Day was observed by Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School on Thursday. Ranjit Bhatia, principal of the school in her message to the students and the staff called them to come forward to save environment by planting saplings to create a pollution-free environment. She also planted saplings on the school campus. Harjit Singh and Gurinder Singh from the management in their address called to make pollution-free environment and keep it green.Earth Day was also celebrated in Sri Guru Harkrishan Public Senior Secondary School, Chabal. Orminder Kaur, school principal, Manjit Singh Dhillon from the management were among others who addressed on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-schools-observe-earth-day-242742
23-04-2021||---||Mayor takes stock of dev works in Vallah||Amritsar, April 22As part of the 400th birth celebrations of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur, various development works are being initiated in the holy city as well, said Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, who conducted a surprise check at the ongoing development works at Vallah village associated with Guru Teg Bahadur.He said Guru Ka Mehal, the birth place of Guru Teg Bahadur, and Gurdwara Kotha Sahib, Vallah, would witness a number of religious programmes.“The MC will spend crores for various development works in these places associated with Guru Sahib,” said Mayor. After paying obeisance at Gurdwara Koth Sahib, Vallah, he asked officials to complete the works on time. He said it was a matter of pride for all of us that we are celebrating the 400th Parkash Purb in our lifetime. He said the state government has taken special interest in Amritsar due to the birth place of the Guru.He said the CM said there would be no paucity of funds for development works in these areas. He said the work on the development in the city is going on a war-footing and most of the works would be completed within a stipulated time where focus is on drinking water, sewerage, street-lighting, beautification and landscaping of the surroundings, apart from pavement of roads, streets and footpaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-takes-stock-of-dev-works-in-vallah-242743
23-04-2021||---||Scheduled Caste Commission hears grievances||Amritsar, April 22Punjab Scheduled Caste Commission member Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka met the members of reserved community at Sialka village on Thursday to redress their grievances regarding alleged police atrocities.Talking to mediapersons, he said Baba Jasbir Singh of Umarpura village in Ajnala complained against SHO Ajnala police station, who was allegedly supporting those who forcibly encroached upon his land.Similarly, Kulwant Kaur of Dhand village in Tarn Taran in her complaint alleged that several people of a community tore her clothes and insulted her. She said the Sarai Amanat Khan police were dilly dallying the matter and not taking any action. She demanded justice from the Commission.The third complaint was from a married girl Kulwinder Kaur, who alleged that she was fraudulently married to a middle-aged man, who threw her and her 5-year-old daughter from the house.Nirmal Singh of Mari Gord village said the Water Supply and Sanitation Department did not promote him even after 31 years of service.Sialka assured them of appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scheduled-caste-commission-hears-grievances-242744
23-04-2021||---||Market slow, jobs shrinking: Not for this multi-tasking salesman||Amritsar, April 22Due to the ongoing pandemic, market is slow and jobs are shrinking, but not for the likes of Pargat, who has found a way to stay relevant in the job market. A salesman at an electronic goods store, Pargat, apart from convincing people to buy a particular product also knows how to drive a pickup van and install an air conditioner.“For me, a day is meant to do several different things. At one place you’ll find me listing merits of a product and in other half of the day, I can be found driving a pick-up van or instaling an air conditioner,” said Pargat.He said these days, a salesman is not a person who sits idle at the shop until a customer comes. “There are times when I attend to customer complaints and visit their homes to see how bad is a problem,” he said.For me, a day is meant to do several different things. At one place you'll find me listing merits of a product and in other half of the day, I can be found driving a pick-up van or instaling an AC. —Pargat, A Salesman“I start my day at 11 am and get free late night depending on the day’s work. Everyone who buys an air conditioner or any other machine, usually demands same day installation of the item and due to summers, the number of clients is high and I usually get late and reach home by midnight,” he added.Pargat said the first thing he does at work is re-arranging goods on display boxes and packing items which were left as such after the previous night’s sales. He said he is given incentive for the extra work of delivering goods and their installation. “The more I work, the more I earn and the more I am needed by my employer,” he said.He said being a multi-tasking salesman has its own rewards. “This way you always stay relevant and it boosts your confidence. I know my strengths and ability to convince a customer to buy a particular item, I can drive a pickup truck and even act as an electrician,” he said, adding that he was eligible for three jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/market-slow-jobs-shrinking-not-for-this-multi-tasking-salesman-242745
23-04-2021||Tarn Taran||5 held with Lahan, illicit liquor in Tarn Taran||House burgled in Ramdass areaAmritsar: Unidentified persons decamped with gold and silver ornaments worth lakhs from a house in Ramdass area when the family had gone to attend funeral of a relative here. Virvarshal (70), a resident of Ramdas, told the police that when they returned they found the CCTV cameras switched off and locks of almirahs broken. He said he along with his wife had gone to the funeral of a relative at Vallah village around 10.30 am and returned around 3.30 pm on Monday. When they returned, they found the entire house ransacked, he added. When checked, they found seven gold rings, two ear studs, two gold chains, two gold ear rings, two gold bangles worth Rs 5 lakh, silver ornaments worth around Rs 1 lakh, including 20 silver coins of British era, besides Rs 15,000 cash missing. A case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC has been registered. TNSOne held with 5 gm of heroinTarn Taran: A police party from Sarai Amanat Khan police station, headed by Sub- Inspector Hardeep Singh, arrested Sandeep Singh, alias Suraj of Naushehra Dhala, with five gm of heroin on Wednesday. The police party stopped a motorcycle and during search five gm of heroin was seized from the person riding the bike. The police have registered a case under Sections 21-A, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OCMan booked for rapeAmritsar: The Bhindi Saidan police have booked Manjit Singh of Bhindi Saidan for allegedly raping a married woman five days ago. A complaint was, however, lodged with the police on Wednesday, after which a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC was registered against him. No arrest has been made so far. The victim told the police that she was sleeping, when the accused entered her house by jumping over the wall. She alleged that when she resisted his move, he threatened to kill her or face dire consequences. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-held-with-lahan-illicit-liquor-in-tarn-taran-242749
