24-04-2021||Amritsar||Pvt hospitals struggle to replenish O2 supply in Amritsar||Private hospitals have expressed their concern over the delay in replenishing oxygen cyllinders in their hospitals. Under the aegis of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Amritsar, they submitted a memorandum to the district administration regarding the shortage of oxygen. They stated that the administration should ensure an adequate supply of oxygen to the hospitals so that they did not have to run from pillar to post for oxygen refill.There are about 800 beds for Covid-19 patients in the district and 40 per cent of them are occupied. Officials of the district administration maintain that it was not possible to give the exact figure of oxygen cylinders in the district as fresh supplies of liquid medical oxygen from 20 tonne to 25 tonne keep arriving from three manufacturing plants at Baddi, Dehradun and Panipat.However, the matter of concern is that 10 to 12 tonne is required mainly for Government Medical College only where the highest number of beds for Covid patients is installed.Similarly, the exact number of vaccines in the inventory kept increasing as 15,000 to 20,000 vials arrive on alternate days while 8,000 to 10,000 are administered daily.A delegation of the IMA, comprising Dr Amandeep Kaur, president, Dr KS Arora, state IMA president, Dr JS Grover, secretary and Dr Ashok Mahajan, met Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and told him about the worsening condition of Covid-19 in the city and also apprised him of the dwindling supply of oxygen to private hospitals.In a memorandum submitted to the DC, it was stated that the administration should ensure an uninterrupted supply of oxygen to private hospitals dealing with Covid patients. It was also requested to ensure supply of life-saving drugs otherwise private hospitals would be forced to refuse admission of serious Covid patients.“Medical practitioners of Amritsar stand by the public and will leave no stone unturned to relieve the miseries to the best of their abilities and resources.”The IMA delegates went to hand over the memorandum three days after holding its urgent meeting in which its members had flagged concern over the deteriorating situation in the entire country in general and Amritsar in particular. They had reiterated their stand of serving the people in this hour of crisis but at the same time drew the attention of people to the fact that they were facing the shortage of oxygen supply in their hospitals.The Deputy Commissioner assured the delegation of immediate action to ensure an uninterrupted oxygen supply for the treatment of patients. He, however, cautioned them to utilize oxygen judiciously as the supply was limited. If there was any leakage then it should be stopped on priority, he said.He appealed to people not to panic as the Central Government was ensuring the supply of oxygen to all parts of the country through rationing.He asked all private hospitals to provide data of oxygen requirements so that in case of need enough supply could be provided to them. He said elective surgeries had been postponed in all hospitals and only critical cases should be operated. He directed the officials concerned to act against those who were resorting to black marketing of oxygen cylinders.Meanwhile, the delegation also handed over a memorandum to the Police Commissioner for the safety measures as they fear that the family members of patients would become uncontrollable in case of emergency situation due to the shortage of oxygen supply and other materials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pvt-hospitals-struggle-to-replenish-o2-supply-in-amritsar-243358
24-04-2021||Amritsar||8 die, 722 test +ve in Amritsar||The district health authorities recorded 722 fresh cases of Covid-19 taking the tally to 29,211 on Friday.The new cases include 577 influenza-like illness cases and 145 contacts of positive patients. With eight more deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the toll increased to 865 in the district.The deceased have been identified as 63-year-old Bhagyawak Jain, a resident of Swiss city, 78-year-old Gurchsran Singh, a resident of Chatiwind Gate, 87-year-old Roop Mehra of Basant Avenue, 88-year-old Nirmal Rani of Majitha Road, 40-year-old Kamaljit of Kot Sant Singh Road, 65-year-old Pushpa Chadha, 48-year-old Bharat of Khanna Paper Mill, 43-year-old Rekha Kumara of Chehratta area. With the recovery of 290 patients, the recovery count has increased to 23,539. At present, there are 4,807 active cases in the border district.In the ongoing vaccination drive, 7,483 people were vaccinated pushing the tally of those vaccinated persons to 2,43,692 (both first and second dose beneficiaries).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-die-722-test-ve-in-amritsar-243362
24-04-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Unseasonal rain hits Tarn Taran farmers||Heavy rain lashed the district causing a heavy loss to the standing wheat crop on Friday. The rain, which started at around 1 pm at night, continued to lash the district till 8 am. Rain lashed parts of the district in the day also.Moreover, unseasonal rain has added to the worries of farmers. It has not only caused a heavy loss of the crop to farmers but has also delayed the harvesting of the crop.The combine operators too faced problems due to unfavourable weather conditions as the majority of them were from the Malwa area. They were here to harvest wheat crop but were waiting for weather conditions to improve.Tejindpal Singh, a farmer of Raspulpur village, said it started raining in the midnight which lasted till this morning. He said a large number of farmers were already waiting for their turn for procurement of their wheat crop lying in grain markets of the district.As per reports received from Gohalwar, Pandori Sidhwana, Pandori Ran Singh, Chabal, Sarai Amanat Khan, Naushehra Dhala, Gandiwind, Sursing, Bhikhiwind, Khalra, Khemkaran, Valtoha, Patti, Harike, Chohla Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, heavy rain lashed the areas from the midnight till this morning.Baljit Singh, Dhanna Singh, Dilbag Singh and other farmers from Lalughuman village said heavy rain along with strong winds flattened wheat crop and it was impossible to harvest with combine machines. Farmers said more than 40 per cent of the crop must be lost causing a heavy loss to farmers.However, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh denied any loss to the wheat crop due to rain. He said there was no need to order a special girdawari to assess the loss caused to the wheat crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unseasonal-rain-hits-tarn-taran-farmers-243370
24-04-2021||Amritsar||Rain pain: Poor arrangements of govt exposed, say farmers||Heavy rain accompanied by high velocity winds on Thursday night damaged wheat crop in the area. The grains lying in the open at grain markets got drenched due to shortage of gunny bags (bardana) and inappropriate arrangements by the administration.Though the farmers were making efforts for timely harvest of the crop but untimely rain delayed the harvesting in the area. The late sown wheat crop, especially in vegetable growers’ belt, was standing in the fields and suffered major loss. The agricultural experts claimed that the grain may witness luster loss due to rain.Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Block Development Officer, Majitha, said, “The farmers were in hurry to harvest the crop but the rain futile their efforts. Those, who sown the crop after harvesting peas, were yet to harvest the crop”.While contrary to claims of the district administration, the grain markets in the district witnessed poor arrangements to tackle weather conditions. In the absence of gunny bags and tarpaulin sheets to cover the grains, the heaps were lying in open. The water accumulated under grain heaps.Following this, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira called a meeting of the officials concerned and representatives of the procurement agencies to review the wheat procurement process in the district. Khaira said that as per the instructions of the government, the commission agents have been asked to use B-Class bags in the mandis. Instructing the arhtiyas, he said the B-Class bags should be used only after inspection.Addressing the concerns raised by some arhtiyas regarding the payment of bardana, Khaira said the arhtiyas would get bardana as per instructions of the government.The DC directed all SDMs to personally visit the mandis to review the wheat procurement arrangements and expedite the lifting of wheat under their supervision and ensure payment to the farmers within 48 hours. The DC said all procurement inspectors had been instructed not to delay the procurement on the pretext of rain but to immediately procure and lift the wheat lying under the sheds.Amandeep Singh, District Mandi Officer, said if any farmer has any difficulty in selling his crop, he should bring it to the notice of the concerned Market Committee Office or District Mandi Officer. They also flashed District Control Room No. 0172-5101647.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-pain-poor-arrangements-of-govt-exposed-say-farmers-243379
24-04-2021||Amritsar||Youth shot at, two booked||A youth, identified as Navdeep Dimple, a resident of the Power Colony area on Majitha Road, was shot at by two armed persons here late Thursday evening.The victim was rushed to a private hospital where his condition was serious. An old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the incident.The armed accused later went to the residence of Navdeep’s friend but the family did not open the gate after seeing the accused on CCTV cameras installed outside the house.The police reached the spot and started investigations. On the statement of the victim’s family, the police have booked two persons— Sandeep Singh, alias Gattu, and his unknown accomplice— on charges of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act for allegedly attacking and firing.The mother of the victim told that Gattu along with Vaneet, alias Pandit of Jastarwal village, had shot at Navdeep two years ago over an old enmity. In the firing he had narrowly escaped while his friend Honey had sustained injury. She alleged even after elapsing of two years, the police failed to arrest him. Now, he had again shot her son, who is fighting for life in the hospital.Dimple’s brother Arshdeep Singh told the police that he (Dimple) was strolling in the nearby park when the two persons including Gattu came on a bike and started firing. Dimple suffered two bullet injuries in his stomach area and he was rushed to hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-at-two-booked-243385
24-04-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to set up academy to prepare Sikh youth for competitive exams||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has announced to set up a preparatory academy for ‘gursikh’ youth who aspire to take the civil services examination or any other competitive exams. This was decided by the SGPC executive body during its meeting chaired by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Thursday.Dedicated to the 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the academy would be named Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Institute of Competitive Studies. It would be operated from the premises of the Jathedar Gurcharan Singh Tohra Institute of Advanced Studies in Sikhism, Bahadurgarh, in Patiala.The students would be prepared to take IAS, IPS, NDA and grade-A central or state service examinations.The SGPC president said the students would have to be ‘sabat soorat’ (with unshorn hair and beard). “Only Sikh graduate or postgraduate students who have attained the age of 20 years would be given free of cost coaching at this centre,” she said.She said an inn at Gurdwara Ber Sahib in Sultanpur Lodhi too had been transformed into a hostel to accommodate the girls who were selected in the recently held trials in various disciplines for the sports academy. “The selected girls for the sports academy would be provided good coaching, sports equipment, diet and education, as well,” she said.About another important decision of the SGPC executive, it was decided that free deliveries would be performed at Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital. “In addition, a shagun of Rs 1,100 would be given on the birth of a girl child,” she said.During the meeting, a condolence resolution was passed, offering condolences on the demise of SGPC members Dalwar Singh Chhiniwal, former member S Kuldeep Singh Dhos and SGPC member Gurpreet Singh Jhabbar’s mother Bibi Jarnail Kaur. Gurinderveer Singh, a student of Khalsa College, Jalandhar, who recently broke national record in athletics, was also honoured by the SGPC president and was givcn a cash award of Rs 2 lakh. Gurinderveer had set a record of 100 meters in 10.5 seconds in U-18 and U-20 categories. Bibi Jagir Kaur announced that the expenses for Gurinderveer’s education would also be borne by the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-to-set-up-academy-to-prepare-sikh-youth-for-competitive-exams-243392
24-04-2021||Amritsar||Duped by travel agents, 6 repatriated from Dubai||Six persons, including two women, who were duped by travel agents returned home from Dubai here on Friday. Dubai-based businessman and head of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, Dr SP Singh Oberoi, helped theses six helpless young boys and girls for returning from Dubai.“These persons are from economically weaker families and suffered a lot after being cheated in Dubai. We got information about their suffering and with huge efforts they reached at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar on Friday,” said Oberoi.He said that due to financial constraints many parents in Punjab and other states fall prey to greedy agents and send their innocent daughters and sons for jobs in Arab countries but unfortunately the greedy agents lured into fake or defaulting companies and most of the girls were sold to landlords or other businessmen, who take extra work after legalising these girls at their own expense.As a result, the health of many girls deteriorates but it becomes very difficult to get them out. Oberoi said he received many phone calls every day from people, who were stranded in Arab countries after being deceived by travel agents.The victims were identified as Jobanjit Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Baljit Singh, Avtar Singh and two women.So far, the Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust has repatriated about 30 girls and about 500 young boys stranded at Dubai. Oberoi appealed to the parents to send their children abroad only after thorough scrutiny and also asked the governments to crack down on fraudulent agents so that innocent children do not face such problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/duped-by-travel-agents-6-repatriated-from-dubai-243394
24-04-2021||---||Cow, calf found dead, case registered||Amritsar, April 23In a shocking incident, a cow and a calf were found dead while another cow was found to be serious, after they were allegedly given poison-laced food by unknown persons in Lakshmi Vihar locality on Majitha Road late last night.The incident was highlighted by an NGO, Anti Crime and Animal Protection Association, led by Dr Rohan Mehra. The police have registered a case under Section 429 of the IPC and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Preliminary probe revealed that they were offered poison-laced food by unknown persons.Dr Rohan told that he received information at around 10.30 pm that two cows were dead while one was writhing in pain. He said his association members immediately reached the spot and informed the police authorities and requested for registration of case and arrest of the suspects. He said it was unfortunate that people were now trying to kill stray cows left on roads by the owners.Puja Rani, the complainant in the case, stated to the police that there were some vacant plots in her locality where stray cows often come to feed on wild grass. She said last night she found a cow and a calf dead while another cow was writhing in pain. They were poisoned, she alleged.Police authorities said that further investigations were under progress and a case had been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cow-calf-found-dead-case-registered-243395
24-04-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Goods truck stolen at gunpoint, recovered||The Sadar police have recovered the truck, which was stolen by four armed robbers at gunpoint near Bath village on National Highway No.54 on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday here. The truck was laden with bricks.The police have also arrested one of the four robbers. Inspector Prabhjit Singh, SHO of the police station, on Friday said the truck (PB-46 M-7758) was stolen at gunpoint by the armed robbers who parked their car in front of the truck. The robbers not only stole the truck laden with 15,000 bricks but also Rs 25,000 cash from the driver and his Aadhaar card.The SHO said the truck was being driven by Dharampreet Singh and his father Baljit Singh was with him. They were going to Jammu from Karikalan (Ferozpur) to deliver bricks there.The robbers have been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gop of Piddi, Gurpreet Singh Gopi of Pandori Ran Singh, Kakka Chhali and Jujj of Tarn Taran.The SHO said Gurpreet Singh of Piddi had been arrested and the stolen truck too recovered from him.The accused had been booked under Sections 392, 341, 336, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goods-truck-stolen-at-gunpoint-recovered-243396
24-04-2021||Amritsar||Police urge people to wear masks, 47 fined||As the cases of novel corona virus are rapidly increasing in the holy city, the police on Friday visited various bazaars, busy markets and Heritage Street near Golden Temple and urged the people to follow the health guidelines. People coming to shrine were often found ignoring the Covid guidelines with impunity.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal led the teams which also included Additional Deputy Commissioners of Police Harpal Singh and Harjinder Singh Dhaliwal.Bhandal said that it was observed that the people coming to pay obeisance at Golden Temple and visiting the busy markets around the shrine were not seriously following government guidelines regarding Covid-19. He said, therefore, it was decided to visit these areas and aware the public over the issue and requesting them to wear mask and maintaining social distancing.Besides Heritage Street, the police officials also visited Katra Jaimal Singh and interstate bus terminus. At Heritage Street, the police with the help of NGOs distributed masks and sanitisers. He asked the shopkeepers not to let the people’s rush in the shops.Mayor appeals for joining fight against Covid-19Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Friday appealed to the residents to join hands with the administration to fight against the rising cases of Covid-19. He said the situation was well in control and the people must not panic in this hour of crisis and follow the instructions of the Health Department.The Mayor said as the first citizen of Amritsar city, he appealed to the residents to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the administration, always wear masks, wash hands from time to time, use sanitisers and avoid crowded places. He said the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar would continue to provide all basic services to people without any interruption. He assured the residents that the MC and the district administration were standing with people in this hour of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-urge-people-to-wear-masks-47-fined-243397
24-04-2021||Amritsar||Keep environment green, says expert||Guru Nanak Dev University’s “University Employees Cultural Forum” today pledged to plant trees to make the environment of Guru Nanak Dev University green and clean.This is the first activity of the cultural forum, which has recently been set up by non-teaching staff. The members also initiated a plantation drive to mark the Earth Day celebrations. Forum’s president Jobanjit Kaur said that keeping the environment clean is our primary duty or else it will be too late. “There are thousands of different types of trees in the university campus for the conservation of environment. But every small contribution is required,” she said.Meanwhile, marking Earth Day, Dilbir Foundation too dedicated its efforts to conservation of heritage trees in city and adding more to its green wealth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/keep-environment-green-says-expert-243398
24-04-2021||These are the days of the IPL and Covid||Cricketing phraseology||Cops on the prowlGurdaspur shopkeepers were given a high voltage shock by the cops when senior officers took it upon themselves to ensure the timings of closing their establishments at 8 pm meant 8 pm. No quarters were given and none asked for when SSP Nanak Singh led his team into the labyrinthine lanes on Wednesday. Some traders developed cold feet when they saw police vehicles coming their way. However, the smooth-talking SSP allayed their fears and told them the “cops will not react if they act on time.” Hence, 8 pm means 8 pm. Not a minute more and not a minute less. As a corollary, the police will act only if the traders do not react to their instructions. And everybody knows what exactly police ‘actions and reactions’ mean. The shopkeepers apparently had in mind Gerson’s law which states that “an advantage should be taken of every situation regardless of ethics.” And, it seems, the police chief had Cheops law in mind when he zig-zagged his way through the alleys. The law states that “Nothing in this world ever works on schedule.” The SSP’s ‘road-show’ had the desired effect. The next day, shutters were pulled down five minutes ahead of the given time. After 8 pm it was an eerie silence that prevailed all around. The perennially notorious liquor shop owners, too, bent backwards to ensure the cops directives were adhered to. Round one goes to the police.Saini at the helmTraders have something to cheer about as it was after a long time the state government reconstituted the Punjab Traders Board. In its new form it has a Sujanpur youth Congress leader Puneet Saini Pinta as its chairman. He says he will act as a via-media between the traders and the Excise department. His biggest challenge is to ensure the traders face no difficulties in implementing the GST. “If there are any misgivings, I will take them up with the Excise department,” he said. On the political firmament, Pinta says he is surely in contention for the Congress ticket from Sujanpur assembly seat. “The Saini community has a sizable presence in the area and senior Congress leaders are aware of this development,” he said.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cricketing-phraseology-243400
24-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Workers seek regular jobs||Woman ends life at in-laws’ houseTarn Taran: A woman, who was perturbed over her married life, committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her in-laws’ house in Kang village here on Thursday. ASI Nirmal Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the deceased had been identified as Puja (24) who was married to Jangjit Singh just six months ago. The ASI said when the parents of the victim came to see their daughter, they found her dead. The victim’s father Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Timmowal (Baba Bakala), said her daughter was being harassed by her husband Jangjit Singh and mother-in-law Sawinder Kaur over dowry soon after the marriage. Perturbed over her harassment, she hanged herself from a ceiling fan in the house. The ASI said Jangjit Singh and Sawinder Kaur had been booked under Sections 304-A and 34 of the IPC by the Goindwal Sahib police. The accused were absconding , said the ASI. OC1 Kg of heroin seized at IBAmritsar: Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police have confiscated 1.02 kg of heroin from near the International Border near Panjgaraiya border out post here on Friday. The police have registered a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and Indian Passport and Foreign Act against unidentified persons for now while further investigation were under progress to identify the smugglers who got the contraband smuggled from across the border. Police authorities, in a statement issued here on Friday, said the police shared some specific inputs regarding smuggling of heroin from the Pakistan side near Panjgaraiya border outpost. A joint search operation was launched following which the seizure was made. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workers-seek-regular-jobs-243401
24-04-2021||Amritsar||Rain damages wheat crop in Amritsar||Rain accompanied by high-velocity winds damaged the standing wheat crop in various fields while grains lying in markets got drenched last evening. Agricultural officials said untimely rain had delayed the harvesting of crop for the next 72 hours.In view of bad weather conditions, farmers were in hurry to harvest the crop. Most of them arrived with their produce at the grain markets of the districts, but due to the shortage of gunny bags (bardana), the produce has been kept in the open. The administration has even failed to provide tarpaulin sheets to the purchase centres. Waterlogging was witnessed in the Bhagtanwala grain market.District Food and Supply Controller Raj Rishi Mehra said 10,9,773 MT of wheat had arrived in the mandis so far, of which 90,013 MT had been procured. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said as per the instructions of the government, arhtiyas had been asked to use B class bags. — TNSHarvest delayedTarn Taran: Heavy rain has destroyed the standing wheat crop in various parts of the district. Farmers rued that the harvesting process has been delayed further. As per information, the damage has been reported from Chabal, Gandiwind, Bhikhiwind, Khalra, Khemkaran, Valtoha, Patti, Harike, Chohla Sahib and Khadoor Sahib areas. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-damages-wheat-crop-in-amritsar-243345
