25-04-2021||---||Snatchers held in girl’s death case||Amritsar, April 24A week after a girl died after falling off from an auto-rickshaw during a snatching attempt, the police have arrested two persons in the case. They have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Billi, and Suresh Prashar, both residents of Milap Avenue, Ghanupur Kale village.They were arrested with the help of the location of the mobile snatched from the 21-year old victim Rajni, a resident of Kartar Nagar area. She had suffered critical head injury that led to her death.There has been a surge in snatching and robbery cases in the area and the police are facing flak, as there is a sense of fear among residents, who accused the police of failing to nail the criminals.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, while addressing the mediapersons, said Gurpreet already had a theft case against him, while Suresh had around three cases, including that of snatching, registered against him. Preliminary probe found that the duo was addicted to drugs and had snatched the mobile to fulfil their urge for the same.Going by the nature of the crime, the police had formed a special investigating team under DCP Mukhwinder Bhullar to crack the case. “It was a clueless case and initially the reason behind her death was not certain. When the police established the cause, it traced the e-rickshaw driver and co-passengers of the deceased, which led to further investigations,” he said.Rajni used to work in an optician’s shop and was returning home on an e-rickshaw after work. She was operating her mobile, when the accused targeted her and tried to snatch her mobile phone, but she did not let it go. As a result, she fell on the road and suffered serious head injury and died.He said the police have managed to solve a majority of heinous cases besides nabbing snatchers and robbers involved in sensational crimes in the city. Only a few criminals are yet to be arrested and raids were on to nab them as well. They would also be behind bars soon, he said.The case in a nutshellOn April 16, 21-year-old Rajni was returning home on an auto-rickshaw after her duty. She was holding a mobile phone in her hand. Two motorcycle-borne persons were following her and tried to snatch her mobile phone but she did not let it go. Following this, one of the miscreants pulled her along with the mobile on the road. She fell on the road and went unconscious, while the accused fled away with the mobile. People gathered at the spot and rushed her to hospital, where doctors declared her dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-held-in-girls-death-case-243901
25-04-2021||---||Civic body begins scrutiny of commercial buildings||Amritsar, April 24 The Municipal Corporation Amritsar has initiated scrutiny of commercial property tax, which was paid for 2020-21.  In the first phase, the MC had sent notices to 30 major commercial properties in north zone last month. After sending notices, the MC officials called the owners of these commercial properties for hearing.  According to information, some of the building owners submitted their objection in response to notices. Senior officials of the MC are hearing property owners personally. According to the officials of the MC, some of the tax payers have paid less than the actual amount. The MC is now scrutinising the self-assessment. The property tax wing officials believe property owners have not assessed their rented properties as per the rules.  Sandip Rishi, Additional Commissioner, said some major establishments paid less tax than we expected and after scrutiny, they would be asked to pay the pending tax. The MC officials, who are conducting the scrutiny of property tax, claimed that there would be huge difference between self-assessment and actual tax amount.  “One of the SCO (shop-cum-office) in north zone paid Rs13 lakh less than the actual amount. We found this one and when we will scrutinise all such properties, we will find a difference of crores,” an officer of the property tax wing said.  The Municipal Corporation has asked property owners to submit rent deeds and other documents related to the properties, so that the actual amount of tax can be revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-begins-scrutiny-of-commercial-buildings-243902
25-04-2021||---||Illegal colony razed on Sultanwind Road||Amritsar, April 24 The Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing of the MC demolished under-construction structures at an illegal colony coming up on Sultanwind bypass road here on Friday. A team of the MTP wing, south zone, led by ATP Varinder Mohan and building inspector Rajrani along with the demolition team and police personnel visited Sehaj Avenue and demolished some under-construction buildings. The officials of the MTP wing claimed that the buildings were being constructed in an illegal colony.  “No illegal construction will be allowed in the area and would be demolished. Residents are appealed to get approval for their building plans before construction,” the ATP said.  The MTP wing had recently initiated a drive against illegal colonies in the city. Last week, officials had taken action against four illegal colonies at various locations of the city, including Kot Khalsa and Chheharta. MTP Narinder Sharma said the drive would continue in future and no one would be allowed to develop any illegal colony in and around the city.  There are hundreds of illegal colonies in the city. The state government had demanded application for regularisation of illegal colonies, but the coloniser gave a lukewarm response to the offer. Now, the MC officials claimed that strict action would be taken against illegal colonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-colony-razed-on-sultanwind-road-243903
25-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Roads blocked, blame it on non-availability of bardana||Tarn Taran, April 24The situation in this border area due to the non-availability of bardana (gunny bags) has worsened and farmers, commission agents, palledars and other people related to the procurement process are forced to come out on roads and protest.A section of farmers, commission agents and others staged dharna on the Kot Budha bridge linking the Majha and Malwa belt and at Ghariala village by blocking road traffic on Saturday.Mahavir Singh Gill, a commission agent and Sukhwant Singh Valtoha, Laljit Singh Bhullar of the AAP were among others who addressed on the occasion. The leaders highly condemned the move of the state government for not providing bardana to commission agents up to their requirement. They said the state government was ready to give just 40 per cent bardana and the remaining part has to be arranged by commission agents themselves. He said gunny bags were available at a cost of Rs50 to Rs55 in the market, when the state government was offering it for Rs39.9 per bag.Traffic was blocked at Khemkaran too. Protesters warned that they would stay for indefinite time at the dharna site in case their demands to provide required quantity of bardana in mandis was ignored.‘Kisan Help Centres’ established Tarn Taran: Following the guidelines of the Central Government, the Punjab Mandi Board has established ‘Kisan Help Centres’ in all major grain markets of the district to help farmers transfer their money directly into their accounts. The system has been introduced in this season. MLA Harminder Singh Gill said the centres would help the farmers to make sure direct payment comes into their accounts. These centres would register farmers’ accounts through new portal. The centres had been established in Tarn Taran, Patti, Khadoor Sahib, Bhikhiwind, Naushehra Pannuan, Chabal, Khemkaran and Harike Pattan. Employees of the Mandi Board have been deputed at these centres to guide the farmers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roads-blocked-blame-it-on-non-availability-of-bardana-243904
25-04-2021||---||ASI among three booked for fraud||Amritsar, April 24 The city police have booked an ASI among three persons for allegedly cheating a youth of Rs 5 lakh on the pretext of getting him recruited in the Punjab Police.  The victim, identified as Karan Nahar, a resident of Gilwali Gate, alleged that he had worked in the Lopoke police station along with ASI for some period. On his complaint, the police booked ASI Jatinder Singh Gill along with Harjinder Kaur of Verka and Rajwinder Singh, alias Raju Khatri of Sohian Khurd Colony.  The police registered a case under Sections 420, 406 and 120-B of the IPC against the three and started further investigations. Police authorities said that though a case had been registered further investigations were still under progress.  Family members of the victim alleged that they borrowed money and even mortgaged their property for giving Rs 5 lakh to the accused. They said they had nothing left and now they were facing difficulties in paying instalments. They urged the police for providing justice to them by taking action against the ASI and his accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-among-three-booked-for-fraud-243905
25-04-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covid woes worsen amid O2 shortage||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, April 24With 11 persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24-hours, the toll reached 876 in the district on Saturday. The district also reported 385 new cases, with which the tally increased to 29,596.The deceased have been identified as Ram Pyari (80), a resident of Gali Pawan School Chheharta; Didar Singh (86) of Jandiala; Kirpal Singh (64) of Gali No. 2 on Tarn Taran road; Gurdeep Kaur (52) of Naushehra Mallia; Darshan Kaur (86) of Talwandi; Dasaunda Singh; Veena Puri (70) of Gagan Colony (Batala Road); Gurinder Singh (39) of Wadala Veeram village; Manjit Singh (61) of Sant Nagar (Pheruman Road); Manpreet Singh (29) of Chananke village; Baabu (45) of Shakti Nagar and Bawi Kaur (75) of Taragarh.The new cases include 240 influenza-like illness cases and 145 contacts of positive patients. The district health authorities have also reported recovery of 300 patients with which the total recovery count increased to 23,839. The district, at present, has a total of 4,881 active cases.While the death of six patients at a private hospital, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen has shocked residents and exposed the preparedness of the government to deal with the crisis, Medical Education Minister OP Soni seemed to be playing a blame game as he asked private hospitals to refrain from admitting Covid patients, if they do not have the required infrastructure.The minister said the Covid wing at Government Medical College has around 450 beds for Covid patients, of which around 250 are vacant at present. He said the government was fully committed to the care of Covid patients despite the shortage of oxygen in the country.However, private hospitals claimed that they had been facing shortage of oxygen ever since the administration started rationing of oxygen and diverted the supply towards government hospital.“The city had three main vendors of medical oxygen. At present, private hospitals are facing problem as all three have been instructed to supply oxygen to GMC on a priority,” said a senior private doctor, adding that the problem would worsen in the next few days as private hospitals would not be able to admit patients due to shortage of oxygen.8,321 persons get the jabThe district Health Department vaccinated 8,321 persons for Covid-19 on Saturday. The officials said 5,789 persons have received the first dose, while 2,532 have received the second dose.The first dose receivers included 131 healthcare workers, 847 frontline workers and 4,811 persons above 45 years of age. Those who have received the second dose include 369 healthcare workers, 355 frontline workers and 1,808 persons above 45 years of age.Sukirtan suspended at Durgiana Temple Amritsar: The Durgiana Temple Committee suspended morning and evening assembly on the premises to tackle the pandemic. The committee also decided not to hold “Sukirtan” till April 27. Those behind singing hymns have been asked to first get vaccinated. Advocate Rajesh Sharma, president, Durgiana Temple Committee, said, “Those singing hymns are not our employees, but devotees regularly come and chant hymns. We have asked them to get inoculated and then resume Sukirtan by practising social distancing.” They said all priests have been vaccinated and were following the guidelines. “Mask is compulsory for priests. Those distributing parshad will wear gloves. Tilak will not be applied. Moreover, devotees will not be allowed to distribute any food or parshad,” said Sharma. Members said number of visitors decreased up to 70 per cent during the second wave. TNSAllow work from home: PCCTUAmritsar: The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) demanded that teachers be allowed to work from home to safeguard the staff from Covid-19. In a memorandum to Cabinet Minister OP Soni, who conducted a meeting to take a stock of the Covid-19 situation in the city, a delegation of the PCCTU shared their concerns over the rising cases. Dr BB Yadav, area secretary, GNDU, said the state was already facing shortage of vaccine, when all teachers had not been vaccinated and this might increase the chances of community transmission. “The PCCTU appealed to the government to temporarily close educational institutions for teachers too and allow work from home.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-woes-worsen-amid-o2-shortage-243907
25-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Enrolment drive: Staff lauded||Two held with 5 stolen bikesTarn Taran: A team of the CIA staff, led by SI Sukhdev Singh, arrested two persons and seized five stolen (without number) motorcycles from them. The accused have been identified as Tarsem Singh Sema of Pahuwind and Shamsher Singh Shera of Rasulpur village. The police said the accused were arrested from Gaggobua village on Friday with two stolen motorcycles and during probe, three more stolen motorcycles were seized from them. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC was registered at the Chabal police station. The accused were produced in court on Saturday, which sent them to two-day police remand. OC‘Pray on Mahabir Jayanti for peace’Amritsar: On the eve of Mahavir Jayanti, Shri All-India Shwetambar Sthanakwasi Jain Conference called upon the adherents of Jain religion to recite the mahamantra of Navokar while staying inside their homes in view of surge in Covid cases. Sameer Jain, president of the district chapter of the Jain Conference, said people should pray for eradication of the pandemic. Members of the All-India Jain Yuva Parivar and Shri Mahavir Jain Yuvak Mandal will give commendation certificates to corona warriors. Sameer Jain said Bhagwan Mahavir, born about 2,620 years ago, had given two sermons to ameliorate the sufferings of the entire humanity. These are live and let live, and non-violence on all kinds of living beings. TNS15 year-old boy ends his lifeTarn Taran: A 15-year-old boy, Lovepreet Singh, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in Dholan village following constant threats from the parents of a teenaged girl, who was allegedly molested by him. The Valtoha police have booked seven members of the girl’s family, identified as Gursahib Singh Sahba, his wife Gugg, brother Prem Singh, Prem’s wife Harjinder Kaur, son Roshan Singh, Harjit Singh and Mohla Singh. Raj Kaur, first aunt of the deceased, alleged that Lovepreet was involved in molesting the teenaged daughter of Gursahib Singh some days ago but with the intervention of village elders the issue was settled. She said even after settlement of the issue, the accused were threatening Lovepreet. The victim under depression consumed some poisonous substance on April 22 and was admitted to a nearby private hospital where he died on April 23. The accused were booked under Sections 306 and 506 of the IPC and were absconding, the police said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/enrolment-drive-staff-lauded-243914
25-04-2021||Amritsar||No oxygen, 6 die at Amritsar hospital||Six patients, four of them Covid positive, died at a private hospital here today allegedly due to shortage of medical oxygen.While Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni maintained the deaths occurred due to Neelkanth Hospital’s “negligence”, the private facility claimed it had alerted the district administration in advance about oxygen shortage.“The hospital hadn’t reported any such problem till yesterday night,” claimed the minister, adding another private hospital’s oxygen supply demand was fulfilled.However, Neelkanth Hospital managing director Sunil Devgan claimed they had flagged the problem to the nodal officer 48 hours prior to the incident. “We had even asked the attendants to shift their patients to other hospitals,” he said. Private hospitals have been complaining of shortage ever since the administration started rationing of medical oxygen.CM Capt Amarinder Singh has asked the Amritsar Deputy Commissioner to initiate a probe into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-oxygen-6-die-at-amritsar-hospital-243674
