26-04-2021||---||Phishing attack: Amritsar resident loses Rs 39K for buying iPhone||Amritsar, April 25A local resident fell prey to phishing attack after he was duped by swindlers after making a deal on an online market platform. The alleged fraudster posed as an Army man.In his complaint to the police, Dharuvdeep Singh of the Basant Avenue area said he made a deal to buy iPhone 11, which was listed for sale on an online market platform for Rs42,500. He said after finally bargaining with the seller, who identified himself as Sanjay Singh, an Army personnel through phone call and social media messages, the deal was finalised for Rs39,000. He said he sought documentation regarding his identity and of the mobile phone from him. As he requested some advance payment he transferred an amount of Rs5,000 and then Rs1,000 in his account.The accused said he was posted in Jalandhar and could not come to Amritsar and would send the mobile through the parcel by the Army courier service, adding that he should pay the remaining amount at that time of delivery of the phone. He said later, he got a call from a courier boy who asked him to come at Maqbool road near Rattan Singh Chowk. He said as he went there, he took the parcel checked the phone and other accessories and then transferred the remaining amount through online payment mode. He said as the money was transferred, the courier boy snatched the parcel from him and fled away. He said he informed Sanjay Singh about this who assured to solve the problem within a week or return the money, but he did not.Similarly, another complainant Ramandeep Kaur told the police that she was also cheated by a person who identified himself as an Army man on the pretext of selling his scooter. Police authorities said the investigations in the case was on.On their complaints, the police have booked two Rajasthan residents among three persons under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the IT Act in this connection. They were identified as Dev Raj of Alwar (Rajasthan), Intaaz Khan of Bharatpur (Rajasthan) and Aqib Ali of Mevat in Gurgaon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phishing-attack-amritsar-resident-loses-rs-39k-for-buying-iphone-244328
26-04-2021||---||Bank manager sent to jail in fraud case||Amritsar, April 25The bank manager, Simranjit Singh, who was arrested by the city police in connection with the alleged fraud of Rs 1.5 crore, was sent to judicial custody on Sunday.The police produced the suspect before the duty magistrate seeking the extension of remand by three days. However, after hearing the arguments, the duty magistrate sent him to judicial custody.Assistant Commissioner of Police (financial crimes) Sushil Kumar claimed that Simranjit Singh had confessed the crime during interrogation. He told the police that Gurmit Singh, who was arrested earlier, was the kingpin who used to swindle the banks by taking huge loans on the basis of fake documents.Simranjit Singh was branch manager of Bank of India. His name had figured during the interrogation of Gurmeet Singh and Jagdeep Singh who was a former sarpanch. As per the police officials Simranjit used to pass the loans after taking his commission. The police had registered around four FIRs where the accused defrauded the banks by taking huge loans on fake documents.The ACP said that Gurmeet Singh alleged to have got passed hundreds of loans from different banks. “We are scrutinising the each loan passed by him to see whether these were passed on genuine documents. It was also found that he managed to get the loan passed of cops who were not even eligible for the same,” he said while adding the fraud amount could increase further.Among others who were booked in the fraud included Kuldeep Singh of Sansara Kalan village and Dr Kulwant Singh of Delhi. Raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bank-manager-sent-to-jail-in-fraud-case-244329
26-04-2021||---||Sunday lockdown a success in Amritsar city||Amritsar, April 25Residents fully supported the government’s call for the lockdown on Sunday to curtail the spiralling Covid-19 infections in the wake of the pandemic’s second wave.A majority of the roads and public places wore a deserted look as people avoided moving out of their homes. Similarly, there was minimum attendance at Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal.“There was complete silence on city roads. The day stands apart from daily noisy traffic, rush hours and traffic jams we come across in the city,” observed Anantdeep Singh. He said the lockdown revived the memories of last year’s lockdown, which had upset the economy and rendered many unemployed. At that time, initially there was panic among people, who had strictly complied with the norms such as moving out in case of only essential work and that, too, not without mask and sanitisers. Social distancing was also followed while buying essential commodities or some other unavoidable work.After unlocking the lockdown people largely became complacent and even political activities picked up pace in the state. People freely mingled with one another and people became casual. Consequently, the positive cases are being found in almost all parts of the city, he said.The Police Department had made elaborate bandobast to keep a check on unnecessary movement of people. So, they laid nakas at many places and intersections and questioned the occasional movement of traffic.Already, moves such as curtailing the number of trains, restricting entry of people and Rs50 charge of platform ticket per person for gaining access to the station have considerably curtailed the footfall at the Amritsar railway. About 14 pairs of trains are being operated. The passengers alighting from trains and heading towards the railway station to board trains to reach their destinations had to struggle to secure taxis, autos and rickshaws.IDH market, which opens on Sunday and closes on Monday, has already shifted its weekly off. It will remain open on Mondays. Many wholesale markets inside the walled city like Tahli Wala Bazaar and adjoining areas also remained closed. Allcontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sunday-lockdown-a-success-in-amritsar-city-244330
26-04-2021||---||8-yr-old girl among nine succumb to virus in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 25With nine more deaths, including that of an 8-year-old girl, due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the district toll increased to 885 on Sunday.The district health authorities have also reported 569 new cases with which the total count increased to 30,165.The deceased include Tarlok Singh (60), a resident of Loharaka; Gurmeet Kaur (75) of Bagga village; Krishna Sharma (41) of Khooh Suniaria; Dilraj Kaur (41) of Gate Hakeema; Rajwant Kaur (45) of Bhittaewadh village; Rajan Behal (45) of Jujhar Singh Avenue; Mandal Grover (65) of Jandiala Guru; Satbir Kaur (50) of Mata Ganga Ji Nagar; Veera (8) from Khalchian.The new cases include 426 influenza-like illness cases and 143 contacts of positive patients. The district has also reported recovery of 357 patients with which the recovery count has increased to 24,196. The district at present has a total of 5,084 active cases.The district Health Department reported that 2,994 persons were given injections for Covid-19 on Sunday. Out of the total 2,019 were given the first dose of the vaccine, while 975 were given the second dose of the vaccine. Those who have got the first dose include 35 healthcare workers, 215 frontline workers and 1,837 residents above 45 years of age. Those who have received the second dose include 147 healthcare workers, 149 frontline workers and 611 residents above 45 years of age.The district administration has set up a control room at Red Cross Bhawan to deal with the situation. The officials said general public can contact for any help related to emergency during Covid and oxygen supply.Cops on toes, violators challanedCops remained on their toes to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said nakas were set up at major intersections. The police urged residents to wear masks and those found violating the health guidelines were challaned Rs1,000. “We urge residents to follow the guidelines for their own safety,” said Bhandal.No shortage of O2 in Tarn Taran: Civil SurgeonThe border district is one of the few exceptional districts with no oxygen shortage whatsoever, if the authorities are to be believed. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said though the district was witnessing heavy increase in positive cases daily in the last 15 days, most of the patients were preferring staying in home isolation, which was a great help for district authorities. Dr Mehta revealed that there was no shortage of medical oxygen, too, and the district authorities were taking maximum advantage of the two oxygen concentrators installed at the local isolation ward for Covid-19 patients at the district Civil Hospital. Dr Mehta said 103 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Saturday, taking the tally of active cases to 957, but even then, the district administration was satisfied about the services being rendered by the district staff. He said the district had sufficient stock of medical oxygen, too, which the officials were using with utmost care. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-yr-old-girl-among-nine-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-244331
26-04-2021||---||1,67 lakh MT wheat procured in Amritsar district so far||Amritsar, April 25Of the total arrival of 1,81,953 metric tonne (MT) of wheat in different grain markets of the district, 1,67,328 MT has been purchased by various government procurement agencies. The district officials said the arrival of wheat produce in grain markets had increased after the recent rains.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the procurement process was going on smoothly and a total of Rs100.56 crore has been disbursed to farmers so far in lieu of their crop. The DC said Pungrain was leading in procurement with a purchase of 50,583 MT so far.Other agencies including Markfed had procured 50,299 MT, Punsup 38,253 MT, Punjab Warehouse 16,202 MT, and FCI 11,891 MT.The DC said Pungrain had disbursed Rs31.22 crore, Markfed Rs42.52 crore, Punsup Rs15.66 crore, Punjab Warehouse Rs10.82 crore, and FCI had disbursed Rs34 lakh so far.The district administration has also appealed to farmers to bring fully-ripened crop with moisture content within the permissible limits, so that they do not have to face any problem. Khaira said farmers were being made payments of crop through their bank accounts within the stipulated time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-67-lakh-mt-wheat-procured-in-amritsar-district-so-far-244333
26-04-2021||Neha Saini||GNDU: Social impact agency submits report on horticulture institute||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 25The Social Impact Assessment Agency, comprising of Dr Rajesh Kumar, Principal project coordinator, and six subject experts’ team, set up by Guru Nanak Dev University, completed a SIA-PGIHRE study report for land acquisition for setting up of Post-Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE).The project was announced five years back by the Centre and the ambitious institute was to be set up as an international centre of excellence in agriculture research and development.The PGIHRE, a project for government-administered, government-aided educational and research schemes or institutions, will be established in Chhiddan village, Ajnala. Under the new regulations executed under Section 4.1 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, it was mandatory to carry out social impact assessment report before the land acquisition. Dr Rajesh said the report had been submitted and a high-powered state committee, that stands appointed, will review it in few days.GNDU VC Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu handed over the report to Nodal Officer Dr Gurinder Singh Dhanjal, Deputy Director, Department of Horticulture, Punjab Government. Dr Sandhu has been of the view that Punjab being an agricultural state needs an institution of research and education which focuses on undertaking basic and applied research for developing strategies to enhance productivity and utilisation of crops.“The study report is of the view that the setting of the PGIHRE seems to carry the potential of making favourable impact upon the socio-economic landscape of the area. Hereafter, the report will be evaluated by the high power committee set up by the government,” he said.Dr Rajesh said 32 acres of land was under acquisition and the long due project would materialise this year.When the project was announced, it had given a hope to farmers of the region of diversifying their crops. Few months back, the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had issued a notification for the commencement of social impact assessment to purchase over 32 acres of land. A chunk of 100 acres was transferred in the name of the ICAR at Attari village in 2015 and three years later, a site selection committee of the ICAR had approved the site at Chhiddan village, which is situated 10-km from the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post and nearly 12-km from the holy city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-social-impact-agency-submits-report-on-horticulture-institute-244334
26-04-2021||Amritsar||National award for Mehta village||‘Delayed’ payment to farmersTarn Taran: A delegation of SAD leaders led by the district president Virsa Singh Valtoha presented a memorandum to DC Kulwant Singh in the name of the Punjab Governor regarding the problems being faced by farmers in the grain markets here on Saturday. Former MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu, Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board former member Iqbal Singh Sandhu, SGPC members were among others who were part of the deputation. The SAD said there was acute shortage of gunny bags (bardana) in mandis which was affecting the procurement process. The deputation demanded a probe in the alleged embezzlement over hurriedly purchased gunny bags of poor quality. OCHigh mast LED lights in cityAmritsar: In the wake of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bhadhur, the MC has installed high mast LED lights at all intersections and main buildings of the city. The MC spent Rs24 lakh on this project. The MC had planned inauguration of the project, but following the rise in Covid-19 cases, the function has been cancelled. The LED lights got functional at Hathi Gate, Lohgarh Chowk, Man Singh Gate, Gurdwara Saheedan and Chatiwind Gate. These 190 watt high mast LED would not be removed even after the celebrations are over. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said: “The lights are a symbol of celebrations and the city is being decked up for the celebration of 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Teg Bhadhur. We are making several other arrangements for sanitation and encroachment-free paths to Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/national-award-for-mehta-village-244335
26-04-2021||Do you think night curfew in the state will help in restraining covid spread?||Night curfew can help, but norms need to be followed||Makes no sense whatsoeverNight curfew will not help in restraining the spread of Covid in the state. The government is imposing such restrictions only to cover up its mishandling of the situation by allowing big rallies and road shows during the recent election in states like West Bengal, Kerala and Assam. The Centre and state governments further aggravated the situation in the nation by allowing gathering of lakhs of devotees at Kumbh. Political parties should show the same passion to win the war against coronavirus as shown to win election.To prevent the spread of the pandemic mere imposition of night curfew will hardly have any desired impact.It makes no sense whatsoever. They are imposing night curfew, as if the deadly virus comes out only in the dark! Though the Centre spent crores on converting railway coaches into Covid-care centres, the problem of less number of beds for patients persists and fatalities due to this are increasing each day.Harsh N JoharTurn schools into makeshift hospitalsI suggest that we should convert schools, colleges and universities into temporary hospitals where Covid patients can be given the required treatment. After the state government shut down educational institutes amid a surge in Covid cases,these are lying closed and students too have adapted to online-mode of studying thus using them for the purpose will ease the burden of shortage of beds at hospitals.SS Ranaimpose Stricter restrictionsNight curfew would not restrain the spread of the virus. It would rather create unemployment. Instead of the illogical night curfew, stricter restrictions should be imposed during the day, which must be complemented by round-the-clock vigil by the authorities concerned. Unless people realise the importance of adhering to the Covid-prevention norms, infections will go on rising.Gurleen KaurWill be a blessing in disguiseSecond wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is very dangerous as it has already claimed many lives. Moreover, hospitals are facing extreme shortage of medical oxygen required to treat Covid patients. In this scenario, when medical facilities are not upto the mark in the state, imposition of night curfew will definitely help in restraining the spread of the deadly virus. As we know that the virus is air-borne and mainly spreads by coming in contact with the infected persons, the administration restricting the movement of people for non-essential works will help in breaking the chain and check the spread of the virus. Ultimately it will prove to be a boon in disguise in the long run.Sanjay ChawlaSelf-imposed lockdown neededAs night curfews and partial restrictions have proved little effective in containing the spread of virus,the government and district administration is left with no alternative but to impose lockdown with immediate effect.The second wave of deadly coronavirus has infected more people than the first. The Administration’’s restrictions must be followed and implemented in true spirit.Without waiting for government’sinstructions, people must practice self-imposed lockdown at home. The administration should take steps to restrict people’s movement. Liquor vends should be closed during lockdown.Shops should be allowed to open on alternate days to avoid crowding at markets. A blanket ban on religious gatherings and ceremonies for a period of one month is the need of the hour. The administration must also ensure strict compliance of all these restrictions and guidelines and act strictly against the violators.Anil VinayakWon’t serve the purposeImposition of night curfew won’t serve the purpose as it is not enough to beat the pandemic. It may help in restricting the movement of people slightly but won’t be that effective. The authorities need to take more strict measures to check the spread of the virus.As the cases are rising rapidly, the health system seems to be collapsingfor failing to lessen the fatality and infection rate. The things have come to such a pass because of organisation of huge political rallies, social and religious gatherings, no social distancing at markets, bus stands, railway stations and other public places. People have been giving a go-by to Covid guidelines without giving a second thought to their own and others’ safety. Alarmed by the situation, Delhi had announced six-day lockdown which triggered an exodus of migrants. I am afraid that Punjab may have to follow the suit. But, lockdown is not a panacea for arresting the spread of the virus. It may be in the interest of the general hoipolloi but would hit traders, businessmen, shopkeepers, workers, employees, private and public sectors hard. Even the PM had said lockdown should be the last resort.We need to change ourselves and comply with the safety protocols. People should not flout Covid guidelines.More emphasis should be laid on creating awareness among people about Covid appropriate behaviour. Vaccination drive too should be ramped up. However, with closure of bars, cinemas,gyms, spas, sports complexes,coaching centres and postponement of recruitment test for patwaris, it appears that the ground for imposing lockdown is being prepared. The onus lies on the government for saving both lives and livelihoods.Tarsem S BumrahPeople must get vaccinatedThough the cases are rising at such an alarming rate, many people still can be seen flouting the norms. The government has asked the public not to leave their homes on weekends unless it is very necessary. People should avoid visiting crowded places such as markets and political rallies. Besides, mass gatherings at religious places too should be banned as the rate of Covid infection is high and people need to follow the government-issued guidelines strictly. Since the new Covid variant is even more dangerous and infectious and the mortality rate too is rising exponentially, people need to act responsibly. All those who are eligible for the vaccine should get the dose immediately without any delay.Saahil HansGovt must initiate awareness driveThe second wave of Covid has taken over the entire health system of Punjab. Though the government is taking every possible measure to cope with the alarming situation, there is no respite from the pandemic. Instead of imposing lockdown or night curfew, an awareness drive on importance of wearing mask and following other precautions such as social distancing etc. should be initiated. People should also be encouraged to get inoculated, before they get affected by the virus.TS BhattiOnly curfew can help break chainNight curfew won’t help in breaking the chain of transmission as it can only be done if curfew is imposed for 14 days which is not possible as it will hit the state’s economy hard. There is an urgent need of creating awareness among people to get vaccinated and prevent the spread of the virus.Frequently washing hands with soap, wearing mask and practising social distancingare the healthy habits that prevent one from contracting the virus. However, night curfew can help in restricting the movement of people for non-essential purposes at night and thus be effective in checking the surge of cases to an extent.Ankur Guptaimprove Health infrastructureIn the past one year,we did not learn any lesson and failed to prepare a Covid disaster management plan. Problems like shortage of beds and oxygen in hospitals,allegations of unfair distribution of vaccines to states, shortage of doctors and para-medical staff,lack of community and NGOs’ participation has worsened the situation. Amid such a situation, the Disaster Management Actenvisages imposition of lockdown and Section 144 of the CrPC envisages imposition of curfew. But, with other restrictions in force,even the lockdown is not justified.Instead of putting restrictions on people, the government needs to keep its own house in order and improve health infrastructure and manpower.Abhiraj Singh BajwaNot a smart move, illogicalThe underprivileged sections of the society are most affected by imposition of restrictions on travel and movement. The Centre failed in checking the exponential rise in number of cases by allowing huge rallies and elections amid the pandemic. The state government’s decision of clamping of night curfew too is not a smart move as it is completely illogical. I heard some remark that imposition of night curfew at this stage was like locking the stable door after the horse has bolted. The governments have failed to make people understand the logic behind imposing night curfew and should make some effective measures to control the situation.Mohan SinghWill help in slowing rate of infectionAn exponential rise in Covid-19 cases has been seen in the second wave. Imposition of night curfew will help in slow down the increasing number of cases to a certain extent. It will also convey a serious message in sensitising people to understand the gravity of the situation and follow the government issued guidelines strictly.Parampreet KaurOnly complete shutdown helpfulImposing night curfew is not enough, other measures such as strictly ensuring that people wear mask and maintain social distance, should also be taken.One can see huge crowd in market areas and many of them are either not wearing a mask or are not wearing it appropriately. All those people who violate the norms should be issued challans. There should also be a daytime curfew for short period to make people realise how is grave the situation. Later, complete curfew would at last help in actually breaking the chain and curb the rising rate of infection in the community. The vaccination drive too needs to be ramped up in the nation.Prabhjot KaurIt’s a mere eyewashNight curfew to check the spread of the coronavirus is simply not effective. The main events that spread infection are political rallies, social and religious gatherings, crowding at markets, bus stands and railway stations and other public places mostly during the daytime. Traffic is normally less at night. So curfew, after shops, cinemas and malls are closed is of no use. Round-the-clock strict enforcement of the Covid protocol is the need of the hour. Public by and large does not follow rules unless there is fear of punishment. Unless stringent penalties are imposed on violators, night curfew will be eyewash.Dr Inderbir Singh NijjarGovt mishandled the situationThe main reason behind the second wave is that people had started taking the virus lightly and were easily seen throwing caution to the wind. The government too mishandled the situation by not restricting political and religious gatherings. Night curfew is definitely one of the key measures to contain the virus. However, vaccine supply chains, decentralised vaccination, embracing well defined interactive protocols and curbing non-essential home exits are all necessary.Gunbir SinghAwareness is the need of the hourIn my opinion night curfew is not the only solution and there is a need of creating awareness among people because of which the situation is going out of control with each passing day. People must always wear a mask and follow other government issued guidelines. The government does not seem to doing enough to ensure that masses follow the guidelines to prevent themselves from contracting the virus.Rajesh RainaPeople must always wear maskImposition of night curfew won’t serve the purpose if there isn’t a complete ban on gatherings. As per the present scenario, it seems that we will have too learn to live with the virus and as there doesn’t sees to a respite from the pandemic in the near future. People must always wear mask while out in public and practise social distancing. This will help containing the virus.Indu AuroraMay help to some extent onlyI believe that night curfew will help restrict the spread of Covid-19 to some extent. We normally see youngsters roaming around late night and risking their lives amid the pandemic. Imposition of night curfew will help eliminate such threats and keep a check on non-essential travel. The measure will help in containing the spread, but the most effective way to contain the spread is to follow the guidelines strictly and get vaccinated.Jatinderpal Singh BatthWill help know gravity of situationRajat Kumar MohindruQUESTIONThe government is set to start vaccination for those between 18 and 45 years. Amid the present situation of shortage of vaccines, do you think the state will be able to meet the requirement?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (April 29).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/night-curfew-can-help-but-norms-need-to-be-followed-244345
26-04-2021||Amritsar||Patients shifted, probe into Amritsar deaths begins||The two-member committee constituted by the state government to fix accountability for the death of six patients at a private hospital here on Saturday has started the inquiry.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh, who is in the committee, stated that the remaining Covid patients from Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital, where the incident occurred, have been shifted to the Government Medical College (GMC) here. While the shortage of oxygen at the GMC was first flagged on April 19, the private hospitals too had approached the administration over the scarcity on April 23. Health department officials stated that a few trucks of oxygen were received last night. Oxygen for private hospitals was being rationed and supplied as per requirement.Captain sends SOS to Centre on O2 crisisWith oxygen supply in Punjab depleting fast, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday sent an SOS to Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, second time in two days, for urgent hike in allocation.Pvt hospitals waryMeanwhile, as a direct fallout of the tragedy, a few private hospitals refused admission to patients on Sunday. Some of these hospitals, which had positive patients with them, shifted them to the GMC or other better-equipped private hospitals.Confirming the development, Dr Jaspreet Grover, secretary, IMA-Amritsar, said: “A few private hospitals facing shortage of oxygen have shifted Level-3 (critical) patients to GMC and other hospitals.” Private hospitals were still facing shortage as the supply is much less than the demand, he added.The Civil Surgeon, however, said: “We received oxygen supply yesterday. A few trucks have arrived today too. The GMC has set up a 450-bed Covid wing, which has 50 per cent vacancy.”“Oxygen is being supplied to all hospitals, including private ones. Only those hospitals which have issues related to manpower or infrastructure have shifted patients to other hospitals,” he added.District officials said around 25 tonne of oxygen was needed daily, which was much more than the supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patients-shifted-probe-into-amritsar-deaths-begins-244174
