27-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Social worker passes away||Man shot dead at None villageTarn Taran: Two motorcycle-borne men killed a person in None village on late Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Surjit Singh (28), who was a worker at a nearby brick-kiln. Tarsem Singh, father of the deceased, in his statement to the local Sadar police said Surjit Singh was talking to his neighbour Ranjit Singh, when two armed men appeared at the spot. The man riding pillion fired at Surjit Singh leaving him seriously injured. Surjit was admitted to the district Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him dead. SHO Sadar police station said a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of th Arms Act was registered by the police. He said the police were examining the CCTV footage from cameras installed nearby to trace the accused. OCLabourer tries to end life, bookedAmritsar: Sukhdev Singh of Jagdev Khurd village in Ajnala, who works as a labourer, tried to commit suicide at the District Food and Civil Supply office near Valmiki chowk two days ago. The police have booked him for trying to attempt suicide. When the staff saw him, they stopped him and he later fled away from the spot. Rishi Raj Mehra, controller, District Food and Civil Supply, filed a complaint with the police in this connection. Mehra said he had come to office on Sunday and saw Sukhdev, who tried to commit suicide. TNSNSU gears up for MC pollTarn Taran: District unit of the National Students’ Union (NSU) at its meeting held here on Sunday called upon activists of the organisation to raise awareness among local residents of different social welfare schemes launched by the state government. Hrithik Arora, district president of the unit, while addressing the workers, said the organisation was to play an important role in the Municipal Council election to be held in May. He said the organisation would raise awareness among residents of different schemes launched by the incumbent government in the last four years. Manoj Agnihotri also spoke on the occasion. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-worker-passes-away-244889
27-04-2021||---||Woman raped by husband’s uncle; accused arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26A woman was allegedly raped by her husband’s uncle on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The accused identified as Harjit was arrested by the police and further investigation was under progress.The victim, who hailed from Amethi in Uttar Pradesh and was living in here said that her husband works as gardene in different houses. She said her husband went to his native village in Uttar Pradesh on April 7 while she along with her son was alone at home. The accused Harjit resides in the adjoining house, she stated to police.She alleged that in the intervening night of Saturday she was sleeping in her room when the accused entered the house by jumping over the wall. She alleged that the accused caught hold of her. She said as she resisted the accused assaulted her. The accused was also injured as she tried to save herself. She alleged the accused was powerful and therefore she could not save herself.She said the accused raped her twice and remained in her room for an hour. She alleged the accused threatened to kill her and her husband in case she told anyone about this. The police have registered a case under Sections 376, 506 and 323 of the IPC in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-raped-by-husbands-uncle-accused-arrested-244888
27-04-2021||---||Amritsar rural police nab 3 robbers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26The Amritsar rural police have arrested three persons who robbed a restaurant on the National Highway 54 near Gunowal Havelia village. The police seized a country-made pistol from their possession.Those arrested were identified as Rajbir Singh, alias Raja, of Banwalipur in Tarn Taran, Karanbir Singh of Baniya village and HarsimranjitSingh of Mallia village in Tarn Taran. The police seized a 32 bore pistol along with five rounds from Karanbir Singh.Charanjit Singh, a resident of Vijay Nagar here, told the police that he runs Burgergrill and Barista restaurant near Gunowal Havelia village. He said on April 16, he was present at his restaurant when around 9 pm three youth came there and snatched Rs16,500 from him at gunpoint. After robbery, they fled towards Tarn Taran. The police had registered a case under Sections 379B (2), 506 and 34 of the IPC against unidentified persons at that time.Police officials said following technical investigations, the police zeroed in on the suspects and arrested them. The police said the accused were produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation. The police hope to crack more cases during further course of investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rural-police-nab-3-robbers-244887
27-04-2021||---||Shimla girl found dead at Amritsar hotel||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26A girl from Shimla, identified as Simran Bhatia, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a hotel on the Mall Road in Amritsar on Monday, while her friend Juli Sharma of New Delhi was rushed to a hospital in a serious condition.The police have taken the body of the deceased in custody and started inquest proceedings. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said the cause behind her death would be ascertained in the autopsy report. He said the family members of the deceased have reached Amritsar and their statements were being recorded.Goldy, a resident of Shimla and relative of the deceased, said Simran worked at a private company in Delhi. On Sunday, she even spoke to her mother and told her that she was in Kalka. However, the police informed them about her death on Monday, which left them shell-shocked. He said the police informed them that the girls reached the hotel last night and their health suddenly deteriorated and Simran died in the hospital.SHO Shiv Dharshan said the hotel records and CCTV footage was also being checked. He said the police were working on different theories to crack the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shimla-girl-found-dead-at-amritsar-hotel-244886
27-04-2021||---||1-kg gold ornaments seized in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 26The CIA staff seized one-kg gold ornaments from possession of two persons near Guru Nanak Dev Super Speciality Hospital.The accused have been identified as Ravinder Singh and his brother Surinder Singh. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimble said after observing suspicious activities of the accused, police searched their car and recovered gold ornaments, which were hidden under the seats.The SSP said the police had brought the matter in the notice of the Income-Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate. He said the seized gold has a market value of Rs 55 lakh. The SSP said they would conduct a probe to find out if the ornaments were smuggled.He said a total of 200 mobile phones were missing in the district and out of these, 86 cellphones were recovered and handed back to owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-kg-gold-ornaments-seized-in-tarn-taran-244885
27-04-2021||---||3 held for snatching mobile, cash from ASHA workers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26The Verka police have nabbed three snatchers identified as Manpreet Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Joban Singh of Kaler Mangat village for snatching a mobile and cash from two ASHA workers, who were returning home after their duties from Pandori Health Centre.Nishan Singh, SHO Verka police station said Davinder Kaur, a resident of Mudhal village, and Daljit Kaur and Nirmala Kumar were returning to Mudhal village on a scooter. When they had reached near the underground railway bridge, two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons snatched her purse containing Rs3,200 and mobile besides other documents. They also snatched the purse of Daljit Kaur having cash and mobile.Nishan Singh said they were produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation. The police hope to crack more snatching cases during further investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-held-for-snatching-mobile-cash-from-asha-workers-244884
27-04-2021||---||Protest against problems faced by farmers in mandis||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 26Taking serious note of the problems being faced by farmers, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, lodged its strong protest at the Usman toll plaza.The dharna entered its 230th day against the three contentious agricultural laws. The protesting farmers and the mazdoors also burnt the effigies of the state and the Union governments.The protest was lodged when the state government had announced a lockdown on Sunday.Sukhwinder Singh Dugalwala, Tejinderpal Singh Raju, Fateh Singh Piddi and other leaders of the organisation condemned the Union and the state governments against their alleged anti-farmer policies.The leader said the shortage of bardana (gunny bags) in mandis had made the position worst as the procurement had come at a standstill.Leaders said farmers were being forced to pay Rs100 per quintal wheat for the bardana by the inspectors of procurement agencies.The farm laws, payment on the procured wheat directly in farmers’ account, demanding of documents unnecessarily etc. acts, too, were condemned by the leaders. Leaders demanded early supply of bardana by the government itself immediately.No shortage of gunny bags: Tarn Taran DCTarn Taran: The district administration has provided bardana to all grain markets and procurement centres in the district in required quantity, claimed Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh at a meeting held with the officials concerned and the representatives of procurement agencies on Monday. The officer claimed that the procurement work was going on as per routine. The DC said a payment of Rs288.44 crore had been credited to the bank accounts of farmers till April 25 against their procured produce. He said so far, wheat worth 4,04,481 MT has arrived in district mandis, of which 3,88,155 MT had been procured by different procurement agencies. The DC said 49,459 MT wheat had been lifted from mandis and strict instructions had been issued to procurement agencies to expedite the process. The DC appealed to all to abide by the Civid-19 guidelines in mandis. OC‘Bardana Shortage has made situation worst’ The shortage of bardana (gunny bags) in mandis has made the position worst as procurement has come to a standstill. Leaders said farmers were being forced to pay Rs100 per quintal wheat for the bardana by the inspectors of procurement agencies. The government should supply bardana immediately. — Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee members||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-against-problems-faced-by-farmers-in-mandis-244883
27-04-2021||---||Crafts expo begins at Pingalwara||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26Displaying old artefacts and items of heritage from its personal collection, All India Pingalwara Charitable Society on Monday opened an exhibition on its campus in Manawala.Former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and former director, Doordarshan Jallandhar, Ranjit Singh inaugurated the exhibition that had an ensemble of handicrafts and goods made by Pinglawara’s inmates.The society runs several skill development and promotion programmes to teach and promote traditional handicrafts and handloom in collaborating with weavers. Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, Pingalwara, said that the purpose of the exhibition was to make youth aware about the traditional crafts and items of Punjab that are a part of its culture and lifestyle. “It is imperative to make traditional crafts visible through exhibits and displays that attract young generation. They are the ones, who have to carry forward these important remnants of our history and heritage through future,” she said.While the week-long exhibition aims to generate revenue for these artisans and weavers, the highlight of the exhibit was the photo gallery that had old black and white photographs of noted freedom fighters, nationalist leaders and Bhagat Puran Singh, founder of Pingalwara.Sourced from the archives of Pingalwara and its members, these photographs gave a glimpse into the past, re-telling stories that hid in them. Famous quotes by Bhagat Puran Singh were also put up through large banners as aesthetics at the exhibition.Due to the pandemic situation, the walk in at the exhibition has been restricted and managed throughout the day, avoiding any crowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crafts-expo-begins-at-pingalwara-244882
27-04-2021||---||Amritsar MC proposes to set up  4 new fire stations in city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26With the extension of the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) jurisdiction and establishment of outer city areas, the Fire Department has proposed to set up four new fire stations to effectively tackle fire incidents.At present, the MC has four fire stations, including three within the walled city area. The fire stations of Town Hall, Beri Gate and Gilwali Gate are based in congested areas, where fire tenders do not find enough space to pass swiftly and reach their destinations on time to attend fire calls from outer city areas, especially in industrial areas.Officials of the Fire Department claim that they have sufficient equipment for the proposed new four fire stations. Only firemen and drivers would be outsourced to make them functional.In December last year, Additional Divisional Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh had proposed the establishment of fire stations in Zone No.6 to cover Batala Road and Majitha Road, MC Head office to cover the Ranjit Avenue and areas allocated around bypass road. Similarly, a fire station along GT Road would cover the area from Ram Talai to Jalandhar-Pathankot bypass road. As per the officials’ estimate, they would require to outsource 48 firemen and 16 drivers to make them functional.The Additional Divisional Fire Officer said, “It would be a big achievement if the government establishes these fire stations. We will be able to attend fire calls within minutes in any part of the city.”Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “We have sent a proposal to the government by approving it in the General House meeting. Hopefully, the government will approve it and we will establish four new fire stations in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-proposes-to-set-up-4-new-fire-stations-in-city-244881
27-04-2021||---||Suvidha Centre issues expiry date licence, then seeks fine||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26A Suvidha Centre here has issued an expiry date licence to Raminderjit Singh Sandhu, 59, and then suggested him to pay a fine for correction.Raminderjit said he had applied for the renewal of licences for a revolver and a rifle on November 7, 2017, and also deposited the requisite fee. His applications were approved for renewal on February 21, 2021, and got the renewed licences on March 1, 2021.However, to his utter surprise the validity was over by September 9, 2020. For the lapse of renewal, he was asked to deposit Rs4,000 late fee along with the renewal fee of Rs8,000. Expressing his surprise over the turn of events, he said firstly he did not get the renewed licences on time and then he was also made to pay the fine.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said the office was clearing applications for renewal of arms licences within 48 to 72 hours.He said in case the licences were delivered late due to the anomaly of staff then the late fee would be waived off. He added that as per the new mechanism the applicants were intimated of each development through text message on the given cell number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suvidha-centre-issues-expiry-date-licence-then-seeks-fine-244880
27-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Pandemic no deterrent for him||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26A young entrepreneur Sirjan Singh (27), dealing in the manufacturing of small weighing scales and weighbridges, a kind of scales used for weighing trucks, says he is using this crucial phase for the consolidation and expansion of his business. He has been successfully utilising the spare time due to Covid-induced restrictions to revamp his business.His father Harwinder Singh had established the unit here in 1992.Beating Covid bluesHis father Harwinder Singh had established the unit here in 1992To come in direct and instant contact with customers, he launched a mobile app, where customers can register their complaints and track these as well, besides posting any enquiryHe was instrumental in recently setting-up offices in Goa and Raipur in ChhattisgarhThe unit has an in-house research and development set-up where expert team works six days a week and improves products, says entrepreneur Sirjan SinghTo come in direct and instant contact with customers, he just launched a mobile app where customers can register their complaints and track them as well, besides posting any inquiry. He was instrumental in recently setting-up offices in Goa and Raipur in Chhattisgarh. The unit has an in-house research and development set-up where the expert team is working six days a week and improving the products, he remarked.Sounding hopeful, he stated that “No one has expected a second wave. We are hopeful that all above 18 years of age will be vaccinated. And then, we will overcome Covid-19. We are hopeful that the pandemic will be over and the business will resume as it used to be.”Weighing scales are the backbone of all industries as they are used in mining, agriculture, agri-products, rice industries, manufacturing logistics and others. They are selling these to pan India and also exporting to African countries such as Tanzania, Nigeria, Uganda and others.Talking about the present state of affairs of the industry, he said: the second wave is more contagious and a halt has been experienced in ongoing projects. Orders are being delayed, service engineers are facing problems in travelling due to the pandemic. After severe slump in the trade following the introduction of the Covid-19 in March, the markets had opened up in November. However, the business again nosedived after intensification of the Covid-19 wave.Export orders have dried up as there is a slump in African countries also due to Covid-19 and they were not freely placing orders. In addition, there is no direct flight to Africa owing to the second wave. In this scenario, we cannot send the installation team along with the material.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-no-deterrent-for-him-244879
27-04-2021||Manmeet Gill||Desperate to save loved ones, people buying Remdesivir at excessive price||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26As black marketing of essential medicines, especially Remdesivir, an anti-viral injection, goes on unabated, employees association of the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Civil Hopsital has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to act sternly against suppliers.Rakesh Sharma, chairman, Employees Welfare Association Civil Hospital, said, “One Remdesivir injection is being sold for Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000. In order to save their loved ones, people are going to any extent to purchase this injection.”Sharma said the government should monitor sale and usage of such essential medicines as fresh cases were on the rise and people were ready to pay any price to secure live saving drugs.“The injection as well as oxygen should be supplied free of cost to poor people at hospitals,” he said and added that the injection, which costs around Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,500 was being sold at exorbitant price.Sher Singh, a transporter from Delhi, who tested positive during his visit to the city, said, “The first private hospital where I was admitted, asked my family to procure six injections. The market cost at that time (a fortnight ago) was Rs 7,000 per injection. Later, I was shifted to another hospital where I got cured in five days without being administered the injection.”An official of the Health Department said, “The state government has directed the district administrations to constitute committees to monitor sale and usage of the injection.” He said no sale or purchase can be done without an approval of the committee at district-level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/desperate-to-save-loved-ones-people-buying-remdesivir-at-excessive-price-244878
27-04-2021||---||Eating joints face brunt of second wave||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26As Covid-19 cases surge and the administration moves ahead with the curfew and weekend lockdown, staff and owners of eating joints stare at a bleak future.The authorities barred eating joints from dine-in services and allowed only home delivery or take away. Unlike the rest of the country, the holy city is known for its decades-old culture of eating out.Parminder Singh, a restaurant owner, said, “Losses are piling up and the second wave has dashed all our hopes.”“Undeniably, our investment has increased. Leaving aside cooks, our staff sits idle and premises remain vacant while expenses keep on adding up.”According to him, volume of business has shrunk to a quarter of what used to be a month ago.Navdeep Singh Grover, proprietor of another restaurant, said, “Orders for curtailment of business came at a time when investment costs have shot up due to increase in prices of edible oils, spices, poultry and other products. Due to abnormal circumstances, we are unable to pass on the hike to customers.”He said their costs increased manifold as they were following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) set up by the governments.He said, “We were using infrared thermometer to screen customers, provide sanitisers at all tables, masks and gloves to staff. All these measures, hiked our operational costs. However, such steps were not being taken by those selling cooked food on carts.”Varun, a cook, hailing from Hamirpur, said he fears reimposition of the lockdown and can lose his job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eating-joints-face-brunt-of-second-wave-244877
27-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Uniform, stationery sellers out  of biz as schools remain shut||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26There has been no end in sight to the misery of traders dealing in uniforms, stationery and other school items as they continue to suffer losses successively. As the current academic year is the second time in row when the schools have not opened owing to the surge in the positive cases due to the Covid-19, they rue loss of livelihood amid current times.Unconfirmed reports said annual private school education business records hundreds of crores. Over 1,000 skilled artisans such as tailors, cutting masters, Kaj masters and others were rendered jobless.Ravinder Singh, proprietor of a leading uniform shop, situated inside the Hall gate, said, about 50,000 uniforms were sold annually in the district.The drivers of autos and buses, who used to earn a living by ferrying school children, are also a dejected lot. Baljit Singh, who owns a few units of school buses, said most of the drivers and workers went in search for jobs in other sectors. He said a majority of the school bus owners tried to sell their buses. Those who had taken loan to ply buses are desperate to sell these. He said their earnings had frozen but expenses on maintaining the buses kept increasing.An auto-driver Rajesh Kumar said after unlock, they went out in search for employment in their own way. Some even plied autos on city roads by ferrying passengers. “However, their earning went down drastically. Ferrying school students used to give them a fixed salary.”Shopkeepers dealing in stationery said they had experienced 15 to 20% loss of trade due to the closure of schools. Barring some bag manufacturing units in the city, a large number of these used to be procured from Rajasthan. Their sale also came to a naught during the past two academic sessions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uniform-stationery-sellers-out-of-biz-as-schools-remain-shut-244876
27-04-2021||Amritsar||Aujla suggests setting up oxygen corridor with Pakistan||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aujla-suggests-setting-up-oxygen-corridor-with-pakistan-244875
27-04-2021||Tarn Taran||6 arrested for violating lockdown norms in Tarn Taran||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-norms-in-tarn-taran-244871
27-04-2021||Tarn Taran||2 succumb to virus, 252 test positive in Tarn Taran district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-succumb-to-virus-252-test-positive-in-tarn-taran-district-244866
27-04-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 11 more casualties, 415 new cases||Amritsar, April 26With 11 deaths reported in the last 24-hours, the toll in the district increased to 896 on Monday. The Health Department has also reported 415 fresh Covid-19 cases, with which the total count of infections has increased to 30,580.The deceased have been identified as Surinder Singh (78), a resident of Dasonda Singh Road (Lawrence Road); Mandeep Kaur (32) of Ajnala; Rawan Kumar (60) of Moti Mahal; Acchari Devi (80) of Kot Khalsa; Balwinder Kaur (49) of Awan village (Ramdas); Amrit Kaur (62) of Shareefpura; Harsurinder Singh (72) of Pawan Nagar; Indermohan Kapoor (71) of Anand avenue; Indu (31) of Ram Bagh; Daya Dass (71) of Gilwali Gate and Jagir Kaur (65) of Putlighar area.The new cases include 288 influenza-like illness cases and 127 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 400 patients, the recovery count has improved to 24,596. The district, at present, has a total of 5,088 active cases.Meanwhile, 6,801 persons received the Covid-19 vaccine, of which 2,451 received the second dose. The health authorities said 23,604 healthcare workers, 30,866 frontline workers and 1,65,303 residents above 45 years have been partially vaccinated so far, while 11,768 healthcare workers, 10970 frontline workers and 19,298 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-11-more-casualties-415-new-cases-244862
27-04-2021||Amritsar||HSGPC, other Sikh bodies to honour ex-IG||The Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) and allied Sikh organisations have announced to honour former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in recognition of his services for the ‘panth’.HSGPC president Jathedar Baljit Singh Daduwal said Kunwar Vijay had conducted an ‘unbiased’ probe into the sacrilege incident that led to the killing of two persons in the police firing. He further said Kunwar Vijay would be presented with a specially crafted gold medal at a programme scheduled at the Golden Temple plaza on April 30.“Though the outcome of the probe was a discouragement, but we believe that this honest officer fell prey to the dirty political game. Yet, his services can never be ignored. We, on behalf of Sikh panth, have decided to honour him,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hsgpc-other-sikh-bodies-to-honour-ex-ig-244554
27-04-2021||---||Hemkund Sahib pilgrimage deferred||Amritsar, April 26Amid spurt in Covid-19 cases, the pilgrimage to Gurdwara Sri Hemkund Sahib has been postponed till the situation gets better. Last year too, the opening of the portals of the Hemkund shrine was postponed to September from May. It was initiated on September 4, 2020, about three months behind the schedule and the portals were closed on October 10. Around 8,000 devotees visited the shrine then.Narinderjit Singh Bindra, vice-president, Sri Hemkund Sahib Management Trust, said in the wake of Covid threat, the situation in Uttarakhand was not favourable for the annual pilgrimage from May 10. He said the next date for opening the shrine had not been decided yet.“As of now, the trust has decided to postpone the pilgrimage. The situation will be reviewed fornightly and the decision will be taken accordingly,” he said.Manager of Gurdwara Gobind Ghat Sewa Singh said almost two-foot fresh snow had accumulated around the shrine in the past few days, though Army personnel had cleared the three-kilometre stretch recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hemkund-sahib-pilgrimage-deferred-244571
