28-04-2021||---||17 dead! Amritsar district’s highest single-day toll so far||Amritsar, April 27With 17 deaths, the highest in a single day since the start of the pandemic, the district toll reached 913 on Tuesday. The health authorities have also reported 431 new cases with which the total count increased to 31,011.The new cases include 301 influenza-like illness cases and 130 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities have also reported recovery of 350 persons with which the recovery count increased to 24,946. The district, at present, has a total of 5,152 active cases.The district in the ongoing month has reported a total of 237 deaths till date. It is the highest number of deaths reported by the district in a month since March last year. It was on September 10 last year that the district reported highest deaths (16) in a single day. In the same month, the district reported 203 deaths, the highest in a month till the present count surpassed it.Meanwhile, the district health authorities said a total of 6,899 persons were inoculated on Tuesday.Till date, 23,687 healthcare workers, 31,350 frontline workers and 1,69,254 residents above 45 years have been partially vaccinated, while 12,047 healthcare workers, 11,422 frontline workers and 20,948 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.Mourning those who died fighting virusThose who succumbed to the virus on Tuesday have been identified as Inderjit Singh (65) of Kachhe Pakke village; Ranjna (49) of Ajnala; Rajinder Kumar (69) of Ghannupur Kale; Ajit Singh (74) of Ram Tirath Road; Jaswinder Singh (61) of Dashmesh Nagar; Sagar Yadhav (35) of Guru Bazaar; Inderjit Singh (66) of Indira Colony; Satpal (53) of Mohinderpal Gali; Manmohan Singh (58) of holy city; Kuldeep Singh (32) of Malliaan village; Joginder Singh Chawla (64) of New Amritsar; Harbhajan Kaur (80) of East Mohan Nagar; Poonam (42) of Preet Nagar; Pushpa Rani (72) of Pawan Nagar; Padam Lal (91) of Shiv Nagar Colony (Islamabad); Ramesh Jain (74) of Shiv Nagar Colony (Islamabad) and Avtar Singh (66) of B-block Ranjit Avenue.3 die, 3 test +ve in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Three more persons succumbed to the virus in Tarn Taran on Tuesday, taking the toll to 207 in the district. Not only this, three positive cases were also reported in the district. There are 1,037 active cases in the district and most are isolated at their homes. Meanwhile, 913 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday taking the total tally of those vaccinated to 88,484 in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/17-dead-amritsar-districts-highest-single-day-toll-so-far-245312
28-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Residents scared, fretting about ‘complete’ lockdown||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 27With the government announcing the weekend lockdown, residents are expecting that a complete lockdown would also be imposed soon.This has worried them as to how will they earn their livelihood during the shutdown. A number of major industries and trades, including tourism and hospitality, were yet to recover from the last lockdown and situation is again getting unfavourable for revival.It is also tough for middle class people but more panic is among people from low-income groups.Small businessmen, roadside vendors and labourers are already facing the brunt due to last year’s lockdown. Most of them were unable to repay loans and money they borrowed from others. The second wave would be more problematic for them as their savings had already exhausted. There are more than 16,000 street vendors in the city, who earn livelihood from roadside.Ninder Masih, a daily wager, said: “The government has announced weekend lockdown and also extended the timing of night curfew. It seems a complete lockdown will be imposed soon. But this time, it will be fatal for the poor. They have spent their savings and there is no hope from government as well.”Narinder Singh, a tailor, said: “We were facing slowdown in business as marriage functions have got limited. But the lockdown will completely ruin us.”Jagjitpal Singh, a bakery owner in Garden Avenue, said: “When people don’t have money for their basic needs, will they pay for dining out? Everything gets crippled with a lockdown and everyone suffers.”“Instead of providing medical facilities, vaccination and strengthening the public health system, the government has only one shield against corona i.e. lockdown. The Covid-19 in 2020 derailed the film and music industry as well. Several projects were already ruined due to the lockdown. The government will again impose it and the industry will not recover for the next two years from this loss,” said Gurshabad, a singer and actor.Essential to regulate sale of Remdesivir: NGO Amritsar: The Amritsar Vikas Manch (an NGO), has asked the state government to regulate sale and prices of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections alleging that these were being black marketed and sold at exorbitant prices. Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch, said, “Patients are running from pillar to post to purchase these injections. It is high time that the administration steps in and regulates their sale and purchase.” He said a patient admitted to the Government Medical College was waiting for Remdesivir injections for the last three days. “The hospital authorities said they do not have the injection. Four injections are being black marketed for Rs one lakh,” he said. Ankhi demanded that the administration should daily inform masses about availability of beds and stock of essential medicines. He claimed that phone numbers made public by the administration were of not much help and people were feeling helpless. TNSOxygen shortage in private hospitals: IMA gives memorandum to DC Tarn Taran: A delegation of the local unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) presented a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh against the acute shortage of oxygen being facing by the privately run hospitals in the district. According to one estimate, there were more than 70 such hospitals that require oxygen daily for one or the other purpose including for delivery and paediatric care. Dr Haripal Dhaliwal, district president of the IMA, and Dr Dinesh Gupta, general secretary, said the supply to these hospital was stopped for more than a week. These hospitals /nursing centres need oxygen for non-Covid services such as maternity, paediatric emergencies etc. The owner of the sole supplier Hanspal Oxygens said they had been allotting oxygen through Bhullar Oxygens in Amritsar, who had denied them oxygen for the last one week. The IMA demanded for the early restoration of oxygen to private hospitals of the border district immediately. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-scared-fretting-about-complete-lockdown-245313
28-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga---||Delhi lockdown weighs heavily on local business||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 27 Lockdown in Delhi and Maharashtra has adversely impacted several local businesses, which are dependent for getting raw materials and selling their finished products there.  Akshit Seth, a shawl manufacturer, said the development ruined their trade of un-stitched cotton women suits. He said about 500 shuttle-less looms were engaged in manufacturing this garment, which is sold to dealers in Delhi, who further sell these in the rest of the country.  He said the surge in positive cases in the second wave of Covid-19 has changed the priority of people, who were more focused in spending on essential commodities and healthcare.  Ajay Mehra, a warp-knitting manufacturer, said nearly 90 per cent units engaged in rolling out warp knitting fabric, have temporarily closed their operations in the wake of lockdown in Maharashtra and Delhi, besides, elections in West Bengal. The warp knitting industry of the holy city has nearly Rs2,000 crore annual turnover and it receives yarn from Gujarat and Rajasthan and then sell their finished product mainly to West Bengal followed by Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Hyderabad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delhi-lockdown-weighs-heavily-on-local-business-245314
28-04-2021||---||Evening curfew: Chaos witnessed on roads, markets||Amritsar, April 27There was chaos on roads on the first day of the curfew being clamped at 6 pm in the city. The police swooped down at commercial markets to close down establishments, shops, carts and all kinds of activities an hour in advance from the curfew timing.Police personnel were seen moving their sticks and banging these on carts and counters of shops to exert pressure on owners to start closing their operations.This move fueled stress among people, who frantically drove back. This caused traffic blues as snarls were visible on roads and the blaring sound of vehicles created noise.Anil Vinayak, a senior citizen, said: “Any delay in taking prompt action may invite catastrophic situation vis a vis healthcare facilities such as ventilator, ICU beds etc.”The virus spread is far ahead as compared to the vaccination drive speed. Social distancing is not visible even at bank branches, insurance offices, Suvidha centres while dealing with customers.Another citizen GS Bedi said strict action was unwarranted. He said such moves would not control Covid. All shops should be opened from 5 am to 7 pm. But the movement of people or customers should be reduced by implementing odd-even formulas. Eating joints, offices, public transports and other sections should be run at half of their capacities. It would save job losses and allow uninterrupted business, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/evening-curfew-chaos-witnessed-on-roads-markets-245315
28-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga---||Restrictions trigger panic, especially among migrants||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 27 Extension of the curfew timings and weekend lockdown in the state has triggered panic among migrants. In a hurry to go back to their native states, migrants were neither getting themselves tested for the Covid-19 nor taking vaccination. As limited trains ply from the Amritsar railway station, a large number of migrants were relying on private buses to reach their destinations. A transporter said migrants heading back to UP and Bihar saved them from financial losses. Around a fortnight ago, private transporters pressed into service a couple of buses to earn a living. Now, the number of these buses has crossed 20. Staff of these buses said migrant workers want to return after extension of the weekend lockdown and clamping of curfew by 6 pm.  Ram Bhaj, a powerloom worker, said he was getting work for only four days a week, which reduced his income to below Rs 10,000. “I am not being paid a fixed salary and wages are being paid per piece. With shrinking earning, it’s very difficult to feed a five-member family, bear education and medical expenses, besides paying room rent,” he said. Sham (34) a mason, said he was heading back with his family as the contractor under whom he worked told him that the onging work may be stopped. “I do not want to face the kind of problems I had experienced last year,” he said. Traders at wholesale vegetable and fruit market at Vallah said labourers who used to sell fresh produce on carts in the city have left for their native places. As per the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad (UPKP), around 70,000 migrants did not return after restrictions were eased last year. Its functionaries said around 2.5 lakh migrant workers were engaged in various professions in the city. Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary, Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad, said, “Around 70 per cent migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar live here in rented accommodations. All of them were eager to return as they fear that intensification of the lockdown may render them unemployed.” Piara Lal Seth, chief, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said there was no shortage of labour as the production has already declined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restrictions-trigger-panic-especially-among-migrants-245318
28-04-2021||---||Civil Hospital clash: Associations come out in support of accused||Amritsar, April 27Adding a twist to the incident in which two groups clashed at the Civil Hospital in which a doctor was also injured, several residents came in support of some accused while alleging that they were falsely implicated in the case.Lakhwinder Singh Shergill, chief, Bharti Moolniwasi Mukti Morcha, and Vikramjit Singh Vikey, president, Bharti Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj, alleged that the police were working in a biased manner.He said the police were given enough proof against the so called ‘victims’ in the incident, but it was sitting on investigations. They had threatened to hold an agitation at Bhandari bridge.On March 13, an Emergency Medical Officer was injured after a group of armed men allegedly attacked Rahul Negi and his brother Madan, alias Mani Negi, at the Civil Hospital, where the duo had gone for a medical examination. On the same day, they had a quarrel with Raj Kumar Raju, Sunny Sahota and several other persons at Luv Kush Nagar.Shergill and Vikey alleged that it was Rahul and his brother who along with his unidentified accomplices had barged into the house of Raju. He alleged they had given proof to the police that Rahul and his brother were involved in criminal activities.They said Aman William, who is chief of the Bharti Moolniwasi Mukti Morcha, along with Vijay Pardhan and Raju had gone to the Civil Hospital for medical examination of Raju and they were not involved in the attack on Rahul and Madan.They said the police falsely implicated Aman, Vijay and Raju. The police said the matter was under under investigation and all the claims were being verified.The caseOn March 13, an Emergency Medical Officer was injured after a group of armed men allegedly attacked Rahul Negi and his brother Madan, alias Mani Negi, at the Civil Hospital, where the duo had gone for a medical examination. On the same day, they had a quarrel with Raj Kumar Raju, Sunny Sahota and several other persons at Luv Kush Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-hospital-clash-associations-come-out-in-support-of-accused-245321
28-04-2021||---||AVM wants PGIHRE to be set up soon||Amritsar, April 27 Members of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) stressed for early setting up of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR)-run Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE) here. During a virtual meeting of the AVM held here on Monday, retired principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi Patron, appreciated Guru Nanak Dev University and its expert team for timely submitting the social impact assessment (SIA) for land acquisition needed to establish PGIHRE at Chhiddan village on Àmritsar-Attari highway.  Among others office-bearers of Harjap Singh Aujla Patron, Manmohan Singh Brar, president, Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, Patron, Yogesh Kamra Secretary and others participated.  They hoped that the PGIHRE Amritsar, on establishment will bring a revolution in the field of agriculture especially in the cultivation of fruits and vegetables. They recalled that late Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had announced the setting up the PGIHRE  during the budget session 2015-16. The then Akali-BJP Punjab government had transferred 100 acres of land in the name of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), the national-level council authorised to establish the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/avm-wants-pgihre-to-be-set-up-soon-245322
28-04-2021||---||Payment of 70% crop procured done: DC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 27With weather becoming favourable for harvesting of wheat crop, arrival of produce has increased in grain markets. Officials said a total of 2,57,114 metric tonne (MT) of crop has arrived in mandis, out of which 2,50,918 MT has been procured by different government agencies.Officials said, Pungrain has procured 80,587 MT of produce. Markfed has purchased 65,926 MT, Punsup 48,955 MT, Punjab Warehouse 35,292 MT and the FCI 20,158 MT.After a meeting to review procurement of wheat crop, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said a total of Rs 201.14 crore has been disbursed to farmers.He said payment of around 70.17 per cent of the total crop procured by the agencies have been made to farmers.He added that Pungrain has made a payment for 61.19 per cent of stock procured by it while Markfed has paid for 64.64 per cent, Punjab Warehouse for 65.35 per cent, and the FCI for 8.56 per cent.Khaira said lifting of crop from grain markets was being done instantly, so that farmers do not face shortage of space for unloading their harvested crop. He said adequate measures were being taken to protect farmers and labourers from the virus.KMSC’s indefinite protest against unsettled police issues beginsTarn Taran: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee(KMSC), Punjab, taking serious concern over not resolving the issues related to farmers in grain markets and alleged police atrocities has launched its ‘Pakka Morcha’ (dharna for indefinite period) outside the District Administration Complex here. Women farmers and labourers also participated in the dharna. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the committee, while addressing the protesters said the state and Central governments had failed to provide gunny bags in the grain markets following which the procurement of wheat was affected. He also alleged that the payment and lifting of the procured wheat was not up to the satisfaction. He alleged the police were working as a political wing of the ruling party politicians and people with different political thoughts were being victimised by booking them in false cases. He said the organisation had taken up the issues with police officials number of times but to no avail. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Satnam Singh Manochahal and Fateh Singh Piddi also addressed the protesters. The administration has not invited the organisation for dialogue to resolve the issue. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/payment-of-70-crop-procured-done-dc-245323
28-04-2021||Amritsar||Mayor reviews arrangements||Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal reviewed the preparations being made to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur here.  The works being conducted around Gurdwara Guru ka Mahal gurdwara were reviewed. The Mayor said the MC was committed to keep all roads leading to gurdwara clean. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-reviews-arrangements-245324
28-04-2021||Neha Saini||Rescuing’ the last queen from obscurity||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 27Maharani Jind Kaur, the last known queen of the Sikh empire and a warrior, is the subject of author Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni’s latest book, The Last Queen. The book profiles queen Jindan, highlighting the lesser-known events from her life as a royal.In a web session talking about her book, Divakaruni shared, “One of the reasons behind writing this book was to try and rescue this wonderful resourceful and powerful queen from obscurity and bring her amazing life and achievements to the attention of the people.”It is believed that Maharaja Ranjit Singh was smitten by the young Jindan, who was the daughter of a royal kennel keeper. “One look at Jindan and the Maharaja told her that he would not make her his concubine but wife, and also that she would be his last queen and he would not marry again,” shared Chitra. She said this particular incident made her curious and interested in the personality of this lady, who could strike such passion in the hearts of men. “I had to explore her life, thoughts and contribution and thus I researched about the life of Maharani Jindan and was completely amazed by my work,” she said.Her book prominently traces Jindan’s life after the death of her husband. “After she was imprisoned, she wrote letters to Lord Dalhousie and Queen Victoria sharing her plight and beliefs. She was supported by women workers – sweepers and seamstresses – who would help her in sneaking out those letters out of the Chunar Fort where she was imprisoned,” she shared. Chitra said Rani Jindan was successful in getting those missals published in Punjabi newspapers and when she managed to escape from the fort, she wrote a letter to the warden telling him that despite all his security, she had managed to escape.“Such episodes fascinated me and drew me to write her biography. Her personality was so strong and influential that though the British tried a lot to malign her reputation, people who knew her didn’t believe in any of those baseless allegations. She remained their favourite queen even when she had stepped out of the ‘zenanah’ to deal with the political turmoil following the demise of her husband,” said Chitra. In her description of the incidents regarding Jindan and her royal life, Chitra also attempted to explain the position of women during the time.“There was a bevy of women around Rani Jindan, all of them sharp and wily. She asked for their help and advice in political matters. Sidak Kaur was one such woman who helped her in difficult times and the ‘zenanah’ was a place of high intrigue,” she said. “When the British realised that it would not be easy to break her spirit, they stooped to the last resort and took Duleep Singh to England using underhand devious means. This shook her as she knew that following this her son would be isolated from their cultural heritage and would forget his values while growing up as a British citizen,” said Chitra. The author hopes that her book would make people interested in the life of the amazing last queen of Sikh empire once again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rescuing-the-last-queen-from-obscurity-245325
28-04-2021||Tarn Taran||NHM workers protest for jobs||Man robbed of cash, phoneAmritsar: Two persons robbed a man of cash and mobile phone by threatening him with a sharp-edged weapon at Verka-Vallah Bypass here. Victim Deepak Kumar in his complaint to the police said around 5 pm, he was going towards Jalandhar from Batala road in his car. When he stopped near a bridge on the railway crossing near Milk Plant Chowk, two unidentified persons came and asked him for directions to some place. Later, one of them took out a sharp-edged weapon and asked him to give his mobile phone and cash. They took Rs3,000, an iPhone and fled the spot. ASI Sawinderjit Singh said a case had been registered and investigation was on. TNSWoman killed in road accidentAmritsar: A 25-year-old woman was killed in a road accident when an army truck hit her scooter in Chheharta on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Anchal of Majitha Road. Anchal, along with her mother Hamesh Bala, was going to attend a marriage function on the scooter. Hamesh Bala was driving the scooter while Anchal was sitting pillion. When they reached near Reliance Fresh store an army truck hit their scooter. The scooter got imbalanced and Anchal fell on the road. She got a major head injury. According to eyewitnesses, she died on the spot. Passersby intercepted the truck and informed the police. A police party reached the spot. Later, a compromise was reached between family members of the victim and army personnel. TNSSub-Inspector dies in accidentTarn Taran: A Sub-Inspector of the Punjab Police died in a road accident near Patti town last night. SI Amritpal Singh was on a patrolling duty in the border area. Police sources said the deceased was posted as in-charge Ghariala police post. He was on patrolling duty regarding illegal mining in the area. He lost control over his vehicle on the Patti-Tarn Taran road near Mahi Resorts Kairon and it hit a roadside tree. He received serious injuries and later died. The Patti city police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Cr.P.C. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale and other police officials have expressed grief over the sad demise of the police officer. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nhm-workers-protest-for-jobs-245331
28-04-2021||---||Primary classes in govt schools commence with a few hiccups||Amritsar, April 27As new session for elementary classes in government schools commences through online mode, teachers and department officials make efforts to overcome the challenges that digital shift has thrown to them. Before the second wave of Covid-19 swept across the country, schools in Punjab had reopened with the hopes of resuming offline classes which won’t be possible now. Amid the ongoing situation, another year of online education seems a possibility, pre-primary and primary wings of government schools have resorted to various methods to make sure no student is left behind.The biggest disadvantage that remains for government school teachers is the fact that not many students of elementary classes, especially those of nursery and KG, have an access to mobile phones. “Children are so young that they cannot participate in Zoom or Google Meet classes and some of them do not even have mobile phones with their family members. Instead of depending upon digital tools, we have formed ‘Buddy groups’ and teams of teachers in every village and block to reach out to such students.‘Buddy groups’ have been quite effective in overcoming the challenge of lack of digital devices, where teachers and elder students from local government schools visit homes of younger students to help in learning,” said Sushil Kumar Tuli, DEO (elementary), Amritsar.Tuli said enrolment in pre-primary classes had seen a slight drop of three per cent this year. “We have registered 8,000 students in LKG and 13,000 in UKG so far. But, as the enrolment drive is on, we hope to cover the gap.” He said in remote areas, teachers were visiting homes of students of pre-primary classes to help them with homework and learning.“We are experiencing starting hiccups, but hope to smoothen out the roadblocks as soon as possible,” he said. The District Education Department had utilised last years’ budget allocation for elementary schools in creating smart classrooms with LED screens, projectors and other learning material required for online classes.“Under the current programme, teachers are given lesson plans and activity sheets everyday beforehand, which they share with parents through WhatsApp. The teachers also share videos and live feeds of activities for the day for parents and students. In case, a child does not has any help at home, teachers visit their homes twice a week to help them out,” said Rekha Mahajan, deputy DEO, who has been regularly visiting elementary and primary schools for identifying infrastructural lacunae.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/primary-classes-in-govt-schools-commence-with-a-few-hiccups-245363
