29-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Three booked for abducting teen||KMSC lifts dharna after assuranceTarn Taran: On the assurance of the district administration, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, which had launched ‘Pakka Morcha’ outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here, suspended the dharna on Wednesday. They have been stressing on problems being faced by farmers in the district grain markets and issues related to alleged police atrocities on its members. Baljit Singh Dhillon, SP (Traffic), assured protesters that their issues would be resolved. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president, condemned the Central and state governments for not resolving the problems related to the farming community. He said farmers were being exploited in mandis under the so-called shortage of bardana. He warned that they would intensify its agitation in case the issues were not resolved on time. He said they had been raising issues related to police atrocities from time to time but the department was not serious about the problem. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-abducting-teen-245850
29-04-2021||Prahlad Singh||‘Fast’ pays off||Stray scareThe district administration has failed to resolve the stray animal menace in the town as these can be seen moving on all roads and streets round the clock creating nuisance in the town. Many people on two-wheelers have often been injured after their vehicle skidded on cow dung. These stray animals are all o ver the place and even on the main road, where they graze plastic bags from garbage dump on roadsides. AAP leaders had raised the issue with the local administration many times, but to no avail. These stray animals were creating obstacles for traffic too. Residents have complained to the MC but again — to no avail!‘Intelligent’ daughterHarsimrat Kaur, a resident of Mugal Chack Pannuan village, was one of those few lucky ‘intelligent daughters’ who missed a golden chance of getting a government job a year ago, but has now got the same with sheer hardwork. Harsimrat cleared her State Teacher Eligibility Test (STET) last year and after that was to clear her (English) subject test which was to be held on March 30, when the lockdown was imposed and she lost the chance and went in depression. Under depression for some time, she managed to become positive and decided to give another try. She carried on with her hard work and eagerly waited for the exam date. She cleared the test just a month ago. Now, Harsimrat has been posted at Government High School, Jawanda (Tarn Taran). Partap Singh, headmaster of the school, said, “ I am very proud that I have got a brilliant teacher like Harsimrat, who is the daughter of Nachhtar Singh, who is a state leader of a teachers’ organisation.” A number of other teachers selected through the same process have joined services in the district.Efforts bear fruitThe concentrated efforts of the Education Department to persue parents to admit their kids in government schools have started paying off. Teachers and other staff members of government schools have started admitting their own kids to government schools. Secretary Education Krishan Kumar is taking keen interest and he himself has visited a number of schools across the state to boost teachers and the staff. The move took big momentum when Satikar Kaur, the ruling party MLA from Ferozepur (Rural), admitted her kid to a government school. The step was followed by a number of teachers of Tarn Tarn district like Ravinder Kaur of GHS Panjwar, Paramjit Singh of GSSS Sakhira, Manraj Kaur of GMS Manakpur and others who had admitted their kids in government schools. District Education Officer (Secondary) Satnam Singh Bath said the list of these teachers was long and the effort would be carried on.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fast-pays-off-245846
29-04-2021||Amritsar||SIT to probe Dalit boy’s murder||Raj Kumar Hans and Deepak Kumar, members of the Punjab State SC Commission, on Tuesday visited Circuit House here and listened to the grievances of the members.The commission received a complaint from Sukhwinder Kaur, wife of late Jasbir Singh, of Bhangwa village in Majitha. Sukhwinder said her son, Sandeep Singh, was killed by some persons of the village and she lodged a complaint with the police. Taking stern notice of the police inaction, a two-member SIT was constituted to probe the murder and directed the SIT members to submit a complete report to the commission by June 3.Commission member Raj Kumar Hans said SDM Majitha and Assistant Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Rana would investigate the murder case and submits the report to the commission. Hans directed that the autopsy report in this case should also be submitted to the commission immediately.The members heard the complaints related to the SC community and directed the officers to resolve the issues on the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sit-to-probe-dalit-boys-murder-245843
29-04-2021||Amritsar||Hike in monthly allowance: Soni supports Amritsar councillors’ demand||Cabinet Minister OP Soni has supported the demand of MC councillors for hike in their monthly allowances.Currently, MC councillors are getting Rs17,000 per month allowance and they have been demanding to hike the allowance for quite some time.The General House had sent two proposals in the past to hike the allowance but the government did not respond positively to their demand. Councillor Mahesh Khanna claimed: “We demanded at least Rs35,000 allowance per month as due to inflation, it had become hard to meet the expenses.” A delegation of councillors met Soni and submitted their demand to increase the allowance.Cabinet Minister assured that he would take up this demand of councillors with the Punjab CM and try to meet this demand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hike-in-monthly-allowance-soni-supports-amritsar-councillors-demand-245842
29-04-2021||---||Suspended for calling out ‘corruption’ charges in Amritsar MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Komal Mittal suspended Ashu Nahar, president of the Youth Municipal Employees’ Federation, here on Wednesday.According to the information, Nahar had entered into a verbal spat with a sanitary inspector and accused him of corruption. MC Commissioner issued a show-cause notice to Nahar through the Health Department on April 9. In the suspension orders, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal wrote that the response submitted by Ashu was not satisfactory, so he has been suspended from service. He has been asked to mark his attendance in the office of Vishal Vadhawan, MC secretary.Meanwhile, Ashu claimed that the action was taken to suppress him as he had exposed the ongoing corruption.Nahar said he was serving employees and working for their welfare. “Such punishments will not stop me,” he said. Nahar was deployed as a driver under the health wing. He also leads the MC Driver’s Union. In the past few years, he has emerged as the main leader of MC unions. It is being expected that the MC unions would initiate agitation against the move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suspended-for-calling-out-corruption-charges-in-amritsar-mc-245841
29-04-2021||Neha Saini||Kareena opens up on motherhood during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28She is among the most popular and successful, not to forget glamorous, working moms in the country and the Bollywood. The one to flip the script and surprise her fans and the skeptics equally, Kareena Kapoor Khan believes that one should embrace himself completely. “I believe that’s how every woman should be, whether it is at professional or personal front,” she said. In a conversation with members of the FICCI FLO, Amritsar, on Wednesday in a web session titled ‘Flip the Script’, moderated by Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar, Kareena got candid about motherhood, giving birth during the pandemic and her upcoming bookon pregnancy.The book titled ‘Kareena Kapoor’s Pregnancy Bible’ will be out in May-June this year. “It is my most special assignment as I have never talked about this topic in such depth. The book is a good idea as no Indian actor has ever written about pregnancy and what it comes with. It will be a candid book about mood swings, nutrition, exercise, periods and post-delivery stress,” she said. During these difficult times, I think the best we all can do is to be ourselves and help each other.”Sharing her anxiety over going through childbirth during pandemic, she said it was the most challenging time for her. “And I feel that it is challenging for everyone else. The most horrific and tragic aspect of the pandemic is that there are people who do not have food on their palette. What’s happening in Delhi and every other epicenter of Covid-19 is distressing. But there are also stories of resilience, people coming out to help each other. “She said her time with her family during the lockdown has made her realise how children are one of the worst affected due to the pandemic. “Children cannot express themselves like grown-ups. With online school now happening for a year, the age where they needed to go out in the sunshine, make friends, learn, they are forced to confine indoors.”Taking about her love for Amritsar, Kareena, who was here last year during the unlock to shoot for the movie ‘Laal Singh Chaddha’, said she loves Amritsari food. “Whenever I am in Amritsar, I freak out on food. I am not into fancy cuisine, I love simple desi, ghar ka khana. Also, I really love Gurbani and we listen to it every morning at our home too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kareena-opens-up-on-motherhood-during-pandemic-245840
29-04-2021||---||GNDU among top world varsities||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28The Centre for World University Ranking (CWUR), an independent international assessment agency that evaluates institutes of higher education world-wide on the basis of stringent objective parameters since 2012, has ranked Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) among the top-9 per cent universities of the world.In its recent survey report released for 2021-22, the agency has placed GNDU among the top-2,000 universities of the world. Among the total 19,788 institutions that were ranked across the globe, GNDU was placed at a global rank of 1,777 and a national rank of 52, a couple of grades above its previous year’s ranking, where it had 1814 rank globally and 55th rank nationally.The Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, is the top ranking institute from India, followed by the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. The ranking list contains total 19,788 universities from all over the world thereby making CWUR list the largest academic ranking of global universities.A university spokesperson said these rankings were for institutes in higher education on the basis of various parameters and yearly quantifiable characteristics. These rankings are a combination of seven objectives and indicators such as quality of education, alumni employment, quality of faculty, research performance, including research output, high-quality publications, influence and citations among other things.Last year, GNDU was placed among one of the top ranking universities in the northern region of India as is evident from the fact that it has been accredited as the “University with A++ Grade (highest level as per modified criteria)” by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), University with Potential for Excellence and Category-I University by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-among-top-world-varsities-245839
29-04-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||30 years on, farmers still await water for irrigation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28Thirty years, seven protests and a question in state Assembly later, the farmers of 22 villages surrounding Khasa are still requesting Amritsar Municipal Corporation to stop throwing municipal waste in the canal distributary meant to supply water for irrigation. However, this year, they are even more troubled as the overflowing water from the channel has flooded their fields. “Some of the fields are yet to be harvested,” said an area resident.A farmer activist and leader of Border Area Sangarsh Committee, Rattan Singh Randhawa, said: “In the past few years, we have organised seven massive protests and given countless memorandums to officials concerned, but we have failed to move them.” The problem could be easily solved by laying a pipeline for the municipal waste so that the irrigation channel could provide water to fields, he added.The Municipal Corporation is throwing municipal waste in the water distributary which is around 32 km in length and is officially known as Chhehharta distributary. The problem with the water channel begins at ‘burji’ No. 52 near Gumanpura where the waste water enters the channel.While the governments and agriculture experts often worry about depleting water table, the farmers in the area are forced to draw underground water as the canal water is unusable. “The silt depositing at the base of the water channel has raised its level. None of the government departments have even bothered to remove the silt. Now, as the level of channel is higher than the level of fields, the chemical water often enters fields,” said another farmer.Sub Divisional Officer Irrigation, Rajesh Gupta, said: “We would again take up the matter with the higher ups and the municipal corporation.” He said the Irrigation Department has taken up the matter with the MC on various occasions, but as the matter is between two government departments, the problem still persists. “We would also initiate efforts to remove the silt,” said Gupta, adding that farmers had recently too approached him with the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-years-on-farmers-still-await-water-for-irrigation-245838
29-04-2021||Amritsar||‘Stop tobacco usage to fight virus’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stop-tobacco-usage-to-fight-virus-245837
29-04-2021||Neha Saini||Rising to occasion amid Covid chaos||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28Reaching out to those affected with Covid-19 in these trying times, an organisation ‘Phulkari-Women of Amritsar’ has decided to start free home delivery of home-cooked food for Covid patients.The women organisation has tied up with Zomato’s ‘Feeding India’ campaign that offers free food deliveries across multiple cities for Covid affected people.An organisation 'Phulkari-Women of Amritsar' has decided to start free home delivery of home-cooked food for Covid patientsThose interested can order or avail the service by calling at: 98882-29010 and 98881-47793Phulkari president Deepa Swanin said the Phulkari Tiffin Service would provide free home cooked meals to Covid affected families. “Our volunteers will prepare meals hygienically at their home, keeping in mind the nutritional balance. We have a lot of volunteers willing to cook food and sharing the responsibility. We will be catering to lunch and dinner service for now.”The tiffin service will be open 24 hours for orders. Ridhi Khanna, a nutritionist and diet consultant for the service, said nutritious food is an important aspect in the process of recovering from Covid. “Most Covid affected families are not in the physical and mental state of health that they can take care of their meals. So, helping them with freshly cooked, nutritious meals to keep their immunity up is our goal. The meals would generally include seasonal veggies, lentils, chapatis and rice. The meals will be planned without any specifications so that everyone can consume them, irrespective of any previous ailment. The thought behind the initiative is to do whatever we can to help those battling with Covid.”Apart from the service, the organisation will also execute vaccination drives and other initiatives to reach out to the community.“We have charted out a six-week long programme for all of us to come together and find the silver lining behind the dark Covid clouds. We will organise multiple programmes, including vaccination camps, initiatives of reaching out to infected people through social media or calls and talk and share with them their stories of isolation or home confinement. We will conduct workshops to enhance the members’ outreach and have also formed Covid support groups for people and patients dealing with mental health issues due to the pandemic,” shared Praneet Bubber, founder member of Phulkari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-to-occasion-amid-covid-chaos-245836
29-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||As restrictions return, Amritsar taxi drivers left in lurch||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28Intensified restrictions in the wake of the Covid pandemic’s second wave have ravaged the business of taxi operators in the city. Anil Arora, a taxi operator, has put all his three taxis on sale. About six years back, he had procured a 12-seater tempo traveller in advance and its Rs22,000 per month instalment was still continuing. Encouraged from its success, soon he procured two more taxis — Innova Crysta and Etios. The EMIs of these two vehicles — Rs22,000 and Rs10,500 — are also being paid. Awaiting the response of buyers, he asked all his three drivers to search for jobs as he would not be in a position to pay them from the next month.One puts all his taxis on saleThis is not the only such case. Most of the taxi operators are out of job for the past over a year. Many drivers had financed a vehicle to augment their income but are in deplorable condition. Harjit Singh, a driver, said he had been a driver for the past two decades.“With the surge in tourists’ footfall, I had financed a vehicle four years ago. After finding me unable to repay the loan, a finance agency seized the vehicle in September,” he said adding that most of the drivers were paid a paltry salary of Rs3,000 to Rs4,000 per month and their income mainly came from per km charges and night stays during a trip, which was not being paid since March last year, when the lockdown was introduced. Unlocking of the nation paved the way for re-opening of hotels and restaurants on June 8. But, it did not benefit us much as the tourism industry was hit hard by the pandemic.Another taxi operator Bhupinder Singh said there was no change in the situation and the near future continued to remain bleak as the infections were again rising at an alarming rate and people were reluctant in making travel trips. Also, the governments were intensifying restrictions to curtail the movement of people.He asserted that hoteliers and restaurants did manage to earn something out of the unlocking of the lockdown but taxi operators were affected the worst. Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah joint check-post was closed in March last year and it continues to remain out of the bound of people. Situated nearly 36 km away from the city, the demand of taxis used to be the highest on this route.He said the government was not taking a note of the plight of taxi operators who earned their bread from tourism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-restrictions-return-amritsar-taxi-drivers-left-in-lurch-245834
29-04-2021||Amritsar||Oxygen corridor: Aujla writes to LS speaker||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/oxygen-corridor-aujla-writes-to-ls-speaker-245814
29-04-2021||Amritsar||26 FIRs registered for violating curfew norms in Amritsar district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/26-firs-registered-for-violating-curfew-norms-in-amritsar-district-245811
29-04-2021||Charnajit Singh Teja||Roads choke in Amritsar as clock strikes 6 in the evening||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 28Though the district administration imposed weekly curfew from 6 pm to 5 am to check the spread of the virus, residents, who usually stay inside due to hot weather outside in the day prefer going out after 4 pm only, thus creating chaos in local markets and roads.The cops start making announcements at 5 pm in the main markets to close shops but as all workers, shopkeepers and residents start returning home at the same time, several roads start witnessing traffic jams.Traders’ associations and shopkeepers are against the move of the government, but the administration is successfully imposing the curfew at 6 pm. The cops also register cases under Section 188 of the IPC against violators and impose fine to individuals.As per the orders, not more than 20 persons would be allowed to attend a wedding after 6 pm till April 30 and those attending the wedding would have to obtain a curfew pass from the Sub Divisional Magistrate concerned. The closing time of the wedding ceremony would be 9 pm. The District Magistrate issued the order saying that all dates of marriage after May 1, 2021, should be rescheduled by the families concerned as per the new instructions.Under these orders, all shops including restaurants, malls and multiplexes will have to close daily at 5 pm but home delivery can be done till 9 pm.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said: “The curfew, which was earlier in effect from 8 pm to 5 am, will now continue daily from 6 pm to 5 am the next day to curb non-essential activities. The orders stated that the weekend curfew will be from 5 am on Saturday to 5 am on Monday, but essential activities will be exempted.”The District Magistrate has directed strict enforcement of orders issued by the Punjab Government to prevent the spread of the virus under National Directive for Covid-19 Management Guidelines, SOPs (standard operating procedures).The DM also said violators would be punished under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the IPC. Legal action will be taken under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.The service industry, including all private offices, will be allowed to operate from home only.Essential services exemptedThe orders said in view of the daily needs of people, some essential services have been waived during the curfew, including chemist shops and sale of other essential items such as milk, dairy products, vegetables and fruits during the curfew. In addition, the manufacturing industry, employees or labourers working for the transportation of such essential goods will be allowed to travel, but the industry concerned will issue necessary approval letter to such employees and labourers for this purpose. Those traveling in flights, trains and buses have been exempted during the curfew. Apart from this, construction workers in urban and rural areas have also been exempted. Those involved in wheat procurement, agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, veterinary services, e-commerce and transportation of all commodities, as well as vaccination camps for the convenience of people have been exempted.Guidelines for marriage ceremoniesResidents need approval to attend wedding ceremonies to be held after 6 pm till April 30, 2021. Those attending the wedding would have to obtain a curfew pass from the Sub Divisional Magistrate concerned. The closing time of the wedding ceremony would be 9 pm. All dates of marriage after May 1, 2021, should be rescheduled by families as per the new instructions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roads-choke-in-amritsar-as-clock-strikes-6-in-the-evening-245810
29-04-2021||---||Toll mounting: 18 Covid deaths reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, April 28With 18 deaths (highest since the pandemic began) reported due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, the district toll increased to 931 on Wednesday. The district health authorities have also reported 501 new positive cases with which the tally increased to 31,512.The new cases include 373 influenza-like illness cases and 128 contacts of positive cases. The health authorities have reported recovery of 730 patients with which the recovery count improved to 25,676. The district, at present, has a total of 4,905 active cases.The district health authorities said a total of 3,524 residents were given the Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday. The health officials said 23,732 healthcare workers, 31,603 frontline workers and 1,71,161 residents above 45 years have been partially vaccinated so far, while 12,215 healthcare workers, 11,620 frontline workers and 21,901 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.3 die, 82 +ve in Tarn TaranThree persons succumbed to the virus on Wednesday taking the death toll to 210 in the district. Not only this, 82 persons tested positive for Covid in the district, taking the active case load to 1,068. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said of the 1,068 active cases, 598 had been isolated at their respective homes. Regarding vaccines, total 89,906 persons have been given the jab so far. The DC had appealed to people to take all precautions and keep the virus at bay. — OCThose who lost battle to the deadly virusThe deceased have been identified as Kewal Singh (51), a resident of Raipur Kalan village; Hira Singh (40) of New Jawahar Nagar; Gurbachan Kaur (58) of Laharka Road; Angoori (70) of Putlighar area; Kirpal Singh (84) of Ramanand Bagh; Jasbir Singh (60) of Jaura Fatak; Chattar Singh (85) of New Partap Nagar; Kawaljit Singh (53) of Nag Kalan village; Surinder Mehta (62) of Tej Nagar; Rajan Rawala (44) of Ranjit Avenue; Sushila Jain (74) of Attari; Rashpal Singh (48) of Guru Nanak avenue; Veena (58) of Jaura Pipal area; Kulwinder Kaur (70) of Majitha; Sham Lal Khurana (72) of Vijay Nagar; Nishan Singh (55) of Kakkar village; Satbir Singh (63) of Ranjit Avenue; and Hardeep Singh (74) of Pandori Waraich village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/toll-mounting-18-covid-deaths-reported-in-amritsar-district-245790
