30-04-2021||Amritsar||‘Navjot Sidhu is an opportunist’||2 fire at Excise team, bookedAmritsar: Two persons were booked for firing at the Excise Department officials in the Gharinda area on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as member panchayat Gurlal Singh and Sakatar Singh of Muhawa village. Baljinder Kaur, Inspector, Excise Circle Chheharta, in her complaint said they got information that the accused were distilling illicit liquor for sale in the area. When the excise team raided the house of Gurlal Singh, he fled with a can filled with illicit liquor. The excise team intercepted him and seized 18,750 ml of illicit liquor from his possession. Gurlal Singh, while threatening the excise team, said that he is a member panchayat from Congress. Meanwhile, Sakatar Singh also came out and opened fire on the excise team and later managed to escape from the spot. The police have registered a case under Sections 353, 186, 336, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 61, 1 and14 of the Excise Act. TNSMan held with 1 kg of opiumTarn Taran: The Kacha Pakka police arrested a man with one kg of opium from Manakpur village on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Jagdev Singh, a resident of Dhardeo (Mehta) village. A police party, led by Sub-Inspector Lakhwinder Singh, stopped a car bearing registration number PB-10, AU-8797 for checking. During the search, the police found one kg of opium from the car. The accused has been booked under Sections 18,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OCYouth dies of ‘drug overdose’Tarn Taran: A youth allegedly died of drug overdose at his home in Pahuwind village on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Rajwinder Singh Roji. Rajwinder had returned home from Gujarat, where he was working as a labourer, 10 days ago. Nirvail Singh, elder brother of the deceased, in his complaint to the police said that someone from Basarke village came near their home and delivered some intoxicant substance to Rajwinder. After taking the drug overdose, Rajwinder became seriously ill. He was brought to a private hospital in Bhikhiwind township where doctors declared him dead. The Bhikhiwind police have registered a case under Section 304 of the IPC against an unknown person who delivered the intoxicant to Rajwinder. OCLahan, illicit liquor seizedTarn Taran: A team of the Excise and Police Departments conducted a raid in the Mand area and seized huge quantity of lahan and illicit liquor. The police arrested three persons in this connection and seized one working still from the spot. The Verowal police during a raid at Bhalojla village seized one working still, 150-kg lahan and 750-ml illicit liquor from the residence of Kuldeep Singh, and 6,000-ml illicit liquor from that of Katrar Singh. Similarly, the city police conducted a raid at the residence of Gurmeet Singh of Malhia village seized 6,000-ml of illicit liquor. Cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act had been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhu-is-an-opportunist-246164
30-04-2021||Amritsar||Youth starts ‘run for justice’||Gurvinder Singh has started ‘run for justice’ in support of the ongoing farmers’ protest against three controversial laws from Agwan village near Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur. As Gurvinder reached Amritsar on Thursday, he was honoured by various organisations. Speaking on the occasion, Gurvinder said he plans to cover around 50-km daily and reach Singhu border where farmers have been protesting since November. “My aim is to motivate people to join the protest and visit protest sites. One can use any medium of transport to reach Singhu or Tikri and support those who are sitting there for months,” he said. He said said he would motivate people on the way and exhort them to speak up against the injustice being meted out to farmers. Gurvinder said the three agri laws were against the interests of farmers and consumers. “While farmers will be exploited by paying low prices for their produce, consumers will be charged higher price for the finished product,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-starts-run-for-justice-246163
30-04-2021||---||SGPC president seeks Punjab CM’s intervention on pending administrative issues||Amritsar, April 29SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has sought Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s intervention in revoking the land acquisition of Gurdwara Amb Sahib located in Mohali.During a meeting with the CM on Tuesday, Bibi Jagir Kaur also sought his approval on the maps of new inns and installation of solar power plant in the Golden Temple complex.She said, “GMADA wanted to acquire about 12 acres of Gurdwara Amb Sahib land at Mohali which the Punjab Chief Minister has been asked to stop. It is gurdwara’s assets which should not be taken away forcibly in the name of development”.Regarding other issues, Bibi Jagir Kaur said that the issue of solar system being installed at the shrine complex was also taken up with the Chief Minister.“The proposal was to install a 2.2 megawatt (MW) solar system. Due to lack of space nearby, it has been planned to install it at the land of Gurdwara Satlani Sahib. We appealed the CM to facilitate clearance in this regard”, she said.The CM has also been asked to immediately release nearly Rs 43 crore scholarship funds of the scheduled caste (SC) quota of SGPC’s educational institutions. The balance from the year 2017 to 2019 has not been released yet.Apart from this, the SGPC president has also asked Punjab CM to issue instructions for passing the maps of new sarais. The CM has also been asked to hand over the Bassi Pathana Jail at Sri Fatehgarh Sahib to the SGPC and sought nod to start the renovation work of Diwan Todar Mal’s Haweli (mansion).Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Guru was kept in Bassi Pathana Jail and it must be preserved as a Sikh heritage. The management should be given to the SGPC so that it can be taken care of in a befitting manner to preserve the heritage intact.”The SGPC president said that Capt Amarinder Singh responded positively to all issues.During the meeting with the Punjab CM, SGPC executive committee member S Ajmer Singh Khera, member Bibi Paramjit Kaur Landran, OSD to SGPC president Dr Sukhbir Singh and S Inderpal Singh and others were present.The SGPC president said that during the meeting she had invited Capt Amarinder Singh to attend the function being organised to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the centenary celebrations are being held in a symbolic manner and no large gathering of sangat is being organised. The ceremonies would be held from April 29 to May 1 at Amritsar.”Meanwhile, Bibi Jagir Kaur appealed to the Punjab CM to relax the lockdown on Saturday and Sunday keeping in view the centenary celebrations. She said that although lockdown has been ordered due to worsening situation of Covid-19 but the sangat which want to attend the centenary events with devotion should not be stopped. Bibi Jagir Kaur said that the instructions of the health department would be followed during the symbolic ceremonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-president-seeks-punjab-cms-intervention-on-pending-administrative-issues-246161
30-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Three bottled drinking water factories sealed in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, April 29The food safety wing of the Health Department, Punjab led by Rajinderpal Singh, Assistant Commissioner Food Safety (ACFS) conducted raids at three packaged drinking water factories and found these to be running illegally. The factories had been sealed on the spot along with the stored drinking water as well.ACFS Rajindepal Singh said raids were conducted under Mission Tandarust Punjab on Thursday. He said one of the factories Aquatax Packed Drinking Water was running from the local focal point.Another factory was running from Lalpur village by one Karan Kumar under the name of HR Enterprises (Aquafine), while the third was running from Goindwal Sahib by Vinesh Tyagi from his residence in Goindwal Sahib industrial complex under the name of Balaji Enterprises.The ACFS said these factories were running without BIS number and FSSAI licence number, which was the first requirement to run packaged drinking water factory.The department had been apprised of the development and next course of action had been initiated with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-bottled-drinking-water-factories-sealed-in-tarn-taran-246157
30-04-2021||---||Passing away of Moti Khurana elicits emotional response from people||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 29Passing away of Moti Khurana, who had brought the first LPG agency here way back in the seventies, elicited emotional response from people of all walks of life.It was his brainchild to set up Amar Jyoti at the Jallianwala Bagh and he passed away on April 13 this month, anniversary of the massacre.He had conveyed the idea to then Indian Oil executive director Prashanto Banerjee during his visit to the historic Bagh here. After a long wait, his idea was approved and he paid to install the LPG pipeline and construct a cylinder room. Architect Ranjit Singh Rana also did not charge for it.Moti Khurana was also the first distributor of LPG in Punjab when he floated the Graduate Gas Service with his brother Sunder in 1971.Kaveta Chaudhry, a film maker and actor, said Moti Khurana had such a caring heart and unflinching honesty that I pray to God to bestow him a beautiful journey ahead and give his family and friends strength to cope with the loss and vision to carry forward his legacy.Pawan Sareen, general manager (LPG) IOCL, Chandigarh, said Moti Khurana had been an institution. Let his blessings be our strength. On the demise of Moti Khurana, Baldev Raj Chawla, former deputy speaker, said: “I’ve never known anyone more honest than Moti Lal Khurana. He had empathy and never refused a kind word to anyone. He was a generously noble man. His loss is mourned not only by his family but by the entire community. I pray that the Almighty grant him a rightful place in heaven.”Jagmohan Singh Raina, a prominent social worker from Jammu and Kashmir, said: “He was the pioneer of LPG in north India. He used to take care of the newcomers in LPG dealership. He was a genuine person who believed in doing well. I lost a good friend and a good human being.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passing-away-of-moti-khurana-elicits-emotional-response-from-people-246148
30-04-2021||400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Amritsar MC illuminates heritage gates in city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 29Development works worth several crores have been initiated across the state by Amritsar administration to commemorate the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur this year. MC Amritsar has paved the road leading towards Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal, the birthplace of Guru Tegh Bahadur and also laid sewerage system for waste management. Installation of LED streetlights across the city and night-sanitation system has been underway to ensure city roads remain clean.While infrastructural works are already underway, aesthetic makeover of the heritage gates inside walled city too has been done to mark the occasion. The Golden Gate at the entrance of city limits, Bhandari Bridge, Hall Gate, Hathi Gate, Lohgarh Gate and Municipal Corporation building at the Ranjit Avenue have been illuminated with colourful lights. New mast lights have also been installed at all prominent public squares inside the walled city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu shared that all these development works will continue throughout the year as a part of celebrations of 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Celebrations, development to continue throughout the yearWhile infrastructural works are already underway, aesthetic makeover of the heritage gates inside walled city, too, has been done to mark the occasion. The Golden Gate at the entrance of city limits, Bhandari Bridge, Hall gate, Hathi Gate, Lohgarh Gate and Municipal Corporation building at the Ranjit Avenue have been illuminated with colourful lights. New mast lights have also been installed at all prominent public squares inside the walled city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu shared that all these development works will continue throughout the year as a part of celebrations of 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-illuminates-heritage-gates-in-city-246146
30-04-2021||Amritsar||All hands need to be on deck to tackle Covid: Amritsar DEO||As Covid-19 numbers rise in the district, all major government departments have sprung into action with infrastructural as well as other support. In line with the directions issued by Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, the District Education Department on Thursday launched a massive awareness drive with teachers leading awareness programmes across blocks and villages. Informing about the same, Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer (secondary), Amritsar, and Sushil Kumar Tuli, District Education Officer (elementary), in a statement, said growing number of cases was a matter of concern and the department would emphasise on making the public, especially students, aware of this dangerous disease. “It’s all hands-on-deck situation and awareness regarding prevention and vaccination will help people realise how to keep them and their families safe. Teachers in government schools are going door-to-door and informing students about the precautions to be taken during the online classes to reduce the risk of infection. The families are being educated regarding safe practices such as how to wash hands, wear mask properly, how to maintain social distancing and inform about symptoms. They are being encouraged to get registered for the vaccination. We are also giving information on home management of non-critical Covid-19 patients with the guidance of the Health Department officials. Department officials are using social media to create awareness among the public, posting promotional materials platforms to spread the message,” said Satinderbir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-hands-need-to-be-on-deck-to-tackle-covid-amritsar-deo-246141
30-04-2021||---||24 booked for violating curfew norms in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 29The city police have registered two separate cases and booked 12 persons for violating curfew last evening.In the first case, the Sadar police booked five persons for thrashing a security guard at Silver Estate Bypass Majitha Road. Surjiit Singh said he was working as a security guard in the colony for the last 20 years. Last night, around 10.28 pm, five unidentified car occupants came at Silver Estate gate and blew horn. They then forcibly entered the colony and thrashed him and fled from the spot. They violated curfew, so a case under Section 188 along with other relevant sections of the IPC has been registered.Meanwhile, the Chheharta police have also booked seven persons, who were attending a class in a private academy. ASI Swaran Singh said as per government instructions, all educational institutions should be closed. During patrolling, the police team reached at Sandhu Colony Chheharta and found that Gobind Academy was open, where six students were attending a class. As they saw the police, all of them fled from the spot. The academy consultant and students have been booked for violation.Meanwhile, the rural police have also registered 12 cases against violators.Apart from this, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (detective) Yuvraj Singh and Dr Manpreet Kaur visited the containment zones in the city and inspected the arrangements on Thursday evening. The ADCP briefed about the Covid-19 precautions and guidelines to the police personnel deployed in containment zones, which have been set at Guru Nanak Wara and Jujhar Singh Avenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-booked-for-violating-curfew-norms-in-amritsar-246137
30-04-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Low occupancy costs Railways dear amid Covid surge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 29Spiralling Covid-19 cases due to the second wave of the pandemic and its related restrictions in different parts of the country have prompted people to desist from travelling. This is financially costing the Railways dear.Barring trains heading to the eastern part of the country, most of these are not running to their capacity. Occupancy in trains has drastically gone down, especially in the incoming trains, and gone up in the outgoing trains indicating the trend of people moving out of the city following intensification of the second wave of the pandemic-induced restrictions.Sources in the Railways said the occupancy in the Golden Temple train and Deluxe (Amritsar to Mumbai) is full but on their return journey, the occupancy has gone down to half.Earlier, almost all trains to Delhi were running to their capacity. Now, both incoming and outgoing Shatabdis are running at 50-40 per cent occupancy.Even very economical passenger train to Pathankot is ferrying around 200 passengers per day. The train has a seating capacity of 600. Travel in the train costs a passenger less than Rs50 but the same journey in a bus costs three times more.Trains heading to the eastern part of the country like Howrah Mail, Chattisgarh, Shaheed Express (Amritsar to Darbhanga) are running at full capacity, indicating the rush of migrants. Upon their return journey, the occupancy remains half. Before the pandemic getting a seat in these trains used to be an uphill task as these popular trains used to invariably run at full capacity.Occupancy full in outgoing trains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/low-occupancy-costs-railways-dear-amid-covid-surge-246133
30-04-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||No space to burn pyres, but Amritsar residents apprehensive about electric cremation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 29As the city recorded the highest Covid-19 deaths (in a single day) in the state on Thursday, residents are still unwilling to cremate the deceased on electric crematorium or LPG furnaces.There are two major cremation grounds in the city, where on an average, 25 to 30 persons are cremated every day. After the second wave of Covid-19, the number of cremations rose to 50. However, the Shivpuri cremation ground near Durgiana Temple is equipped with electric as well as LPG furnace for the cremation of dead but residents don’t opt for these modes of cremation.The office-bearers of Durgiana temple committee said the electric furnace was initiated around 40 years ago and the project failed due to technical issues. Then, LPG furnace was established a few years ago at a cost of Rs25 lakh and all provisions were made for the last rites. But the mode of cremation didn’t get popular among residents. They still prefer cremating the dead on traditional pyres.After the rise in the deaths due to Covid-19, cremation grounds faced a major challenge of space. Both cremation grounds have more than 75 pyre plinths in each, but as per Hindu-Sikh tradition, the remains of the dead are collected after cremation. Meanwhile, the Durgiana temple committee is constructing 12 more pads.“We don’t have space for new plinths, so the electric crematorium would be demolished to get space for the new ones. The electric and LPG crematorium are not successful as even after offering free cremation no one is willing to use LPG furnaces. Even the administration don’t cremate Covid-19 patients in LPG furnace, so it is a wastage of resources to set up a furnace,” said Rajesh Sharma, president of Durgiana temple committee.  MC for CNG-based crematoriumsThe Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) has proposed to install CNG-based crematorium and develop the shamshan ghats as per the direction of the National Green Tribunal under the National Clean Air Programme of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF). In a proposal sent to the state government for approval on March 26, the MCA would spend Rs2.5 crore on this project. However, without changing the mindset of people about the last rites, there is no scope of adoption of any alternative for traditional pyre.‘Admn should also go for LPG furnace’As per the tradition, the body requires 9.5 mann (around 4 quintal) wood for cremation. The committees of cremation grounds charges Rs1,300 for cremation of one body, which includes “fatta” (bed) and logs. Rajesh Sharma, president of Durgiana temple committee, claimed that the price of wooden logs has increased from Rs290 per quintal to Rs350 per quintal. “The government should provide logs to cremation grounds for Covid-19 deaths or ask the administration to adopt LPG cremation, which costs free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-space-to-burn-pyres-but-amritsar-residents-apprehensive-about-electric-cremation-246131
30-04-2021||Manmeet Gill||Vax drive for 18 + may get delayed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 29Though registration of citizens in the age group of 18 years to 44 years have begun for being inoculated from May 1, insiders in the Health Department said the drive may get delayed due to shortage of vaccine. Sources in the department said they were still waiting for the guidelines from the government in this regard. The Central Government had announced to start the pan-India drive from May 1. With only two days left for the drive to commence, officials said clarity regarding the drive would come with the government issuing specific instructions. While the Centre has asked states to finance the vaccination drive, the latter have been expecting some financial assistance from the former. “In all these circumstances, the scheduled start might get delayed,” said an official. Meanwhile, District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said, “We are making preparations for May 1 on a war footing. We will soon receive the precise guidelines and drive will begin as planned,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vax-drive-for-18-may-get-delayed-246129
30-04-2021||Amritsar||Sell Remdesivir locally: AISSF to Union Govt||Taking cognisance of an Amritsar-based pharmaceutical firm Kwality Pharmaceutical Ltd, which urged the Union Ministry of Health to allow it to supply the much sought-after Remdesivir injections in domestic market, the All-India Sikh Students’ Federation (AISSF) has urged the Central Government to provide a temporary relief to the Indian drug manufacturers by exempting them from patent rights during the health emergency in India, so that the precious lives of patients can be saved.“What can be described as a biased approach by the Health Ministry is that the Amritsar-based firm can supply the much sought-after drug to meet the shortage, while it cannot supply it to the local market, allegedly because of patent even in health emergency and a war-like situation,” said Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad, patron of the AISSF.Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, is in acute shortage in India and patients need it in an emergency situation.Kwality Pharmaceuticals has demanded temporary exemption from patent rules from the Central Drugs Standard Control Oganisation(CDCO).The company also claims that it can make the dosage available only for Rs1,500 per dosage against the exorbitant prices of the medicine in black market. “So, why are the patients being exploited and allowed to die in such an emergency situation?” he asked. The federation leaders criticised the Union Government for its failure to make the drug on time. The federation leaders also lamented that today this injection was being sold at a much higher price than the price fixed by the government. Not only this, it was being sold at Rs18,000 to Rs20,000 per injection, which is how the black market is being run. Such greedy people should be dealt with sternly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sell-remdesivir-locally-aissf-to-union-govt-246127
30-04-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 14 deaths, 478 positive cases||Amritsar, April 29The district reported 14 deaths, including two of unidentified persons, due to Covid-19 on Thursday, with which the total count increased to 945.The district health authorities said two unidentified men — one aged around 35 years and second around 60 years — were brought to the hospital by the 108 ambulance service.As doctors declared them brought dead, the Covid test was conducted to ascertain the cause of death. The officials said both had tested positive. The district health authorities have also reported 478 fresh cases with which the total count has increased to 31,990. The new cases include 350 influenza-like illness cases and 128 contacts of positive patients. With the health authorities reporting the recovery of 335 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 26,011. The district, at present, has a total of 5,034 active cases.Meanwhile, 4,242 persons were given the jab on Thursday. The health authorities said those given the first dose of injections include 66 healthcare workers, 393 frontline workers and 2,323 residents above 45 years. Those given the second dose include 217 healthcare workers, 183 frontline workers and 1,061 residents above 45 years.The government has also stopped all OPD services at Government Medical College to ensure availability of specialist doctors for treatment of Covid patients. The hospital would, however, continue to admit referral cases. Meanwhile, the OPD services would be provided by the Civil Hospital and other public health facilities in the city.4 die, 49 +ve in Tarn TaranFour persons, including a woman, died of Covid in the district on Thursday with which the district death toll reached 214. The active cases reached 1,025 after the report of 49 persons came out positive in the district and of these, 624 patients have been isolated at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 91,533 persons have been vaccinated so far. He said the Health Department had sufficient stock of oxygen and patients were being treating properly.Those who lost battle to the deadly virusApart from two unidentified persons, others who succumbed to the virus have been identified as Simranjit Kaur (55), a resident of Ram Nagar (Putlighar); Madhu Bala (48) of Tagore Avenue; Parveen Kumar (52) of Gumtala; Narinderpal Singh (58) of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar; Narinder Singh (68) of Partap Bazaar (Chheharta); Sawinder Singh (75) of Kathunangal; Gurmej Singh (50) of Nizampur village; Gurmeet Kaur (65) of Ajnala; Sheela Rani (62) of Verka; Nisha (35) of Ekta Nagar; Sukhwinder Kaur (57) of Gurnam Nagar and Surinder Singh (69) of Circular Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-14-deaths-478-positive-cases-246126
