01-01-2022||Amritsar||Teachers' rally in Bathinda||Man loses Rs7,500 to miscreantsAmritsar: Three unidentified robbers looted a local resident of Rs 7,500 cash in broad daylight, on gunpoint on Thursday. Victim Banti Singh of the local Guru-Ka-Khooh, locality in his complaint to the local city police, said he was on way to Plasaur village on his motorcycle. Three motor cycled-born armed robbers suddenly appeared on the spot at link road at Plasaur link road from the back.They robbed him of cash worth Rs 7,500. They later fled from the spot after committing crime. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B IPC and Sections 25,27,54,59 of the Arms Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-rally-in-bathinda-356838
01-01-2022||---||Gunshots fired at late Akal Takht jathedar Giani Partap Singh's house in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 31Two unidentified persons fired at the house of former Akal Takht jathedar Partap Singh on Sultanwind Road area here on Thursday night. The police found around 12 empty shells from the street outside his residence.The police have registered a case in this regard while further investigation was launched to identify the suspects who had covered their faces while firing.The complainant, Gurpreet Singh, told the police that he, along with his family members, were sleeping in the house when they heard firing. He said unidentified persons kicked their drawing room door that opened into the street. He said when the accused fled away, they came out and saw gunshot marks on the door and windows. There were empty shells on the ground. He said unidentified persons had fired gunshots to kill them as they used to sit in the drawing room after dinner.Talwinder Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said a case under Sections 307, 427 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against unidentified persons and efforts were on to identify them. He said some personal enmity is apparently the reason behind the incident though the family members had denied this.Giani Partap Singh, a noted Sikh preacher and Punjabi writer, remained Akal Takht acting jathedar from 1938 to 1948 and later as jathedar from 1952 to 1955.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gunshots-fired-at-late-akal-takht-jathedars-house-356837
01-01-2022||---||Amritsar extortion case: Gajinderjit Singh worked near victim's factory||Amritsar, December 31Gajinderjit Singh, alias Rajbir, one of the suspects arrested by the city police on the charge of extortion on Thursday, used to work in a factory near the victim’s aluminium factory at the Focal Point here. Gajinderjit and his maternal uncle Charanjit Singh, aka Chan, a resident of Kharar in Mohali, were brought on four-day police remand for further interrogation.According to an official privy to investigation, the police were identifying the insider who tipped off the accused that the victims had procured new cars worth Rs 2 crore recently. They demanded an extortion of Rs 5 crore from Rohit Sabharwal, owner of the aluminium factory. One of the suspects had a criminal case registered against him and as per preliminary investigations they did not have any links with notorious criminals though further investigation was underway.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Jugraj Singh said more arrests were likely to be made during the further course of investigations. He said an initial probe revealed that they had been secretly keeping an eye on the victim for the last 15 days before they called the victim and demanded ‘protection money’.As per the details, Rohit Sabharwal who had gone to Panchkula to meet his relative two weeks ago got a call from unidentified persons who demanded money while threatening him of dire consequences if he failed to meet their demand. He immediately informed Panchkula police about this. Two days ago, they again got a call from unidentified persons for the same.This is the second such case that has come to light in the past two months indicating that the extortion rackets run by notorious criminals allegedly being sheltered by their political bosses are running with impunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/extortion-case-gajinderjit-worked-near-victims-factory-356835
01-01-2022||---||Amritsar textile traders upbeat over GST hike postponement||Amritsar, December 31Local textile manufacturers and traders are happy after the GST Council postponed its proposed move to increase tax on clothes, garments and footwear from five per cent to 12 per cent.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) president Piara Lal Seth welcomed the decision of the government for postponing the decision, taken by the GST Council in its 46th meeting, for an indefinite period.He demanded that instead of postponement the government must do away with the hike in tax.After agriculture, the business of textiles and garments provides the most employment in the country, in such a situation, the increase in seven percent of the GST rate even on these commodities costing less than one thousand, would spoil the mathematics of business.Relief on low-value footwear will also check the rise in inflation. The above hike has now been postponed and not withdrawn by the GST Council. So traders demanded that this hike should be completely withdrawn.On the other hand, the government’s revenue collection from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was increasing every month yet it was taking risk by increasing the GST rates. Instead of increasing the burden of the tax on the traders and the general public, it must make conducive environment for increasing the expenditure power of the latter (general public).It will be a win-win situation for all stakeholders, manufacturers, traders and government.Surendra Dugal, president of the local unit of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal said the government took the decision after the protests of the traders across the country. The district too, against this hike, held protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-upbeat-over-gst-hike-postponement-356833
01-01-2022||---||Despite police complaint, no action against coloniser in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 31Even two months after the Municipal Corporation Commissioner wrote to the Commissioner of Police (CP) to register an FIR against the coloniser who developed an illegal colony and commercial units on the Chheharta bypass road, no action has been taken against him so far.The Commissioner had written to the police that the coloniser had developed the illegal colony near Max City at Ghanupur here. It is a clear violation of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regularisation Act, 2014. There is a provision in the Act that if somebody sells plots or develops a colony without getting the licence from the authorities, one should be booked under Section 36 of the Act.Aam Aadmi Party leader Suresh Kumar Sharma stated that he had exposed the illegal colony being developed near the Chheharta bypass four months ago and had lodged a complaint with then MC commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi and demanded action. The MC Commissioner wrote to the police commissioner on October 4 to register an FIR against the coloniser. The MC authorities had also written to Punjab Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to not allow the power connection to the illegal colony in October.The AAP leader alleged that MC officials do not send letters to the departments concerned to avoid action and only do a formality that they have written to the police and PSPCL. He cautioned the general public not to waste their hard-earned money by purchasing plots in the illegal colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-police-complaint-no-action-against-coloniser-in-amritsar-356831
01-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||ECHS scam: 6 sent to judicial custody in Pathankot case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 31A Special Investigation Team (SIT) team constituted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for probing ECHS (Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme) scam has also started investigations in the Amritsar case registered with Cantonment police station in October last year.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had ordered to probe the two ECHS scams simultaneously — one reported in Amritsar and the other in Pathankot.The police had booked as many as 25 persons, including doctors and ex-servicemen, in the case. The FIR was registered following a probe conducted by Army authorities. The complaint was lodged with the local police by the Station Commander, Amritsar Cantonment. Earlier, the case was being investigated by then additional deputy commissioner of police. It was alleged that some of the accused, including doctors, were given a clean chit in the case in the absence of ‘solid proofs’, which has raised a question mark.Some of doctors absolved were owners of the hospitals or working there which were dis-empanelled by the Union Ministry of Defence in June this year for their alleged involvement in the scam. The MoD had dis-empanelled seven hospitals, including a scan centre and lab. Among those dis-empanelled are Verma Hospital, Neelkanth Hospital, Life Kare Hospital, Gupta Multispecialty, Akashdeep Neuro Trauma and Multispecialty Hospital, Madaan Hospital and Nijjar Scan and Diagnostic Centre.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Jugraj Singh having the additional charge of ADCP City-2 said the file pertaining to the case was handed over to the SIT following its formation by the high court.In December, the high court had ordered to form a SIT headed by Special DGP Prabodh Kumar to examine the Pathankot case considering the seriousness and magnitude of the scam in which signatures of Army officials were forged with fake stamps and seals on fabricated prescription slips and documents. Besides, the high court also directed him to investigate the Amritsar’s FIR.On December 23, SIT members raided the Amandeep hospital here and its Pathankot branch. It seized computers and files regarding treatment of ex-servicemen. Dr Avtar Singh, Dr Amandeep Kaur and Dr Shehbaz Singh were among the six persons booked and arrested by the SIT team in the Pathankot case. They were produced in the Pathankot court on Friday which sent them to judicial custody in Gurdaspur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/echs-scam-6-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-pathankot-case-356822
01-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Shortage of medicines ails OOAT centres in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, December 31The shortage of medicines meant for drug-addict patients visiting the OOAT centres in the district has raised criticism from all quarters.Under the programme launched by the state government, the OOAT clinics and all de-addiction centres were to provide medicines to be taken at home for two weeks to the registered patients.It was launched to deal with the problem of drug abuse, but the recent shortage of medicines at these centres has raised doubt about the viability of the programme and seemed to have left the patients at the mercy of fate.According to the information collected from the district health department, there were as many as 18,000 registered patients who had been taking medicines from different government OOAT centres based at Tharu, Sarhali, Tarn Taran, Patti, Kairon, Bhagupur, Harike, Sursingh, Khemkaran, Khadoor Sahib, etc.Officials said the supply of buprenorphine tablets had been erratic for the last one month across different centres of the district. Patients complained that their medicines had already been reduced regardless of their condition and requirement. For the last one month, even that has not been provided properly. For the last few days, medicines have been stopped or the amount of doses halved at various centres.Patients alleged that the medicines, which were in short supply at the OOAT centres, were freely available at higher costs at all private centres, but being from poor families they cannot afford it.Perturbed over not getting medicines, patients blocked the Khemkaran-Harike state highway on Thursday, disrupting traffic for hours. The administration and the police had to pacify the patients by assuring them that they would resolve the problem soon.Leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, met the district-level medical officer, Dr Aisha Dhawan (psychiatrist), at the local Civil Hospital and brought the problem to the notice of the authorities concerned.Salwinder Singh Jeobala, leader of the committee, said at present the patients were given medicines just for one day and the patients had to wait almost all day for their turn. He said most of the patients were daily wagers and could not go to work as a result of which they could not make ends meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-medicines-ails-ooat-centres-in-tarn-taran-356817
01-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Bid to take possession of Tarn Tarans Baba Charan Das gurdwara, 1 injured||Tension prevailed at Chuslewar village, near Patti town, after residents opposed armed Nihangs’ bid to take possession of Gurdwara Baba Charan Das last night.According to information, the Nihangs associated with the Dal Panth Jhad Sahib had gone to take over the gurdwara when local residents converged on the spot and opposed the move, leading to a clash. One person was injured and was admitted to a hospital.The residents led by sarpanches Narinder Singh (Chuslewar), Harjindeer Singh (Boparai) and Satbir Singh Rammi (Thakarpura) besides other prominent figures accused the district police of inaction.The residents alleged the Nihangs had detained Dharam Singh, chief sewadar of the gurdwara, and his four family members. Shopkeepers of the area downed their shutters in protest.DSP Baljinder Singh said they were trying to pacify both sides. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-take-possession-of-gurdwara-1-injured-356763
01-01-2022||GS Paul||Migratory birds flock to Harike wetland in Tarn Taran district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 31With the advent of winter, birds through the Central Asian Flyway have started converging in a number of clusters at Harike, India’s second largest wetland, in Tarn Taran district.The winged guests are expected to stay at the wetland till March.The WWF, Wildlife and the Forest Department, which oversee the wetland, have started the process to conduct a study and make arrangements to prevent poaching incidents.Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, Aquatic Biodiversity, WWF (India), said around 60 species of birds migrate from around 33 countries of Europe and Eurasia.Flocks of greylag goose, bar-headed geese, common pochards, red-crested pochards started coming here in October.“It is just an onset of representative birds. Species like brown-headed gull, Eurasian coot, marsh harrier, Pallas’s gull, shanks and sandpipers had arrived early. Besides, other species of birds in Harike include tufted duck, Eurasian wigeon, grebes, ruddy shelduck, common teal, northern pintail,” she said.Kamaljit Singh, Harike Range Officer of Forest Department, said adequate arrangements had been made to facilitate bird lovers and ensure security of the winged guests.“Our teams are vigilant round the clock and patrolling to keep a check on poaching. We also keep a close watch on the behaviour of migratory birds. For bird watchers, there are bird hide shelters to observe the birds at close quarters, besides the usual watch towers. We have adequately arranged binoculars for them,” he said.A total of around 90 species of birds find abode at Harike lake, including the migratory ones.The wetland and the lake were formed by constructing headwork across the Sutlej in 1953. Since then, the wetland, spread about 41 sq km, has become a favourite destination among rare varieties of avifauna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migratory-birds-flock-to-harike-wetland-356764
01-01-2022||GS Paul||Missing 'Saroops' of Guru Granth Sahib: Suspended SGPC employee to challenge panel's decision||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 31After the Shiromani Gurdawara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) imposed Rs 5-lakh fine on its suspended employee Gurmukh Singh, the accused alleged that he was being made a scapegoat. Gurmukh Singh was suspended following disappearance of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.He said he was appointed in the publication department on February 5, 2019, whereas the alleged embezzlement pertained to the period between 2013 and 2015.Gurmukh Singh, who got retired in April, said he had already challenged his suspension orders in the High Court and now would file another writ regarding ‘penalising’ him.“I had received a letter dated December 28 that the SGPC executive had imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on me. I am directed to deposit the amount by January 10, otherwise the amount would be deducted from my retirement dues. This is unfair and I am going to take a legal action against it,” he said.Several Sikh organisations had criticised the SGPC for preventing to lodge an FIR in the case. The Sikh Sadhbhawna Dal, led by Golden Temple’s former raagi Baldev Singh Wadala, has been staging a dharna for the past 14 months at the Heritage Street against the SGPC’s lenient administration. He had also moved the High Court as no FIR was lodged with the police in the case. “We had also submitted a complaint with the Amritsar Commissioner of Police in this regard, but the SGPC did not let the case be registered,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspended-sgpc-employee-to-challenge-panels-decision-356774
01-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Sepoy cremated with honours in Tarn Taran village||Sepoy Jasbir Singh (26) was cremated with military and state honours at his native Vein Poin village on Friday. The martyr had died in an encounter with terrorists in Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir, on Thursday.Martyr Jasbir is survived by his father Gurbhej Singh, mother Sukhwinder Kaur, younger brother Ranjit Singh and sister Rajwinder Kaur.The body of Jasbir was brought to the village by the Army, where the kin paid their tribute and the Punjab Police saluted the martyr. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for a member of the bereaved family of the martyr. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sepoy-cremated-with-honours-356784
