02-01-2022||Amritsar||SGPC’s ‘Ros Divas’ on January 2 to protest against incidents of sacrilege||SGPC is going to conduct ‘Ros Divas’ in protest against the incidents of sacrilege here on January 2. A meeting of SGPC members, chaired by SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, was held. “Sri Guru Granth Sahib is supreme for the Sikhs and the incidents of sacrilege have shocked the psyche of the community. The government is not making efforts to reach the actual culprits who desecrated the holy book of Sikhs. On January 2, representatives of various Sikh organisations would assemble at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex,” he said.Meanwhile, Dhami expressed grief over the demise of Giani Rowail Singh, who served as the head granthi of Gurdwara Sri Nankana Sahib in Pakistan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpcs-ros-divas-on-january-2-357236
02-01-2022||Amritsar||Khalra Mission Organisation, rights bodies seek release of Sikh political prisoners||Activists of the Khalra Mission Organisation, Punjab Human Rights Organisation, and Manukhi Adhikar Insaaf Sangarsh Committee staged a protest against the Union Government, demanding it to release Sikh political prisoners on the Bhandari Railway overbridge.The protesters also sought withdrawal of cases registered against Bibi Jasbir Kaur, Jagmeet Singh and Ravinder Singh by Patiala Police. They said Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib were persecuted by Aurangzeb. Now, the majority community, instead of following the philosophy of Guru Sahib, was toeing the policy of Aurangzeb. They alleged the Patiala police of registering a case of treason against Jasbir Kaur, her sons Jagmeet Singh and Ravinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activists-seek-release-of-sikh-political-prisoners-357235
02-01-2022||Amritsar||Two booked for fraud||The Vallah police have booked Sahib Singh and Jagwinder Singh, both residents of Kila Jivan Singh village in Jandiala Guru for allegedly duping a local resident identified Gurpreet Singh of Rs 6 lakhs.The victim alleged that the accused took the amount from him on the pretext of getting him recruited as computer clerk in the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee. The accused gave him a fake appointment letter. The police have registered a case under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC in this regard. No arrest was made till now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-fraud-357234
02-01-2022||In the season of heightened political activity||Gurdaspur Diary: Contenders vs pretenders||Governor comes calling to cityThis week Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit visited Gurdaspur. Preparations had been going on for weeks for his visit. He visited the ‘Chotta Ghallughara’ memorial where 7,000 Sikhs were killed by the Mughal army in 1746 while 3,000 had been taken into captivity. Everything went off with clockwork precision except for the protocol part. Officials did not know that when you address a Governor, the word “His Excellency” must be used. The VIP was taken to all parts of the memorial and all he heard was officials addressing him as ‘Sir’. The dignitary must have felt awkward but never did he show it.Canvassing begins in villagesAfter days of agonising wait, the AAP finally declared Raman Bahl as its candidate for the Gurdaspur Assembly seat. The former Chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB) had resigned from his post a few weeks ago. The moment he did so, rumours had started floating that he would be the AAP candidate. However, the final decision came last week. With Bahl’s candidature being made official now, things on the political firmament are warming up. The SAD-BSP alliance has already announced two time legislator Gurbachan Singh Babbehali as its nominee. The BJP and the Congress are still to make the names of their candidates public. Both Bahl and Babbehali can be seen canvassing in the villages. There are nearly 100 villages which fall in this Assembly seat. Both these leaders know that whoever wins the villages, takes the seat. Bahl’s personal equation with Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia is well known in the area. This is helping him in more ways than one. The other day in Pathankot, Kejriwal gave him a long, warm hug while standing atop a mini truck. The pictures later went viral on various platforms. The message was loud and clear-Vote for Bahl because he can get things done, courtesy his proximity to Kejriwal.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contenders-vs-pretenders-357233
02-01-2022||Amritsar||New counters for offering karah parsad at Golden Temple||In view of the arrival of pilgrims in large numbers, the SGPC inaugurated newly built counters for offering karah parsad degh at the Golden Temple. Before the inauguration of the counters, head granthi of Sri Harmandar Sahib, Giani Jagtar Singh recited the Gurbani of Sri Anand Sahib and the ardas (prayer) was offered by Bhai Sukhdev Singh.SGPC President Harjinder Singh Dhami and prominent personalities attended the ceremony. Dhami said, “The arrival of sangat, new counters were set up to offer karah parsad,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-counters-for-offering-karah-parsad-at-golden-temple-357232
02-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Baba Tara Singh, 50 followers booked||The Sadar Police Patti had booked Baba Tara Singh of Jhad Sahib and his 50 associates who made a bid to take over the possession of Gurdwara Baba Beer Singh of Chuslewar on Thursday night. Baba Tara Singh and his armed associates entered the gurdwara in the midnight and fired to terrorise the residents who had opposed his move.A number of area sarpanches who had opposed the move of Baba Tara Singh had alleged that the police were hands-in-glove with Baba Tara Singh. As most of the sarpanches were affiliated with the Congress, they had threated to part their ways from the Congress i if Baba Tara Singh was not pushed out of the Gurdwara. Sub-Inspector Gurbhej Singh said a case under the IPC and Sections 25,27,54 of the 59 Arms Act has been registered against the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-tara-singh-50-followers-booked-357231
02-01-2022||---||Minor girl raped, youth booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 1Jandiala police have booked Amritpal Singh, a resident of Chhota village falling under Vairowal village in Tarn Taran, for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl. The incident occurred on November 22 last year while a case was registered after a complaint was lodged with the police on Friday.The victim used to learn stitching in Jandiala Guru area. The victim told the police that on November 11 when she was going to the centre where she learned stitching, the accused met her at the Jandiala Guru bus stand, threatened her and took her to a hotel near the Golden Temple where he forcibly made physical relations with her.The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC added with Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The police said the medical examination of the victim was conducted and raids were on to nab the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-raped-youth-booked-357230
02-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Sambar found dead on highway||A sambar was found dead on Saturday from the National Highways No. 54 near Rasulpur village from the roadside. He was bearing multiple injuries. The local Sadar police told the officials of the Wildlife Department who took the carcass in their custody. The postmortem of the animal was conducted at the local Veterinary Polyclinic where Dr Baljit Singh Veterinary Officer conducted the postmortem.Dr Baljit Singh said it looked that the animal died in a road accident as its limbs received multiple injuries and even its legs too were broken. Residents said more often wildlife animals came out of their earmarked area and fail to return and die in road accidents. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sambar-found-dead-on-highway-357229
02-01-2022||---||Social stigma keeps third gender voters off electoral roll||Amritsar, January 1With the district administration directing most of its efforts to reach out to transgender voters, the community leaders are being engaged actively to create awareness and encourage members of transgender community to exercise their vote in upcoming Assembly elections. District SVEEP teams have been organising workshops and seminars for maximum participation, but the core issues of the community remain same over the years, resulting in many voters choosing to stay away from electoral process.Given the previous voting record of transgender voters in the district, only four out of the 58 registered voters exercised their vote during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Overall, in 2019 polls, out of 562 registered voters from the community, only 149 cats their vote. The reason for the low turnout can be many, but according to Meena Devi, District Child development Officer, who is leading SVEEP activities in district, the major factor remains the lack of political representation.“Most of the transgender voters are aware and educated about the electoral participation and process. Earlier, many used to shy away from voting due to social stigma attached with the community. But now that the electoral process recognises the third gender, their participation become equally important to the democratic process. When we approach them through our camps, they do share that their community is not given due political representation. But many have now come out to encourage others to vote and be a part of the electoral process,” she says.Their core issues remain lack of employment opportunities in mainstream society, social acceptance, education and fighting the stigma. Meena and her team has been working in collaboration with several community leaders in Haripura and Baba Bakala blocks to ensure voter registration. “We listen to them and also try to help them get government welfare and benefits. Most of them want pension benefits for elders in the community and employment benefits for younger members or their wards,” she shares.Talking about the issue, a member of the community, on condition of anonymity, says, “Though our community members choose to stay away from politics, we have not been given our due representation by any political party. Also, more awareness regarding recognition of the third gender must be raised as many voters still carry voter cards that mention them as female or male. It discourages them to reveal their identity and go to cast their votes.”Issues of transgenderThe core issues of the transgender community remain lack of employment opportunities in mainstream society, social acceptance, education and fighting the stigma. Meena and her team has been working in collaboration with several community leaders in Haripura and Baba Bakala blocks to ensure voter registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-stigma-keeps-third-gender-voters-off-electoral-roll-357226
02-01-2022||Amritsar||Havan held for new beginnings||Students shine in examsThirteen students of Global Group of Colleges (GGC) bagged gold medals in various streams, the results of which were declared by PTU recently. The gold medals would be awarded to them on January 8 (2022) during the 14th convocation of IKG-PTU. The students who bagged gold medals and made their alma mater and their parents proud are Harsimranjit Kaur, B Tech IT (2012-16), Mohit Singh, B Tech Mech. Engg. (2013-17), Navdeep Kaur MBA (2016-18), Md. Jaffrudin Ansari B Tech Civil (2016-20), Ramanpreet Kaur B Tech IT (2016-20), Rakshita Gupta MBA (2019-21), Sarpreet Kaur, M Tech CSE (2015-17), Akshay Kumar B.Sc ATHM (2014-17), Navalpreet Kaur B.Sc HMCT (2014-17), Sukhraj Singh B.Sc.Agri. (2014-18), Palak B.Sc.HMCT (2015-18), Kamalpreet Virk, B.Sc.HMCT (2016-19) and Kawaljit Kaur BCA (2016-19).Admissions to courses till Jan 15The department of lifelong learning of Guru Nanak Dev University is running skill-based, six-month certificate courses in cutting & tailoring and beauty culture courses for matric-pass girls. Similarly, the courses of web designing, English speaking and communication skills and computer basic concept for boys and girls with Class XII qualification. The last date of admission will be January 15, 2022. For further information, students could visit the university website www.gndu.ac.in/lifelong/default.aspxTwo held for theftAmritsar: The Kotwali police have arrested Maninder Singh aka Honey of the Golden Gate area and Tushar Kumar, alias Babbu of Chowk Crori for allegedly stealing mobiles and belongings of devotees coming to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple here. Two mobiles have been recovered from their possession. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/havan-held-for-new-beginnings-357223
02-01-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar district logs 9 new Covid-19 cases||Man held with intoxicantsAmritsar: The police arrested Rahul of Bhagtanwala for allegedly possessing 3,600 intoxicating tablets. The police said he was arrested following a tip-off. A naka was laid in Division C police station area, following information during which he was intercepted and sedative pills were seized from his possession. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him. TNSDelivery boy dies in road mishapAmritsar: Vikaspal, a resident of Guru Nanakpura, died after he got crushed between a tractor trolley and an Innova on the Airport road on Wednesday night. He used to work in Zomato and was going to deliver the food on the Airport road. The police have booked and arrested Harpreet Singh of Shahura village of Lopoke, driver of the tractor trolley. He was later released on bail. Harsimran Singh, complainant alleged that he, along with Vikaspal, was going to deliver the food on the Airport road on separate bikes. He said the deceased was overtaking Innova when he was hit by a tractor trolley coming from the wrong side. He got crushed between trolley and Innova. He died on the spot. TNS7 Mobiles seized from Central jailAmritsar: During a search operation in Ward No. 1 of the Central Jail, the jail staff recovered seven mobile phones, an indigenous mobile charger, 16 bundles of cigarettes and a heater spring. Following a complaint by Ravail Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Jail, the Islamabad police booked three jail inmates. They were identified as Paramjit Singh of Sultanwind village, Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, of Bhittewad village and Kuldeep Singh of Dhirowal village in Gurdaspur. Four mobile phones were found abandoned near a bathroom’s exhaust fan and a damaged mobile phone and charger from the backside of the de-addiction centre. Two unclaimed packets were also recovered from the jail complex in which there were 16 bundles of cigarettes and a heater spring. A case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prison Act has been registered in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-9-new-covid-19-cases-357220
02-01-2022||---||Woman among 5 booked for murder||Amritsar, January 1Bhindi Saida police have booked five persons, including a woman, for allegedly killing Baldev Singh (52) of Jasraur village over a dispute.The accused had assaulted the victim on December 13 leaving him critically injured. He succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital on Friday.Among those booked were identified as Tarsem Masih, his three sons Salim Masih, Gopi Masih and Ajay Masih and Surjit Kaur, all residents of Bhindi Aulakh Khurd.The victim’s son Harpreet Singh told the police that all the accused assaulted his father Baldev Singh when he was going to Gurdwara Damdama Sahib in the village. They stopped his bike and attacked him with wooden sticks leaving his seriously injured. He was rushed to a private hospital in Amritsar where he succumbed on Friday.Harpal Singh, SHO, Bhindi Saida police station, said the victim had an old dispute with the accused. The accused had earlier apologized to the victim’s family in the dispute after the village panchayat intervened. However, the accused kept a grudge against them and therefore attacked him on December 13. He said raids were on to nab the culprits who absconded after the victim died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-among-5-booked-for-murder-357218
02-01-2022||---||Nonagenarian gets justice after 8 years||Amritsar, January 1After the eight-year-long legal battle, 95-year-old Santokh Singh, a UK-based NRI, has seen a glimmer of hope as a court has convicted seven persons of fraud and criminal conspiracy in a case involving the accused who had fraudulently got a sale deed registered on behalf of him.Santokh Singh had come to India in June 2013 to get a transfer deed executed to transfer five acres of his ancestral land at Jallewal village near Sarhali Kalan.However, his nephew Bakshish Singh along with his brother and two sisters-in-law conspired to get a sale deed registered in their name instead of his wish to make a transfer deed in the name of his son Sakattar Singh, a resident of the UK.Santokh Singh said it was a very depressing moment for him as he did not know what to do and whom to complain. He said he came to know about the fraud after he returned to England and sent a relative to get a registered copy of the deed.Finally, an FIR was registered at Tarn Taran city police station under sections 420 (fraud), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC. However, the charges under Section 342 of the IPC could not be proven. In the judgment regarding the case pronounced by a court at Tarn Taran on December 24, 2021, Bakshish Singh, his brother Jagdish Singh, sisters-in-law Gurmeet Kaur Rinki and Gurmeet Kaur, Sulakhan Singh, Amrik Singh and Gurmej Singh had been sentenced to two years in imprisonment and Rs 3,000 fine (for each) by holding them guilty of offences under Sections 120-B and 420, IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nonagenarian-gets-justice-after-8-years-357217
02-01-2022||---||AIT earns Rs 173 cr from auction of 110 properties||Amritsar, January 1The auction of several residential plots, SCOs and shops went up to more than expectation during the rescheduled auction of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) properties that finished late on Thursday night.The auction was postponed due to technical issues on December 23. This time, no interruption was reported during auction and applicants were satisfied. The AIT got good response and amount from the auction of properties. A revenue of Rs173 crore has been collected from the auction of 110 properties of the Amritsar Improvement Trust. Trust chairman Damandeep Singh and officials were expecting only up to Rs150 crore from the auction. But when the bidding was conducted, residents enthusiastically participated. As a result, the trust collected record revenue. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had issued stay orders on the auction of four properties. The properties at New Amritsar, Ajnala Road, 97 Acre Scheme Ranjit Avenue and Jahazgarh were sold in this auction.AIT chairman Damandeep Singh Uppal said he had committed for a transparent bidding, due to which the common people have participated and got plots, SCOs of their choice. “The attempts of land mafia to hack the auction proved futile,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ait-earns-rs-173-cr-from-auction-of-110-properties-357216
02-01-2022||Amritsar||Two arrested for cheating||Amritsar rural police have nabbed two persons for allegedly cheating commuters and allegedly extorting money from them by posing as cops.They were identified as Palwinder Singh of Raipur Kalan village and Sukhwinder Singh of Dalt village in Gurdaspur.ASI Parshotam Lal, investigating officer of the case, said they got a tip-off that the accused were present at the Gill village turn where they had put a checkpoint and was checking the vehicles after wearing police uniform. A raid was conducted and the accused were arrested from the spot. He said as per a preliminary probe, they used to put up nakas in different parts of rural belt. Following the probe, the accused were produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody. He said a case under Section 419 (cheating by impersonation) of the IPC was registered against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-cheating-357214
02-01-2022||---||Blind murder case solved, two held||Amritsar, January 1With the arrest of two persons, Beas police on Saturday claimed to have solved a blind murder case, in which a farm labourer was found dead on the intervening night of December 19 and 20 at Sathiala village here.The unidentified persons also decamped with a buffalo and around 14 hens from the spot. Harmanmohanjitpal Singh, a resident of Sathiala village, told the police that Bhola Singh, who hails from Bihar, used to work as a farm labourer in his fields.He said unidentified persons killed him. He said they informed the police who registered a case under Section 460 of the IPC in this regard. Rakesh Kaushal, SSP (Amritsar rural), said during the probe, the police team zeroed in on Jatinder Singh and Sapinder Singh, both residents of the same village and their unidentified accomplices.The duo were arrested by the police and raids were on to nab their remaining accomplices. Those absconding have been identified as Sabi, Ranjit Singh of Sheron village and Saajan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blind-murder-case-solved-two-held-357213
02-01-2022||---||Gang of robbers busted, 5 held||Amritsar, January 1With the arrest of five persons, the city police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers active in border areas. The police recovered five pistols, 20 bullets along with magazines and a bike from their possession.All the accused hail from Tarn Taran. Those arrested were identified as Lovejit Singh of Gandiwind village, Akashdeep Singh of Harike Pattan, Bhupinder Singh of Alipura village, Harpreet Singh of Chohla Sahib and Ranjit Singh of Bhikhwind. A case under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them at Chheharta police station here.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Jugraj Singh said the accused were planning to commit a dacoity at a house (belonging to a prominent person in the area) at Ghanupur Kale area last night. The police confiscated five .32 pistols, five magazines with 20 live cartridges from their possession.Station House Officer Sukhbir Singh said the accused used to procure high quality country-made weapons from Madhya Pradesh and provide to gangsters. Earlier, Tarn Taran police had recovered 14 pistols and two rifles from them in two separate cases.“Lovejit Singh was active in Tarn Taran area for the past four years and he had links with notorious gangsters in Punjab,” he said, adding he had five criminal cases registered against them. In three of them, they were released on bail while the remaining two cases were still under investigations. A preliminary probe found that they were planning to commit more robberies in Amritsar. After coming out on bail in August 5 last year, they formed a gang while joining other persons.Further probe is on to verify the antecedents of the remaining four accused.More recoveries are likely to be made from their possession during further interrogation. They were produced in a court and brought on two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-5-held-357212
02-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC’s priority this year: solving traffic woes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 1After the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in 2021, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation started taking initiatives to strengthen infrastructure in the city.The first phase of the 24 x7 surface-based canal water supply project worth Rs 2,200 crore was initiated in February (2021) which would help in providing clean and safe drinking water to the people of the holy city. The project, once completed, would reduce dependence on underground water which had been leading to the degradation of the environment in the state.After fulfilling the basic amenities, we have initiated beautification projects. More than 300 tubewells have been installed or replaced, sewerage system extended and replaced in almost every ward and garbage collection project extended to walled city areas. We had improved a lot in the cleanliness area, but there are still some shortcomings which we will address in 2022 Karamjit Singh Rintu, MayorThe MC claims to have installed 66,000 LED streetlights by replacing ordinary lights under the Smart City project. The beautification projects, including façade development project at Hall Bazaar, smart outer ring road of the walled city and Baba Deep Singh Marg beautification, have been implemented. A project to improve the air quality index has been introduced in the city but it has yet to be implemented. The first phase of Heritage Street at Durgiana Temple has been completed.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “After fulfilling the basic amenities, we have initiated beautification projects. More than 300 tubewells have been installed or replaced, sewerage system extended and replaced in almost every ward and garbage collection project extended to walled city areas. We had improved a lot in the cleanliness area, but there are still some shortcomings which we will address in 2022.”Despite its tall claims, the MC failed to achieve much in the national-level cleanliness survey of 2021. The city improved its ranking in the national-level cleanliness survey, Swachh Survekshan-2021.In the category of cities having a population of above 10 lakh, the city bagged the 34th rank.Owing to the lack of parking spaces and proper traffic management, city dwellers are facing huge traffic jams. Authorities have failed to provide parking lots around the walled city.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that more parking lots would be developed in 2022 to address the problem of traffic jams in most parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mcs-priority-this-year-solving-traffic-woes-357211
02-01-2022||---||Devotees throng Golden Temple to mark the dawn of 2022||Amritsar, January 1Thousands of devotees paid obeisance at the Golden Temple to mark the dawn of 2022 on Saturday.Braving the chill and fog, thousands of devotees thronged the shrine in the early hours. Officials of SGPC said serpentine queues were visible throughout the day. Inns, lodges, guest houses and hotels in the vicinity registered 100 per cent occupancy.To mark the occasion, the SGPC in collaboration with Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Mumbai, held a free Covid-19 vaccination camp at the entrance plaza. SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami inaugurated the camp in which 2,000 vaccines were administered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devotees-throng-golden-temple-357140
