03-01-2022||Amritsar||6 mobiles seized from Central jail||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-mobiles-seized-from-central-jail-357603
03-01-2022||Online classes should be restarted||Open House:  Should the govt allow opening of schools, colleges after winter vacation amid omicron scare?||There has been a rapid rise in Omicron cases in the past few days, which has led to the imposition of restrictions by authorities in many parts of the country to contain its spread. The period after the winter vacations can be quite challenging for everyone as social gatherings might increase leading to a spurt in cases. If possible, online classes should be started for students so that the transmission of virus can be curtailed to some extent. People should follow the rules listed by authorities strictly because collective effort is needed to curtail the pandemic.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHQUESTIONThe recent bomb blast at the District Courts Complex in Ludhiana has raised concern over public safety. With the Assembly poll just round the corner, maintaining law and order has become a major issue again. What should be done to avert such terror strikes and ensure safety and security of the public at large?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 6)Follow a disciplined, scientific approachIt is not a hearsay. It’s not a rumour to be brushed aside. It is real. Virus variant Omicron is spreading worldwide and infecting our populations like other countries. The US witnessed a huge rise in number of cases, Omicron infections being almost 60% of new cases. The only relief, so far, has been the knowledge that its symptoms are comparatively mild and less fatalities, but the rate of infection is high. As per World Health Organization warning, the number of single day global cases is a record 1.5 million and could overwhelm health care systems everywhere. Our northern states like Himachal, Punjab, Haryana will not remain safe places for long if steps are not taken in advance. However, extending winter vacation, to my mind seems too much at this stage. Insisting on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, more strictly, would be more appropriate. More important is to guard our national and international borders. The population is considerably vaccinated, which will provide some protection against Omicron as well though not statistically confirmed yet. In fact, new infections are prominent amongst the fully vaccinated. Right now, the emphasis should be to cover more children, 15-18 years of age and start on the booster dose too. Most important is to jab more and more people. I think keeping schools/colleges closed is not the issue. The real super spreaders are public places like bus stands, trains, religious institutions, festivals and, yes, political rallies. Right now, provision of facilities for hand washing and sanitisers, as during Covid-19 crisis, should be our priority while guarding ourselves from the virus.MOHAN SINGHOverdose of online classes health hazardDuring the pandemic, mostly all the sectors had gone into slump and so with the education . The education sector has been hit due to the circumstances prevailed since last year. The effect of this can be seen on students cognitive power. Although online classes were going on but it was not considered as good alternative because incessant use of smart phones had spiked the number of students with eye disorders and also leads to obesity among learners. But to protect children from Covid infection, it was significant. Now again the situation is sensitive and winter vacation is going on. Educational institutions should not start offline classes amidst of spurt in Omicron cases. To make students comfortable with their timetable and in order to reduce sitting in front of mobile screen, academic institutions ensure the time limit of online classes so that education, health protection and protocols made by government would be given due consideration.Sukhmeet KaurOpening of schools doesn’t make senseIt is a matter of grave concern that Omicron cases have started increasing slowly and steadily in the country. On the question of opening of schools and colleges after the winter vacation, there is no unanimity but the government should not spare any effort to safeguard the students from infection. Many parents don’t want to send their children to schools and colleges for offline classes but at the same time many are desirous of the continuation of physical classes claiming that when most public places are open and children are going to all these places then why should not they go to schools and colleges. The closure of the educational institutions will hamper the teaching-learning process as online teaching is teaching only in name and it cannot promote skills such as reading, writing, listening , speaking and face to face communication that is possible only in offline classes. Even WHO calls for educational institutions to remain open with appropriate prevention and response measures in place. If and when restrictions are imposed to lessen or check the transmission, interrupting students’ education should be the last resort as closure of temples of learning does more harm than good especially from the students’ mental and social well-being point of view. However, in schooling environment physical distancing, cleaning hands frequently, wearing masks, ensuring adequate ventilation in class rooms and enhancing access to testing and treatment are most important. Even the teachers of all government institutions have been compulsorily vaccinated to facilitate class room teaching. Students can not jeopardise having another year of disrupted and haphazard learning. The biggest concern that is the safety of the students can not be put on the backburner. The way the things are now unfolding in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab and only fully jabbed people are allowed to venture out of their houses, the opening of schools and colleges after the winter vacation does not make any sense.Tarsem S BumrahStart vaccination drive for childrenRising cases of Omicron have raised concerns in the minds of the people. Some people say that in view of the safety of children, the administration should close schools and colleges and start online education. Most of the people are of the opinion that the third wave of Covid-19 cannot be avoided by closing schools and colleges. The only way to avoid the third wave of Covid-19 is to start vaccinating children under the age of 16 at the earliest so that all children are vaccinated. Of course, vaccination is not a definitive cure for Covid-19 but it can still largely block the effects of Omicron. The administration should not close schools and colleges as the education of the children has already been severely damaged during the pandemic. The administration should make schools, colleges and the general public aware of the guidelines of Covid-19. In addition, more and more people should be made aware to vaccinate their children.Sucha SinghDon’t repeat the same mistakesIn the past, when warning signal were coming from Western countries about the danger of Covid we did not pay serious attention to it. We are repeating the same mistake. We should not start physical attendance in schools/ colleges til whole of our population gets two doses. If we go by data available for Amritsar district, out of total of 15,20,000 persons eligible for vaccination only 7,33,126 got two doses till December 25, 2021. It means 7,86,874 persons are yet to get second dose which includes 87,047 persons who have not got even first dose of vaccination. So instead of taking a risky step of starting school/ college classes, government machinery should pay attention to complete the process of vaccination.Harsh Joharelections may lead to spurt in casesThe danger of Covid is still looming large on us. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also devoted a major part of his previous ‘Mann Ki Baat’ speech on the deadly disease. He said self-discipline and self-awareness are our strengths to fight the disease. Moreover, Allahabad High Court has also written to the Election Commission of India to postpone assembly election in UP in view of the fear of spread of the virus during road shows and rallies. As state Assembly elections in Punjab are also due at the same time hence we are also in the same danger zone. So it better to start online classes in schools/colleges after winter break.Nityanshi ChopraPrevention is always better than cureStudies have proved that the latest variant of Covid-19 called Omicron is much milder hence less disastrous in comparison with the original one. But in the same report it has been concluded that transmission of Omicron is much faster than the previous. This has been proved right when on a single day United Kingdom reported one lakh cases of the deadly disease. Moreover, starting of off-line school/college classes involved youth of the country, therefore it is better to switch to online classes after winter break and follow the old saying Prevention is better than cure.Naresh JoharStriking a balance between health & eduThe spurt in the Covid infection cases has again forced us to think whether schools and colleges should be opened or remain closed after the winter vacations. As they say ‘Jaan hai to Jahan hai’ but what will be one’s life, if one remains devoid of education and is deprived of a dignified living. Thus, there has to be a balanced approach in maintaining health and continuing the quest for education. School, colleges and institutions will have to be opened but with all Covid required behaviour and safeguards like social distancing and compulsorily mask wearing. The pandemic has effected educational institutes, not only in Punjab, India but all over the world. While it is hoped that school colleges and the campuses will buzz with the physical presence of of students and teachers, the widespread use of digital technology is here to stay. Through blended learning and flipped classrooms, students are no longer limited by teaching resources and learning possibilities available within the institutions’ physical boundaries. The new world is there for the taking-where knowledge from across the country and indeed the world can be availed. With National Education Policy-2020, India has set an ambitious agenda. The Omicron variant threatens to keep crores of Indian children restricted to their homes for a third, consecutive year. Everyone agrees that amid new crises, survival comes first, every thing else is a luxury. However we have reached a stage in this pandemic where the risks of restarting in-person classes are worth it. This not to say that we shouldn’t be cautious. By all means enforce masking and distancing on students as well the teachers and ensure school, and colleges are well ventilated and safe for students to step into. Education, has suffered enough in pandemic, going to school and college is a very necessary function and one of most importance.LJ SINGHGo for online classes for students’ safetyTo handle to Covid-19 crisis, the state government should not allow the opening of schools and colleges after the winter vacation. The government should definitely switch back to online classes for the safety and security of students. In today’s life, nothing is utmost important than securing lives of students. This is because they are the future of our country and their good health is cause of concern not only for parents but as well as for teachers. As the proverb goes prevention is better than cure, so the government should take all precautions.SANJAY CHAWLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-should-the-govt-allow-opening-of-schools-colleges-after-winter-vacation-amid-omicron-scare-357602
03-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Snag in Edu Dept's website annoys aspirants||The aspirants of physical education teachers are facing a lot of harassment due to the Education Department’s site not opening properly.Sarwan Singh Rasulpur, a social worker, said the Punjab Education Recruitment Board released an advertisement to fill 2,000 post of PTI and DPEd teachers in different newspapers on December 16 last year. The last date for applying was January 3 (Monday), but the site was not opening. Nachhattar Singh, leader of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, condemned the Education Department for harassing thousands of aspirants. They demanded extension of the date to apply for the advertised posts.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snag-in-edu-depts-website-annoys-aspirants-357601
03-01-2022||---||Defunct lights lead to chaos at Putligarh Chowk in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Commuters are at the receiving end as the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has failed to repair the traffic lights, which stopped functioning around three months ago, at Putligarh Chowk.The spot witnesses regular traffic jams due to the defunct lights. Residents of localities near the GT Road say they witness chaos at the junction during the peak morning and evening hours. Cops on duty, too, feel helpless.The lack of coordination between traffic police, the civic body and the Public Works Department seems to be the reason behind frequent faults and subsequent delay in repairing these. Residents and shopkeepers of the area complain that the traffic lights develop snags frequently. Traffic chaos has become the order of the day.Students of Guru Nanak Dev University, Khalsa College, Khalsa School, Polytechnic College, Khalsa College for Women and Nursing College can be seen stuck in traffic at Putlighar Chowk in the morning.Gurkirat Singh, a student, said, “Everyone is suffering here, but those who reside in the Putligarh area and study at Khalsa College and visit Rani Ka Bagh for tuitions have to spend more time on roads due to traffic jams and reach their destinations late. There must be some solution to these routine traffic jams.”Cops on duty at Putligarh Chowk claim that they have been working round the clock to manage traffic, but MC officials do not cooperate.Rohan Kumar, an activist, said, “Putligarh Chowk is the main commercial hub of the west constituency. We have talked to the police to address the issue of traffic jams but to no avail. We will meet police officials to depute traffic cops to manage traffic until the traffic lights get functional.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defunct-lights-lead-to-chaos-at-putligarh-chowk-357600
03-01-2022||---||Jasmitar Singh Majithia quits Congress||Amritsar, January 2Senior Congress leader Jasmitar Singh Majithia has decided to quit the Congress party. In a press conference, Jasmitar Singh Majithia said he had been working for the Congress party in the Majithia Assembly constituency for a long time.“During this, I worked with the senior leaders of Congress party alongside Sukhjindar Raj Singh Lali Majithia but it is sad to say that the Congress high command has always betrayed the leaders and workers working for the party. That is why Lali Majithia left the Congress party on Saturday and due to the same reason, I am also leaving the party.”Jasmitar Singh Majithia said, “Apart from this, I belong to the SC community. For the first time in Punjab, a man belonging to the SC community has been made the Chief Minister. But the Congress high command is going to betray the Dalit community this time. For the 2022 elections, Congress will not announce Charanjit Singh Channi or any person belonging to the Dalit community as the face of the Chief Minister in Punjab. As the Congress high command has decided to contest the elections without the Chief Minister face, it means they have played the Dalit card only to get the Dalit community vote by appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister.”Jasmitar Majithia said his decision of the Congress party had proved that they are going to betray the Dalit community just as they had betrayed the Sikh community in 1984. He said if the Congress party betrayed the Dalit community in this a manner, then the Dalit community of the state might turn against the Congress party and the Congress party would have to bear the consequences. Majithia said for these reasons he had decided to resign from his party with his colleagues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jasmitar-singh-majithia-quits-congress-357599
03-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||An era of relaying TV through antennas comes to an end||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Doordarshan closed its transmitting station at Basarke Gillan village, situated near here, on December 31. The move has brought to an end an era of relaying terrestrial transmission to TV sets through the obsolete roof-top antennae. Installed in 1973, it is the third oldest DD tower in India.The transmitting station not only used to serve the district, but also areas across the International Border (IB). The old Prasar Bharati tower at Basarke Gillan village has no presence of Prasar Bharati and only four private transmitters are operating through it.Harjap Singh Aujla, a retired engineer, said: “The only FM radio transmitter operating on 103.6 MHz from another dwarf tower adjoining the tall tower is too busy. That is why the night transmission of external Urdu service from 9:30 pm to 1:00 am is not being carried by this transmitter. We need at least three transmitters at this location to continue this Urdu service.”Aujla recalled that its signals used to be available in Pakistan’s Lahore. On the other hand, the completion of partially dismantled super high-transmitting tower at Gharinda village was still awaited. “As far as the super high-transmitting tower at Gharinda is concerned, it was partially dismantled in June 2020. After that, on the excuse of Covid-19 pandemic, the re-construction work was suspended, but even when Corona was negligible, the work was not started,” he said.The construction of the project at Gharinda had commenced in 2006. Now, 2021 was also over and the work had not been completed even after 15 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-era-of-relaying-tv-through-antennas-comes-to-an-end-357597
03-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Spotlight back on Majitha constituency||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Well ahead of the announcement of the Assembly election, the focus has shifted to high-profile Majitha Assembly constituency being represented by Bikram Singh Majithia, second senior most leader of the SAD after the Badals.Firstly, on December 21, former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia was booked under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Lately, his arch rival Congress leader Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, who had lost last three Assembly elections consecutively to senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, joined the Aam Aadmi Party to give him a tough fight.Earlier, Lalli resigned as chairman-cum-director, Punjab State Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain). The AAP had fielded Himmet Singh Shergill in the 2017 election, who had negligible impact on voters. Now, Lalli being a native of the town could pose a formidable challenge.In Majitha, the SAD proved its dominance by grabbing 10 wards out of 13 in the municipal councils and nagar panchayats held in the district in February last year indicating Bikram Majithia’s influence in his constituency. The forthcoming election would be a test of his grip on the natives of Majitha.A keen contest between Akali Dal, Congress, AAP and possibility of Capt Amarinder Singh, SAD (Sanyukt) and BJP combine fielding a candidate, will offer a plenty of choice to voters.Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar, president of District Congress Committee (Rural) and a claimant for Congress ticket from Majitha constituency, has launched a scathing attack against Lalli Majithia to woo Congress minded voters and party workers in the constituency to his side. Majithia’s pic on social media adds to confusion Amritsar: Confusion prevailed over the visit of former Punjab Minister Bikram Singh Majithia to the Golden Temple for paying obeisance to mark the New Year celebration after his pictures were uploaded on the social media handle of Youth Akali Dal. The pictures immediately went viral on social media, which also hit headlines on websites and online media. Majithia has been evading arrest and went underground after he was booked by the Punjab Police under the NDPS Act. Nevertheless, Nachhatar Singh, IT cell in-charge of Youth Akali Dal maintained that these were fresh pictures of Majithia. He paid obeisance at Baba Gurbax Singh Gurdwara to mark the beginning of New Year. A top police official said the pictures were fake or old. He said on minutely monitoring the pictures that surfaced on social media, it was discovered that the carpet shown in the pictures does not match the one that was present now. The decoration on the palanquin set up near Dukh Bhanjani Beri also differed. “This implies that the picture could not be fresh ones but old,” he said. Meanwhile, the missing posters of Majithia titled Gumshuda Di Bhal (right) were spotted on the walls of the circuit house. — PK JaiswarAAP joint secy & former ADC Rakesh Kumar joins SADAmritsar: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) received a boost in the holy city, particularly in the North constituency, with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) joint secretary and former additional deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar joining the party in the presence of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday. Welcoming Kumar into the SAD at his residence, Sukhbir said the former ADC was known for various social welfare initiatives and had also carved out a name for himself as a poet. While stating that the party would utilise his services appropriately, Sukhbir appointed Kumar as vice-president of the SAD on the occasion. Kumar said he would serve the SAD sincerely and also assured to work wholeheartedly for the victory of former minister Anil Joshi, SAD candidate from the North constituency. Joshi, who was also present on the occasion, appreciated the services rendered by Kumar towards the welfare of the weaker sections during his long innings in government service and even afterwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spotlight-back-on-majitha-constituency-357592
03-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Vishesh Gupta murder case: Cops conduct raid in Srinagar, Gurdaspur to nab Karandeep's accomplices||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2The police teams on Sunday conducted a raid in Srinagar and Gurdaspur to arrest the remaining three suspects who were involved in iron trader Vishesh Gupta’s murder.During interrogation of Karandeep Singh, the prime suspect, the police zeroed in on his three accomplices, including a Jammu and Kashmir resident Mohammad Sakib. Other two, who had shot Gupta, were identified as Shelly and Gurmeet Singh of Gurdaspur.Vishesh Gupta murder caseThe perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, the cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with Karandeep Singh. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the marriage proposal while issuing threats. The shooters reportedly, mistook Vishesh as Shivam and shot him.According to sources, after shooting Gupta dead, the accused went to Sakib in Jammu and Kashmir, who arranged their stay near Srinagar. Sakib was the son of timber trader and Karandeep’s classmate in a private institution in Jammu.On Karandeep’s information, the police also recovered a car from Delhi while a mobile phone used in the crime was yet to be recovered. He had hidden the mobile phone at a rented accommodation, where he along with his accomplices were living after the murder.“Police parties were despatched to arrest the trio besides recovering the mobile used to communicate for killing Vishesh,” said police sources, adding that the weapons used in the crime were yet to be recovered.Karandeep was arrested by the police from Gurdaspur on December 26 and was remanded in police custody till December 30. The court again extended his remand till January 3. He would be produced in court on Monday.During preliminary probe, the police found that Gupta’s murder was a handiwork of ‘supari’ killers. He was shot at by two unidentified bike-borne persons on December 11 outside his shop, when he sat in his car after closing down the shop. He succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Noida.The police had booked Karandeep Singh of Khat Khokhar area in Gurdaspur and his unidentified accomplices at that time. The perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, the cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with Karandeep Singh. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the marriage proposal while issuing threats. The shooters reportedly, mistook Vishesh as Shivam and shot him.Joint Commissioner of Police D Sudarvizhi, who is heading the SIT formed to crack the murder case, said raids were on to arrest Karandeep’s accomplices. Further investigations were under progress.Advocate Ravi Mahajan, the counsel for victim’s family, said Karandeep had filed a plea in court to secure the CCTV footage of Gurdaspur Civil Hospital and a restaurant on December 11, when Vishesh was shot dead by unidentified persons claiming his innocence. He said the police while securing the CCTV cameras footage should thoroughly investigate from all angles. He said the police should also recover weapons and bike used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vishesh-gupta-murder-case-cops-conduct-raid-in-srinagar-to-nab-karandeeps-accomplices-357580
03-01-2022||---||FIR sought against Navjot Singh Sidhu for injuring nurse||Amritsar, January 2Senior BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi visited Government Medical College here on Sunday to meet auxiliary nurse and midwife (ANM) Amandeep Kaur, who was injured by a vehicle in the cavalcade of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Also read: Protesting nurse 'hit' by Navjot Singh Sidhu's convoy, injuredKaur had sustained injuries after she was allegedly dragged by the vehicle in which the PPCC president was sitting. Lekhi demanded that the injured health employee be given justice and a police case be registered.The ANMs had earlier alleged that the security deployed with Sidhu had manhandled and misbehaved with them.The BJP leader said the Union Government had doubled its share of allowances for ANMs in 2018. She said though Haryana had immediately provided relief to the health employees, the Punjab Government had still not done the same. She lauded the role of ANMs and other health employees in successfully tackling two Covid waves and running the vaccination drive.Aam Aadmi Party district president Jivanjot Kaur also visited the GMC and met the injured nurse. She said insensitivity and indifference of the Congress government, especially PPCC chief, has been unveiled, as he did not intervene to stop his security personnel. She demanded that a case of attempt to murder be registered against Sidhu.Meanwhile, ANMs intensified their protest after the incident. The employees smeared the posters of Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh outside Sidhu’s residence. The employees also hit the pictures with shoes to express their anguish.Sukhbir Kaur, vice-president, Contractual Multipurpose Health Workers’ (female) Union, said: “For the last 16 years, many of us are working at meagre salaries and in poor working conditions. When we finally stand up to demand our right, we are mowed under vehicles, berated and demeaned.” She said the employees merely wanted to talk to the Congress leader, but his arrogance was palpable with the way he asked his security to treat the poor employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fir-sought-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-for-injuring-anm-357577
03-01-2022||---||Spurt in Covid cases  as 19 test +ve in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Health authorities on Sunday reported 19 positive cases in the district, pushing the tally to 47,499. Besides, the authorities also reported the recovery of one patient, with which the total count of those cured increased to 45,858.The sudden spurt in the number of daily cases was noticed earlier this week when the district reported seven positive cases on December 30. Later, nine positive cases were reported on Saturday.At present, the district has a total of 42 active cases. Meanwhile, 1,183 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Saturday. Of them, 466 received the first dose of the vaccine and 717 received the second dose.Hospitals prepared to tackle spike: Soni Amritsar: With the rise in number of Covid positive cases from the district, the administration stated that the Health Department was fully prepared to deal with the third wave. Deputy CM Om Parkash Soni said all arrangements have been made at government hospitals. He said the department had also asked private hospitals to be prepared after which the infrastructure was upgraded. The deputy CM said health teams were also visiting door-to-door to encourage people to get the second dose of the vaccine. While the Health Department has claimed to be fully prepared, it has also asked residents to take ample precautions to avoid the infection. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said people must wear masks while going out of their houses and sanitise their hands regularly. He said people should also get tested for Covid in case they experience any symptoms. The health official said all arrangements regarding beds and medicines etc. were in place. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spurt-in-covid-cases-as-19-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-357573
03-01-2022||---||Sacrilege: SAD, SGPC observe 'Ros Divas'||Amritsar January 2Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) observed ‘Ros Divas’ in protest against the incidents of sacrilege here on Sunday.They lodged their protest at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex. They unanimously demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the High Court in the recent sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple.Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said conspiracies were being hatched to weaken the Khalsa Panth and its unique religious ideology was being targeted through sacrilege incidents and communal polarisation. Citing the attempt at the Golden Temple on December 18, he said had the accused been successful in committing sacrilege, a narrative would have been spread that the SGPC could not guard the sanctum sanctorum at the Golden Temple. “We analysed the incident with some Sikh intellectuals to zero in on the fact that it was designed to weaken the SGPC and SAD which governs it, but in vain,” he said.He appealed to the Sikh community to unite on one platform against such forces and strengthen the Akal Takht and the SGPC.Ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal said the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony was being harmed. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said despite nabbing culprits, who had committed sacrileges at Anandpur Sahib on September 13 and the Golden Temple on December 15 (when ‘Gutka Sahib’ was torn and thrown into the sarovar), the government did nothing to uncover the conspiracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sad-sgpc-observe-ros-divas-357381
