04-01-2022||Amritsar||Three of Gate Hakima held for assaulting cops in Amritsar||Bigamy: Cops issue lookout circularAmritsar: City police have issued a lookout circular against Kamaldeep Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran who was booked on the charge of bigamy. A case was registered against him on the complaint of Ishwar Kaur, a resident of Kot Khalsa area, on November 20. In her statement to the police, she said the accused was threatening her of dire consequences if she did not withdraw her complaint. Kamaldeep was evading the arrest since the registration of case. She told the police that she came in contact with the accused in 2018. She said the accused lured her and they married at a local shrine and started living in a rented accommodation in Kot Khalsa area. She said when she became pregnant from him, she came to know that he was already married. She said the accused started threatening her to keep mum. Perneet Dhillon, SHO, Islamabad police station, said efforts were on to nab him. TNSYouth booked on rape chargeAmritsar: Division A police have booked Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Patti in Tarn Taran, for allegedly raping a girl. Earlier, a zero FIR was registered with women police station in Sirsa. The case was later referred to city police as the incident took place here. In her complaint, the victim told that she came to Amritsar for paying obeisance at Golden Temple. She said the accused met her outside the shrine. She said the accused lured her for marriage and took her to a hotel near bus stand. She said the accused later took her to another hotel on November 30 near Golden Temple where he forcibly made physical relations with her. The police have registered a case under Section 342, 376 (2) N and 506 of the IPC against Gurpreet Singh who was yet to be arrested in the case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-for-assaulting-cops-358053
04-01-2022||---||Amritsar cyclist Amarjeet Singh's winning streak continues despite pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3City-based national cyclist Amarjeet Singh, who has won medals at the international and national level tournaments, has added three more medals to his tally. Amarjeet has won two silver and one bronze at the recently-concluded 73rd National Track Cycling Championships 2021 held at Jaipur. Amarjeet won silver in one km time trail, silver in Keirin and bronze in the team sprint. The 27-year old cyclist, who has earlier set many national records and won several gold medals at the Asian and world cycling events, said, despite the challenges posed by the pandemic for athletes, he managed to get his winning streak going.“It was a tough two years for the international athletes, be it any sport as training schedules got disturbed and sporting events got cancelled. Despite disruption, I managed to get a podium finish,” he shared. Coming from a family of cyclists, his father and uncle too are engaged with the sport as coaches and former cyclists. Amarjeet has several records to his credit, including an individual national record on track, and has represented India at world cycling championships. He was aiming for gold at the 73rd national championship as well. “I had previously won gold at nationals, and this year too, I was aiming for gold. It is for the first time that I got a silver and not gold at nationals, but I will try better next time.” He also sustained injury in his left foot during the competition.Among the few athletes from city to make a name in cycling, Amarjeet says that his achievements in the sport would not have been possible had GNDU not built a velodrome. “It’s the only velodrome in city and it really gave us an opportunity to hone our performance.” He is now training for Asian Championships scheduled to be held in March-April 2022. As for the encouraging cycling as a lifestyle choice, Amarjeet says that cycling must be encouraged by building cycling tracks in city. “Amritsar is not a cycling friendly city as there are no cycle tracks or even trails that cycling enthusiasts can use. Also, people need to change their mindset about cycling as a healthy lifestyle choice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-cyclist-amarjeet-singhs-winning-streak-continues-despite-pandemic-358052
04-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Robber held for attempt  to loot bank||Timely arrival of a police party led to the arrest of a robber trying to loot an Axis Bank branch, Thathian Mahantan, here on Sunday.The suspect has been identified as Jaswant Singh of Marhana village. He entered the bank by breaking the shutter in the morning and the incident was noted by the head office of the bank, which further informed the bank branch manager. The manager immediately called Sarhali police to report the incident.A police party led by ASI Dilbagh Singh reached the spot and the accused was arrested. The police recovered one LED, monitor, one country-made pistol and three cartridges from the accused. A case has been registered under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robber-held-for-attempt-to-loot-bank-358051
04-01-2022||Amritsar||Man found dead in tubewell room at Chabba village||A man, identified as Dilawar Singh, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a tubewell room at Chabba village here on Sunday.Sukhchain Kaur, a resident of Chabba village, told the police that her husband Dilawar Singh (35) left the house on Saturday saying that he was going to the Golden Temple to pay obeisance for a good beginning in the New Year. However, he did not return till late in the evening and his mobile was switched off and all attempts to trace him failed.She said on Sunday Balwinder Singh, her father-in-law’s brother, informed her that Dilawar was found dead in the tubewell room in the fields.She alleged that her husband was killed by unidentified persons following which a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered.Sub-Inspector Harchand Singh, investigating officer of the case, said the body was sent for a post-mortem to ascertain the cause behind his death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-found-dead-in-tubewell-room-at-chabba-village-358050
04-01-2022||Amritsar||Another video of police raid on Bikram Majithia's house viral||Amid confusion over Bikram Majithia’s visit to the Golden Temple which later turned out to be fake, another old video surfaced on social media in which a police team was shown as raiding his residence at Green Avenue area here.Also read: Bikramjit Singh Majithia absconding, not in Punjab: Sukhjinder RandhawaIn the video, SAD leaders, including Shivcharan Singh, OSD to former Punjab minister, SAD district president Gurpartap Singh Tikka, SAD’s Amritsar South candidate and Majithia’s close associate Talbir Singh Gill, were seen interacting with the police team headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa, SHOs Perneet Dhillon and Gurwinder Singh.A police official wishing not to be named said the video was around two weeks old when the police team had visited his residence following the registration of a case against him. He said he did not know why the old video was being circulated on social media and some electronic media channels now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-video-of-police-raid-on-bikram-majithias-house-viral-358048
04-01-2022||---||MoS Meenakshi Lekhi visits Amritsar RPO||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3The Minister of State for External Affairs and Culture Meenakshi Lekhi visited the Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Amritsar. Incidentally, the new passport officer Shamsher Bahadur Singh also took over the charge today.She observed the functioning of the office and also spoke to the applicants, listened to their grievances and tried to resolve the issues in collaboration with the officials.She said the focus was to streamline the process of passport related services and get it free from the illegal touts who play the spoilsport. “Our aim was to make the whole process efficient, transparent and hassle-free for the beneficiaries and our teams were working in this direction,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mos-lekhi-visits-amritsar-rpo-358047
04-01-2022||Amritsar||Surface parking at Old Sabzi Mandi land in Amritsar soon||The civic body has proposed to initiate surface parking at the vacant land of Old Sabji Mandi to tackle the parking issue in and around the walled city. The land of Old Sabzi Mandi, opposite Hall Gate, has been lying vacant for the last 18 years.The city witnesses a footfall of more than one lakh devotees every day. The parking lots around the Golden Temple are insufficient. Moreover, there is no space for parking the vehicles owned by those living within the walled city.They park their vehicles in streets or public parking meant for visitors. The government had shifted the vegetable market from the Hall Gate to Vallah Road in 2004. Now, the area is lying vacant.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “We are going to start surface parking at the vacant land of Old Sabji Mandi. Tenders would be floated soon. We have vacant plots on separate locations around the walled city. So, we have decided to develop them as parking lots.”Earlier two years ago, the MC had proposed the same to develop a parking lot at the Sabji Mandi land, it could not materialise. The Old Sabzi Mandi outside Hall Gate was denotified in 1995 and a large number of shops were shifted to the new vegetable market at Vallah in 2004. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surface-parking-at-old-sabzi-mandi-land-in-amritsar-soon-358046
04-01-2022||---||Pingalwara an oasis of compassion & love, says Punjab Women Commission's head||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Manisha Gulati, Chairperson Women’s Commission, Punjab, has praised Pingalwara, a home for the destitute for its selfless service. She hailed it as an institute which was worthy of emulation to ameliorate sufferings of the homeless, aged and the physically challenged.She made this observation after paying a visit to the institute here on Monday. She stated that “I wanted to begin the New Year at this temple of humanity set up by Bhagat Puran Singh, founder of Pingalwara.” She also commended the works of Pingalwara president Inderjit Kaur and her team for their tireless efforts for the betterment of the humanity.Manisha Gulati also visited the wards of the Mananwala branch and spent some time with the inmates there. She said visiting the Pingalwara’s centre instilled empathy in her heart and expresses her desire that each citizen must take out time to visit it at least once.On the occasion, she listened to the grievances of its women inmates who had been displaced from their homes and in some cases assured immediate action. For instance repatriation of a woman inmate to her country of origin Bangladesh.Dr Inderjit Kaur said the Chairperson of the Women’s State Commission visited the Pingalwara family for the first time. She said the government needed to be serious about the plight of the homeless, helpless children and women, but it was unfortunate that the issues of these people are being ignored by the governments. She said there were about 1.5 lakh deaf and dumb children in the state. Pingalwara Institute is running some schools hearing impaired students but the government was not paying attention to their needs, she said. She sought the government intervention in order to look into the issues of the orphans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pingalwara-an-oasis-of-compassion-love-says-women-commissions-head-358045
04-01-2022||Tarn Taran||NHM staff hold protest, demand regular jobs||Doctors, para-medical and ministerial staff and other employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) scheme organised a ‘jago’ in the town on Monday. The protesters marched up to the residence of the local MLA, Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, where they raised slogans against the state government. They had been demanding the regularisation of their services.Jasbir Singh Ghariala, president of the district unit of the NHM Employees’ Association, Punjab, said they had been working in the Health Department for the last 15 years, but their services had not been regularised till date as the state government had done nothing but to dilly-dally their current demands. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nhm-staff-hold-protest-demand-regular-jobs-358044
04-01-2022||Tarn Taran||AAP fields ex-SMO from Tarn Taran||Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, who retired as an SMO from the Health Department, Punjab, was elected as a party candidate by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for the Tarn Taran seat on Monday.His name was included in the (five-member) seventh list of the candidates issued under the joint signatures of party state president Bhagwant Mann and state in-charge (Prabhari) Jarnail Singh. The AAP had declared three candidates for the four seats of this border district. The party would soon declare its candidate for the Khadoor Sahib seat.Dr Sohal has remained active in social activities for many decades under the banner of the Vikas Manch Punjab. He was the founder president of the PCMS Specialist Doctors’ Association, Punjab, which became less active in social activities after his superannuation.After his retirement, he started taking part in active politics and worked with Manpreet Singh Badal’s Punjab People’s Party (PPP) and also unsuccessfully contested the SGPC elections. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-fields-ex-smo-from-tarn-taran-358043
04-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Punjab poll: AAP becomes first party to announce candidates for all Amritsar district Assembly seats||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has become the first party to have released names of candidates for all 11 Assembly seats of this border district.Today, the party announced the names of Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, who recently switched over to the AAP from the Congress and Dr Ajay Gupta from the Majitha and Amritsar Central constituency, respectively.Amid all candidates fielded here, Lalli Majithia is considered a heavyweight. Though he had lost past three Assembly elections consecutively to senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, yet he steadfastly maintained his vote bank. A medico, Dr Gupta had contested the last Assembly election from the same constituency but he did not make any perceptible impact on voters despite a wave in favour of his party in the run up to the 2017 Assembly election.It is to be seen, could he deliver in the forthcoming election when there is no wave for any party? He is pitted against OP Soni, Deputy CM.A prominent entrant to the party fold Kunwar Vijay Pratap, who took voluntary retirement, was fielded from the Amritsar’s North Assembly segment, which is being represented by Congress MLA Sunil Dutti. SAD BSP combine had already announced Anil Joshi as their candidate.AAP has given mandate to Jeevanjot Kaur for the Amritsar East constituency, which is held by PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu. A spokesperson of AAP, Punjab is her forte and she had managed the Majitha poll campaign of the AAP candidate Himmat Singh Shergill in the last Vidhan Sabha elections. A post graduate in English honors, she also earned a degree in law. She had campaigned for the party in February 2020 Delhi elections for a month.Harbhajan Singh, who had taken voluntary retirement as an ETO, before unsuccessfully contesting the 2017 Assembly election, has been repeated from Jandiala assembly segment. Before cracking the PCS, he had been a lecturer in political science. He had secured around 34,000 votes in the last election from Jandiala constituency, which is held by Congress candidate Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala.The party has given Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar mandate again from the Amritsar South segment. It will be his second attempt at the hustings. He had debuted in the last assembly election from the same seat and accumulated impressive 26.7 per cent of vote share. Inderbir Singh Bolaria of Congress had won the election.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, a known face in rural areas, will be contesting from Ajnala seat. He had unsuccessfully contested the last Lok Sabha election from here. During his association with the party, he held various positions within the organisation. He had been in-charge of AAP’s Majha zone and remained vice president of its farmers’ wing.There is no dearth of bureaucrats trying their luck to acquire executive power in the party. Jaswinder Singh, a retired ADC, has been given ticket from the Attari assembly segment.Initially a Congress support, he had joined the AAP before the past assembly election after he was denied ticket. He will be replacing AAP’s Jaswinder Singh Jahangir from Attari. Congress leader Tarsem Singh DC is the incumbent MLA from the assembly segment.Dalbir Singh Tong, who had secured maximum votes among all AAP candidates in Majha during the 2017 Assembly election, will try his luck from the Baba Bakala constituency. A grassroots worker, he had polled 39,300 votes in the last election. Jasbir Singh, a BAMS doctor with a private hospital will contest from the Amritsar West and Baldev Singh of Maidian Kala village, has been fielded from the Rajasansi assembly constituency. Both candidates have been associated with the party since its arrived in the political horizon of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-poll-aap-becomes-first-party-to-announce-candidates-for-all-amritsar-district-assembly-seats-358042
04-01-2022||---||Car snatched at gunpoint recovered within hours||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3In yet another incident, armed robbers snatched a car belonging to a local architect, Amit Sharma, from posh Ranjit Avenue area at gunpoint here on late Sunday evening.Though the police managed to recover the car after a chase within hours of the incident while unidentified robbers escaped. The car was found abandoned near Rajasansi area. The police have registered a case in this connection and an investigation was under progress to identify the robbers.Amit Sharma told the police that his employee was washing the car outside the residence last evening when two youths came up to him. He said they snatched the car at gunpoint. The police reached the spot immediately after being informed by the victim.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) (North) Palwinder Singh said following an alert all the exit points were sealed by the police while a team was chasing the car. The ACP was also following them in his private vehicle. He said CCTV cameras in the area were being analysed to identify the robbers and arrest them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/car-snatched-at-gunpoint-recovered-within-hours-358041
04-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||896 rolls of banned string seized, 2 held||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police on Monday nabbed two persons allegedly involved in the illegal sale of Chinese string. The police recovered as many as 896 rolls of the string from their possession.They have been identified as Chanpreet Singh, alias Chan, and Satvir Singh, both residents of Sultanwind Road here. They were coming in a jeep when they were intercepted by Lopoke police.Kapil Kaushal, SHO, Lopoke police station, said the accused were going towards Chogwan when they were stopped at a checkpoint.They were booked under Sections 39, and 51 of the Wild Animal Safety Act, Section 15 of the Environment Act and Section 188 of the IPC for violation of Deputy Commissioner’s order.This was the first such a big seizure of synthetic kite string by the police this year.As the festival of Lohri is just round the corner, kite flying enthusiasts are using the banned string with impunity. One fails to understand that kite-fliers easily get the killer string from the market, but the district administration and police officials are unable nab the perpetrators involved in the illegal sale and purchase of the string.“Once on the rooftop, you would find youngsters using the string without any fear of the law. People hardly bother about asking their children to desist from using the killer string that has killed birds and left people seriously injured in the past,” said Dr Rohan Mehra, an animal lover, who had launched an awareness campaign to dissuade people from using the string.Today’s seizure points out that people involved in the illegal trade were supplying the string in rural areas also.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh had issued a ban on the sale and purchase of the Chinese string.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said the parents should apprise their children of the ill-effects of using the string. We need people’s cooperation in nailing the perpetrators. He said they should inform the police about those selling the same so that we could take appropriate action against them.Rakesh Kaushal, SSP, Amritsar Rural, said officials were asked to deal with the problem sternly and take strict action against the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/896-rolls-of-banned-string-seized-2-held-358040
04-01-2022||---||Covid heat: School heads asked to stay alert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3The recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases across the state has raised the worries of the parents of the school-going students.As schools in the city reopened on Monday after the winter break and the students (from primary to secondary levels) joined their offline classes, parents are now urging the Education Department to review the situation. The vaccination programme for the children falling in the 15-18 age group also began today, but the initial few days of vaccination would be critical in determining the health safety of students.The district education department has already asked the school heads and principals to remain alert and keep a check on any violation with regard to the Covid guidelines.“We are still reviewing the situation. The schools were closed until today due to winter break and since there have been no reports of any case or infection from any school, we are keeping a strict vigil on any violation or health safety situation. School heads have already been asked to remain alert. Any further decision on the matter will be taken in a few days,” said Jugraj Singh, District Education Officer.Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases being reported among school students in other districts has upset parents. With no online classes being offered and regular schools being held since October-November last year, most schools hope that parents of children falling in the 15-18 age bracket will go for vaccination to ensure that their academics do not suffer.According to health experts, it is estimated that the third wave may occur in February and several states, including Haryana and Delhi, have already asked schools and colleges to remain closed until further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-heat-school-heads-asked-to-stay-alert-358039
04-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Omicron scare: Shopkeepers, daily wage earners fear another lockdown||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Likelihood of another lockdown in view of the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases amid the Omicron threat has panicked the residents, especially shopkeepers and the traders’ community, as they see it as another blow to the economic prospects.The district has reported a total of 55 positive cases in the last five days. The rise in the number of positive cases is in sharp contrast to the scenario during the last three months when on average the district had removed merely 25 cases per month.A shopkeeper Ravinder Kumar said, “The third wave of Covid was being anticipated for a long time. Now it seems that it has finally come. With it would also come the restrictions on the movement and on the opening and closing timings of shops.” He said that the small shopkeepers would not be able to survive another lockdown like situation.Though the situation in the district is much better than many other districts of the state, the residents feel that the city being a popular tourist destination with a large number of international passengers arriving daily, the Covid-19 tally would increase in near future.“During the first as well as the second Covid wave, the district had been reporting a maximum number of cases daily. In the present scenario, it was reporting fewer cases but now it seems that the situation is reversing,” said a health official, adding that people would have to take the infection more seriously. ictedDuring the previous two rounds of lockdowns followed by restricted timings of business, the small-time shopkeepers and daily wage earners were hit hard as their livelihood was threatened. Even the general public was inconvenienced as the availability of essential items was affected.In the first set of instructions issued by the district administration in view of the increase in the positive cases, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has instructed the public to wear face masks at public places, workplaces and while using the public transport. The DC has also asked the public to maintain a social distance of six feet at public places. The administration also asked the health employees not to abstain from their duty.1.2L children eligible for jab in distThe district Health Department today initiated Covid-19 vaccination drive for the children aged between 15-18 years age group at four vaccination centres, including Government Medical College and the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital. An event to mark the inauguration of the vaccination drive was held at the Civil Hospital speaking during which Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni said a total of 1.20 lakh children in the age group have been identified in the district.He added that a total of 14 lakh children in the state would be covered under the immunisation drive. The Health Department added that the number of vaccination centres for the children would be increased in the coming days. The department has also ensured to set up separate queues for the children at each of the vaccination centers. The officials claimed that 85% of the population above 85 years of age has already received first dose while 45% have been completely vaccinated.Covid: 20 new cases reported in distWith 20 fresh positive cases reported on Monday, the total count of cases from the district has increased to 47,519. The health authorities also reported the recovery of one patient, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,859. The district, at present, has a total of 61 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 11,101 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Monday. Of these, 5,181 received the first dose of the vaccine while 5,920 residents received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/omicron-scare-shopkeepers-daily-wage-earners-fear-another-lockdown-358038
04-01-2022||---||Amritsar: 2-year-old falls into dirty water pit, dies||Amritsar, January 3A 2-year-old child, identified as Ishan, lost his life after he accidentally fell into a pit dug for laying sewer pipes in Ram Nagar Colony on Majitha Road here on Monday.The pit was filled with dirty sewerage water. He along with his elder brother was going to his maternal aunt’s house when both of them slipped and fell into the pit. His brother somehow managed to come out and started crying. Listening to his cries, nearby residents gathered on the spot and started looking for Ishan. Around 10 minutes later, his body was recovered and rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead.Enraged over the incident, the family members along with residents of the area started a protest against the contractor, who was assigned the work of laying sewer pipes underground and the civic body authorities, keeping the body of the victim on the road.They protested against their failure to supervise the work and take precautions to avoid such incidents. They also raised slogans against the administration.The residents prolonged their protest as they were demanding compensation for the victim’s family.Joshanjit, father of the victim, said he worked as a junk dealer and his wife as a domestic help. He said Ishan along with his elder brother was going to his aunt’s house when they slipped into a pit. While his brother managed to come out of the pit, Ishan got stuck into it. He said there was no arrangement or precautionary measures made by the contractor to avoid such incidents. He demanded the registration of a case against the contractor.The protest led to a massive traffic chaos on Majitha Road. The police reached the spot and tried to pacify the victim’s family and the residents. They took the body into their possession and sent it to the Civil Hospital for a post-mortem.Gurvinder Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, said a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC had been registered against the unidentified contractor and member panchayat Upkar Singh. Despite registering a case, the residents continued with their protest as they were seeking compensation from the government for the victim’s family.His elder brother managed to save himselfThe victim along with his elder brother was going to his maternal aunt's house when both of them slipped and fell into the pit. His brother somehow managed to come out and started crying. Listening to his cries, nearby residents gathered on the spot and started looking for Ishan. Around 10 minutes later, his body was recovered and rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-2-year-old-falls-into-dirty-water-pit-dies-358037
04-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Poor upkeep of historic Ram Bagh catches MoS Meenakshi Lekhi's attention||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3The unauthorised construction and dilapidated condition of the historic Ram Bagh (Summer palace of the legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh) has caught the attention of Minister of State (MoS) for External Affairs and Culture Meenakshi Lekhi.The Union Minister who was in Amritsar today, said she was pained to see the condition of Ram Bagh, which comes partially under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).She said steps would be taken to remove encroachments.‘Protected monument’The Summer palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was declared a ‘Protected monument’ in 2004Ram Bagh was declared a “Protected monument” in 2004. However, even after the notification, it was never fully handed over the ASI. The ASI has the possession of the garden and carries out conservation work at the entrance, four watch towers, Hamamghar, Small Baradari and Machhighar.The remaining structures, including the main “Summer palace”, come under the ambit of the Punjab Cultural and Tourism Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-upkeep-of-ram-bagh-catches-lekhis-attention-357921
04-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Four of family killed in mishap near Naushehra Pannuan||Four persons of a family were killed and another received serious injuries in a road accident on the National Highway-54 near Naushehra Pannuan village on Monday.The family belonged to Katorewala in Mukatsar district. The victims have been identified as Chanan Singh (56), his wife Devinder Kaur (54), their newly married son Anmoldeep Singh (25), his wife Gagandeep kaur (24) and another close relative Ajaypal Singh (27).They were going to Gurdwara Beer Baba Budha Thatha Sahib. When they reached near Naushehra Pannunan, their car hit a tractor-trailer. All five, who were injured in the mishap, were taken to a local hospital where Chanan Singh, Devinder Kaur, Ajaypal Singh and Gagandeep Kaur were declared dead by doctors. While, Anmoldeep Singh is under treatment. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC against Gursewak Singh of Varhian Purane (Chohla Sahib) who absconded from the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-of-family-killed-in-mishap-357919
04-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Patti: Drug menace, poor infra irk locals||Amid rising drug abuse cases and deteriorating law and order situation, residents of Patti are complaining of poor civic amenities, faulty sewer lines, inadequate drinking water supply and broken roads. They allege no successive government spared a thought to change their lives.They say several youths die due to drug abuse here, but are shown as natural deaths. Though the police recover drugs and peddlers are arrested, but nothing is done to curb the menace, they say.Mukhtiar Singh, chief organiser of a social society, said drugs were now easily available in several towns and villages. “Peddlers have now hired armed gangsters, which has further deteriorated the law and order situation,” he said.Residents say gangsters are well connected with politicians and don’t fear law any more. They say a few days ago, two gangsters were shot dead during a clash over cash dealings.They say the situation has worsened to such an extent that snatching purses and even killing women for it has become a minor incident now. There is a locality in the town where just a few vehicles have a registration number as these have been stolen. “People don’t think before abandoning such vehicles, particularly after committing a crime,” they say.Locals’ key demandsPast trendKairon family belongs to Patti. Cong’s Partap Singh Kairon was elected the CM from here in 1952, the first polls after the Independence. His wife Ram Kaur Kairon, too, represented the constituency in 1967. Adesh Partap Singh Karion was elected thrice from here (1997-2012)Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,95,515Male: 1,02,121Female: 93,384Third gender: 10||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patti-drug-menace-poor-infra-irk-locals-357916
