05-01-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar: Curfew returns as Covid cases surge!||Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Gurpreet Singh Khaira, under Section 144, has imposed night curfew in the municipal limits from 10 pm to 5 am on non-essential traffic from Tuesday night.Assembly of not more than 50 per cent would be allowed. Only those who have received both doses of the vaccine would be allowed to visit public places. Every person should possess a hard or soft copy of the second dose certificate. Similarly, any service from government or private institutions will be given to those, who would be wearing masks. All other departments will also ensure strict compliance of Covid protocol. — Gurpreet Singh Khaira, DCThe decision was taken in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases during a meeting of the administration and police officials here on Tuesday.Alarm bells ringing: dist reports 33 new cases Amritsar: Positive cases continue to rise in the district with 33 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 47,552. The health authorities also reported the recovery of one patient, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,860. The district, at present, has a total of 93 active cases. No casualty attributed to Covid-19 was reported and the toll remains at 1,599. TNS16 cases reported in Tarn Taran: As many as 16 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday. After a gap of about one-and-a-half months, the district is seeing exponential increase in the number of positive cases. On January 1, the district reported three positive cases, while on January 2 five and on January 3 three cases came to light. The Health Department in a press release informed that 3,217 jabs against the pandemic were given to the citizens and total 9,14,949 jabs have been given to the eligible persons. OCIn view of the growing menace of Covid-19, it has became absolute necessary to impose restrictions in the district, he said, adding that necessary activities such as transportation of goods, government functions and others will be allowed. However, people will also be allowed to disembark by plane, train and bus during this time.Similarly, schools, colleges, universities, coaching institutes and other educational institutes have also been directed to remain closed while online education will continue.All bars, cinemas, multiplexes, spas, museums, malls, restaurants will be allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity that, too, only if the staff is fully vaccinated. Sports complexes, stadiums, swimming pools and gyms will also be closed but players preparing for national and international sports competitions cold continue with their daily regimen. There will also be restrictions on spectators as well.AC buses will ply at 50 per cent capacity only. Fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to visit government and private offices, industries and workplaces.The DC said people — more than 500 indoor and over 700 outdoor — would not be allowed to assemble and the boundary has been fixed at 50 per cent. He said only those who have received both doses of the vaccine would be allowed to visit public places. He directed that every person should possess hard or soft copy of the second dose certificate. Similarly, any service from government or private institutions will be given to those persons, who would be wearing masks. All other departments will also ensure strict compliance of Covid protocol.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the police have been instructed to follow Covid instructions. He said for the first two-three days, people would be made aware of the instructions of Covid and after that, action would be taken against violators. Dr Gill appealed to the residents of the district to get vaccinated to prevent the third wave.These orders would remain in force till January 15 and strict action would be taken against those who violate the orders. The district administration called upon public to maintain social distance of at least 6 feet.Demand for oxymeters, masks, sanitisers up againAmritsar: Spurt in Covid cases and introduction of restrictions such as night curfew and others have shot up the demand for oxymeters (a device to check oxygen level), masks, sanitisers, vitamin-C, paracetamol, evermatyn, cough syrups, antibiotic medicines and others. Woollen and textile manufacturers are seeing a freeze in placement of fresh orders. Surinder Duggal, president of Punjab Chemist Association, said the demand for aforementioned commodities have all of a sudden spiked in the market. He said chemists have no other option but to replenish the stock of these to meet the rising demand. He ruled out any price hike of these commodities, as there was enough government check already in place. “An advisory to shopkeepers on behalf of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Amritsar Chapter, has been issued, as per which they should entertain only those customers, who adhere to Covid-19 guidelines,” he said. Piara Lal Seth, an industrialist running a unit of woollen based industry, said they were not receiving any fresh orders as a fallout of Covid-19 restrictions being placed in different states. For example, weekend lockdown in Delhi and restriction on assembling of not more than 20 people at a place, including weddings, ended their immediate future prospect of business. Already, prolong rail roko agitation of farmers and less severe winter in UP, Bihar and Jharkhand did not elicit good demand of locally manufactures, shawls, blankets, stoles, tweed and blazer. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-returns-358342
05-01-2022||---||Online studies back! Schools, colleges closed again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4In view of increasing cases of Covid-19, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Khaira issued special orders imposing new restrictions in line with the Punjab Government guidelines.While masks have been made mandatory to wear in public places and work places, all schools, colleges, universities, coaching institutes etc. have also been directed to remain closed while online education will continue till January 15.The announcement comes a day after the vaccination campaign for children aged between 15 and 18 years started off. The district Education Department had approached the Civil Surgeon to host vaccination camps at the school premises to ensure maximum vaccination for students, but the closure of schools and educational institutions has now posed a challenge to convince parents to get their wards vaccinated.“Students had come to school on Tuesday as they were reopened after the winter break, but just as we received the orders, we sent them back. We had charted out a plan to engage primary and secondary schools to host vaccination camps to get their students vaccinated, but now with kids sitting at home, ensuring vaccination would be tough,” said Parminder Singh, district media coordinator, District Education Office.The district Education Department will be dispersing information on vaccination and its importance through social media and engaging teachers, who are double-vaccinated, to talk to parents, encouraging them to get their wards vaccinated.“Long term closure of schools will not be good for academics again, as the academic session was almost over and examination months are approaching. We will make all efforts to ensure health safety of children, keeping in mind the studies don’t get hit,” said Parminder.Meanwhile, school heads and principals, too, feel that any lockdown-like situation will hit the academics hard, just when regular schooling was coming back on track. “Students had begun schools with a positive mindset, after the disruption last year. They were looking forward to regular offline classes. The closure will once again bring back uncertainty regarding academics,” said Anita Mehra, principal, DAV Public School, Lawrence Road. Private schools, too, are planning to collaborate with Civil Surgeon’s office to hold vaccination camps for children in coming days.As far as colleges are concerned, studies have already been suspended since December 2021 due to teachers’ strike and examinations have already been delayed. Most colleges in the city are currently on winter break.According to new directions issued, all bars, cinemas, multiplexes, spas, museums, malls, restaurants will be allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity only if all staff are fully vaccinated. Sports complexes, stadiums, swimming pools and gyms will also be closed for all but players preparing for national and international sports competitions. There will also be restrictions on spectators. Such buses will be able to run at 50 per cent capacity only. Fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to visit government and private offices, industries, workplaces. More than 500 persons are allowed for indoor and more than 700 persons allowed for outdoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-studies-back-schools-colleges-closed-again-358343
05-01-2022||---||Vishesh Gupta murder: Prime suspect's police remand extended by another six days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4The remaining three suspects in the Vishesh Gupta murder case are yet to be arrested but the police have secured six-day custody of prime suspect Karandeep Singh.Earlier, the police had conducted a raid in Srinagar, where the accused escaped following the murder. But they had already escaped from there.During investigation, the police nominated three accomplices including a Jammu and Kashmir resident Mohammad Sakib, son of a timber trader, Shelly and Gurmeet Singh of Gurdaspur. The latter two had shot Vishesh dead.The police said following expiry of their police remand, Karandeep was produced in court on Tuesday, which extended his police custody by six days. He was arrested by the police from Gurdaspur on December 26 and sent in police custody till December 30. The court again extended his remand till January 3.The police claimed that during interrogation of Karandeep, it was found that the accused also stayed in Uttarakhand after the crime. Karandeep sold his mobile phone to a shopkeeper after formatting the phone and deleting the entire data.During preliminary probe, the police found that Gupta’s murder was a handiwork of ‘supari’ killers.He was shot at by two unidentified bike-borne persons on December 11 outside his shop, when he sat in his car after closing it down. He succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Noida.The police had booked Karandeep Singh of Khat Khokhar area in Gurdaspur and his unidentified accomplices at that time.The perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with the accused Karandeep Singh. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the marriage proposal while issuing threats. The shooters reportedly, mistook Vishesh as Shivam and shot him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspects-police-remand-extended-by-another-six-days-358344
05-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||To oppose PM Modi's rally, farmers from Amritsar, Tarn Taran leave for Ferozepur||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4Farmers from Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, left to intercept PM Narendra Modi’s proposed rally in Ferozepur district on Wednesday.A large number of farmers gathered at Chabba village on the outskirts of Amritsar and left for Ferozepur to oppose PM Narendra Modi’s rally in the state.KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said a large convoy of Kisan Mazdoor Jathebandi left for the rally site to protest against the rally of the Prime Minister. The PM’s rally is being opposed by farm organisation to protest against the non-implementation of demands for justice, enactment of MSP Guarantee Act, withdrawal of cases against farmers and labourers in all states.“The convoy was stopped by the police administration at a distance from the rally site. The first convoy of farmers from Tarn Taran reached Kulgari village, near Ferozepur, at 4 pm. It was stopped by the police at Kulgari, 12 km away from Ferozepur. Our leaders are interacting with the police and asking them to allow farmers to stage a peaceful protest against the arrival of Modi,” said Pandher.“Till the time the MSP guarantee law was not enacted, cases against farmers were not withdrawn and justice not delivered to Lakhimpur incident victims, we will not let the BJP hold any political rally in Punjab,” said union leader Satnam Singh.“We are demonstrating peacefully against the rally of the PM. The Modi government should apologise for 700 farmers at Delhi who died during demonstration against three agri laws,” said another activist Babbu Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/to-oppose-pm-modis-rally-farmers-leave-for-ferozepur-358345
05-01-2022||---||Robbers target Patti bank branch||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, January 4Four armed miscreants robbed Rs 15 lakh from the branch of Bank of Baroda, Patti, here on Tuesday. The robbers came to the bank in a Polo car and managed to escape. This despite the district police’s tall claims of having made foolproof security arrangements.Varying statements on cash stolenThe varying statements of the branch manager and the DSP regarding the cash stolen not only raised eyebrows but also left people surprised. While the former said the robbers looted Rs15 lakh, the latter claimed the amount was Rs7 lakh.Kamaldeep Manaik, branch manager, said the four robbers under the guise of customers entered the bank around 1.55pm. They grabbed the service rifle of the security guard at gunpoint and then looted the money. The branch manager said all the robbers had pistols in their hands. They warned the customers and the bank staff against creating a hue and cry. The miscreants took away the rifle of the security guard, a network modem, DVDR and keys of the bank. The robbers also took away the personal bags of the bank employees while escaping.Maninderpal Singh, DSP, Patti, said the Rs 7 lakh was looted from the bank. He confirmed that the robbers were four in number who entered the bank. He said a case under relevant sections of the IPC had been registered against the unidentified miscreants at the Patti police station. The robbery has raised question about the performance of the district police that claimed that foolproof security arrangements in the district had been made along the national highway and in the area keeping in view the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 5 in Ferozepur. The police cordoned off the area to nab the robbers.The varying statements of the branch manager and the DSP regarding the cash stolen not only raised eyebrows but also left people confused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-target-patti-bank-branch-358346
05-01-2022||---||Rs 22 lakh robbery in Jandiala Guru: Victim trader's driver arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4With the arrest of a person, the police have cracked the Rs22-lakh robbery case. During the investigation, it came to light that the driver of the trader had connived with the robbers to loot Rs22 lakh from the trader near Jandiala Guru on December 25 last year. The accused has been identified as Ravinder Singh, alias Kala.Addressing mediapersons here on Tuesday, SP (D) Manoj Thakur said Ravinder Singh would tip off armed robbers about the locations of the victims. This came to light during analysing his call details.Those who robbed other traders were identified as Nirmal Singh of Kotli Surat Mallian village in Batala, Sukhpreet Singh of Waraich Ghuman Kalan in Gurdaspur and Gurwinder Singh, alias Sethi, of Bhullar village in Batala.He said besides them, there was another unidentified accomplice. He said their information was also shared with all the police stations in Punjab following which they were nabbed by Gurdaspur police where a separate case was registered against them. He said out of the total amount, the police had recovered Rs10.57 lakh and the car used in the crime was also seized. He said they would be brought on production warrant for further interrogation.Three unidentified armed persons robbed Rs 22 lakh at gunpoint from an iron trader at Buttar village falling under the Mehta police station here on Saturday. The perpetrators had fled towards the Jalandhar side after committing the robbery.Complainant Ravinder Singh and his partner Lakhwinder Singh, both residents of Batala, said they were going to Jalandhar for buying a school bus. When they reached near Buttar village in Mehta on their car, another car stopped abruptly ahead of their car and three occupants came out of it.He said they pointed a pistol at them and asked them to come out of the car. He said they got afraid and came out. He said the accused took the bag containing the amount and fled away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22l-robbery-victim-traders-driver-arrested-358347
05-01-2022||Amritsar||Extortion racket: Amritsar Police arrest third accused||The city police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested the mastermind behind the extortion racket, which had demanded a ransom of Rs5 crore from a prominent industrialist on December 28.He was identified as Maninderpal Singh, alias Dimple, a resident of Diamond Avenue here. His father used to work at the victim’s factory in Industrial focal point on Maqboolpura Road. Earlier, the police had arrested Charanjt Singh Chan of Kharar and Gajinderjit Singh of RB Estate, Loharaka Road, here.The police had registered a case under Sections 384, 387 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Majitha Road police station here. Sukhwinder Singh, CIA staff in-charge, said Maninderpal confessed that he gave all information about Rohit Sabharwal. He said his father Tarsem Singh was working in the factory of Rohit Sabharwal for the last 20 years. However, he expelled him after insulting him. He said he wanted to teach him a lesson and knew that they were having a lot of money. He said he knew they had luxury cars and they can extort huge sums of money from them. He said as Rohit knew him, he involved the other two accused with him.Earlier, the police had recovered a car used in the crime, four mobile phones, a country-made pistol with three live cartridges of .32 and folding spring knife from Charanjit Singh and Gajinderjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/extortion-racket-third-accused-held-358348
05-01-2022||---||Amritsar residents cosy up as temperature dips||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4The city received light showers early this morning. The day was cloudy and various parts of the city and outskirts received mild rain.With snowfall in hill areas and rain in the region, the temperature also witnessed a dip. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12°C. According to the weatherman, there are chances that the city would receive moderate rain in the next 72 hours. It was the first rain of the season and people might have welcomed the much-needed nectar from the skies.“The dry cold is not good for health. People faced health problems like viral cough, cold and fever in the last few weeks. The rain would also provide relief from such mild diseases,” said Harkrishan Singh, a resident of the city.The weather conditions are favourable for the wheat crop. Farmers are expecting moderate rain so that they are spared the botheration of irrigating the wheat crop. The vegetable growers have been complaining of an attack by insects on crops and the rain would be favourable for vegetables. The fodder and other seasonal crops would also flourish with the rain. “The wheat requires low temperature for growth. Rain and cloudy weather are good for it. The chances of mite attack on vegetables would also reduce,” said Davinder Singh, a farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-cosy-up-as-temperature-dips-358349
05-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||SAD in dilemma over fielding candidates for two seats in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4SAD is finding it tough to take a call on announcing the names of candidates against PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Amritsar East assembly segment and the Baba Bakala seat.Of the 11 segments announced by the party, it has already fielded candidates for nine Assembly constituencies. Among them the Amritsar Central seat has been given to its alliance partner BSP. The BSP announced Bibi Dalbir Kaur as its candidate, who had once joined SAD after winning the councillors’ elections as an Independent. Deputy CM OP Soni was elected from Amritsar Central in the last election.North Assembly constituencyGurpreet Singh Randhawa, former chairman of the Amritsar Market Committee, is taking care of the East assembly constituency. So his name is prominent among the probables. Recently, a campaign on social media proposed the name of senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been evading police arrest in an NDPS case, as a better choice against Navjot Sidhu. Though the idea of fielding a celebrity candidate against Sidhu was proposed in its meeting, it was not liked by its senior leaders.South Assembly constituencyThe names of two former MLAs of Baba Bakala Manjit Singh Manna and Baljit Singh Jalalusma are doing the rounds. The party leaders would have to avoid a possible rebellion before announcing the candidate’s name.SAD comfortably announced the name of expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi from Amritsar North after taking him into the party fold. Earlier, he had been elected twice from the same seat in the 2007 and 2012 Assembly election, but lost to Sunil Dutti in the 2017 election.Talbir Singh Gill, a close aide of Bikram Majithia, has been given the ticket from Amritsar South, which is being represented by Inderbir Singh Bolaria of the Congress.Dr Dalbir Singh Verka was named party candidate from Amritsar West (a reserved constituency). The assembly constituency is being represented by senior Congress leader Raj Kumar Verka.Senior Akali leader Gulzar Singh Ranike is almost sure to contest from the Attari assembly segment.Once a rebel, Amarpal Singh Bonny again joined his parent party Akali Dal. His candidature from the Ajnala assembly constituency is almost certain. He had been elected twice from the 2012 and 2007 Assembly election from this constituency. Before his father, Dr Rattan Singh Ajnala had represented the constituency in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha four times.Veteran Akali leader Vir Singh Lopoke, a former MLA, is likely to be fielded from Rajasansi.Since former Akali MLA of Jandiala Guru assembly constituency Malkiat Singh AR was not keeping well, his son Sandeep Singh is looking after the party affairs in the constituency. So Sandeep is a likely candidate from Jandiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-in-dilemma-over-fielding-candidates-for-two-seats-in-city-358350
05-01-2022||---||Sarva Sikhkhia Abhiyan, mid-day meal employees observe hunger strike in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, January 4The ministerial staff of the Sarva Sikhkhia Abhiyan (SSA) and the mid-day meal (MDM) observed a mass hunger strike in front of the office of Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, local MLA, in Tarn Taran, on Tuesday.The employees were on a warpath under the banner of Sarva Sikhkhia Abhian /Mid-day meal stressing for regularising of their services.Harpreet Singh Khehra, district president of the organisation, while addressing on the occasion said, they had been working in the state Education Department for the past more than 15 years but their services have not been regularised though they had been putting forward their current demands to the state government from time to time. He alleged that they got nothing but fake assurance.The MLA, in his conversation with the agitating employees, assured that he would take up their demand with the state Education Minister Pargat Singh.On the assurance of the MLA, the employees finished their hunger strike. The organisation warned the state government that in case their demand was not met, the employees would intensify their agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ssa-mdm-employees-observe-hunger-strike-358351
05-01-2022||---||Durgiana Heritage Walk: First phase of beautification work completed, claims MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 4The Municipal Corporation (MC) claimed to have completed the first phase of the beautification project of the Durgiana Heritage Walk, which was delayed due to Covid-19 outbreak.The Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, had taken the initiative to beautify the Durgiana shrine in 2018 and promised that the work would be done in a timely manner. But due to some reasons, including that of Covid-19, the work got delayed. “Now, we have completed the first phase of the Heritage Walk Project,” said Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu.This project would be one of the best in the city of Amritsar and would be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and equipment. It would be prepared in two phases. In the first phase, development works carried out at a cost of about Rs 6.50 crore, under which the road leading to Durgiana Temple has beautified as smart road.A marble statue of Lord Krishna would be erected at the chowk to give it a heritage look. Two entrance gates and ducts would also be constructed in the middle of the road and all utility services would be underground. Exquisite tile and marble would be installed on both sides of the road. The total cost of the project is about Rs 25 crore. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that there is no scarcity of funds for the development and beautification of shrine.“Millions of people visit Darbar Sahib and they also go to Durgiana Temple, but lack of basic facilities and incomplete development work irks them. The second phase would also be completed in time,” added Karmajit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-phase-of-beautification-work-completed-claims-mc-358352
05-01-2022||Amritsar||NSS special camp kicks off||Indoor stadium at SGHPS soonChief Khalsa Diwan’s Nirmal Singh inaugurated the work in the building of three court indoor badminton stadium at Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School. Sharing the information, Nirmal Singh said the indoor badminton hall being constructed in 9,200 square feet in which three badminton courts are being constructed, would accommodate about 200 spectators. Equipped with facilities, this hall will fulfill all the terms and conditions of hosting national and international badminton competitions. He said the promising budding players had to face many difficulties due to lack of access to high level basic facilities for practice. In the badminton hall, students from schools under the Chief Khalsa Diwan as well as players from outside can practice badminton. Ajit Singh Basra, Honorary Secretary, Chief Khalsa Diwan said the badminton hall was constructed at a cost of Rs two crore.Students shine in PTU examsCKD students Simralin Kaur, Simarjit Kaur Walia and Sumanpreet Kaur won gold medals in the PTU examinations. In the recently announced results of PTU, these three students of CKD Institute of Management and Technology bagged a gold medal and three students secured merit positions. Chief Khalsa Diwan president Nirmal Singh, congratulated the students for their excellent performance in the examinations. He said the credit for the great success of the college goes to Dr Rajiv Mahajan, the teachers, the efficient college administrator and the hard work of the students. He said the CKD Institute has set a new milestone under the able guidance of the teachers, the students have made the name of their college and parents bright with their hard work and excellent results. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nss-special-camp-kicks-off-358353
05-01-2022||Amritsar||Teachers' maha rally in Bathinda||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-maha-rally-in-bathinda-358354
05-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Baba Bakala: Need to reduce urban-rural disparity||For the first time, Congress’ MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur would face difficulty in managing the intraparty competition, especially from Satinderjit Singh Chhajjalwadi, son of three-time MLA Ranjit Singh Chajjalwadi, as he has already made his intentions clear to the party high command.In a recent party meeting, many sarpanches from the constituency made it clear that they would support Satinderjit instead of Santokh. Their major grudge being that the MLA had got FIRs registered against many local leaders.The constituency faces several problems, but unbalanced development in towns and rural areas bothers locals the most. Being a rural constituency, emotive issues such as sacrilege and farm laws are major considerations for voters here.Locals’ key demandsPast trendFor a decade starting 2007, Baba Bakala was a SAD citadel. First, it was represented by Manjinder Kang and later he was replaced by Manjit Manna. However, Santokh Singh, a first-timer, emerged a dark horse in 2017 as he won riding on Capt Amarinder wave.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,94,772Male: 1,05,711Female: 89,050Third gender: 11||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baba-bakala-need-to-reduce-urban-rural-disparity-358222
