06-01-2022||---||DC, 105 others test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 5In an alarming rise in the number of positive cases, a total of 105 cases besides Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira tested positive here on Wednesday.Sources in the district administration confirmed that the DC has tested positive.With the cases reported on Wednesday, the district tally increased to 47,657. Of these, 94 are new cases, while 11 are contacts of positive patients.The number of positive cases from the district has exponentially increased in the last few days. The district had reported 20 cases on January 3. The number increased to 33 on January 4, which has further gone up to 105 on Wednesday.The health authorities have reported recovery of only two patients, with which the recovery count improved to 45,862. The district, at present has a total of 196 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 14,497 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Wednesday. The health officials said 223 children in the age group of 15 years to 17 years were inoculated on Wednesday. Starting January 3, a total of 738 children have received the first dose.15 test +ve in Tarn TaranAs many as 15 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday, taking the active caseload to 43. On Tuesday, 16 persons tested positive. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said out the total 43 active cases, 28 have been quarantined at their respective homes. The DC said so far, 9,18,413 jabs have been given to 6,38,567 citizens, of which 3,464 persons were vaccinated on Wednesday. — OCMC Commissioner also positive Amritsar: Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Sandip Rishi also tested positive for Covid-19 late on Wednesday evening. Rishi attended office and participated in official meetings. In the evening, he tested positive and quarantined himself. He advised people in his contact to take precautions and get tested. TNSHelpline numbers for Covid patients||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-105-others-test-positive-in-dist-358733
06-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Shutdown orders hit school transporters, gym trainers hard||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 5With the government ordering closure of schools, colleges, gymnasiums and a few other businesses, the third wave of the pandemic has already started to impact people engaged in these establishments.As the number of Covid cases is further increasing, more sections of society including shopkeepers and small traders fear that the government might impose further restrictions, which would impact their livelihood.Abhijit, who runs a school bus, said: “Our work started in the end. While most of the parents continued paying school fee, they had not paid the transporters.” He said the last two years have been very hard, as he had switched to another business of selling clothes, which did not go well either.“Just when I hoped things will be normal, it has started all over again,” he said.If the Covid cases continue to increase at the same pace, residents feel the government might have to take harsh steps, which would directly impact their businesses.Vinay Kumar, a shopkeeper, said: “It is just a matter of time now. Fear has gripped shopkeepers and daily wage earners.” He said people were yet to recover from the loss during the last lockdown.Though the number of cases is increasing at an alarming rate, it has not stressed the health sector so far. At present, the bed occupancy for level-II case category is merely 5.01 per cent and for level-III category is 0.72 per cent. The district has a total of 918 beds reserved for level-II category patients and 550 beds for level-III patients.Meanwhile, the recent spurt in the positive cases coupled with government instructions to stop salaries of its employees who have not been vaccinated yet resulted in long queues at vaccination centres on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shutdown-orders-hit-school-transporters-gym-trainers-hard-358734
06-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar: Waste segregation kicks off in walled city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 5Averda, a solid-waste management firm, provided segregation bins (dry and wet waste) to the walled city residents. The company officials claimed that in the next six months, 50 per cent households in the walled city would be segregating waste into wet and dry at the source itself, while by the end of 2022, 80 per cent of the households would be adopting this task.Deputy Chief Minister Om Prakash Soni, said, “It is a matter of pride that serious efforts are afoot to ensure better management of household waste in the walled city.” He urged the residents to cooperate with civic body and other agencies to ensure total cleanliness.The Amritsar Municipal Corporation and Averda have also joined hands to create awareness among the residents to ensure that they dispose their household waste correctly by separating them into wet and dry.In the next six months, 35,000 households in the walled city of Amritsar will be receiving the bins.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, said, “I call upon the residents of the walled city to use bins, which have been provided to them (blue bin for dry waste and wet waste in green bin). It will help us to keep the city clean.”MC Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, said, “We are happy that these steps are helping the city look clean. We have also improved our rankings in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.”Amit Bajpai, general manager, Averda India, said, “Waste segregation is an essential component of waste management. Over 30 per cent of the residents across the wards in Amritsar have started segregating waste. We are aiming to increase it to 50 per cent in the next six months and 80 per cent by the end of 2022.” Councillors Vikas Soni, Mahesh Khanna, Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora and Chief Sanitary Officer Sahil Malhotra were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waste-segregation-kicks-off-in-walled-city-358735
06-01-2022||---||Amritsar district admn all set for Assembly elections||Amritsar, January 5The district has 19,44,090 voters in the final voter list unveiled here on Wednesday. Total 2,211 polling stations would be set up in the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha election. District election officials announced their full preparation to enforce the Model Code of Conduct. These developments and others were announced during two separate meetings held here on Wednesday.The final publication of photo voters’ list for 2022 has been made in the district and as per the Election Commission’s instructions, a hard copy of the final list and one CD without photo voter list have been supplied to recognised national and state parties by Assistant Commissioner-cum-District Revenue Officer Arvinderpal Singh.He appealed to the representatives of all political parties to appoint BLAs at every polling station.Meanwhile, a special meeting was also held by the District Election Officer-cum-DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira with the nodal officers of various teams formed for the election process at the district administrative complex.Khaira said: “The forthcoming Assembly elections could be announced by the Election Commission of India any time. So, necessary preparations are being made by the district administration in this regard.”To comply with the election code of conduct, the district administration has set up various teams, including flying squads, static surveillance, video viewing teams, video surveillance, media certification, monitoring committee and accounting teams for the 11 Assembly constituencies of the district. These teams include officers of various departments and police officers.He said the civil and police officers involved in these teams have been given the necessary training to perform their duties properly during the election process.As per the ECI guidelines, the district administration is fully committed to conducting the elections in a fair and transparent manner. He directed the officers concerned to immediately send a detailed report on the ongoing development works in the district to the DC office before the imposition of the code of conduct and said no new work should be started during this time. He directed them to ensure that no government building or office is used for electioneering when the code of conduct is in force and no poster, banner or flag etc. is affixed. He said any complaint or suggestion regarding election can be contacted on toll-free number 1950.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dist-admn-all-set-for-assembly-elections-358736
06-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Cong likely to field incumbent MLAs from 11 seats in district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 5Barring a couple of seats, the Congress is likely to field most of its incumbent MLAs from the 11 Assembly seats in the district.The grand old party controls 10 out of the 11 seats. This single seat out of its fold is the Majitha Assembly seat, being held by senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia.Wresting the seat from Majithia would be a gigantic task at hand, as its old guard Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia had switched over to the Aam Aadmi Party, probably splitting the party votebank in the rural segment.Congress rural president Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar had openly staked claim for the seat. But the final decision still rests with the party.A surprise could unfold in the North Assembly segment, where Sunil Dutti is the sitting MLA, who had defeated BJP’s Anil Joshi with a difference of 14,236 votes in the previous election. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 election and polled 45,394 votes in his favour, could be a forceful contender. While Virat Devgan, son of a Congress councillor Usha Devgan, has already thrown his hat for a party ticket from the seat, signalling that senior party leaders were mulling a change.PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu (East), Deputy CM OP Soni (Central), Raj Kumar Verka (West), Inderbir Singh Bolaria (South), Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (Rajasansi) and Harpratap Singh Ajnala (Ajnala) are considered heavyweights keeping in view their past performance. Sidhu had replaced his wife Dr Navjot Kaur from the East constituency in the last election.He had secured 60.68 per cent of votes, which almost doubled from what his wife had scored in the 2012 election (36.30 per cent).The number of votes polled had increased from 45,762 in the 2012 election to 52,271 in the last election for Raj Kumar Verka.Bolaria would be contesting for the fourth term. He had thrice won the South seat, once even a bypoll in 2008. Harpratap Ajnala would contest for a third term, as he had won the seat in 2005 and 2017 Assembly elections.Incumbent MLAs Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala (Jandiala), Santokh Singh Bhalaipur (Baba Bakala) and Tarsem Singh DC (Attari) are likely to be fielded by the Congress high command from their respective segments in the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-likely-to-field-incumbent-mlas-from-11-seats-in-district-358737
06-01-2022||---||Showers end dry spell, locals stay indoors||Amritsar, January 5The intermittent drizzling during the last 36 hours has ended the dry spell of the season and brought cheer on the faces of residents who so far were feeling that it was ‘not too cold’ this year.The cloudy weather forced motorists to switch on the headlights of their vehicles at 4:30 pm. Even roads looked comparatively deserted as residents preferred to stay indoors.With the weather forecast predicting ongoing rain spell to last till Sunday, a further fall in the temperature is expected. The area had last received rain in the last week of the month of October last year. Ever since, it’s been a dry weather.“Last time, it rained when the paddy harvesting season was on,” said Gurnam Singh, an elderly farmer.The agricultural experts said showers would be good for the wheat crop, as it would lower the temperature, which is good for tillering of plants.The experts said showers would also help farmers as it would end the need for applying second irrigation to the crop. The first irrigation to the wheat crop is usually done after 21 days of sowing, while the second irrigation is applied between 50 to 60 days of sowing. For most of the wheat crop it was time for applying second irrigation.The weather also impacted the life in general as street vendors usually seen on roads were missing. Even the general public preferred to stay indoors due to the inclement weather condition which has resulted in drop in temperature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showers-end-dry-spell-locals-stay-indoors-358738
06-01-2022||Amritsar||Five students get placed in Wipro||KCET signs MoU with MGNCREKhalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET) signed an MoU with Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), Department of Higher Education, MHRD, Government of India for faculty development programmes. The MoU was signed by Dr Manju Bala, Director, KCET and Dr Prasanna Kumar, Chairman, MGNCRE. Dr Bala said under the association the college will work towards rural management development by introducing the subjects or courses which will ultimately uplift the society. She said under the memorandum the college faculty and students can draw various benefits related to faculty development programmes, workshops, seminars, internships. She said students of various branches will also get an opportunity to work in the field of social entrepreneurship. KCET is the first college in the district that has signed an the MoU with MGNCRE, MHRD.Voter awareness campaign startedAn awareness campaign has been launched to inform students, children about VVPAT and EVMs before the Assembly elections commence. In the regard, SVEEP team reached Kot Khalsa where they interacted with school children and informed the children about VVPAT and EVM machine. The school children were also keen to know about the electoral process. The local government school principal, facilitated the camp. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-students-get-placed-in-wipro-358739
06-01-2022||---||Online exams under way in pvt colleges||Amritsar, January 5Amid the order related to closure of schools, colleges and other institutions in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, private colleges have gone online to conduct classes and exams.The exams for odd semesters, which were usually conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University between December and January, but the schedule has not been released due to the teachers’ stir so far.Dr Manoj Kumar, controller examinations, GNDU, said, “It’s a tricky situation for students who are directly affected by the disruption in academics. We have to stick to the government guidelines with respect to the Covid. Hopefully, the situation will improve.”Meanwhile, private colleges affiliated to IKGPTU have conducted online exams for various classes.DR VK Banga, principal, Amritsar College of Engineering, said, “Contemplating a possible third wave, we conducted exams in December. Now, we will begin online classes. All classes will be held in virtually until next orders.”He said though teachers and students both do not support the idea of closing down educational institutes, under the given circumstances, they were ready to continue with virtual teaching. “Everyone is aware of the situation. The uncertainty that was experienced last year should not prevail this time. It’s not good for students,” he said.“As per the PTU guidelines, exams are being held virtually and we will continue with the online classes as well,” said Dr Akashdeep Singh Chandi, vice-chairman, GGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-exams-under-way-in-pvt-colleges-358741
06-01-2022||Our Correspondent||DTF protests against closure of schools||Tarn Taran, January 5The district unit of the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), taking serious note of the government decision to close schools, colleges and other educational institutions till January 15, organised a protest at the local District Administration Complex (DAC) on Wednesday.Nachhattar Singh, district president of the front and other leaders, while addressing on the occasion, alleged that the state government was not serious about the students’ future, as the annual exams were near and it was a crucial time for their studies.They said it was strange that political parties were being organised with impunity, where lakhs of people were in attendance, whereas a few students were posing threat.The organisation also presented a memorandum to the officials to take back the decision and open educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dtf-protests-against-closure-of-schools-358742
06-01-2022||---||Pvt school accused of violating RTE Act||Amritsar, January 5The DEO has sought response from the Block Education Officer (Elementary) of Block Rayya 2 on a complaint against allegations of selling reserved seats under the RTE Act and non-compliance of filling 25 per cent seats for students of economically weaker section.The complaint was made by non-profit Minorities Public Welfare Organisation that submitted a complaint to the DEO. In a letter issued on January 3, 2022, the DEO had directed the BEO (Elementary) concerned to carry out a probe into the matter.Satnam Singh Gill, president, Minorities Public Welfare Organisation, said the DEO office had asked the BEO to look into the allegations and reply till January 6.“It’s not the first instance that a private school has not complied with the guidelines on 25 per cent reservation for economically weaker students. The private school management in the mentioned case had violated the rights of eligible children and we had raised the issue after a school in Butala was found selling quota seats. The DEO had sought a reply in this case by December 24, but the officials concerned failed to do so. Now, we will wait till Jan 6 and then forward our complaint in case the matter is not looked into,” said Satnam. Their team has also lodged a complaint against a private school in Kapurthala. The NGO is taking up this issue at state level, said Satnam and also written a letter to Education Minister, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pvt-school-accused-of-violating-rte-act-358743
06-01-2022||Accidents often occur at the entry of Adda Bazaar in Tarn Taran due to broken lids of manholes. A knee-deep pothole has developed at one of the spots. The bazaar is a lifeline for residents and visitors who go to Sri Darbar Sahib. Shopkeepers of Adda Bazaar said they have urged the authorities time and again to repair the manhole covers||Threat to commuters||A stalwart jathedarRanjit Singh Brahmpura also known as jathedar, who had parted ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal three years ago, is back to the fold. Not just that, he has been declared the party candidate from Khadoor Sahib. Born on November 8, 1937, in Brahmpura village of Tarn Taran district, the jathedar has always remained on the political fore front. His moved has created much furore when he had formed the SAD (Taksali) in 2018. He alleged that SAD supremo Parkash Singh Badal and chief Sukhbir Singh Badal were responsible for the sacrilege in the state. He had also levelled allegations against Badals related to the misuse of SGPC funds. Now, Brahmpura’s sudden home coming to the SAD fold received mixed response by political observers ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll. He started his political innings by being elected a sarpanch in 1961 at the age of 25. His opponents filed the petition and the election was set aside. He again fought the election after attaining 25 years of age and was elected the sarpanch. He played active role in politics (1961-1962) when Akali leader Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur was arrested by the state government as he was quite active against then Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon. Tur contested against Kairon from jail and Brahmpura had played a leading role for the former. He entered active politics in 1977 and became the MLA from Naushehra Pannuan by defeating Surinder Singh Kairon of the Congress. Being in Akali Dal, he had a rivalry with Harbhajan Singh Sandhu, who was given the party ticket in 1985 from Naushehra Pannuan. He won and was made a minister in Surjit Singh Barnala government. He also represented Naushehra Pannnun segment thrice (1997-2002, 2002-2007 and 2007 to 2012) in the Vidhan Sabha and once was elected Lok Sabha MP from Khadoor Sahib in 2014. Brahmpura was imprisoned for more than nine years from time to time under the NSA, TADA and ESMA.Get together after 15 yrsSGAD Government College organised alumni meet after a gap of 15 years. College Principal Dr Harvinder Singh Bhalla presided over the event. The old students shared their unforgettable memories related to the college and recalled the time spent at the institute as golden days of their lives. Most of the students remembered teaching style of certain professors. Administrative skills of former principal GC Singh (1985-92) and SK Sarad (1993 -94) were on the top during discussion of students. As militancy was at its peak during 1985-92, the working style of GC Singh was highly appreciated. Jaspal Singh Jassi, reporter of a Punjabi daily, appreciated former Union minister Dr Manohar Singh Gill for releasing grants worth more than one crore. Incumbent principal Dr Harvinder Singh urged the old students to stay in touch. Students presented skit, fancy dress classical dance, song and other items. The college magazine, “Shanti Punj”, was also released on the occasion.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/threat-to-commuters-358744
06-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Farmers protest PM's visit||Tarn Taran, January 5The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, and other farmer organisations had given the call to oppose the visit of the Prime Minister. Farmers managed to lodge their resentment peacefully during the Prime Minister Narender Modi’s Ferozepur visit on Wednesday.Incessant rain, too, failed to deter their spirit as they had made every possible effort to stay for the night at Harike. Farmers arranged for lodging in their tractor-trailers. Special arrangements of cooked food, too, was made at the site.Dharna in harikeThe farmers organised a demonstration in different parts of the district and burnt the effigy of the Union Government.They blocked roads, too, but when they were apprised about the successful meeting with Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajender Shekhawat, the roads were cleared and protests were shifted to the roadsides. The buses and other vehicles were then allowed to move ahead by the protesters.A convoy of more than 200 tractor-trailers with hundreds of farmers under the banner of KMSC from the border area villages had left for Ferozepur on Tuesday evening. They were stopped by the district police at Harike Headworks. The farmers had staged a dharna on the Harike road and blocked it on Tuesday. They remained on the road for the entire night.On Wednesday morning, however, when they were ready to leave for Ferozepur, the police stopped them after which they started protesting in Harike.Farmers under the leadership of Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra had a tough time with the police, as they wanted to proceed to Ferozepur. Sabhra condemned the Union Government and demanded for the rollback of criminal cases registered against farmers and compensation for families whose members lost their lives in the Delhi morcha. Other demands, too, were raised. They burnt the effigy of the Union Government as well. Farmers blocked the National Highway No. 54 at Rasulpur T-Point in protest against Modi’s visit to Ferozepur.Protests were organised in Jhabal and other villages as well. Tight security arrangements as claimed by the district police completely failed to pacify farmers from Amritsar and Tarn Taran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-pms-visit-358745
06-01-2022||Amritsar||Two nabbed with 11 stolen motorcycles||With the arrest of two persons, the city police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a gang of bike lifters active in different parts of the holy city and recovered 11 bikes from them.The accused used to sell the stolen motorcycles by making fake registration certificates. Those arrested were identified as Sunny Masih of Jastarwal village, falling under Bhindi Saida police station, and Vipin Kumar, alias Kaka, of Kot Gurbax village in Ajnala. A case under Sections 379, 411, 414, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against them at Majitha Road police station here.Palwinder Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police, during interrogation of the duo, said the police confiscated 11 bikes and eight fake RCs from them. The police had arrested Sunny Masih on December 30 at a check-point with a stolen bike. Preliminary probe led to the arrest of his accomplice Vipin Kumar the next day and two motorcycles and eight RCs were recovered from him as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-11-stolen-motorcycles-358746
06-01-2022||Amritsar||Youth nabbed over 'sacrilege' in Amritsar village||The incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras. The granthi nabbed the youth and called the police, which reached the spot and took him in custody. Meanwhile, various Sikh organisations condemned the incident and demanded fair probe. Eyewitness claimed that the suspect consumed several tablets of a banned drug as soon as he was nabbed. SP (D) Manoj Thakur said the youth was being questioned. A large number of residents gathered and asked the police to handover the youth to them. The police pacified them. They claimed that the suspect may be a drug addict. The suspect was roaming in the same village from the last several days. Residents were providing him food and money for helping them in their fields. TNSIMA condemns arrest of docsAmritsar: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed resentment over registration of FIR and arrest of directors of Amandeep Hospital and their staff, on Tuesday. They said despite the fact that they were cooperating with the police in the investigations, doctors were being kept in a prolonged custody. “They willingly went to Pathankot to join the probe but were arrested without any notice,” IMA president Dr Kuldeep Singh Arora said in a statement. IMA demanded an immediate release of Dr Avtar Singh, noted orthopaedic surgeon, his wife Dr Amandeep Kaur and son Dr Shahbaz Singh and requested the police to probe the case in an unbiased manner. They were arrested for the alleged ECHS scam that surfaced at the hospital’s branch in Pathankot. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-nabbed-over-sacrilege-358747
06-01-2022||---||Entry of spectators to retreat ceremony at Punjab's Attari stopped in view of Covid||Amritsar, January 6In view of the Covid situation in the country and the latest guidelines issued from the office of the District Magistrate, Amritsar, the BSF authorities have reviewed the situation and taken a decision to stop the entry of public to witness the ‘Retreat Ceremony’ at JCP Attari with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/public-viewing-of-retreat-ceremony-at-attari-suspended-in-view-of-covid-358684
06-01-2022||GS Paul||Woman tries to cross over to Pakistan to meet her lover, arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 5In a cross-border “love story” that started online, a 25-year-old married woman from Rajasthan reached Amritsar allegedly to cross the Attari-Wagah border to meet her lover from Pakistan.Neither did she possess any valid visa documents nor revealed the credentials of the Pakistan-based man whom she was supposed to meet. Consequently, she was held up by the B-division police and her maternal family members were informed in Rajasthan.Police incharge Amarjit Singh said the woman was carrying some jewellery and cash and her family members would reach here in a day. “According to her, she lived in Maharajganj (UP), but she gave us the contact number of her maternal home in Rajasthan. Nothing objectionable has been found from her possession, but she appears to be mentally unstable, may be due to some domestic dispute,” he said.The woman, a mother of two-and-a-half-year-old son, met the Pakistan man during an online ludo game 10-12 days ago and later connected on Facebook and WhatsApp.She said he (Pakistani) had invited me to Pakistan. “When I asked how I could reach there, he told me to come to the Attari-Wagah border,” she said.As she told an auto-rickshaw driver to drop her at the Attari-Wagah border, another cop deputed at Jallianwala Bagh, Ranjit Singh, overheard the conversation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-tries-to-cross-over-to-pak-arrested-358515
