07-01-2022||GS Paul||Cops ignore Blue Book protocol due to ‘political interference’: Kunwar Vijay Partap||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7Former Punjab Police IGP Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh on Friday alleged that the state police seldom follow the Ministry of Home Affair’s ‘Blue Book’ that details about the security given to the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister, due to undue political interference.Kunwar’s statement pertains to the alleged ‘security breach’ during PM Narendra Modi’s Ferozepur visit on Wednesday.Kunwar, who is AAP’s candidate for Amritsar North in the 2022 Assembly elections, held a joint press conference with his party colleague Maneesh Aggarwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 elections from the same seat.Talking about the PM’s controversial visit, he said that the fixed protocol was not followed that led to the chaos.“The ‘Blue Book’ is always in the personal possession of the Police Commissioners and SSPs. This book contains the security protocol that has to be followed during the visit of VVIPs like the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister. These directions have to be followed by officers concerned. But today hardly any officer would be aware of the ‘Blue Book’. The reason is that under the existing political system, officers have to follow ‘political guidelines’ rather than the laid-down procedure,” he said.Kunwar said he never favoured either the PM or the CM. “No matter which party they belong to, I am concerned about the sanctity of the chair that has to be maintained at any cost”, he said.Expressing dissatisfaction with the state government’s action to curb drug menace in the state, he said: “It would be the prime priority on our agenda to eradicate drug abuse. Arvind Kejriwal has already declared at Gurdaspur rally to rein in the drug nexus in the state within six months’ of coming to power.”Kunwar said the revenue is misappropriated due to corruption and if the AAP comes power, the tax payers’ money would be ploughed back for development and betterment of people’s life.On President’s rule as was being demanded by the BJP and other Opposition parties to be implemented in the state, he said that it actually meant by the Centre to have an indirect control over the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-ignore-blue-book-protocol-due-to-political-interference-kunwar-vijay-partap-359115
07-01-2022||Amritsar||Now, deposit passport for Pakistan visit till Jan 20: SGPC||Amid the Covid-19 threat, the SGPC has extended the date of depositing passports for aspirants who wish to visit Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib (Pakistan) on the occasion of Khalsa Sajna Diwas (Baisakhi). SGPC secretary Mohinder Singh Ahli said like every year, the SGPC planned to send a jatha of pilgrims to the gurdwara and other Sikh shrines in April to mark the occasion.“The pilgrims can deposit their passports with the yatra department at the SGPC headquarters in Amritsar by January 20 so that the requisite procedure could be followed to obtain visa documents,” he said. The SGPC had earlier asked the pilgrims to deposit their passports by December 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-deposit-passport-for-pak-visit-till-jan-20-sgpc-358902
07-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||125 passengers from Italy test +ve on arrival at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Rajasansi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 6As many as 125 passengers out of 179, who arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Rajasansi, from Italy, tested positive here today.The Air India flight arrived at the airport around 11.20 am and those who tested positive were asked to quarantine at a local hospital. However, the passengers refused to go to government isolation centres. They claimed they had already undergone the RT-PCR test before boarding the flight. “If majority of the passengers tested positive, why the airlines staff did not test positive?” asked a passenger.They raised slogans against the government and demanded that they be allowed to go home. Those who had reached the airport to receive the passengers also staged a protest. After five-hour argument, health authorities agreed to allow them to return to their home districts and quarantine at local hospitals. Of the 125 passengers, 13 were from Amritsar and the rest went with health officials to their respective districts. However, of the 13 Amritsar patients, nine fled the airport and four, who reached Guru Nanak Hospital, also escaped.DC Gurpreet Khaira directed ADC Ruhi Dugg to register a case against all of them. “We will tell the Home Department to cancel passports of these patients, as we have their records," he said.Airport Director VK Seth said: “We tried to convince the flyers to follow the government guidelines. Later, they were handed over to the state authorities for further decision.”Omicron case in Malerkotla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/125-passengers-from-italy-test-ve-on-arrival-at-sri-guru-ram-das-jee-international-airport-rajasansi-358894
07-01-2022||---||Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, Amritsar, gearing up for 3rd Covid wave||Amritsar, January 6Getting ready to deal with the third Covid wave, the Health Department is setting up 72 beds at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital here, of which, 42 would be for children, while the remaining would be for adults.The district health officials said the hospital would now be able to admit level-II category patients. Earlier, the Civil Hospital did not have any provisions to admit Covid positive patients.The only government health facility allowed to admit Covid patients was Government Medical College. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the department has also made arrangements to admit Covid patients at sub-divisional hospital in Ajnala.He said at Civil Hospital, beds are already being assembled and Covid wards would be ready within a next few days. At present, the district has a capacity to have 918 level-II category patients. Of these, 299 in government sector, while 619 are in private hospitals. For level-III category patients, the district has a total of 550 beds, of which 320 beds are in government hospitals.The Civil Surgeon said Covid vaccination is going on smoothly. “We appeal to all those who had still not received the vaccine to get it done at the earliest,” he said.At present, apart from GMC and Military Hospital, the administration has allowed a total of 45 private hospitals to admit Covid patients. The health officials said all hospitals have been asked to be prepared for any situation.Amritsar reports 131 cases in 24 hrsAmritsar: The last 24 hours saw 131 persons testing positive for Covid in the district taking the tally to 47,788. Of these, 116 are new cases, while 15 are contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has reported recovery of one patient, with which the recovery count also increased to 45,863. The daily active caseload in the district is increasing at a fast pace, as it reached 326 on Thursday. Meanwhile, a total of 15,445 residents, including 224 children in the age group of 15 to 17 years, were inoculated on Thursday. Of the total, 6,121 residents received the first dose of the vaccine, while 6,645 received the second dose.18 positive in Tarn Taran: As many as 18 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 61. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta on Thursday said 38 patients had been quarantined at their respective homes. He said for the prevention of Covid, 3,638 citizens were inoculated on Thursday. A total of 6,39,662 residents had received 9,22,051 vaccines so far. The district administration asked residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Omicron recovered’s family to undergo tests: A native of the border district tested positive (Omicron variant) upon his arrival from Italy at Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, around a week ago. The patient’s village falls under the jurisdiction of Kairon health block. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said the patient had come from Italy and tested positive. He said the patient was quarantined for a week and now tested negative. The Civil Surgeon said all family members of the person concerned would also be tested. tns/oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-hospital-gearing-up-for-3rd-covid-wave-358869
07-01-2022||---||West Bengal resident booked for sacrilege in Ajnala||Amritsar, January 6A day after the alleged sacrilege instance was reported at Bhangupur village, the police have booked the accused identified as Zedrol, a resident of Malda, West Bengal, on charges of hurting religious sentiments of a community.Amritsar (rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Rakesh Kaushal said medical examination of the suspect was conducted to ascertain not only his mental state of mind, but also whether he was a drug addict.“The health official also got his dope test conducted as he consumed some pills before he was caught by sangat and later handed over to the police,” he said.The situation turned tense after a large number of people gathered near Gurdwara Nanaksar. The accused had picked up Guru Granth Sahib from “Palki Sahib” and put it on a table before stealing “Rumala Sahib”. He also lifted “Sri Sahib” from its place. The entire incident was captured on a CCTV camera.Despite the fact that the managements of religious places had been requested not to left the shrines alone and ensure the presence of some persons on the complex, the gurdwara at Bhangupur village was left unattended, the SSP said.The complex remained unattended for at least six hours, which give the accused a chance to enter the gurdwara.A number of senior police officials, including the SSP and other police personnel were deputed in Ferozepur for the Prime Minister’s rally.Kaushal said considering the previous incidents, which took place at the Golden Temple and Kapurthala district, we did not wanted the repetition and immediately rushed cops to the spot and took custody of the suspect.“Residents and members of different Sikh organisations asked the police to hand over the accused in order to give him exemplary punishment, but cops kept their cool and remained firm not to hand him over to them,” he said and added that this would have destroyed the evidence.“Till 2.30 am, I remained in touch with the DGP, IG (Border Range) and other senior police and administrative officials, besides different Sikh bodies and continued to pacify the people who gathered outside the gurdwara,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wb-resident-booked-for-sacrilege-in-ajnala-358871
07-01-2022||---||Carjacking at gunpoint in Amritsar village||Amritsar, January 6In yet another incident, a car was snatched by unidentified armed persons at Mahal village, failing under Kamboh police station, here on Wednesday.Naveen Kumar, a resident of Guru Amardas Avenue, Ajnala Road, said he had gone to leave his domestic help at the village bus stand, when armed persons came and snatched his car.In his complaint to the police, he said he works in the Veterinary Department and was going to the village bus stand on Wednesday to drop his domestic help Amarjit Kaur of Wadala Bhitewad village around 6.30pm. He said he was waiting for an auto-rickshaw for Amarjit, when three persons came in a car. He said the accused were armed with a pistol. They pointed the pistol at him and snatched his car. He said his purse was also in car and it contained Rs3000 cash, two debit cards, and a credit card.The police said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25/54/ 59 of the Arms Act was registered against unidentified accused. The police authorities said CCTV cameras in the area were being scanned to find clues about the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-at-gunpoint-358872
07-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Man shot dead in Kairon village||Cricket trialsAmritsar: The trials for U-14 and U-16 boys, and U-18 and senior category for women would be held at Gandhi Cricket Ground on Friday. IS Bajwa, secretary AGA, said the trial for U-14 and U-16 boys would start at 10 am and U-18 and senior category for women at 2 pm. For U-14, boys born between Sept 1, 2008, and Sept 1, 2010, can appear and for U-16, boys born between Sept 1, 2006, and Sept 1, 2008, can appear. For U-19, women born before Sept 1, 2003, are qualified. Dressed in white, players have to bring a digital birth certificate, Aadhaar card, school bona fide certificate and passport, if available. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shot-dead-358875
07-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||High drama at Amritsar airport after 125 passengers of Italy-Amritsar flight test positive for Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 6As many as 125 passengers out of 179, who arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport Rajasansi from Italy, tested positive here today. The Air India flight arrived at the airport around 11.20 am. The Covid-positive passengers were asked to quarantine in local hospital as per the guidelines of the government. A high drama prevailed at the airport when they refused to go to government isolation centers. The passengers claimed that they had already undergone the RT-PCR test before boarding the flight. “If majority of passengers had tested positive, then why any of the airline staff not tested Covid-positive?” asked a passenger. Irked over the airport and health authorities, the passengers raised slogans against the government and demanded it to allow them to go to their homes. The relatives of the passengers too staged a protest outside the airport. The matter was resolved after five hours, after the health authorities agreed to put them under home quarantine with certain conditions. The passengers left for their respective villages and home towns in the evening. VK Seth, Director of the airport, said: “A total of 125 passengers of Air India’s Italy-Amritsar flight have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival. It took two hours to conduct the rapid PCR test. We have asked the passengers to follow government guidelines. Later, they were handed over to state authorities for further action”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-drama-at-amritsar-airport-after-125-passengers-of-italy-amritsar-flight-test-positive-for-covid-358821
