08-01-2022||---||Teachers chip in to promote vax drive among students||Amritsar, January 7With school students in the 15-18 age bracket confined to their homes after the closure of the schools, the district Education Department is making voluntary efforts to encourage them towards vaccination. Teachers from rural and urban areas are engaging parents, educating them and making them aware of the vaccination programme for their children, besides ensuring that the children get inoculated.Government schools have asked teachers to reach out to students and their parents through social media and pay a visit to them. “We were ready to host a vaccination camp for students in our school from the very first day of the campaign kicked off in the country. But due to the orders of school closure, we could not do so. We have identified the students for vaccination and are sending them messages to get the jab. Our teachers are also in touch with parents of children for their support in case they face any query or require any information regarding vaccination,” said Manpreet Kaur, principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary Smart School, Mall Road.Deepika Dean, headmistress, Government High School, Abdal, too has been making efforts to ensure that every student who qualifies for vaccination is not left behind. “We have initiated an awareness campaign and visiting homes of children and talking to parents, organising focussed group discussions regarding the importance of vaccination. Also, our teachers will offer voluntary support to families of children whose parents are either illiterate or cannot accompany them to vaccination centres. They will accompany children to vaccination centres,” she said.GNDU, too, has initiated an awareness drive on Covid-appropriate behaviour through its NSS volunteers in nearby villages, including Ranike in Attari and Katahania in Ajnala. Volunteers of NSS Unit–II of Guru Nanak Dev University in collaboration with SACH, a non-profit organisation, also visited two villages under the drive.NSS volunteers took out a procession and spread awareness among villagers about the Covid-appropriate behaviour and its importance. Many reluctant villagers were convinced and persuaded to join the vaccination drive in the village dispensary.The volunteers also distributed face masks and other necessary literature among villagers, especially children. Villagers were also informed about the ongoing vaccination camp in their villages under Sanjeevani Programme of SACH.A door-to-door awareness programme was also conducted by the volunteers and residents were made aware of the importance of the need for achieving the 100 per cent vaccination gal for protecting people from the fresh spurt in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-chip-in-to-promote-vax-drive-among-students-359213
08-01-2022||Amritsar||Fresh spike: Amritsar district logs 276 new cases||In a fresh spike in new Covid-19 infections, the district registered 276 fresh cases during the past 24 hours on Friday, which has more than doubled from Thursday’s 131 cases.Now, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 48,064. The health authorities also reported the recovery of 16 patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,879. The district, at present, has a total of 586 active cases. No death due to Covid-19 was reported.The alarming rise in the number of positive cases is likely to prompt the authorities to strictly implement the Covid-19 guidelines in public places. Despite the district and police administration releasing guidelines to public to adhere to Covid-19 protocols like maintaining physical distance, wearing masks and carrying sanitisers two days ago, most people were found flouting the norms in marketplaces today. Owing to intermittent rain and the overcast sky on a cold Friday, the number of people out on roads and in public places was less. A large number of them covered their faces with either a cloth or woollen. Most people were not wearing the recommended masks.28 test positive in Tarn TaranThe district on Friday recorded 28 fresh cases of Covid-19 with the report of these persons coming back positive. Civil Surgeon Rohit Mehta said the number of active cases had reached to 89 and out of these 63 had been isolated at their respective homes. Teams of the Health Department had administered 9,25,510 doses to 6,40,655 persons till date. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fresh-spike-amritsar-district-logs-276-new-cases-359215
08-01-2022||---||Surge in Covid cases puts a brake on live performances||Amritsar, January 7Amid a fresh round of Covid-19 restrictions being imposed in the district and the surging number of cases being reported every passing day, the cultural centres in the city once again gear up for uncertainty. Among the hardest hit sectors during the one and half years of pandemic, both socially as well as economically, the cultural and performing art industry is now being cautious, many suspending or postponing scheduled live performances and theatre festivals indefinitely.Punjab Naatshala has announced suspension of all live performances and theatre activities indefinitely, till updated guidelines regarding Covid-19 are released by government. “All our live performances, including weekend theatre performances have been suspended keeping in mind the health safety of artistes as well as audiences. We have also postponed any theatre workshops that were scheduled during the period till January 15. We were in the process of preparing a new production but even its premiere now stands postponed,” said Jatinder Brar, founder, Punjab Naatshala.Similarly, Indian Academy of Fine Arts (IAFA) too has suspended the live art activities, including performances of three plays that were scheduled for the month of January. The last live art and cultural event that the gallery hosted was the New Year’s celebrations on January 1, 2022. “Although we have allowed rehearsals of the three theatre productions at our premises with not more than 10 artistes as a time, we will not stage them until the situation improves. We will continue to host solo art shows and exhibits but under Covid-19 regulations. It’s a tough call as the art activities in city had just started to pick up pace after such a long hiatus,” said Arvinder Chamak, senior artist and general secretary or (IAFA).Kewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Nataka Akademi, too has decided to postpone theatre festival scheduled in the month of January. “We host the Punjabi theatre festival and National Theatre Festival in the beginning months of January and February. It’s our annual theatre event and some of the biggest names of national theatre and performing arts participate. But this time we will not be hosting any time soon under given circumstances. Let us wait and watch,” he shared. Virsa Vihar will host a restricted Lohri event with no invitations for public and most literary events lined up till March too are being re-considered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surge-in-covid-cases-puts-a-brake-on-live-performances-359216
08-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||400 cell phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail in 2021||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7Even as the work on installing of mobile signal jammers is yet to see the light of the day in ‘high security’ Amritsar Central Jail, prohibited materials, including cell phones, continue to sneak in with impunity.The tall claims of the Punjab Government about taking several measures to stem the problem proved nothing but hollow claims, if the recent instances are anything to go by.As per the information, over 400 mobiles were seized from the jail in 2021, while 41 cell phones were reported to be seized in the first week of 2022. As many as 17 phones were recovered on Tuesday (January 4) and nine on Thursday (January 6). Besides, the police also seized a mobile charger, a set of earphones and five unclaimed bundles of cigarettes from the prisoners.Recently, Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa during a visit to Amritsar had revealed that the work of installing mobile jammers were already in progress and currently these were being installed in Patiala. He had told that the work for setting up the same in Amritsar Central Jail would start soon. Randhawa pointed out that the pilot project of mobile jammers at Bathinda jail has been a success.The unabated seizure of mobile cell phones from the high-security complex has been a cause for concern for intelligence and security agencies. Amritsar jail houses cross-border smugglers, militants, gangsters and notorious criminals, who have been running their rackets from the jail complex through mobile phones.A jail official wishing not to be named said though the work was yet to take off, it would start soon. He said seizure of mobile phones shows no laxity on part of the jail staff. He said close proximity of jail with densely populated area is one of the major reasons why phones are sneaked in.Perneet Dhillon, SHO at Islamabad police station where these cases are registered, said the prisoners who were booked for seizure of mobiles would be brought on police remand for investigations and to know the source of mobile phones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/400-cell-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-in-2021-359217
08-01-2022||---||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee put off move to gherao Punjab ministers, MLAs' houses||Amritsar, January 7The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has postponed the move to gherao the residences of Punjab ministers and MLAs to January 11. Earlier, farmers’ unions gave a call to hold a protest on January 8. A meeting of the core committee of the KMSC was held here on Friday.Leaders of the union had given the call to gherao houses of ministers and MLAs of the Punjab Government on January 8 for implementing the poll promise made by the Congress with the farming community before the Assembly elections in 2017.Following the prediction of rain and bad weather conditions, the farm unions decided to gherao residences of ministers and MLAs on January 11.Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary of the union, stated that as per the decisions taken in the meeting of the core committee chaired by state president Satnam Singh Pannu, the residences of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, ministers and MLAs, including that of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, would be ghearoed to fulfil their demands accepted by the Punjab Government during a meeting held earlier.Satnam Singh Pannu alleged that the breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security was a deliberate attempt of the BJP to polarise the majority community in the country. He strongly condemned the BJP propaganda for endangering the lives of people and said the BJP was trying to create divisions in religions by misrepresenting the incident.“They will not be allowed to succeed at any cost. The cancellation of the rally may be due to the low turnout, bad weather and other reasons. There is a deliberate attempt to tarnish the image of Punjab,” said Pannu.“The farmer unions are protesting peacefully on the issue of forming a committee on the MSP, withdrawal of cases against farmers in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP, punishing the culprits of the Lakhimpur Khiri incident and releasing the arrested farmers in the case,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-put-off-move-to-gherao-ministers-mlas-houses-359218
08-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Sneh Rana picked for ICC women's World Cup 2022||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7Sneh Rana, a Travelling Ticket Examiner (TTE) at the Amritsar railway station, has been selected in the team India to play in the Women’s World Cup 2022 and One-Day International (ODI) series against New Zealand.The BCCI’s All Indian Women’s Selection Committee announced the squad for the ICC Women’s World Cup 2022 on Thursday. Team India will play their first World Cup fixture against Pakistan on March 6 at the Bay Oval, Tauranga. The same squad will feature in the 5-match ODI series against New Zealand starting from February 11.The 28-year allrounder has been a part of the national squad for the past so many years. She a right hander and an offbreak bowler.Coming from an agrarian family based at Sinaula village in Dehradun, she plays cricket since her childhood. Her dream and years of tiring practice bore fruit when she was drafted into the national team to play against Sri Lanka in 2014. However, a knee injury in 2016 put a break on her bright career as she was not drafted into the national squad for the next five years. It was only last year that the BCCI incorporated her into India’s Test squad against England, it was also her Test debut.In Tests, her batting average is 82 and in ODIs, it is 11.71. In Tests, her best bowling was four wickets for 131 runs and bowling average was 32.75. In ODIs, her bowling average stands at 40.10 and the best figure is three for 26 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sneh-rana-picked-for-icc-womens-world-cup-2022-359219
08-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Mobiles go missing from houses in Chhota Haripura, no hint of thiefs||Amritsar, January 7Residents of Chhota Haripura area are annoyed at rising cases of theft of mobile phones from their residences.A complainant, Rewati Raman, on Friday said two mobile phones went missing from his house on the intervening night of January 5 and 6 while his neighbour Mahinderpal also complained of missing of a mobile set from the house on the same night. He claimed that several mobiles went missing in the area in the past fortnight in a similar way. Unidentified thieves reportedly came from the rooftop way, he said.‘Not a people-friendly police’Another resident said in order to avoid ‘harassment’ at the hands of cops, in some earlier incidents complainants (residents) preferred to lodge missing complaints so that they could get new SIMs of their mobile numbers.Similarly, in another incident occurred in Mohkampura area where unidentified persons decamped with an expensive Apple iPhone 11 from the house of Manjit Kaur. She told the police that on the intervening night of January 4 and 5, an unidentified person stole a mobile phone and her purse containing Rs 1,500 from her house. The police have registered a case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC against the unidentified person.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh said investigations were on in the cases by the police. He said he would look into the matter if residents were facing any harassment. “There are clear instructions to cops to attend the complainants approaching them in a proper manner,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mobiles-go-missing-from-houses-no-hint-of-thiefs-359220
08-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Let down & ignored badly, say Fateh Singh Colony residents||Amritsar, January 7Residents of Fateh Singh colony, near Bhagtanwala Railway station, have been compelled to lead a miserable life due to failure of authorities to provide basic amenities in the area.The colony dates back to eighties. Even after four decades, its natives have been leading a miserable life. Even a slight drizzle transforms the upper layer of the road into slush. It causes automobile vehicles, especially two wheelers, to skid.A 58-year old resident Harbhajan Singh says: “Due to unpaved roads, the residents got the level of their houses elevated to keep off the rainwater. However, years after, no road has been paved. This gap causes several problems to people, especially while taking in and out their vehicles.”Sukhmit Singh, a young resident of the colony’s gali No. 38, said, sewerage does not exist in the colony. So, the road was never laid. Similarly, there have not been any streetlights or potable water supply. He said he had complained to previous MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi about the non-existent civic amenities in his area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/let-down-ignored-badly-say-fateh-singh-colony-residents-359221
08-01-2022||In every team game||Watch out for what Navjot Singh Sidhu does next!||Offering Peanuts or plum posts?In a recent visit to some Assembly seats of Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal calmly nipped in the bud the dissidence against his party's official candidates. In Batala, he drove to rebel Ramandeep Singh Sandhu's house and confabulated with him for an hour. He was promised a plum posting if the party was voted to power. Sandhu had red flagged the candidature of Sucha Singh Chhotepur was the Batala seat. Another contender, Sukhbir Singh Walha, an ex-chairman of Sugarfed, too, had revolted. Sukhbir ordered two-time Gurdaspur MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali to take his message to Walha's house. Again, the man was promised a plum post. Later, in Dinanagar, Badal managed to woo rebel leaders with plum posts. People were left wondering how many plum posts he will have in his kitty if he becomes the CM. Till yet, Badal has offered such posts to nearly a dozen leaders. A wag commented that he was distributing such posts like he would distribute peanuts to his workers at rallies.Progressive Farmer’s sweet date with jaggeryIn Gurdaspur, a progressive farmer Harpreet Singh Rinku Dala is busy making a name for himself and for his family by preparing high quality jaggery also called 'gur' in local parlance. His products are not up for sale but nevertheless these are making a way into kitchens of many people here in Gurdaspur. He has been in this for the last decade or so. His farmhouse is his 'gur' factory. His produce is renowned in the area for its high quality and immense health benefits. It is often touted as being healthier than other forms of sugar. Doctors claim jaggery is an excellent source of iron. A single serving, says Rinku Dala, contains ten percent of your required iron intake for the day. And everybody knows iron is critical for supporting healthy blood cells and getting enough iron in your diet can make you feel less tired. Needless to say, Dala is a much sought after man.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/watch-out-for-what-sidhu-does-next-359222
08-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Khalsa veterinary college gets ICAR accreditation||Amritsar, January 7The Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS), Amritsar, has become the first institute in this field throughout the country to get five year permanent accreditation from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).“The accreditation was awarded following the rigorous year-long inspection by experts from central monitoring agencies,” said principal Dr Harish Kumar Verma.He said the ICAR submitted the Self-Study Report and subsequently verification and evaluation of all the teaching, clinical and livestock farmers related facilities were conducted by peer review team. “We are excited that the peer team found the infrastructure at the college on par and granted the status,” said Dr Verma.He added that KCVAS was established in 2010 and has become a primary national-level institution in the veterinary education.Dr Verma said KCVAS is the first private veterinary college in India to receive accreditation from the ICAR. He thanked the entire management, faculty and students.He said former principals, including Dr SK Jand, Late Dr SS Sidhu and Dr PK Kapoor also contributed immensely for the development of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-veterinary-college-gets-icar-accreditation-359223
08-01-2022||Amritsar||Impose Prez rule in Punjab: Shwait Malik||BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik demanded that President’s rule should be imposed in Punjab after security lapse during the Prime Minister’s visit to Ferozepur on Wednesday.Malik said Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in state had failed to ensure security during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit. Terming January 5 as ‘black day’ in the history of the country, Malik said law and order situation had completely deteriorated in the state. He cited examples of bomb blast at Ludhiana courts and other incidents of crime to establish his point.The BJP leader claimed that the PM had to announce projects worth Rs42,750 crore for the state, which could not be accomplished due to the unwanted incidents with PM’s security. He said the projects included Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway, two medical colleges at Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur and inauguration of Talwara Mukerian railway line among other projects. — TNSProtest against PM security lapseTarn Taran: BJP workers organised a protest in front of the local District Administration Complex (DAC) on Friday against the security lapse in the Prime Minister Narender Modi’s visit in Ferozpur district. They demanded the dismissal of the state government immediately. The party leaders also presented a memorandum to the district officials in the name of President of the country seeking President’s rule in the state. The party workers led by Ram Lal Hans gathered and raised slogans against the state government. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/impose-prez-rule-in-state-malik-359224
08-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: IT session for students at Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/it-session-for-students-359225
08-01-2022||Amritsar||Two booked for forging bail bonds in Amritsar||Following the directions from the local court, Civil Lines police have booked two persons for allegedly furnishing fake documents in the court for procuring bail.The accused were identified as Devraj of Hoshiarpur village and Narinder Singh of Tanoli village. During the investigation, it was found that the actual name of Devraj was Manjit Kumar, a resident of Jalandhar. Lakhwinder Singh, in-charge, court complex police chowki, said a case under various Sections of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-forging-bail-bonds-359226
08-01-2022||---||Allow IELTS centres to operate: Assn||Amritsar, January 7Demanding a consideration, representatives of IELTS centres and coaching institutes, have urged the government to allow reopening of IELTS centres just like hotel industry.The IELTS and coaching centres have been closed for the last three days as fresh guidelines ordered the closure of schools, colleges and education institutions, along with IELTS centres.Sumit Sharma, chairman, Association of Visa and IELTS Centres (Amritsar), said these restrictions would wipe out many small businesses and affect them severely.“Students and educational institutions are the first ones to fall prey to such restrictions as every other industry, including hotels, bars and gyms have been allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity,” he said.“These restrictions are completely unjustified and a clear indication that the government is not considering the future of students, who have applied for foreign universities. We urge the government to rethink,” he added.Not just IELTS centres, even tuition centre owners have repeatedly raised the demand for resumption of classes. The closure also means the loss of academic schedule that most of the coaching institutes follow for training students for competitive examinations.Sharma added that since most of the students of IELTS centres were above 18 years of age and most of them were fully vaccinated, consideration must be given to allow functioning of IELTS institutes with minor and reasonable curbs as the growth of the students can’t be curbed for long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/allow-ielts-centres-to-operate-assn-359227
08-01-2022||Amritsar||Speeding bus snuffs out woman's life||A woman was killed and her son injured when a Punjab Roadways bus being driven rashly hit them near the Verka milk plant here on Thursday. The police have booked the unidentified driver of the bus who fled the spot leaving behind the bus.Parupkar Singh, husband of the victim, told the police he along with his wife Paramjit Kaur and son Simranjit Singh had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Nanaksar. When they were returning home around 6 pm, the Punjab Roadways bus coming from the Verka milk plant side hit his wife and son near the Metro bus station at Verka. He said the driver fled the scene leaving behind the bus (PB-02-BU-9748). He said he along with his brother rushed them to a private hospital where his wife succumbed to her injuries during treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/speeding-bus-snuffs-out-womans-life-359228
08-01-2022||Tarn Taran||73-yr-old woman crushed to death||Threat to lawyer, probe beginsAmritsar: Ravi Mahajan, a lawyer, on Thursday got a threat call in which the caller threatened him to eliminate him and his family. The incident came to light when he lodged a complaint with the police. A probe into the case has been started. Following a preliminary investigation, the police traced the caller from Moga while the number from which the call was made also hailed from a Moga resident. Assistant Commissioner of Police Manjit Singh said the probe was on to identify the accused. The call details of the number was also being analysed. He said Moga police were also contacted in this regard. He said an old dispute could be the reason behind this. Ravi Mahajan said the accused started abusive language and threatened to kill me and my family members. He said the accused called him twice. TNSTwo Finance firm staffers robbedTarn Taran: Four armed masked persons robbed cash from two employees of a Makhu-based (Ferozepur) private finance company from Dhigana village, falling in Patti Sadar police station, on Wednesday. ASI Gurmej Singh, Investigating Officer, said the employees — Nahar Singh and Lovepreet Singh — were in the area to collect loan instalments from customers. They were on a motorcycle, when four masked robbers stopped them under the rail underpass in Dhigana village and robbed the bag containing cash, mobiles and other belongings at gunpoint. A case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act by Patti Sadar police. OCParamjit takes over as CDPOTarn Taran: Paramjit Kaur, who was promoted by the Social Security and Woman Welfare Department, Punjab, assumed the charge of Child Development and Programme Officer (CDPO), Naushehra Pannuan, on Friday. Paramjit Kaur was the Supervisor in Patti block office of the department. After taking over the charge, she presided over a meeting of her subordinates and instructed them to provide every possible facilities to beneficiaries in time. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/73-yr-old-woman-crushed-to-death-359229
08-01-2022||Amritsar||172 more flyers from Italy test positive on arrival at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee Airport||As many as 172 of the 285 passengers, who arrived from Italy at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here, tested positive for Covid-19 today.Lab to be InspectedOf the 285 passengers, 172 tested positive. These test results raise a question mark on the functioning of the lab. We have asked the airport authorities to inspect the private lab. Moreover, 75 passengers are being re-tested in other labs. — Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonThe Rome-Amritsar flight arrived around 11.30 am today. Yesterday, of the 179 passengers on the Rome-Amritsar flight, 125 had tested positiveMany of the passengers, who tested positive, protested against the authorities alleging faulty testing system and refusing to be admitted to government hospitals. The passengers claimed that before boarding the flight, they had tested negative in Italy.Reacting to the charges of passengers, Amritsar Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh on Friday evening ordered inspection of the private lab operating at the airport.“Of the 285 passengers, 172 tested positive. These test results raise a question on the functioning of the laboratory that how so many passengers tested positive on the second day consecutively. We have asked the airport authorities for inspection of the private lab. Moreover, 75 passengers are being re-tested in other laboratories,” said the Civil Surgeon.Meanwhile, the district administration today traced all Italy-returned 13 passengers, hailing from Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, who had escaped from the airport and hospital yesterday.Of the 13 patients, three have been admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital due to lack of separate rooms and bathrooms in their houses, while the rest have been isolated in their houses, said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/172-more-flyers-test-positive-on-arrival-359180
08-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Ajnala: Rural road infra crumbling||A predominantly rural constituency with a majority of the electorate comprising Jats and Rai Sikhs (SC), Ajnala has favoured the candidate who manages to get along with both the communities. The constituency is alongside the International Border with Pakistan. With the Ravi crossing through it, the area has peculiar problems of its own. A better road infrastructure and concrete bridges continue to remain two of the major demands of the residents here.Past trendSince 1994, voters have elected either SAD’s Rattan Singh Ajnala or his son Amarpal as an MLA, with the only exception being 2005-2007, when Congress’ Harpartap won the bypoll. Before Rattan, Harpartap’s father, Harcharan was the tallest leader.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,51,794Male - 77,914Female  - 75,890Third gender - 7Locals’ key demandsThey complain that the link roads in rural areas have been damaged by trucks and machinery of the sand mafia.Farmers owning land across the Ravi depend on pontoon bridges and large boats to ferry their men, machinery and produce. Those owning lands across the international fence depend on the BSF for permission to allow them to enter their villages.Farmers say they have to travel long distance to get to pontoon bridges, therefore concrete bridges should be constructed. The shortage of large boats, which could transport combine harvesters and tractor-trailers, is another problem for the farmers who have land across the border.The damage caused to the areas near the river by sand mafia is another cause of constant threat for nearby over 40 villages especially during monsoons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-road-infra-crumbling-359184
