09-01-2022||Amritsar (Punjab)||Probe ordered after large number of passengers test Covid positive at Amritsar international airport||A probe has been ordered against a private laboratory after a number of flyers who reached here from Italy recently tested positive for COVID-19 amid allegations by several of them that their test reports were incorrect, health officials said on Sunday.The Airports Authority of India has also replaced the services of the Delhi-based laboratory with a local lab, officials said.The probe had been ordered after several of the passengers who returned from Italy had alleged that their Covid positive report was not correct as they had tested negative hours before boarding the flight. They had raised questions on the testing practice adopted by the lab. Many among them had even created ruckus at the international airport here.Some of the passengers who had arrived here at Shri Guru Ramdas International Airport had subsequently tested negative in a re-test later, officials said.Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr. Amarjit Singh said on Sunday, “A probe has been initiated by the Airports Authority of India against the alleged errant working of the lab. The services of the existing Delhi-based lab has been suspended and new local lab has resumed its working at the airport.”                He said the services of this Delhi-based lab were engaged on December 15, 2021 by the Airports Authority of India.At least 173 passengers on a Rome-Amritsar chartered flight were found to be Covid-positive after being tested on arrival on Friday, officials said.This is the second consecutive incident wherein a large number of passengers coming from Italy to Amritsar airport have tested positive for the coronavirus on arrival.On Thursday, 125 passengers who were travelling from Milan in Italy on another charter flight were found positive after being tested on arrival at the Amritsar airport.According to the rules of the Union Health Ministry, passengers coming from “at risk” countries to India have to compulsorily get tested for COVID-19 on arrival at the airport.All European countries, including Italy, have been deemed as “at risk” countries by the Union Health Ministry. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-ordered-after-large-number-of-passengers-test-covid-positive-at-amritsar-international-airport-359661
09-01-2022||---||Massive spike in Covid-19 cases has officials on edge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8The district has started witnessing a steep hike in Covid-19 cases keeping the district administration and the Health Department officials on tenterhooks. Going by the numbers, the daily count of cases has started beating the previous day tally in the district. The exponential rise in the number of infections hints that we are fast moving towards the third wave.Beating the figure of 276 reported on Friday, another shocking spike of 346 new cases rocked the district on Friday. With this, the total count of cases has increased to 48,410 in the district.The district has also reported a death due to the infection after almost a month. The death toll has now increased to 1,600 with a 72-year-old person losing life to the virus. The victim has been identified as Jagir Singh of Dashmesh Nagar on the Fatehgarh Churrian road.Of the total cases reported on Saturday, 326 are new cases and 20 are contacts of positive patients. The Health Department authorities have also reported the recovery of nine patients with which the total count of those who cured has increased to 45,888. At present, the district has a total of 922 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 8,508 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 4,375 received the first dose of the vaccine and 4,133 received the second dose.The unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases added to the residents’s worries. The district administration has asked the residents to get vaccinated and take ample precautions.In the district, the Deputy Commissioner and the MC Commissioner have already tested positive. However, both of them, especially the Deputy Commissioner, have continued to oversee and manage the public affairs. The rise in number of cases has also terrorised shopkeepers, daily wage earners and the trading community who can’t afford another lockdown.Even the number of jab-takers at vaccination centres has increased after the recent spurt in cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/massive-spike-in-covid-19-cases-has-officials-on-edge-359601
09-01-2022||---||Heavy rain throws life out of gear in city; causes damage to crops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8The city was lashed by heavy rain accompanied by high-velocity winds on Friday. It also rained till this evening, throwing life out of gear. The day temperature dipped to 12 degrees Celsius. It was fifth consecutive day of rain in the city. Heavy rain during the last 24 hours led to water accumulation on the city roads.It took several hours for rainwater to drain in Heritage Street and other old city areas. Several low-lying areas were also water-logged. Rainwater entered some houses due to choking of sewer lines. Water-logging on roads resulted in heavy traffic jam as vehicles moved at a snail’s pace. Residents witnessed rain for five consecutive days in winter after a long time.The weatherman has forecast cloudy sky for the next 72 hours. There are also chances of moderate and heavy rain in isolated areas. However, moderate rain is beneficial for crops, especially wheat, but heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds damaged crops, especially vegetable.According to agriculture experts, water-logging in wheat fields will change the colour of leaves. “I had irrigated the crop on Monday. Last night my fields turned into a pond. With the colour loss the wheat plants would turn yellowish and we have to spray urea fertiliser on the crop. It would lead to increased cultivation costs for farmers,” said Gurjit Singh, a farmer from Khankot.Vegetables growers were also worried about the potato and carrot crops. With the accumulation of rainwater in fields, the root vegetables had been affected. Other vegetables such as peas, tomato and brinjal were in flower. Heavy rain also affected these crops.Tarn Taran sees highest winter rainfall in 20 yrsHeavy rain, which started on Friday night, continued to lash different parts of the district till this afternoon. Besides, strong winds kept blowing through the day.Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Jagwinder Singh said in Khadoor Sahib subdivision, 25mm rain was recorded followed by 49mm in Tarn Taran and 56mm in Patti subdivision. The district witnessed highest winter rainfall in the last 20 years.The CAO claimed that there was no report of loss of crops in the district. According to the reports collected from different parts of the district, rainwater got accumulated in the fields as it rained, though intermittently, continously for the last five days and on Friday night, it poured.In some border area villages, trees were uprooted. On the Tarn Taran-Patti road near Lauhuka village, a tree fell on the road blocking traffic for some time. As there was no provision of rainwater drainage in all the villages, water got accumulated and the residents had to face great difficulty in reaching their destinations.Gurdial Singh Verowal, a vegetable grower, said the vegetable crops were submerged and it was not possible to harvest potato and peas. It can cause a loss to the growers. A number of families of Manochahal Kalan, Rasulpur and other villages said the roof of their mud houses had started leaking, creating problems for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heavy-rain-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-city-causes-damage-to-crops-359602
09-01-2022||---||Youth dies in roof collapse||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8A 17-year-old youth died after the roof of his house collapsed in New Jawahar Nagar area falling under Maqboolpura police station, here on Saturday. According to the police, due to incessant rain in past two days, the roof of the house caved in. The deceased has been identified as Shehnaz.His mother had gone to make tea in the kitchen when the incident took place. The incident occurred at around 7.30am. The people immediately gathered at the spot.They pulled out the mother of the victim and Shehnaz was rushed to hospital where the doctors declared him dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-dies-in-roof-collapse-359603
09-01-2022||---||Model code of conduct brings abrupt end to teachers' protest||Amritsar, January 8As the model code of conduct came into force in Punjab with the Election Commission announcing the election schedule for upcoming Assembly polls, over month-long protest by teachers of college and university also came to an abrupt end. PFUCTO, an umbrella organisation of various teachers’ unions and associations, along with PCCTU, had been protesting outside colleges and university, demanding implementation of the 7th Pay Commission wages.With the Code of Conduct in place now, the teachers would meet on Monday to decide the further course of action.“The ongoing series of dharnas and protests being held by teachers in district ends today. It has been rather unfortunate that the incumbent government failed to deliver justice to us. With Code of Conduct now been imposed, there is no point in holding protest demonstrations. PFUCTO, PCCTU and other teacher organisations will meet on Monday to decide how we can take our movement forward. We hope that the next government in Punjab considers our demands and works towards implementation,” said Dr Gurdas Sekhon, district president, PFUCTO.Prof Sekhon, however, said the teachers were not ready to forgive the incumbent Congress government yet. “We might decide to campaign against Congress if a unanimous decision is taken by the members. The Channi government has wasted the precious time of students and teachers by keeping us hanging in uncertainty and making false promises. We will meet the members of the opposition parties to ensure that our issue gets mentioned in the election manifesto.” Meanwhile, the department of higher education has directed all colleges to resume online classes post winter break until further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/model-code-of-conduct-brings-abrupt-end-to-teachers-protest-359604
09-01-2022||---||Farmers allege inaction, gherao police station||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8It took a protest by Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujwan Sabha and Jamhoori Kisan Sabha for police to register an FIR in connection with the alleged kidnapping and rape of a 15-year-old girl.The incident took place around a month ago, while the police failed to act even as the family members approached the Kamboh police station a number of times. The victim belonged to a poor family.Braving rains and severe cold conditions, activists of two organisations held a demonstration outside Kamboh police station and raised slogans against the police authorities for ensuring justice to the common man.Ratan Singh Randhawa, a senior Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader, said the accused also thrashed the victim’s family who remained under treatment at PGI. He said that police did not take any action against the suspects though the family pleaded for the same a number of times.Addressing the activists, he said due to the political interference in the functioning of the police, the common man has to run from pillar to post for getting justice. The cops have turned into puppets in the hands of their political bosses.When the agitators refused to lift the dharna, Deputy Superintendent of Police Ravinderpal Singh Dhillon reached the spot and assured registration of case against the accused and their subsequent arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-allege-inaction-gherao-police-station-359605
09-01-2022||Amritsar||Vishesh Gupta murder: Kin meet Joint CP||The family members of Vishesh Gupta, an iron trader who was gunned down by three armed persons on December 11, on Saturday met Joint Commissioner of Police D Sudarvizhi and sought immediate arrest of the remaining suspects.Sudarvizhi is heading the special investigating team constituted to crack the case and arrest the suspects. While the police had nabbed prime suspect Karandeep Singh, his three accomplices are still absconding.Karandeep is still in police custody whose remand has been extended by a court. A police official wishing not to be named said following the interrogation of Karandeep, a police team raided an area in Uttarakhand, where the accused had stayed following the murder of Vishesh and there he sold the mobile phone used in the crime to someone else after formatting it.Earlier, the police teams had raided an area in Srinagar to arrest his three accomplices, identified as Mohammad Sakib, a timber trader, and Shelly and Gurmeet Singh, both residents of Gurdaspur, who had shot at Vishesh Gupta outside his shop when he was sitting in his car. They were yet to be arrested. Karandeep was arrested by the police from Gurdaspur on December 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vishesh-gupta-murder-kin-meet-joint-cp-359606
09-01-2022||---||No let-up in robbery incidents in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8Amritsar rural police reported three incidents of snatching and robbery that took place in the last two days here on Friday. In the first case, Ashwani Saini (25), a resident of Dodwa in Gurdaspur, told the police that he along with his owner Dilbagh Singh had gone to Mehta to take payment on a car being driven by Satnam Singh Satta. He said around 7pm, they reached near a rice sheller in Sathiala when a car (PB-09-AD-5603) suddenly stopped ahead of their car. He said two occupants came out of it and pointed a pistol at him and snatched the bag.Sukhwinder Singh, investigating officer of the case, said a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC added with Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered. He said the police had identified the car used in the crime after examining the footage of CCTVs in the area and further investigations were on to identify the robbers.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Kundal village in Abohar and employee of Fusion Micro Finance Limited at Jandiala Guru, told the police that at 6pm on Friday, five youths entered his office. They had covered their faces.He said immediately after entering the office, they snatched Rs 11,200 from him which he had kept in the drawer. He said then they snatched over Rs 1.44 lakh from Harwinder Singh after pointing weapons at him.Jandiala police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the unidentified robbers. In the third incident, six robbers looted Rs 90,000, mobiles and a car from a garment trader, identified as Gurdev Singh of Bhattia village in Hoshiarpur. He told the police that around 9.30pm on Thursday, he along with Sarabjit Singh was going from Amritsar to Mehta after procuring garments and shawls in a car (DL-08-6266).He said as they reached near Meerachak village, a goods carrier (Mahindra Pickup) intercepted their car. He said out of the six persons, three of them having pistols, snatched the car keys, the cash bag, three mobile phones and the car having shawls, stolls, etc.Jandiala police registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act. Rakesh Kaushal, SSP, Amritsar rural, said investigations were on in these cases and the accused would be arrested soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-in-robbery-incidents-in-city-359607
09-01-2022||Amritsar||Man (41) dies in road mishap||list of highest bidders releasedAmritsar: The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) has issued a list of the highest bidders, who participated in the auction of 110 properties, conducted on December 28. However, the auction of 11 properties is still on hold due to a court case. The auction of these properties has been stayed by the High Court as it was challenged by some participants. During the bidding of the AIT, the maximum bid was 11.37 crore for SCO No. 49 in D block. The bid of this SCO started from Rs 2.91 crore. Similarly, the lowest bid was for number 46 made in E block that was on Rs 47.23. The AIT collected Rs Rs 173 crore from this auction. TNSFarmer bodies support SSMAmritsar: The Dehati Mazdoor Sabha (DMS) and the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha (ZKS) in a joint meeting organised at Bhikhiwind town on Saturday welcomed the decision of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) to contest the election of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to establish a permanent platform for the farmers. Harjiinder Singh Chug of the DMS and Jarnail Singh Dialpur of the ZKS presided over the meeting. Daljit Singh Dialpur, Santokh Singh and others said the decision to contest elections was their constitutional right. The leaders said the candidates of the SSM must be the first choice of the people in the election. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-41-dies-in-road-mishap-359608
