10-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Kin seek probe by independent agency into Jandiala 'encounter'||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Even as the police were yet to file a challan and make further progress in the Jandiala Guru ‘encounter’ case, the family members of the deceased have sought a probe by an independent agency while alleging that the magisterial probe conducted in the case was biased and incomplete as it remained silent on various aspects.Police yet to file challan An alleged carjacker and Hoshiarpur resident, Inderjit Singh was shot dead by the cops of CIA staff of Amritsar City police in Jandiala Guru Area on December 8, 2020. A magisterial probe was ordered immediately after the incident, which was conducted by the then Sub Divisional Magistrate Vikas Heera.Seven months after the incident, three ASIs were booked by the police following an investigation by the then Border Range IG SPS Parmar, who was directed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for the same. ASIs Vinod Kumar, Darshan Singh and Surinder Kumar were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and causing disappearance of evidence of offence.Maninderpal Singh, brother of the deceased alleged that the police did not made any progress in the case so far even after six months of registration of an FIR. Expressing dissatisfaction over the magisterial probe, he pointed out that it remained silent over several aspects.“Inderjit suffered a bullet injury in his leg, but it could not find how he suffered this injury while driving an SUV. Another big question was about a .32 bore bullet found in a tyre of the car. The police had claimed in their statements that they had hit the tyre for stopping the SUV being driven by him. The front glass of the SUV was also intact,” he said while adding that the report was silent on these aspects. Further, the report was yet to be filed before the High Court, as required.Sarabjit Singh Verka of Punjab Human Right Organisation alleged that a DSP-rank official got video recordings of the incident, made by farmers protesting at the site, deleted but the SDM did not enquire this aspect.Jandiala Guru Deputy Superintendent of Police Sukhwinderpal Singh said the challan in the case was yet to be filed as the investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-seek-probe-by-independent-agency-into-jandiala-encounter-359822
10-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||'Veer Baal Diwas' evokes mixed response||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Some prominent Sikh personalities and members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) did not appreciate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s move to mark December 26 as “Veer Baal Diwas”.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said: “Restricting the martyrdom of Sahibzadas to “Veer Baal Diwas” does not commensurate with the Sikh ethos.” He said the Prime Minister Modi’s announcement might had come out of respect, but not according to the Sikh tradition.He appealed to the Akal Takht Jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh, to take the lead in connection with the recognition of the “Veer Baal Diwas”. He said the Sikh sangat and their historic institutions consider the incomparable sacrifice of the Sahibzadas like those of great warriors.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member Kiranjot Kaur, through a post on social media, said: “The move of declaring the Shaheedi Diwas of younger Sahibzadas as “Veer Baal Diwas” is reductionist in nature.”Meanwhile, head of the Damdami Taksal and president of Sant Samaj, Harnam Singh Khalsa, appreciated the Prime Minister’s decision. He said no other government had thought of paying homage to the sacrifice of the Sahibzadas in the past 325 years.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Secretary Karnail Singh Panjoli, while talking to the media here on Sunday said he had urged the Prime Minister that all those airports that were named after some individuals should be renamed after the 10 Sikh Gurus to commemorate their unique sacrifices.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Secretary said he had also written a letter to the Prime Minister in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veer-baal-diwas-evokes-mixed-response-359823
10-01-2022||People should report suspicious activities||OPEN HOUSE:  What should be done to avert terror strikes and ensure safety & security of the public?||It has become a common practice of not searching a person thoroughly before entering any public building in the city. The practice poses a very serious threat as anyone could carry any dangerous weapon with them and use it at innocent people. Proper checkpoints must be made mandatory at all of the buildings with thorough checking by security guards. CCTV cameras must be installed at all key locations so that any suspicious activity can be traced and averted. People should be vigilant and report any malicious thing to the authority concerned so that a probable attack can be averted at the earliest.Jatinderpal Singh BatthTime to Intensify night patrollingIn the past two decades, cases of murder, theft, burglary, snatching and robbery have seen a steady rise. There is hardly any law which is not violated with impunity by the ‘sons of the powerful’. The common man, the law abiding citizen, is put to shame when violators jump the red light in the very presence of the authority and goes scot free. I think we should now stop blaming road conditions and actually start following the rule of the road. A simple “Keep to the left and no overtaking”, if followed in letter and spirit, can fetch pleasant results if slow traffic is strictly regulated on the left hand side. A smooth and streamlined traffic results in punctuality of all services and a heightened sense of discipline. Violators should be brought before the camera to face shame of the society and their particulars noted for stricter action if required. The idea that Amritsaris love only fun and food should be qualified that they are also a disciplined lot. All this is not to deny the role of the police who hardly ever use their patrol bikes blaming all the while price of petrol. Regular patrolling at night should be intensified.Mohan SinghSafety of public at large in dangerAs the Assembly polls are approaching the terrorists with the help of Pakistan are bent upon creating ruckus in Punjab. As a result safety and security of public at large is in danger. The present Congress government needs to take stern effective measures in order to maintain law and order in the state. To begin with, intelligence services operating in the state should be directed to become more vigilant and provide inputs for any terror attack at the earliest. Secondly, the police administration should be geared up to respond immediately and do whatever they are required to do to maintain law and order in cities. Lastly, awareness amongst general public should be created not to touch any unidentified object lying in public places and to report to police immediately on seeing it.Sanjay ChawlaMaintaining law and order top priorityThe Ludhiana blast in District Court Complex just before 2022 Punjab Assembly elections reminds us of Maur Mandi blast, just days before voting took place in 2017 Assembly polls. Even the two Punjab police’s SITs have failed to get to the bottom of Ludhiana incident, which should have been handed over to either the CBI or NIA. Due to the lack of political will these crimes remain unsolved till date. The police and people of Punjab need to stay ever-vigilant as such more disturbances cannot be ruled out. Political as well religious leaders must exercise restraint in word and deed as divisive forces might go all out to pursue their nefarious agenda and exploit the volatile situation. Moreover, political one-upmanship is getting nastier by the day, with battle lines hardening after registration of a drug case against a former minister in the earlier regime. It should never be forgotten that Punjab, which has regained peace at the cost of thousands of lives and also suffered huge economic losses, can’t afford to see those dark days’ nightmarish era all over again. All efforts must be taken by the administration for maintaining law and order before and during the Punjab assembly elections which are going to take place in few weeks.PL SinghHuge gatherings should be bannedThe recent bomb blast in the district courts complex in Ludhiana has shocked and stunned Punjab. With Assembly elections just round the corner, massive gatherings will be a common sight in the coming days thereby increasing the perils of more such incidents. Consequently, the public at large is concerned about its safety and security and that of its near and dear ones. Terror is one of the most significant threats to the safety and security of the people. Hence, adequate and effective measures should be employed to avert Ludhiana-type incidents. The administration, the police and security agencies should rise to the occasion to garner accurate information to nip the possibility of another bomb blast here or there. Unnecessary huge gatherings should be banned and the government, the public, and the media should join hands to create awareness among the masses so as to foil the nefarious designs of the inimical forces bent upon creating terror in the state to further their vested interests. The need of the hour is to be extra vigilant in places with large numbers of people for example buses, trains, festivals and shopping malls. Any unidentified object should never be touched and any type of parcels should not be accepted from strangers. Explosives may be concealed in anything like tiffin-boxes, toys, vehicles etc. Any suspicious looking person or article should be immediately brought to the notice of the police. Abandoned vehicles should also be communicated to the police without any delay. Spreading rumours should be discouraged to avoid worsening the situation. The police should monitor the suspects who my pose a terror threat. Capabilities of intelligence and security services should be enhanced manifold. It is a well known fact that the ISI of Pakistan is using drones for dropping arms and ammunition in Punjab to disturb peace and communal harmony. To check that, vigilance at borders adjoining Pakistan should be increased. The use of internet for terror purposes should be countered effectively. Websites using hate speeches or calls for violence or discrimination should be taken down. A cooperative and coordinating approach should be adopted to counter terror attacks at all levels. When people are ready to work shoulder to shoulder with the security forces, there is no reason why the menace of terror strikes cannot be contained.Tarsem S BumrahBeef up security at public placesIt is the foremost duty of administration to safeguard the lives of residents but every year some anti-national elements try to commit evil acts which put people’s life at risk and also disrupt the calm environment of country. Recent bomb blast at court complex in Ludhiana caused injuries to people and one succumbed. By god’s grace, counting was low and most of the people escape unscathed owing to the lawyer’s strike on that day. The government ordered the probe but clue is yet to be ascertained and this is normal. There are numerous pending cases of such incidents and timely actions are not being taken, aftermath of which encourage these acts to be happen again. This seems to be mere negligence on part of investigating agencies. To eradicate these anti-nationalisms, the government should beef up security at public places and accelerate its investigation process to find offenders so that these incidents would not happen again.Sukhmeet KaurIntelligence agencies should work in tandemThe recent bomb blast incident at the Court Complex at Ludhiana is a clear-cut case of terrorism with strings attached with handlers located abroad. The term terrorism was first coined in 1790s to refer to terrorism used during French Revolution. But in the modern times, especially in a country like India, terrorism involves the use or threat of violence and seeks to create fear not just within the direct victims but among a wide audience thereby mostly causing polarisation on religious basis. Moreover, in the past almost all terrorist incidents were planned in foreign countries. So the most important preventive measure is to strengthen RAW (Research and Analysis Wing) our primary foreign intelligence wing. Further all state and central intelligence and security wings should work in close cooperation. The last but not the least preventive measure is to avoid gathering of people in avoidable circumstances such as road shows and rallies during the forthcoming state Assembly elections. Above all our political leaders, belonging to any outfits, should avoid remarks against any religion or community which create ill-will among people.Naresh JoharQUESTIONThe Election Commission has announced dates for the Assembly elections in five states, including Punjab. As the poll schedule is likely to coincide with the anticipated Covid peak, do you think the EC should revisit its decision to conduct elections on the scheduled dates in February and March?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 13)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-avert-terror-strikes-and-ensure-safety-security-of-the-public-359818
10-01-2022||Amritsar||Chief Khalsa Diwan organises Nagar Kirtan to mark birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-organised-by-ckd-359797
10-01-2022||Amritsar||Workshop on NEP-2020 at Shri Ram Ashram Public School. Amritsar||To explore the sphere of National Education Policy, Shri Ram Ashram Public School organised a workshop.Principal Vinodita Sankhyan welcomed Anamika, a professional educator and a consultant with an EdTech company as a resource person. She discussed that the new education policy envisions India regaining the coveted position of global dominance. It is directly contributing to the country’s transformation into a global knowledge superpower.She cleared the meaning of the NEP and its objectives for schools, students, teachers and the stake holders. She discussed all 17 points in Sustainable Development Goals in detail and co-related those with present day classroom teaching.She said a holistic and multidisciplinary learning approach will help learners in adopting and reinventing themselves to the demands of the new hybrid work culture and dynamic socio-cultural changes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-on-nep-2020-359793
10-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran: Officials give freedom fighter Jarnail Singh’s last rites a miss||Tarn Taran, January 9Members of the Freedom Fighters Successors Organisation, Punjab, resented over the lapse on the part of the district administration for not giving due respect to Jarnail Singh, a freedom fighter from Jaura village, at the time of his cremation.Satnam Singh Gandiwind, district president of the organisation, said the brave freedom fighter played a remarkable role in the freedom struggle and was also a constable in the Azad Hind Fauj headed by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.He said Jarnail Singh died at the age of 104 years on January 7 and was cremated on January 8 at his native Jaura village. The Punjab Police contingent, however, saluted the departed soul at the time of cremation, but no official from the administration came for the last rites nor the body was draped in the national flag, he said.He also resented that no representative of the state government came to pay respect to the freedom fighter.DC Kulwant Singh, too, failed to respond. The body was cremated in the presence of relatives and area residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/officials-give-freedom-fighters-last-rites-a-miss-359791
10-01-2022||Amritsar||Two arrested under Arms Act||26 booked for opening fireAmritsar: Messaging a girl led to firing in Kadrabad village, under Kathunangal police, here on Saturday. The police have booked 26 persons on the charges of murder bid and firing. Among those booked are Neeta, Arsh, Amritpal Singh, Sukh, Lovepreet Singh and Jashanpreet Singh, all of Kadrabad Khurd village. Arshdeep Singh (20) of the same village said on Friday, he was standing outside his shop and the accused caught hold of him and pulled him into the street and thrashed him. He said when people started gathering, they fled. He said two hours later, he heard gunshot sounds in the street. He said as he came out, the accused who were armed with pistol, sticks and weapons shouted to catch him and teach him a lesson for sending a message on the phone of his niece. He said they fired two gunshots, in which he escaped narrowly. The accused tried to catch him, but he ran away. Raids are on to nab them. TNS‘Veer Baal Diwas’: decision hailedAmritsar: Punjab Lok Congress party welcomed the decision to mark December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’. Advocate MK Sharrma, state spokesperson, Punjab Lok Congress party, said the courage portrayed by Sahibzades under enormous oppression is unparalleled and everyone across the globe must know about their supreme sacrifice. This is a commendable step in that direction, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-under-arms-act-359785
10-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Chohla Sahib gold jewellery robbery solved||Tarn Taran, January 9The district police have solved a two-month-old robbery case in which three robbers had targeted a trader and looted 8-kg gold ornaments worth over Rs3.5 crore and Rs60 lakh cash from his shop-cum-residence at Chohla Sahib village here.In the incident, three robbers armed with sharp-edged weapons came to the shop of Chohla Sahib village-based Jaimal Singh dealing in garment in the garb of customers to purchase turbans. They not only entered the shop but also held hostage all the family members and looted the gold and the cash.Besides running the garment business, the whole family is also into the mortgage business and give loans against gold. They family has been into the business since 1960.The robbers came to the shop when the owner of the shop was downing the shutter at night. One masked robber demanded five turbans. The shopkeeper asked him to come next day, but on insisting, the shopkeeper called him inside the shop. Later, two accomplices of the robber also entered the shop.After entering the house, the robbers searched all the almirahs and draws and took away all gold ornaments and cash. Most of the gold ornaments belonged to their customers who used to take loan from them against gold.Chohla Sahib police had registered a case under relevant sections on November 9 last year.Earlier, the police said the robbers looted just Rs5 lakh cash and gold ornaments.Goindwal Sahib DSP Preetinder Singh said on Saturday accused involved in the robbery had been brought on production warrants from a jail and they revealed the truth to the police. Of the three, one accused hails from Amritsar and the other from Batala. It is learnt that the ornaments were melted in Amritsar.Despite repeated attempts, SSP Harvinder Singh Virk could not be contacted.The incidentTwo months ago, three miscreants had looted 8-kg gold jewellery worth over Rs3.5 crore and Rs60 lakh cash from Chohla Sahib village trader by entering his shop on the pretext of buying some turbans and holding the victim and his family members hostage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chohla-sahib-gold-jewellery-robbery-solved-359783
10-01-2022||---||Big fat wedding plans go awry, surge in Covid cases to blame||Amritsar, January 9For Punjabis, winter is also the ‘marriage season’ and the recent surge in Covid cases across the country has affected their plans of hosting big fat weddings scheduled in the coming weeks.With marriage palaces and banquet halls reporting 100 per cent occupancy in the last few weeks, the marriage season in the state was at its peak this year after the restrictions were eased.It is a tricky situation. We have already sent the invites and the party is expected to be attended by 1,000 guests. We are also making arrangements, but if the government announces restrictions on gatherings at the last moment, we will be in a tight spot. Harjinder Singh, a groom-to-be’s fatherHowever, the fear of another lockdown or at least the anticipation of a cap on gatherings at marriage palaces has troubled families, who had functions scheduled in the coming days.“It is a tricky situation. We have already sent the invites and the party is expected to be attended by 1,000 guests. We are also making arrangements, but if the government announces restrictions on gatherings at the last moment, we will be in a tight spot,” said Harjinder Singh, whose son is scheduled to marry on January 27.Many families had postponed or avoided big marriage parties last year due to restrictions and lockdown. It had also resulted in losses for those deployed in the industry. Charanjit Singh Sandhu, owner of a marriage palace, said: “The profitable season for marriage industry is of merely three months. For later part of the year, we are almost idle.” He said they had hoped that the business would continue but increasing number of cases indicate otherwise.Amritsar district reports 305 Covid positive casesAmritsar: With 305 persons testing positive for Covid in the district on Sunday, the number of active cases have surged to 1,208. The district has reported a total of 48,715 cases so far. The district Health Department has reported recovery of 19 patients in the last 24 hours with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,907. Meanwhile, 1,973 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Sunday. The officials said so far, 1,613 children in the age group of 15 to 17 years have been given first dose of the vaccine. Of the residents inoculated on Sunday, 1,082 received the first dose, while 891 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/big-fat-wedding-plans-go-awry-surge-in-covid-cases-to-blame-359782
10-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Smart phone for Rs 1L & keypad for Rs 20K in Amritsar Central Jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Continuous seizure of mobile phones from the high-security Amritsar Central Jail has raised a question mark over the functioning of the jail administration.In the last two days, a search operation led to the confiscation of the 19 mobile phones from 16 prisoners, indicating that how easily the prohibited material was available in the complex. A total of 60 mobile sets were seized in the first eight days.The interrogation of several prisoners held with cell phones also points to the connivance of jail staff though close proximity of the Central Jail with a densely-populated area is another factor in sneaking of mobile phones inside the high-security jail premises. The absence of stringent laws is also to blame for the menace.An official, wishing not to be named, privy to the interrogation of prisoners held with mobiles said a smart mobile phone was being sold for Rs 1 lakh in the complex while a keypad phone was available at Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000.“Possessing a mobile phone in the jail is a bailable offence. Hence, notorious criminals hardly think twice before procuring mobile phones by hook or crook,” said the official, adding that installing the mobile signal jammer was the only solution to end this menace.A search operation on Friday evening led to the seizure of eight mobile phones and three mobile chargers. These were recovered from the possession of Sukhraj Singh of Chak Pandori village, Nishan Singh of Bundala in Ferozepur, Sahil Kumar Sharma of Greenfield area here, Jobanjit Singh of Bandala village Jang Bahadur Singh, aka Jagga Singh of Chohla Sahib in Tarn Taran, Rasal Singh of Randhel ke village in Tarn Taran and Sandeep Saini of Taragarh in Pathankot.Another search operation on Saturday led to the recovery of 11 mobile phones, two mobile chargers and a headphone set. These were confiscated from Jagroop Singh of Vaironwal, Tarn Taran, Rahul Singh of Kirpal Colony, Abhinesh of Gopal Nagar, Manpreet Singh of Muradpura in Tarn Taran, Dhalwinder Singh of Jamari village in Goindwal Sahib, Gurjit Singh of Sultanwind Road, Yodhbir Singh of Ranike village, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gurpartap Singh, of Patti and Ravinder Singh of Algo Kalan village in Valtoha.Two separate cases under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act was registered against them. The police said they would be brought on production warrant to ascertain how they managed to get the prohibited material.A jail official said continuous search operations were being conducted to nail the perpetrators. Those who were found in possession of prohibited material, including mobiles, appropriate action would be taken against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-phone-for-rs-1l-keypad-for-rs-20k-in-jail-359776
10-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Hoardings being removed in Tarn Taran too||Tarn Taran, January 9After the Punjab Vidhan Sabha election dates were declared, the local Municipal Council started removing posters, hoardings, buntings and banners displayed by different political parties from public places in the town.More than 70 per cent posters and banners were of AAP leaders. Sharanjit Kaur, Executive Officer (EO) of the local Municipal Council informed here on Sunday that under the supervision of Kuljit Singh, Chief Sanitary Inspector, two teams led by Maninder Singh and Rajiv Kumar had been formed to remove the hoardings. The EO said each team comprises eight safai sewaks and a clerk.The political parties had defaced the town by pasting posters, etc. on a large scale.The town has been divided into two parts each part under one team.The team members started with the work as the Election Commission issued strict instructions to make sure the model code of conduct is implemented.The process was yet to start in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoardings-being-removed-in-tarn-taran-too-359775
10-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Defacement to go as poll code comes into force in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9After the implementation of the Model Code of Conduct, the Municipal Corporation removed the hoardings of political parties and their leaders from across the city.The employees of the advertisement wing were seen removing the hoardings even during the weekend.However, a mass drive will commence from Monday to make city defacement-free.The Election Commission has issued instructions to political parties contesting the election to remove hoardings and other election publicity material soon. The Election Commission staff in the state said failure to remove the publicity material within the stipulated time by political parties will result in action as per Section 3 of the Punjab Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1997. Otherwise the administration would remove it at its own level. Any costs incurred regarding removal will be credited to the account of the party concerned.The Election Commission instructed the MC that it was strictly forbidden to deface any government building and government property during elections. Therefore, all district heads would ensure that no political hoardings, banners, flags, posters are displayed on their office building and government property. The Forest Department and the MC will be responsible for trees and poles. Other similar departments will also ensure strict implementation of the code of conduct.The staff of advertisement wing of the Municipal Corporation found that it would take several days to remove all hoarding from the jurisdiction of the MC. Following this, Sandip Rishi, Commissioner MC, said a mass drive would be initiated on Monday. All MC employees would participate in it and remove defacements within one day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defacement-to-go-as-poll-code-comes-into-force-in-amritsar-359773
