11-01-2022||Amritsar||'Prakash Purb' of Guru Gobind Singh celebrated at Khalsa College, Amritsar||Seven-Day NSS camp concludesSeven-day NSS Unit-II special camp concluded at the Guru Nanak Dev University in a ceremony that was organised in a virtual mode. Prof Anish Kumar Dua, Dean Students’ Welfare and Prof HS Gujral, NSS coordinator of the university both Guest of Honour presided over the valedictory function. Delivering his address, Prof Anish Kumar Dua congratulated the volunteers for their high spirits and the wonderful work done by them during the seven-day special camp despite of harsh weather conditions and recent spurt in Covid-19 situation. Prof H S Gujral, in his message, congratulated the entire NSS team led by the Programme Officer, Prof Rajesh Kumar for successful completion of seven-day NSS special camp. NSS volunteers shared their experiences and learnings with the guests. In the end, four best volunteers were awarded with mementos by the guests. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurpurb-celebrated-at-khalsa-college-360170
11-01-2022||---||Interim bail to Bikram Singh Majithia: Party workers elated||Amritsar, January 10Rejoicing over SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia getting interim anticipatory bail in a drug case, his supporters on Monday distributed sweets. They assembled at his residence in Green Avenue in large numbers and raised pro-SAD slogans.Party’s district president Gurpartap Singh Tikka said they had full faith in the Indian judiciary.“The court after taking into account the facts of the case has given relaxation to Majithia. We are also thankful to the Almighty,” Tikka said.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday granted interim anticipatory bail to Bikram Singh Majithia while directing him to join investigations. He was booked under provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in Mohali on December 20. He had moved the High Court after a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interim-bail-to-bikram-singh-majithia-party-workers-elated-360169
11-01-2022||---||SGPC asks Centre to prevent spread of hate against Sikhs in connection with PM's 'security breach'||Amritsar, January 10The SGPC has sought legal action against those, who were tarnishing the image of Sikhs and spreading hatred in connection with the PM’s ‘security breach’ incident.It asked the Union Government to prevent spread of anti-Sikh sentiments in connection with the PM’s visit, which it held not in favour of the country.The freedom of expression on social media should not be misutilised to tarnish the image of a section of society to create an atmosphere of hatred. He said Sikhs were being targeted on social media as part of a conspiracy to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC presidentHarjinder Singh Dhami, president of the SGPC, in a press release issued here recently, said freedom of expression on social media should not by misutilised to tarnish the image of a section of society to create an atmosphere of hatred. He said Sikhs were being targeted on social media as part of a conspiracy to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some BJP leaders were reminding Sikhs of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and cited the example of a tweet being issued by a BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh.He favoured the enactment of strict laws against those who offend religious sentiments on social media and disturb the peace and harmony of the country. He said the SGPC was in the process of writing a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the hatred being spread against Sikhs on social media platforms.He stressed that what happened during the PM’s visit to state may have been a failure on the part of the government and security agencies, but it was wrong to target Sikhs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-asks-centre-to-prevent-spread-of-hate-360168
11-01-2022||---||Poll campaigning yet to pick up the pace||Amritsar, January 10Even as the Election Commission (EC) has announced the date for the Assembly poll in the state, the campaigning is yet to pick up pace as except for SAD and AAP, other parties, especially the Congress, and individual candidates have announced their candidates or candidature as yet. Even voters are still silent and not ready to disclose their preferences regarding a party or candidate openly.Political observers state that the picture would be clear after all the parties announce their candidates. Though voters generally do have a party preference, personal liking or disliking for a particular candidate may impact the results in a constituency.This year, the election results this time are going to be interesting and baffling. With too many candidates trying their luck in the elections, it would have to be seen who cuts into whose vote bank and who gets benefited from it.Of the 11 constituencies in the district — five urban and six rural — the AAP is the only political party which has announced candidates on all seats. The SAD-BSP alliance too has announced candidates on most of the seats.The SAD, during all previous elections fought in alliance with the BJP, contested from only one seat (Amritsar South constituency) in the city while the remaining four were contested by the BJP. However, during the current election, in alliance with BSP, it is contesting from all five seats. In two of these constituencies, Amritsar North and Amritsar South, the SAD candidates could even pull up a surprise. In 2017, the SAD-BJP combine had lost all five seats to Congress candidates.On the other hand, with the rumours of the Congress not repeating its candidates as a few of MLAs are facing anti-incumbency, it might become difficult for the high command to pacify dissidents.On the other hand, the AAP has not organised any mass gathering or rally in the recent past, its popularity among lower and middle-income groups, who have disenchanted with the traditional parties, could help it garner a huge share of votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poll-campaigning-yet-to-pick-up-the-pace-360167
11-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Rescued from Ajnala village, sambar released into the wild||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10A day after rescuing a sambar from a house in Sansara Kalan village in Ajnala, officials of the Forest Department released it into a nearby notified forest area on Monday.District Forest Officer Surjit Singh Sahota said it was a young male, nearly 2-years-old. No sign of injury was found during medical examination. So, it was immediately released into the jungle. He said since sambar was a shy and timid animal, which tends to suffer cardiac arrest owing to human handling, it was immediately released into its natural habitat.Every year, during foggy days protected animals, including sambar, deer and wild boars, are sighted in human habitations. Wildlife expert Dr Sandeep K Jain said these animals straying into human habitat was another example of man-animal conflict. Efforts on the part of the government to protect their original habitat must be initiated and strayed wild animals must be rescued promptly. These are often killed for their meat and other body parts for medicinal purpose. Over the past some years, the population of protected animals — sambar and wild boars — has increased in the 13,898.53 hectare forest area of the border districts of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. Their straying from the Shivalik foothills into the plains is also recorded during the winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rescued-sambar-released-into-the-wild-360166
11-01-2022||---||Congress failed to deliver on electoral promises: Teachers||Amritsar, January 10The teaching fraternity from the district seems to be in no mood to forget and forgive the incumbent Congress government just as all political parties pace up election activities. The mood of teachers, in both secondary and higher education sector, remains disappointing towards the incumbent government, as they hope for a change of guard in the upcoming polls.Teachers across the state, for the past three months have been organising landmark protests, against the state government. Seeking solutions to unemployment, regularisation roadblocks, wage hike, schools teacher unions had take to streets on several occasions, alleging the government of backtracking on election promises. University and college teachers unions had called for total education bandh since December last year against the non-implementation of 7th Pay Commission wages and delinking from UGC. Calling the incumbent government, a failure in terms of elevating the standards of education in the last five years, the teachers said they wanted action from the government rather than words.“This government has not delivered in any account in the last five years, not just in field of education but also otherwise. A few days back, the Cabinet announced Rs 2,000 Internet allowance per student for higher education, just to woo voters as the higher education students are above 18 years of age. Why are the thousands of school students in the state, who were forced to study online due to pandemic, not, being given this allowance? New constituent colleges are being announced but why weren’t the vacant posts that exist in current colleges filled? There is no funding for public sector colleges, and most recruitments currently being done are contractual. All these lapses are going to impact the higher education in future,” said Lakhwinder Singh, president, GNDU teachers association.A few days ago, when the Code of Conduct was implemented, abruptly ending college and university teachers’ protests, Prof GS Sekhon, district president of PFUCTO (Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations) had said they were ready to campaign against the incumbent Congress government.Accusing most traditional parties of ideological bankruptcy, Gurpratap Singh Khaira, assistant professor at Hindu College, said, there was a time when the accountability could be expected from the chosen representatives. “There have been massive rallies, demonstrations by teachers, seeking implementation of the 7th Pay Commission wages, but the demand was completely ignored. When senior teachers were on hunger strike, they were assured that the sanction of wages will be done, but it turned out to be a hollow promise. Only in Punjab, pension for teachers was abolished. How does the government expect teachers to work on salaries lower than that of a daily wager and then claim that the state has world-class higher-education standards?”Keshav Kohli, president of the Physical education teachers’ union, Punjab, shared that unemployment in education sector has been the biggest issue that the incumbent government failed to tackle during their tenure. “While traditional parties encourage young, educated leaders to attract voters, qualified teachers have been not able to get jobs, despite their efforts. In past few weeks, the incumbent government might have announced recruitments, but the fact remains that there needs a lot to be done. The next government must take note and work towards creating new recruitments and offer better incentives to teachers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-failed-to-deliver-on-electoral-promises-teachers-360165
11-01-2022||---||For the love of stories...||Amritsar, January 10Neera Sharma, who has over four decades’ (41 years) experience as an educator, has always excelled in taking her abilities as a teacher beyond classroom. For someone, who loves to connect with her students by sharing stories, Neera Sharma has now started a second innings as a storyteller, this time in virtual space.When I shared these stories with my family and friends, they advised me to get these published. But I just didn’t want to get a book published. I wanted to engage others with my stories as we love to listen others talk. So, a former student of mine, who is in Mumbai currently, suggested a collaboration to produce a podcast. That’s how we started with Neera Ki Naiyya. Neera Sharma, an educatorHer podcasts Neera Ki Naiyya, have completed 23 episodes and are streaming on all major podcast platforms. Sharing life experiences and giving moral lessons but in a non-conformist way, Neera has been penning these stories down ever since she retired a year ago.“After I retired, I spent some time doing things I otherwise could not do on a busy schedule. But then, I got bored and so started writing stories. When I shared these stories with my family and friends, they advised me to get these published. But I just did not want to get a book published. I wanted to engage others with my stories as we love to listen others talk. So, a former student of mine, who is in Mumbai currently, suggested a collaboration to produce a podcast. That’s how we started with Neera Ki Naiyya,” she shared. Neera ki Naiyya is a weekly podcast, where Neera shares stories in Hindi based on a theme and includes titbits taken from Neera’s own life experiences. There is an episode titled Santulan, about man-nature balance and another one titled Vijay Divas, dedicated to the valour and sacrifice of Lt CK Nongrum, who was martyred in the Kargil war. “This particular story was very emotional to share as it was a collaboration between me and one of my former student, Lt Col Sandeep Ahlawat, who was Lt CK Nongrum’s batch mate,” she said.Through her stories, she makes an attempt to reach out to not just children, but grown-ups as well, including her former students, who are spread across the world.“I feel that audio stories are easier to follow, as it makes instant connection with no age bar. I have received reactions from Pan India for my stories and it boasts my morale. I enjoy doing it now as I feel that every time I share a story, I share a bit of myself with my listeners.”She said audio stories are a good way of introducing young children to literature and developing their imagination. The most recent story by her is titled Chatkara Imli Ka that candidly takes us back to the days when imli was a guilty pleasure enjoyed by kids and grown-ups alike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-the-love-of-stories-360164
11-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Finance company employee robbed||‘Veer Baal Diwas’: Move hailedAmritsar: Punjab Lok Congress party welcomed the decision to mark December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’. Advocate MK Sharrma, state spokesperson, Punjab Lok Congress party, said the courage portrayed by Sahibzades under enormous oppression is unparalleled and everyone across the globe must know about their supreme sacrifice. This is a commendable step in that direction, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finance-company-employee-robbed-360163
11-01-2022||---||Amritsar: 10 booked for murder bid||Amritsar, January 10The Gharinda police have booked 10 persons, including two women, on the charge of murder bid after they allegedly fired upon a person over a dispute.Among those booked were identified as Prince Gill, his brother Harman Singh, mother Neelam Kaur and sister Komal Gill, all residents of Kotli Naseer Khan. A case under Sections 307, 323, 324, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25/ 27/54/59 of the Arms Act was registered against them.Kala Masih, the complainant, told the police that he works in Bhagtanwala Grain market. He said on Sunday, he received a call from his sister-in-law Neelam Kaur around 2pm, who asked him to immediately reach home. He said he rushed back, where the accused, led by Prince Gill, were standing outside his house.He said on seeing him, Prince fired around four gunshots at him and he escaped narrowly as he bowed down to save himself. He said he entered the nearby house of Dharam Singh and from there he reached near his home from nearby street. When he reached near his house, he saw the accused Harman Singh, Neelam Kaur and Komal Gill, who had caught hold of his son Joseph. They were thrashing him. He said he tried to save him and raised an alarm, following which the accused fled with their weapons. He said Joseph was taken to the Civil Hospital at Lopoke, where he was under treatment. ASI Rashpal Singh, investigating officer, said a family dispute was the reason behind the incident. Prince Gill was the complainant’s nephew. He said further investigations were under progress and raids were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-booked-for-murder-bid-360162
11-01-2022||---||AAP: Amritsar Improvement Trust executed backdate tenders in North constituency||Amritsar, January 10The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has filed a complaint against suspected execution of tenders of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) in the North constituency under back dates of January 6 and January 7, 2022, to District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira.In a press conference held here on Monday, Arvinder Singh Bhatti, an AAP leader who retired from the AIT, alleged that it was against the guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI). He stated that Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, a retired IPS officer, of the AAP came to know from a reliable source that tenders of the AIT in the North constituency, which was not executed after January 1 due to non-issuance of work orders would be now executed after the implementation of the Model Code of Conduct on back date of January 6 and 7, 2022, by editing and altering the dispatch dates which was against the SOP of the ECI.Flanked by local AAP leaders Rajinder Kumar Plah and Shukrat Kalra, Bhatti urged the DEO to bring the dispatch register of the AIT under his custody immediately to avoid any discrepancy.They said the state exchequer was being misused by repairing and relaying some roads in winter, which is done only in summer in warm temperature. These roads would not be durable. Kalra alleged that the BDO was releasing cheques to replace kutcha roofs with concrete and its officials were giving these to ruling party leaders, instead of handing them directly to the recipients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-ait-executed-backdate-tenders-in-north-constituency-360161
11-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Four companies of paramilitary forces reach Amritsar for upcoming poll||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10Four companies of paramilitary forces — three of CRPF and one of the BSF — have arrived in the city for the upcoming Assembly poll scheduled to be held on February 14, while more are likely to join in the near future.DCP (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal led the team and took out a flag march from Hall Gate to the Golden Temple area. He said along with three companies of paramilitary forces, around 2,500 cops took out the flag march in three zonesThe Punjab Police, too, are on alert following seizure of explosive materials and weapons smuggled from across the Indo-Pak border. According to intelligence sources, there was a high possibility that anti-national forces would try to create trouble in the poll process.The city police headed by senior police officials carried out a flag march on Monday in three places for inculcating a sense of security among the general public.Deputy Commissioner of Police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal led the team and took out a flag march from Hall gate to the Golden Temple area. He said along with three companies of paramilitary forces, around 2,500 cops took out the flag march in three zones.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, City-I, Navjot Singh led the team by holding the flag march in Hall Gate, Lahori Gate, Chatiwind Gate and its adjoining areas. ADCP City-II Prabhjot Singh Virk led the flag march from India Gate, Chheharta, Guru Nanak Dev University, Cantonment Chowk, Railway Station, Lawrence Road and Ranjit Avenue. Similarly, Jugraj Singh, ADCP City-III, headed the flag march from Golden Gate, Maqboolpura Chowk to Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar areas.DCP Bhandal said the Punjab Police were determined to hold the Assembly poll in a fair and free manner. He said nobody would be allowed to take law into their hands and vitiate the peaceful atmosphere by creating law and order problem. He also appealed to the arms licence holders to deposit their arms with the police or with the respective gun houses. He also urged people to follow the government and Health Department’s guidelines regarding the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-companies-of-paramilitary-forces-reach-amritsar-for-upcoming-poll-360160
11-01-2022||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation, contractual employee dies of electrocution, 2 hurt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10A 24-year-old employee of the municipal corporation, identified as Bobby, a resident of Noori Mohalla near Bhagtanwala, was electrocuted near Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh when he along with three other colleagues was removing hoardings of politicians here on Monday.Another person, identified as Ashok Kumar, was also critically injured and rushed to hospital.Though eye-witnesses claimed that three persons were electrocuted, the police said they received the information of only two persons.The wailing family members of the victim held a demonstration outside Guru Ramdas Hospital on the outer circular road of the walled city. They alleged Bobby was a contractual safai karamchari and it was not his duty to remove hoardings.They alleged that a sanitary inspector forced him to accompany others to remove hoardings.His family members said that Bobby was engaged and his marriage was scheduled to be solemnised after the festival of Lohri.Vimal, a relative of injured Ashok Kumar, said that he had been working on contract with the Municipal Corporation for the past 30 years.Owing to being electrocuted, the right side of his body was burnt leaving him handicapped, he said.He demanded that the department should regularise him, besides bearing his treatment costs. He alleged that private hospital authorities were demanding money for tests and advance before starting his treatment. ACP Manjit Singh reached the spot and tried to pacify the agitators. He said the police got the information of electrocution of two persons. He said while removing hoardings, they accidentally touched a live wire which led to the incident.Lovedeep Singh Gill, SHO, Division B police station, said the statement of the victim’s family was being recoded and a case would be registered accordingly.District administration issues ban on carrying weapons Amritsar: Following imposition of the Model Code of Conduct, the district administration, led by Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Roohi Dug, has banned carrying all types of weapons, explosives and flammable material. In the order passed under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, she said it would not be implemented on policemen, paramilitary forces and Army personnel. It would remain in force till March 12, 2022. Even those having arm licences were not allowed to carry weapons. She said weapons could be misused and create law and order situation during elections. Meanwhile, following directions of the Election Commission of India, Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Roohi Dug on Monday held a meeting with printing press owners and asked them to follow instructions issued by the Election Commission in letter and spirit. She said the name and address of the printer and publisher should be there on every pamphlet or poster printed by them during the upcoming Assembly poll. “Along with the name and address, they would also have to ensure to take a declaration and signature of two witnesses from their clients for printing or publishing election material,” she said. They would have to deposit the material published along with the declaration to the district magistrate’s office. She warned that if the publisher or printer violated the instructions their licence could be cancelled besides they could even face imprisonment. She said any type of printing or publishing of election material would be accounted in the election expenditure of the party or the candidate. She said if it was printed with the consent of the candidate, it would be added in its expenditure and if it was not printed with his consent, the printer or publisher would be held liable for violation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-contractual-employee-dies-of-electrocution-2-hurt-360159
11-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Government Medical College turning into a Covid hotspot?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10At least 50 employees, especially MBBS interns and Post Graduate (PG) students-cum-junior resident (JR) doctors at Government Medical College here, have been infected since the start of the recent surge in cases.The MBBS interns and PG students (JRs) work in close contact with patients at Out Patient Departments (OPDs) and Indoor Patient Departments (IPDs).While there are chances of them acquiring the infection from patients, students contrarily claimed that their source of infection was their hostel mates as no arrangements for isolation of infected students were made in time.If sources are to be believed, the institute which is the tertiary care health centre for nearby districts, could be a potential major hotspot for Covid infections. However, at present, the administration has woken up and a few guesthouses on the campus, apart from a hostel, have been reserved for isolation of mildly infected interns and JRs.“Separate arrangements were made after the students took up the issue with the authorities,” a leader of the junior resident doctors’ association said.An official of the GMC said: “The action was taken as soon as the matter was brought to light.” He said earlier in the absence of any specific guidelines, no special arrangement was in place.A hostel resident said: “No isolation, as is required under Covid guidelines, is possible in a hostel where inmates have to share washrooms, toilets and even the mess.” He said the reason of the infection could be due to weather conditions but even the mess staff had started showing symptoms similar to Covid infection.Earlier last week, an outbreak of Covid infections was reported from Government Medical College in Patiala, after which the administration got the hostels vacated. 242 test positive in districtAmritsar: After 242 persons tested positive for Covid on Monday, the district tally increased to 48,957. Of these, 218 are new cases and 24 are contacts of positive patients. The district health authorities have also reported recovery of 20 patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,927. The district at present has a total 1,430 active cases. Meanwhile, the district Health Department on Monday launched booster dose (precaution dose) for residents who have received two doses of the vaccine. As many as 545 residents were given the jab on Monday. Apart from this 5,371 residents received the first dose, while 6,921 residents the second dose. TNS48 positive in Tarn TaranThe Covid-19 report of 48 samples came out positive in the district on Monday. The Health Department authorities in a release informed that the active cases have increased to 200 in the district. The teams of the Health Department collected 1,099 samples from different places on Monday. The Health Department started delivering the booster doze from Monday after administering it to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh on Monday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gmc-turning-into-a-covid-hotspot-360148
11-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Illegal mineral mining evergrowing: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has described the menace of illegal mining in the region as “ever-growing”, before making it clear that an accused in such case did not deserve the concession of anticipatory bail. Justice Meenakshi I Mehta also made it clear that illegal mining was harming the environment and the ecological system of the area.The ruling by Justice Mehta came after an accused in a theft case moved the High Court apprehending arrest, following the registration of an FIR on September 26, 2021, at the Lopoke police station in Amritsar, under Section 379 of the IPC and the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act.The Bench was told that the petitioner, coming on a tractor trailer, stopped on being signalled by a police team. However, he escaped from there. The vehicle was loaded with 400-feet ‘sand’ without any permit or requisite document.Appearing before the Bench, his counsel contended that the petitioner was falsely implicated in the case. He had not been apprehended on the spot. As such, he deserved the relief of anticipatory bail. The State counsel, on the other hand, argued that the petitioner was involved in one more case of similar nature in addition to the present case. Keeping in view the nature of the offence committed by him, the petition was required to be dismissed, the State counsel added.Refusing to grant the concession, Justice Mehta added the tractor, to which the trolley loaded with ‘sand’ was attached, was allegedly being driven by the petitioner,who allegedly escaped from the spot on noticing the police party. Document or permit regarding the ‘sand’ loaded in the tractor trailer was not available.“Keeping in view the ever-growing menace of illegal mining of the minerals in the region, this Court is of the opinion that the petitioner does not deserve the relief of anticipatory bail. Resultantly, the petition in hand stands dismissed,” Justice Mehta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mineral-mining-evergrowing-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-360137
