12-01-2022||---||Tarn Taran Municipal Council employees seek 4 months’ salary||Tarn Taran, January 11Resentment prevails among employees, including contractual ones, of the local Municipal Council as they have not been paid their salaries for the last four months.Romesh Kumar Shergill, state leader of the Safai Sewak Union, Punjab, stated here on Tuesday that all (more than 250) sanitation workers, mostly working on contract, of the civic bodies had not been paid salaries for the last two months.All sanitation workers, mostly working on contract, of the civic body have not been paid salaries for the last two months. They and their family members would not be able to celebrate the festival without salaries. Romesh Kumar Shergill, A leaderHe said they and their family members would not be able to celebrate the festival, which falls tomorrow, without salaries.When contacted Sharanjit Kaur, Executive Officer of the Municipal Council, said all the employees working in her office, including herself, too had not been paid salaries for the last four months. She said the amount of GST had not been released to the council till date as a result of which the employees were not being paid salaries.Union leader Romesh Kumar had called Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to release their salaries without delay as their children too wanted to celebrate the festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-municipal-council-employees-seek-4-months-salary-360567
12-01-2022||---||Family of social worker attacked in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, January 11The family of a social worker, Baljit Singh, who had volunteered to make residents aware of the ill-effects of drugs and other anti-social activities, was attacked by an armed gang of anti-social elements two weeks ago by entering his house in Muradpur locality here.The accused not only attacked the male members of the family, but also molested his wife in a fit of anger. The police stated on Tuesday that the social worker had been sensitising the people to drugs and other social evils.Anti-social elements were taking it as a challenge and armed with weapons they entered his house on the night of December 29. Besides attacking them, they damaged household items.The police said the accused were identified as Sham Singh Shama, Manbir Singh, Harpal Singh, Babbu, Avtar Singh Azgar, Lucky, Mani Jodhpuria, Jassa Singh, Pinka, Dara, Sahib Secretary, Banti Bath, Bago, Chann, Sachin, Pardeep Mattu, Happy Giani, Baghela, Rahul and Mannu of Tarn Taran.The police said the accused also looted Rs18,000 cash and the mobiles of the family members. A case under Sections 452, 354, 506, 427, 148 and 149, IPC, and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused, who are still at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-of-social-worker-attacked-in-tarn-taran-360560
12-01-2022||---||‘Successive govts failed to rehabilitate terror-hit families’||Amritsar, January 11The All-India Terrorist Victims’ Association (AITVA) on Tuesday stated that successive governments had failed to take steps aimed at welfare and rehabilitation of the victim families even after more than three decades.In a press conference held here on Tuesday, BR Hastir, chairman of the association, said, “During many previous elections, all the political parties made promises to introduce a policy for the welfare and rehabilitation of the victim families, but these have not been promised till date.”He said hundreds of families from the state had fled to other places from 1982 to 1995. “Many persons lost their livelihood as they had to leave their well-established businesses to save their lives,” he added.Hastir demanded that the political parties and leaders must understand the pain of the terror victims and the issue should be made a part of political discourse by all parties contesting the Assembly elections in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/successive-govts-failed-to-rehabilitate-terror-hit-families-360557
12-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||‘Killer plastic kite thread’ takes over traditional industry||Amritsar, January 11Even though the sale and use of plastic kite-flying thread has been banned for over a decade now, it is still very much popular and used by kite flyers till date.The ‘plastic dor’ or ‘dragon dor’ as it is being referred to locally, due to its elasticity and sharpness, is so popular that it has eaten up the business of traditional dor makers.The hundreds of ‘addas’ of dor makers, where they process and mature the thread with crushed glass and adhesives, which were seen at every road of the city over a decade ago, are no longer visible. Darshan Lal, a dor maker said: “Now, nobody wants the traditional thread as it is costly and is no match for the plastic thread in kite-flying competitions.” He said most of the artisans have shifted to other businesses. He said plastic dor along with the factory-made thread has completely taken over the traditional industry.Bakshish Singh, another dor maker from the old days, said: “I had over 20 people working for me. Now, I am alone.” He said people used to place orders weeks in advance to lay their hands on a ‘charkhari’ (roll) of ‘sangal’ dor. The sangal dor was the strongest thread in those times, but now, it is no match for the plastic ones,” he said.The plastic kite-flying thread, which does not break easily and results in deeper cuts on coming in contact with the skin, has been a cause for countless accidents. In the past few years, it has not only caused serious injuries to people, but has also resulted in a few deaths.While the festival of kites Lohri is just two days away, the plastic thread seen entangled in electricity wires and hanging from trees, is clearly an indication of it being used openly. Residents demanded that ban on the sale and use of plastic thread should be strictly implemented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/killer-plastic-thread-takes-over-traditional-industry-360552
12-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Dream of over 37K contractual staff dashed in Punjab||Amritsar, January 11With the Model Code of Conduct coming into force on January 8, the long-cherished dream of over 37,000 contractual employees working in the state government as well as in the state-owned boards and corporations was dashed.After change of guard in the state, we were very hopeful of our job regularisation like nearly 7,500 contractual workers employed with Punbus and PRTC across the state. However, CM Channi paid only a lip-service. Kuljit Singh, a Punbus employeeThese employees are once again feeling cheated and found the Charanjit Singh Channi government no different from its predecessors. The agenda for the regularisation of their services have been debated in Cabinet meetings since September, raising hopes of these employees and their families.Seeking anonymity, a qualified youngster working as a Patwari on a monthly salary of Rs9,200 said they were being exploited by none other than the state. Citing the example of 1,766 retired Patwaris re-employed at Rs25,000, he said they were highly underpaid. Regularisation has become a far-fetched dream. About 8,000 posts of Patwari were lying vacant in the state and people were facing hardships due to the non-availability of officials. Yet the government was reluctant in filling all these posts. The government advertised 1,090 posts of Patwari last year, which elicited response from 2.33 lakh applicants.Kuljit Singh, working as a cashier on a contractual basis with Punbus for the past over 12 years, said his hope for regularisation were high like nearly 7,500 contractual workers employed with Punbus and PRTC across the state, after change of guard in the state. However, CM Channi paid only lip service.Jagroop Singh, a member of the BEd, TET Pass Union, says qualified youth have been the biggest sufferers of the policies of successive governments.“Our parents paid through their noses to foot the bills of our education. Instead of helping the aged parents, we continue to be dependent on them,” he said.The firebrand BJP leader Lakshmi Kanta Chawla said during the 111-day rule of CM Channi, he had been repeatedly saying about the regularisation of the staff. He got his photographs pasted on advertisements, billboards and flew in chartered flights thanks to the public exchequer. She said contemporary Punjabi youth was undergoing tremendous mental stress, agony and their families were also stressed. She called upon the electorate of CM Channi’s constituency to not vote in his favour as he lied to youth, like his predecessors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dream-of-over-37k-contractual-staff-dashed-360549
12-01-2022||---||Woman held hostage at her home, robbed of Rs 2 lakh, ornaments in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 11Two armed persons allegedly looted Rs 2 lakh cash besides gold ornaments from Kot Atmaram area falling under Division B police station here on Tuesday.They made house owner Manpreet Kaur hostage and pointed sharp weapon at her. She was alone at home. Her husband Jasbir Singh Kanda is lodged inside jail in a murder case. The accused gained entry in the house by saying that they had come to meet her at the instance of her husband.Assistant Commissioner of Police, Manjit Singh said the police got the CCTV footage of the accused and investigations were under progress to identify and arrest them. He said a case was being registered.A relative of the victim said after pointing sharp weapon at Manpreet they took her to the almirah, from where they took out Rs2 lakh cash and gold ornaments worth lakhs and fled away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-held-hostage-at-her-home-robbed-of-rs-2-lakh-ornaments-360547
12-01-2022||---||Milk agency owner robbed of Rs 5 lakh in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 11Several unidentified persons robbed a dairy owner of Rs 5 lakh, when he had gone to deposit the same with a private bank here on Monday.Ranjit Singh, the victim, lodged a complaint with the Sadar police, which have registered a case under Sections 379-B (2), 34 of the Indian Penal Code and launched further investigations.In his complaint, he said he was has Verka Milk agency on the name of Maninder Singh, near Verka Milk plant at Verka bypass chowk. He said he supplies milk from the milk plant to various parts in Tarn Taran, Harike, Patti, Khemkaran, Beas and Amritsar city on different vehicles. He said on Monday, he was going to deposit his daily collection of Rs5 lakh at the HDFC bank, near Milan Palace on Batala Road, on his scooter. He said when he took out his bag containing cash outside the bank, three unidentified persons came on a bike and snatched the bag after assaulting him.He said he called his son Maninder Singh, who admitted him to a hospital and thereafter a complaint was lodged.The police said CCTV cameras in the area were being scanned to find clues about the perpetrators. So far, there has been no breakthrough in the case.Man loses Rs 30,000 cash, iPhone 12 to snatchersAnother robbery was reported near Fatehgarh Sukarchak village, falling under Kamboh police station, late on Sunday evening.Complainant Gurbinder Singh of Makhanwindi village, falling under Jandiala police station, told the police that around 10 pm, he was returning to his village and reached near Fategarh Sukarchak village, when a car stopped in front of his scooter. He said five unidentified youths came out of it with faces covered.They were armed with sharp weapons and snatched his iPhone 12 and Rs30,000 cash from him.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/milk-agency-owner-robbed-of-rs-5-lakh-360545
12-01-2022||Amritsar||Two nabbed with 7 stolen bikes||6 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: Amritsar Central Jail authorities have seized six more mobile phones from some inmates during a search operation. According to jail officials, three mobile phones were found from Ranjodh Singh Jodha of Buraj Phulla in Harike, Jaspreet Singh of Pat Rai Khurd in Jhander and Smana of Basarke village in Khalra, while three cell phones were found unclaimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-7-stolen-bikes-360542
12-01-2022||---||Rising cases, SOPs hit tourist footfall in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 11The rising cases of Covid-19 coupled with the introduction of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to check its spread have made a dent in the number of tourists, especially outsiders, visiting the holy city.Satnam Singh Kanda, who is running a hotel near the Golden Temple, said room occupancy in hotels, lodges, inns and stay houses in the walled city had come down considerably after the introduction of night curfew and the SOPs.Room occupancy in hotels, lodges, inns and stay houses in the walled city has come down considerably after the introduction of night curfew and SOPs. Tourists from other states tend to stay here for two nights while those from within the state return to their native places the same day. Satnam Singh Kanda, hotel ownerThe number of daily passengers, especially tourists, has come down after the introduction of the Covid-19 guidelines. Jagga Singh, Auto driver On January 6, the Border Security Force (BSF) suspended entry of the visitors to the spectators’ gallery to watch the Beating the Retreat ceremony held every evening at the Attari-Wagah joint Check Post. This ban has also led to a dip in tourist and visitor arrivals, especially those coming from outside the state.Kanda said the BSF took the decision following the latest Covid-19 guidelines issued by the office of the District Magistrate, Amritsar. Tourists from other states tend to stay here for two nights while those from within the state return to their native places the same day.Auto driver Jagga Singh at the railway station states that the number of daily passengers, especially tourists, has come down significanty after the introduction of the Covid-19 guidelines.Dist reports 455 positive cases Amritsar: In a single-day spike, since the recent spike in cases, the district reported total 455 positive cases on Tuesday. With this, the tally of infections from the district increased to 49,412. Of the cases reported on Tuesday, 400 are new cases and 55 are contacts of positive patients. The district Health Department has also reported the recovery of 33 patients with which the recovery count increased to 45,960. However, the active caseload in the district is continuously on the rise and reached 1,852 on Tuesday. The district health authorities said testing has been increased to contain the spread of the disease. Meanwhile, 17,223 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of the 8,348 received the first dose, 8,875 received the second dose and 437 received the third dose of the vaccine. TNSTarn Taran logs 76 casesAs many as 76 persons tested positive for Covid on Tuesday taking the active cases to 272 in the district. The positive cases were being noticed since the arrival of the New Year. District authorities of the Health Department in a press statement on Tuesday appealed to residents to get vaccinated. The department also appealed to citizens who have been vaccinated with both dozes to take the booster doze after nine months of taking both doses. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-cases-sops-hit-tourist-footfall-in-amritsar-360541
12-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Poll: Illegal weapons a big challenge for police in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 11Even as the district administration and the Police Commissioner have directed the arms licence holders to deposit their weapons with their respective police stations or gun houses, illegal weapons will still be a big challenge for the law-enforcing agency during the Assembly polls.The Punjab Police are prepared to meet any eventuality and thwart any untoward incident. Nobody will be allowed to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere. Besides, we have started checking suspicious vehicles and asked police officials to remain alert. Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order)In the past, a number of incidents of sneaking of hand grenades, explosives and weapons by ISI-backed anti-national forces from across the Indo-Pak border have been reported. Even the Punjab Police also busted illegal weapon supply rackets from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.Following inputs from intelligence and security agencies, the Punjab Police have been on alert as anti-national and anti-social elements would try to create law and order problems which would prove to be a hurdle in the peaceful conduct of the elections scheduled to be held on February 14.Keeping this in mind, there would be many companies of paramilitary forces in the border district this time. In the first phase, 50 companies of paramilitary forces have been allotted to Punjab and of these four have arrived in Amritsar city and two companies would assist the Amritsar rural police.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said the Punjab Police were prepared to meet any eventuality and thwart any untoward incident. He said nobody would be allowed to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere.“Besides, we have started checking suspicious vehicles and asked the police officials to remain alert by activating their information network. We will also hold search operations in outskirts areas and conduct patrolling from time to time. We are focusing on checking vehicles and increasing strength at checkpoints,” he said. Rakesh Kaushal, SSP, Amritsar (rural), said being a border district they had demanded paramilitary forces, besides companies of the state armed police. “Today, we took out a flag march in Ajnala, Ramdass, Jandiala and Rayya. Checkpoints have been increased and we are checking vehicles, especially those being driven by youngsters. We are also verifying the whereabouts of criminals who came out from jail,” said the SSP. Meanwhile, according to information, there are 15,400 arms licences in the city and over 28,100 in the rural belt. Around 50 per cent of the arms holders have deposited their arms with the rural police and over 80 per cent in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poll-illegal-weapons-a-big-challenge-for-police-360538
12-01-2022||---||Panel to monitor candidates’ expenses in ensuing elections in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 11The district administration has constituted a media certification and monitoring committee (MCMC) to monitor the expenses of candidates in the ensuing elections.District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the district-level committee would monitor the expenditure incurred on media by the candidates contesting from 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. Khaira, who is chairman of the committee, visited the MCMC centre and inspected the work being done.SDM Rajesh Sharma was also present. He directed all members of the MCMC to keep a close watch on the media, including newspapers, radio, TV, e-papers and social media. Appearing of any advertisement should be included in the election expenses of the candidate. The Returning Officer concerned should be informed immediately, so that this expenditure can be included in his election expenses.For the advertisement in electronic media including e-paper and social media, it was necessary to get the approval of MCMC and for this purpose, room number 218 of the district administrative complex has been kept reserved. Khaira said candidates must pay their entire expenses through cheques. He said if any organisation puts up advertisement without the written permission of the candidate and without the approval of the committee, then a case would be registered against it under Section 171H Indian Penal Code. Apart from this, the advertisements in the print media must be approved by the said committee two days before its appearance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panel-to-monitor-candidates-expenses-in-ensuing-elections-360537
12-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar Municipal Corporation's negligence comes to fore||Amritsar, January 11The death of a 24-year-old sanitation worker while removing illegal hoardings exposes gross violations by the Municipal Corporation (MC).The deceased, Bobby, was not even a contractual employee of the MC as it was reported on Monday. He was working on behalf of some permanent employees in connivance with health wing officials. The police on Tuesday booked sanitary inspector Rakesh Gill for this violation.The incident again exposed the practice of arranging makeshift employees on behalf of permanent employees of the corporation.“The permanent safai karamcharis are getting handsome salaries. They don’t want to do such jobs, so arrange some poor person to perform their duties,” said a senior MC official. Now, safai karmachari unions of the MC are also in a dilemma as to how will they demand justice for the deceased.Vinod Kumar Bitta, state president of one of the safai karamchari unions, confessed: “The practice of arranging employees is common, but wrong. The FIR against sanitary inspector is also wrong. We assure to arrange a job for one of the family members of the deceased in the MC.”As far as compensation is concerned, the family of Bobby would not get anything from the government. However, local AAP unit demanded Rs50 lakh compensation and job to one of the family members of deceased.Apart from this, the death of ‘arranged’ worker raised several questions on anti-defacement drive after the Election Commission orders. As per the Punjab Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, politicians, who displayed hoardings are bound to remove it. Almost all hording were illegal, so MC didn’t write to any political party as these boards and hoarding were not supposed to be displayed.In a hurry to implement the orders of the Election Commission, the MC Commissioner-cum-District Nodal Officer (MC) Sandip Rishi deployed the sanitation staff on zonal-level to remove the hoardings and defacement on January 9.Sanitation worker’s death Sanitary inspector booked Amritsar: A day after a youth was electrocuted to death near Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh, the Division B police have booked sanitary inspector Rakesh Kumar Gill on the charge of death by negligence. Bobby (in pic) lost his life while removing illegal hoardings of political leaders after imposition of the Model Code of Conduct in view of the ensuing Assembly poll. His family members alleged that sanitary inspector took him along for removing the hoardings even though it was not his duty. When he along with three others were removing the hoardings, they got electrocuted as the board was touching the electric wire and due to rain current passed through it. Bobby suffered a fatal electric shock, while two others identified as Ashok Kumar and Major were also injured. They were rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared Bobby dead, while the other two are under treatment. TNSNo trained staff for removing hoardingsThe advertisement wing of the MC has only four ‘beldar’ (Class-IV employees) to remove defacements. They are not able to climb a pole or building where hoardings are being displayed. The department has arranged a young man named ‘Chango’ to climb the poles and multilevel buildings without any safety gear. Chango is not on payroll but is earning his livelihood by risking his life on behalf of permanent employees for the last several years. The Tribune had highlighted the risk of electrocution in the job of removing hoarding from electricity poles. The advertisement wing officials are also aware about the risk, especially in rainy season. “Safai karmacharis are to sweep the roads. They should not be deployed on such tasks, where risk of life is involved. There should be trained staff for this task,” said Vinod Kumar Bitta. No political party or politician liable?The hoardings are being displayed by all four major political parties — the Congress, SAD, BJP and AAP. Sole breadwinner of family Bobby died while removing their defacement. The MC has its own reasons to not send notices to the political parties concerned. “Death of Bobby is not just an accident. It is negligence of the MC. The political parties, who displayed the illegal hoardings should be responsible for this,” said advocate Kuljit Singh, a social activist.OfficialspeakAs per the directions of the Election Commission, we have to remove hoardings within 72 hours. Following the shortage of staff in advertisement wing, the sanitation workers were deployed on duty. As all boards were illegally displayed, we didn’t send notice to any particular political party. Sandip Rishi, MC Commissioner The permanent safai karamcharis are getting handsome salaries. They don’t want to do such jobs, so they arrange some poor person to perform their duties. A senior MC officialThe practice of arranging employees is common, but wrong. The FIR against sanitary inspector is also wrong. We assure to arrange job for one of the family members of the deceased in the MC. Vinod Kumar Bitta, state president of Safai Karamchari Union||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporations-negligence-comes-to-fore-360536
