13-01-2022||Jarnail Singh||Tarn Taran diary: 104-year-old freedom fighter remembered||Tur family missing from state’s political sceneWith time, the well-known Tur family, which opened the doors for the SAD victory in the Lok Sabha from Tarn Taran post Independence, had been slowly eliminated from the political pitch of the state. Belonging to Tur village of the district, the family boasts of giving three Lok Sabha MP, Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur and two sons Lehna Singh Tur and Tarlochan Singh Tur. It was the only Congress Party which dominated from Tarn Taran in the Lok Sabha till the 5th Lok Sabha (1977). After the Emergency period, Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur contested Lok Sabha election from Tarn Taran as SAD candidate and defeated Congress party stalwart candidate Dr Gurdial Singh Dhillon, who remained Speaker of the Lok Sabha for three tenures. After capturing Tarn Taran Lok Sabha seat the area was called as the panthic seat. Such was the influence of Turs that SAD candidates always used to win from here except the election of 1992 when the Akalis had boycotted the election. Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur had the honour to be the Akal Takhal Jathedar and president Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. After the death of Mohan Singh Tur in 1979, his son Lehna Singh Tur represented the seat in 1980 in the sixth Lok Sabha. His son Tarlochan Singh Tur was elected from Tarn Taran Lok Sabha seat thrice in 1985, 1998 and 1999. After the death of both Lehna Singh and Tarlochan Singh Tur, none of their families came forward in the politics to carry on the legacy. It is Sucha Singh Chhotepur (Gurdaspur), son-in-law (daughter’s husband) of Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur who was the taking care of the traditions of his in-law family. Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur was a man of some rare qualities. He made entry into the politics with his own capability despite being from an ordinary family. He challenged the authority of Partap Singh Kairon, the then Chief Minister. Mohan Singh Tur was put behind bars in 1962 election and he contested Vidhan Sabha elections from jail. Tur gave a tough fight to Partap Singh Kairon. Kairon could was able to the election with a margin of less than 60 votes. The simplicity of Jathedar Mohan Singh Tur is no where seen in politics now.AAP’s Manjinder Sidhu in troubled watersPosters pasted a few days back in different villages in Khadoor Sahib constituencies against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manjinder Singh Sidhu Lalpura has raised a question mark on his political career. Manjinder Singh was the state president of the youth wing of the AAP but with the abolition of all wings of the party he too was removed, along with others wing officer bearers. Aspiring for a ticket from AAP and he had been mobilising people of the area in his favour. He unsuccessfully contested election from Khadoor Sahib Lok Sabha constituency in 2019. Manjinder Singh had allegedly misbehaved with Harbarinder Kaur Usman in 2013. She had lodged criminal cases against him after that incident. Her campaign against Manjinder had badly affected his election campaign. A well-known leader of the Valmiki (SC/ST) community, Harbarinder had openly said that she had pasted posters against Manjinder and demanded from the AAP leadership to remove Manjinder from the party otherwise she would appeal SC/ST communities to boycott AAP en-masse. She had mentioned her mobile number on the posters pasted on the walls in different villages. Manjinder Singh Lalpur said it was a planned move to defame him by his opponents.Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/104-year-old-freedom-fighter-remembered-360801
13-01-2022||GS Paul||Amritsar East: Bereft of basic amenities||Rural areas like Verka, Vallah, Maqboolpura, Rasoolpura are yet to get basic amenities on the lines of other urban areas like Amritsar. Ironically, residents resent being neglected and the scant visits of sitting MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu in their areas. Even his ‘missing’ posters too had surfaced a couple of times in the past.The much sought-after flyovers on rail tracks at Vallah Sabzi Mandi and Four ‘S’ chowk haven’t seen the light of the day. Residents have to travel several kilometres to fulfil their basic needs. Similarly, drug menace continues to grip the Maqboolpura area.Sarbjit Singh Verka, a resident of Verka, says: “Most of the areas are still devoid of adequate potable water. Batala road is in a dilapidated state and the sewerage system remains choked. No thought has ever been spared to set up proper healthcare facility.” Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar, says: “They had high hopes of Sidhu couple in 2021. However, the constituency hasn’t seen much development since then.” Lately, Sidhu, his wife and their daughter have intensified their activities in the constituency.Locals’ key demandsPast trendCame into being in 2012 after delimitation, the constituency was first represented by Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu. In 2016, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, three-time MP from Amritsar between 2004 and 2014, quit the SAD-BJP and joined the Congress. In 2017, Sidhu won the seat.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,59,835Male: 85,251Female: 74,583Third gender: 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-east-bereft-of-basic-amenities-360800
13-01-2022||Tarn TARAN||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha announces candidates from Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran||The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) has declared the candidature of Harjinder Singh Tanda from Khadoor Sahib and Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon from Tarn Taran constituency.Harjinder Singh Tanda is the state president of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, and Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon’s name was supposedly forwarded by Dr Swaiman Singh Pakhoke, an NRI, who came all the way from California to provide free medical facilities to farmers at the Delhi morcha during the entire period of the agitation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ssm-announces-two-candidates-360797
13-01-2022||---||Online refresher course inaugurated at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar||Amritsar, January 12A two-week online refresher course in current studies (natural and social) was inaugurated at Human Resource Development Centre of Guru Nanak Dev University in which participants from Karnataka, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, UP and Punjab are taking part.Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean Academic Affairs, in his inaugural address emphasised on three current scenarios: Physical, environmental and life sciences which demand extra attention on part of academic fraternity.“New studies, researches and skills are needed for mapping of and better understanding of these complex challenges that are being faced by the society in era of globalisation and under conditions of Covid-19 pandemic period,” he pointed out. He also highlighted the necessity of finding solutions to the problems of socio-economic inequalities of diverse nature at the earliest. He said our studies and researches should be focusing on these challenging issues.Director prof Sudha Jatinder welcomed the chief guest and apprised everyone present about the achievements of HRDC in recent years.Prof Rajesh Kumar, course coordinator, highlighted upon the thrust areas of the course like: new media; folklore and culture studies; information and cyber security; entrepreneurships; corporate social responsibility; gender, agriculture; sustainable development goals; value education; sustainability science; forensic science; artificial intelligence; hospitality/hotel/tourism travel management;animation and graphics; global diplomacy, national security; climate change; conflict, war and peace; that are likely to be covered by the resource persons during their deliberations with the participants for next two weeks except Sundays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-refresher-course-inaugurated-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-360795
13-01-2022||---||Postal ballot for disabled, Covid patients & those above 80 years||Amritsar, January 12For the first time, residents above 80 years of age, physically challenged persons and Covid positive patients would be able to cast their votes through postal ballot while sitting at their homes.The move is aimed at increasing voter turnout during the pandemic. Besides, for people aged above 80 years and those with disabilities, reaching the polling booth to cast their vote has always been an inconvenience.In the present scenario, when Covid cases are already on the rise, the postal ballot facility would also help positive and suspected cases to use postal ballot. This way, the chances of them spreading the infection among other voters would also be curtailed.DC-cum-District Election Officer, Tarn Taran, Kulwant Singh said returning officers, assistant returning officers and nodal officers are being imparted training, so that the new initiative of the Election Commission of India is successfully implemented at ground level. He said it is also being ensured that employees on election duty have been completely vaccinated.The postal ballots would be made available to eligible voters in their respective officers by booth-level officers. The EC had introduced the postal ballot facility for senior citizens and persons with more than 40 per cent disability last year. Earlier, the postal ballot facility was available to members of armed forces, employees assigned poll duties and a few other categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/postal-ballot-for-disabled-covid-patients-those-above-80-years-360794
13-01-2022||---||Land dispute turns bloody, two injured in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 12Jhander police have booked four persons on charge of attempt to murder after they fired and attacked Kashmir Singh, a resident of Pathanangal village, on Monday evening. He, along with his several relatives, was taking a walk on the road outside his house when the incident took place.Those booked were identified as Palwinder Singh, Preeti, and Kulbir Singh, all residents of same village and Jaskirat Singh of Bal Khurd village. A case under Sections 307, 506, 148, 149 of the IPC and 25/27 of the Arms Act was registered against them, though no arrest has been made till now, the police said.Kashmir Singh told the police that the accused attacked them when he, along with his relatives, was taking a walk. He said without any provocation, they started abusive language. Jaskirat shouted and challanged to teach us a lesson for ‘grabbing’ their property and started firing. He said the bullet hit his nephew Inderjit Singh (25) on his thigh. Another accused Palwinder Singh also fired at them which hit his relative Husandeep Singh of Fatehgarh Churian on his left leg.As he raised an alarm and people started gathering, the accused fled away from the scene. the injured were rushed to a private hospital for treatment. Sub-Inspector Ajwinder Singh raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/land-dispute-turns-bloody-two-injured-360792
13-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Another robbery in Jandiala Guru area||Amritsar, January 12Even as the Punjab Police claimed to have tightened the security in the holy city following imposition of the Model Code of Conduct in view of the ensuing Assembly elections, robbers are striking at their will in rural as well as in city areas.The Jandiala police station area has witnessed a number of robbery instances in the recent past, nevertheless it has failed to nail the perpetrators so far.In the latest incident, a grocery store owner was shot at and robbed by three armed persons in the Jandiala Guru area, when he was shutting down his shop late on Monday evening. The victim identified as Dilkaranpreet Singh was rushed to the hospital for treatment, while the police have registered a case in this regard.In his statement, he said around 8pm, he along with his mother Surjit Kaur and daughter Jasnoor Kaur was present at the shop. He said he was about to leave, when three persons came on a bike. They had a double-barrel gun and a country-made pistol. Immediately after entering the shop, they took his mother hostage and threatened to kill her. They asked him to handover whatever cash he had in the cash box.He said he gave his entire sale (Rs37,000) to them. He said they then shot him in the leg and fled. Her mother raised an alarm and he was rushed to a hospital for treatment. The police authorities said a case under Sections 307 and 379-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act has been registered against three unidentified persons.Earlier, on January 7, five youths looted a finance firm branch at Jandiala. They took away Rs1.44 lakh from an employee Harwinder Singh and Rs11,200 from another employee Gurpreet Singh after pointing a weapon at him.On the same day, six car-borne robbers snatched Rs90,000 cash, mobiles and a car having shawls and stoles from a garment trader Gurdev Singh of Bhattia village in Hoshiarpur. He along with Sarabjit Singh was going to Mehta on January 6.Rakesh Kaushal, SSP, Amritsar Rural, said the police teams have been working on clues which they got during investigations of these cases. We are hopeful to crack these cases soon by arresting the perpetrators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-robbery-in-jandiala-guru-area-360791
13-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Meet Amritsar Municipal Corporation's own 'MLAs, MPs & councillors'||Amritsar, January 12The practice of arranging employees on behalf of permanent employees is common in the Municipal Corporation, which was exposed after the death of sanitation worker Bobby on Monday.Though the officials and employee leaders are trying to manage the crisis, no one is concerned about putting an end to this practice of arranging employees on behalf of idle permanent employees.There is a subtle arrangement in place, wherein employees are known by a certain nomenclature. The employees who mark their attendance, but does not work are called ‘councillors’, those who attend office once a week ‘MLAs’ and those who never visit office and arranges someone on their behalf ‘MPs’.We found ghost employees in the past, but now there is no such practice. There might be some employees, who are working on behalf of others. It should be stopped. Mayor Karamjit Singh RintuThere are hundreds of such employees, who are idle, physically unwell or not willing to work. So, instead of pressing them to work, officials find their substitute. A senior office-bearer of the MC“The number of such ‘MPs’ might be in hundreds. There is no regular checking of attendance. Whenever checking has been conducted in the past, hundreds of ‘ghost’ employees are found,” an MC official said.The attendance of field staff was checked a few years ago by then MC Commissioner Sonali Giri and around 400 employees were drawing salaries from the corporation but were not available physically.“We found ghost employees in the past, but now there is no such practice. There might be some employees, who are working on behalf of others. It should be stopped,” said Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu.Senior MC officials are aware about the practice, but choose to ignore. “There are hundreds of such employees, who are idle, physically unwell or not willing to work. So, instead of pressing them to work, officials find their substitute. Several poor workers get employment on behalf of idle employees and the functioning of the MC is also not disrupted. So, this practice is being ignored. The person, who dies should be compensated by that permanent employee of the MC,” said a senior office-bearer of the MC General House.Know the ‘nomenclature’The employees of the Municipal Corporation who mark their attendance, but does not work are called ‘councillors’, those who attend office once a week ‘MLAs’ and those who never visit office and arrange someone on their behalf ‘MPs’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meet-municipal-corporations-own-mlas-mps-councillors-360786
13-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Teen abducted in Tarn Taran||Contraband, weapons seizedAmritsar: Alert BSF jawans foiled the attempt of smuggling weapons and contraband in Amritsar sector here last night. Authorities on Wednesday said the BSF jawans observed some suspicious movement near the international border. They challenged and opened fire. Later during search, they found a pistol, magazine and five live bullets from near the border fence. Meanwhile, BSF jawans in Ferozepur section also recovered over 7-kg contraband and a pistol, magazine and 50 rounds at two separate spots near the International border. As dense fog enveloped the region, Pakistan-based anti-national elements are trying to sneak in contraband and weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-abducted-in-tarn-taran-360784
13-01-2022||---||Covid surge in Amritsar: Any laxity may prove fatal||Amritsar, January 12Even as there has been an exponential increase in the number of Covid cases from the district, residents seem indifferent about the need to follow safety guidelines at public places.A look at the market places reveals that hardly a negligible per cent of the people are supporting a face mask and adhering to social-distancing norms. Luckily, the increase in the number of cases has not been accompanied by the increase in the number of casualties due to the disease, but the active caseload has already crossed the 2,200 mark on Wednesday. The district has reported only one death due to the disease in the last one week.Even as the guidelines issued earlier, disallow shops, including eateries, to remain open after 10 pm, people can be seen roaming in markets till late. Jagwinder Singh, a shopkeeper commented: “It seems people are no more afraid of the infection. There is a need to take precautions but residents are often careless.” He said he has to ask his customers to wear mask before entering the shop. “Sometimes by the look on their face, I can see that they are not happy to be told to wear the mask,” he said.While a sizable portion of the population, especially trading community, are afraid that the further rise in cases may result in harsh restrictions. Sahil Jain, a trader, said: “Uncertainty has already hit the market. People are not ready to risk their investments and it would slow down the business.”Residents also expressed that holding Assembly elections at the time when viral infection is increasing could prove disastrous. They said door-to-door campaigns, political rallies and mohalla meetings could result in spreading the infection.District reports 480 fresh casesAmritsar: The active caseload in the district increased to 2,227 on Wednesday, with the Health Department reporting 480 cases. Of these, 465 are new cases, while 15 are contacts of positive patients. The district has reported a total of 49,852 positive cases till date. The Health Department has also reported recovery of 105 patients, with which the recovery count increased to 46,065. Meanwhile, 12,178 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of these, 4,633 received the first dose, 7,038 received the second dose and 507 received the third dose of the vaccine. The health officials said a total of 8,32,443 residents have received the second dose so far. TNS63 test positive in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The active caseload shot up to 326 in the district on Wednesday, as 63 persons tested positive on Wednesday. The Health Department informed that so far, 9,53,581 jabs have been administered to citizens, which includes 6,608 persons who were injected on Wednesday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/any-laxity-may-prove-fatal-360782
