14-01-2022||Amritsar||BSF seizes over  5-kg heroin||Mobile phones, sedatives seizedAmritsar: Amritsar Central Jail authorities on Wednesday seized four mobile phones, 97 intoxicating tablets and 20 packs of cigarettes from the complex. Following complaints by the authorities, the police have booked five prisoners. They were identified as Gagandeep Singh of Begipura village, Manjinder Singh, alias Manna of Behak Kot Dharam Chand Kalan village, Vicky Kumar of Gha Mandi village in Jandiala Guru, Dilpreet Singh of Kheyala Kalan village and Ankit Bhatia of Vijay Nagar on Batala Road here. TNSWoman robbed of scooterAmritsar: Three unidentified armed persons robbed a woman of her scooter by brandishing a sharp-edged weapon here on Wednesday. Victim, Paramjit Kaur, told the police that the accused, who were on a bike, intercepted her near the Ranjit Avenue police station. They pointed a dagger at her and asked her to hand over the scooter (PB-02-DA-4026) to them. They fled with her scooter. The police have registered a case. TNSOne arrested in snatching caseAmritsar: Ranjit Avenue police arrested a snatcher, identified as Jaskaran Singh, alias Chan, of Shamsherapura village falling under Ghaniye Ke Bangar village in Gurdaspur on Wednesday. His accomplice Amritpal Singh of Majjupura village managed to abscond. The complainant, Jeevan Khanna, alleged that two unidentified bike-borne persons had snatched his bag at gunpoint. A case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC was registered in this regard. Probe led to arrest of one of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-seizes-over-5-kg-heroin-361192
14-01-2022||Lohri||Of bonfire & new beginnings...||Dancing around the bonfire, singing Sundar mundriye, relishing on festive foods such as til bhugga, khajoor, gur gajjak, Lohri is the festival of happiness, warmth and abundance.In Punjab, Lohri is also celebrated as the harvest festival and marks the auspicious period of Uttarayan in northern India. Marking the onset of Rabi harvest season, Lohri festival holds significance due to several folkores and traditions associated with it. Ideally, Lohri is celebrated by lighting a bonfire and distributing festive savouries such as til bhugga, peanuts, gajjaks among loved ones. In an event of any recent marriage or birth of a baby in the family, Lohri festivities are grander in nature.In Amritsar, festive foods including khajoor are a favourite pick of the day. Kite-flying is another favourite Lohri activity and several kite-flying competitions are organised on the day. Since Lohri is followed by another winter festival Maghi or Makar Sankranti, every household prepares kheer made from sugarcane, jaggery, rice and nuts and dal-khichdi that is consumed on Maghi. Other festive food on Lohri include sarson ka saag and makki ki roti. Maghi or Makar Sankranti is celebrated as people visit shrines and take holy dip to pray for new beginnings. Kite-flying is another way of celebrating Makar Sankranti that also marks the New Year according to Hindu traditions.Another interesting aspect of Lohri is the folklore of Dulha Bhatti that is associated with the festival. According to the legend, during the reign of Akbar, Dulha Bhatti was a hero, a man who used to save young girls from being abducted and sold to men. He became a hero for villagers during the time and they used to sing his praises in a song dedicated to him. Till today, Lohri ritual that are performed include lighting the bonfire, singing popular folk song Sundar Mundriye… remembering Dulha Bhatti.Another interesting fact about Lohri is that earlier, lighting bonfire was considered as summoning Gods and offering festive foods including til (sesame), gur (jaggery) and gajjak, were considered as paying gratitude to them for a good harvest season. That’s why even today, festive food is offered to the bonfire and later distributed among people.As it’s a festival of positivity and change (as it marks change in season), Lohri has also been able to break certain stereotypes over the years. The celebration assumed grand scale with the birth of a male child in the family. But lately, the concept of dhiyan di lohri is being popularised, by celebrating the birth of a girl child in the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-bonfire-new-beginnings-361176
14-01-2022||---||Police identify robbery suspects||Amritsar, January 13The police have identified suspects involved in a robbery case wherein valuables were looted from a woman in Kot Atma Ram area on January 11.Two armed persons had looted Rs 2 lakh cash besides gold ornaments worth lakhs here on Tuesday. They had made house owner Manpreet Kaur hostage and pointed sharp weapon at her. She was alone at home as her husband Jasbir Singh Kanda was lodged inside jail in a murder case. The accused gained entry in the house by saying that they had come to meet her at the instance of her husband.A relative of the victim said after pointing sharp weapon at Manpreet they took her to the almirah from where they took out Rs 2 lakh cash and gold ornaments worth lakhs and fled away.Jugraj Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said the accused had been identified but their names could not be released as it could hamper the investigations at this time. He said raids were on to arrest the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-identify-robbery-suspects-361173
14-01-2022||Amritsar||Lohri dedicated to girl child in Mannawala||Spreading the social message to save the girl child, Lohri was celebrated at Community Health Centre, Mannawala, here on Thursday. During the event, Baljit Kaur, mother and Jagjit Singh, father of a girl child who was born today, were honoured.Senior Medical Officer Sumit Singh said females are no longer disadvantaged in any field and the parents must consider their children equal despite their gender.He said Baljit gave birth to a baby girl through Caesarean section. He added that the decision to organise the celebrations was taken as the child was born on Lohri. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lohri-dedicated-to-girl-child-361172
14-01-2022||---||Search operation carried out in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 13To ensure trouble-free elections, the police carried out search operations on the periphery of the city.The teams were headed by DCP (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal. Besides senior police officials, the teams were accompanied by paramilitary forces and Punjab Police commandos. The areas were divided into different zones and each zone was searched by a police team led by an ADCP-rank official.A team led by ADCP City-I Navjot Singh searched the Sultanwind area while ADCP City-II Prabhjot Singh Virk led team search the area in Ghanupur Kale. Similarly, ADCP (Traffic) Harwinder Singh led the team in search operation in Vallah and Verka.DCP Bhandal said the police got a tip-off that a number of people from outside Punjab and city had been staying in these areas. He said a number of suspicious youth were rounded up during these search operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/search-operation-carried-out-in-amritsar-361170
14-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Youth shot dead in Bhikhiwind, one injured||A person was shot dead and another injured in Bhikhiwind in a clash between rival groups on Wednesday night.The deceased has been identified as Harsimran Singh Sanni (28) of Dode village while the injured is Gopi of Bhikhiwind. The deceased had come to meet his friend Gopi in Bhikhiwind when the assailants attacked him.The deceased was admitted to a private hospital by his friend Varinder Singh. The doctors referred him to Amritsar, where he succumbed to his injuries. Gopi was injured in the incident.The police said eight persons had been booked under Sections 302, 323, 148,149 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act on the statement of Jatinder Singh, father of the deceased who is an employee in the SGPC, at Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-dead-in-bhikhiwind-one-injured-361169
14-01-2022||---||4 brought on production warrant from Gurdaspur||Amritsar, January 13With the arrest of five persons, the Amritsar rural police have cracked the Rs22-lakh robbery case and out of the total amount, the police have recovered Rs16.57 lakh.Following an initial probe, the police have arrested Harwinder Singh Kala, driver of the victim, and his interrogation has led to the identification of the remaining suspects, who were arrested by the Gurdaspur police in an operation.They were later arrested after bringing them on production warrant. They were identified as Gurwinder Singh, alias Sethi, of Bhullar village; Nirmal Singh Nimma of Kotli Surat Mallian village; Sukhpreet Singh of Waraich village and Amarjjit Singh or Amru of Bhullar village.SSP Rakesh Kaushal said as per the probe, Rs20 lakh was looted from the victims. The driver Harwinder Singh had connived with the remaining suspects. He said Rs3 lakh was recovered from the car. The arrest of the remaining accused led to the recovery of Rs10.57 lakh and the car used in the crime was also seized.“The police managed to seize Rs3 lakh more after their interrogation. Till now, the police have recovered total Rs16.57 lakh,” he said, adding that one of their accomplice was yet to be arrested. His arrest would help in recovering the remaining amount, he said.Three unidentified armed persons had allegedly robbed Rs22 lakh at gunpoint from an iron trader at Buttar village under Mehta police on December 25. Complainant Ravinder Singh and his partner Lakhwinder Singh, both residents of Batala, said they were going to Jalandhar to buy a school bus in their car. When they reached near Buttar, another car stopped ahead of their car and three occupants came out. He said they pointed a pistol at them and asked them to come out. He said they got afraid and came out. He said the accused took the bag containing the money and fled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-brought-on-production-warrant-from-gurdaspur-361168
14-01-2022||---||SAD-BSP & AAP moving ahead full throttle in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur, January 13The SAD-BSP combine and AAP are moving full throttle as far as ground planning and campaigning is concerned even as the Congress, BJP and its allied party, the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), are still struggling to find its feet.The Gurdaspur Vidhan Sabha constituency has nine Assembly seats. The SAD-BSP alliance has announced its candidates on all nine seats, while AAP has made public eight nominees. The Congress and the BJP-PLC are yet to announce their respective candidates.AAP spokesman and Sri Hargobindpur candidate Amarpal Singh Kishenkot says all his party’s candidates are regularly in touch with their New Delhi-based handlers and “take advice on almost day to day basis.”“Our detractors were misleading voters by saying that Arvind Kejriwal will be giving 300 units of electricity free per every billing cycle of two months. This is absolutely incorrect. The factual position is that we will be giving 300 units of free power per month. In Punjab, the billing cycle is of two months, which means our party, if voted to power, will give 600 units of free electricity. The SAD-BSP leaders are reaching out to villagers claiming Kejriwal had sold them a lie,” said Amarpal. Incidentally, Amarpal had bagged 29,000 votes in the 2017 poll from his seat.AAP satraps can often be seen in teams of 5-10 in villages telling locals that if they or any of their kin fall sick, their party will provide free treatment in government hospitals. SAD chief Sukhbir Badal has already toured five Assembly seats last month.“He will be touring the remaining seats soon,” said Guriqbal Singh Mahal, party candidate from Qadian. AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, too, has toured as many as four seats. Sources say that in the absence of rallies and gatherings, Kejriwal will be canvassing door to door with his candidates in tow.“We have chalked up elaborate plans for his next visit,” said Kishenkot. A senior Congress leader admitted that round one has been won by AAP and the SAD-BSP combine. “Both Congress and BJP-PLC are yet to announce their candidates and till that is done, we cannot move forward. If infighting among our leaders is proving to be an impediment in naming nominees, the BJP-PLC are still in talks over seat-sharing. There are certain urban seats which the BJP wants to contest but Amarinder Singh says he wants these seats. Everything is in a flux,” he said.An interesting feature being seen this time is that leaders are focusing on local issues rather than state or national-level issues. “If we touch issues which are close to voters, we are sure to connect with them in a better way. In any case, national issues hold no relevance in Assembly poll,” said a BJP leader. “This time the elections are going to be interesting with five parties in the fray. Consequently, the margins will be narrow,” said Manjinder Singh Dala, a law student and a first time voter."I will cast my vote with utmost caution this time. In the last two Assembly elections, I did vote, but am feeling cheated because no party stood up to my expectations," said Upma Mahajan, Principal of a school in Dinanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-bsp-aap-moving-ahead-full-throttle-in-gurdaspur-361167
14-01-2022||---||Teachers burn photos of Punjab CM, Congress poll manifesto on Lohri||Tarn Taran, January 13Teachers of different government schools on Thursday lodged a protest against the state government. The protesting teachers burnt ‘Lohri’ of the photos of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other ministers and the Congress election manifesto for their alleged false promises.On the call of Punjab and UT Mulazim and Pensioners Joint Front, teachers under the banner of Democratic Teachers Front organised protests at Manochahal Kalan, Chohla Sahib, Jalalabad schools and other schools near Tarn Taran.Protesters said the CM did nothing to implement their accepted demands.The leaders said that due to the negligence adopted at the part of the state government and particularly the CM, the current demands such as regularising the services of teachers, removing the discrepancies in the sixth pay commission report, recruitment of teachers, reinstating the stopped allowances, restoring of the old pension scheme etc. had not been implemented till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-burn-photos-of-punjab-cm-cong-poll-manifesto-on-lohri-361166
14-01-2022||---||Dense fog envelopes Amritsar||Amritsar, January 13Dense fog enveloped the region, making commuting a difficult task amid low visibility, here on Thursday. Residents missed the sun throughout the day, but the visibility, however, improved in the afternoon. Kite lovers, who made plans for Lohri competitions, were disappointed as the sky cleared in the afternoon only.The day temperature also dipped to 8°C, which affected routine life. Residents were seen sitting around bonfires.Fog, which engulfed the city and surrounding areas for last three days, troubled commuters. The low visibility on bypass and other roads on the outskirts lead to slow traffic movement and some minor accidents. Meanwhile, candidates contesting the Assembly elections and political activists were seen taking advantage to reach out to voters, who normally leave for their work during the day.Meanwhile, the air traffic at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport is functioning normally even during dense fog. Officials claimed that with CAT-III equipment installed at the airport, the flight can be operated even in low visibility.A few trains were delayed due to low visibility. Railway officials said they had already adjusted their schedule in accordance with the weather.Agricultural experts said it was good for wheat, as it would help in better tillering, which will help increase the crop yield later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dense-fog-envelopes-amritsar-361164
14-01-2022||---||Situation grim: 1 dies, 731 Covid +ve in last 24 hrs in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 13With one death and 731 positive cases reported in the last 24 hours in the district, the situation has become critical. The alarming rise in the number of cases has worried the administration and residents alike.The deceased has been identified as Gurdial Singh, a 68-year-old resident of Mallian village. He was admitted to a private hospital. With this, the toll due to the disease has increased to 1,601 in the district.The district has reported a total of 50,623 cases. Of the cases reported on Thursday, 671 are new cases, while 60 are contacts of positive patients. The district health officials said family members and close contacts of positive patients are being tested and they are advised to isolate themselves until their test reports are negative.The officials said all precautionary guidelines must be followed and residents must avoid crowded places. They said the infected person, including suspected cases, too, have a responsibility to get themselves tested and stay away from public places until their reports are negative.The district Health Department has also reported recovery of 131 patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 46,196. Meanwhile, the active caseload in the district is on the rise and has reached 2,826.The district health officials said the rise in the number of cases is alarming. They said at this rate, Covid cases would start stressing the healthcare system. Already, a large number of healthcare professionals, including doctors and paramedics, are testing positive for Covid daily.Meanwhile, 5,132 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Thursday. Of these, 2,072 received the first dose, 2,814 received the second dose and 246 received the third dose on Thursday.98 positive in Tarn TaranThe reports of 98 samples came out positive on Thursday in the district. The number of active cases had gone up to 424. Health Department informed here that the toll stands at 381 so far. The department revealed that health teams collected 873 samples on Thursday. Meanwhile, 2,853 citizens were given injections against the pandemic on Thursday with which 9,56,429 doses have been administered so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/situation-grim-1-dies-731-covid-ve-in-last-24-hrs-in-amritsar-district-361161
14-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Khadoor Sahib: Overflowing sewage a bane||The World Bank-funded sewage system laid in Khadoor Sahib around 12 years ago has become the biggest bane for the residents. Ever since it has become non-functional, the waste has been overflowing into people’s homes due to the leaking pipes.Partap Singh of Pallian-Ki locality of the village said defecating in fields nearby in the past was much better as the area remained pollution-free and devoid of any foul smell, which has rendered the village non-livable at present.Gurdial Singh, another local, said all streets of the village were overflowing with polluted water. “The only solution is reinstalling the whole system,” he said. The sewage systems were also laid in Sri Goindwal Sahib and Chohla Sahib, which, too, fall under Khadoor Sahib Assembly constituency. These too, have become dysfunctional.Past trendThe constituency has been largely electing SAD candidates. Incumbent MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki gave Congress a shot in the arm when he defeated SAD stalwart Ranjit Singh Brahampura in 2012 and repeated the victory in 2017 as well.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,97,660Male 1,04,282Female 93,370Third gender 8||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overflowing-sewage-a-bane-361010
14-01-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar: No conspiracy behind ‘sacrilege' incident at Nanaksar Gurdwara in Jastarwal village, says SSP||Following a week-long investigation in the “sacrilege” incident at Nanaksar Gurdwara at Jastarwal village, falling under the Lopoke police station here, the Amritsar rural police today claimed “it was not a conspiracy” and that the accused was mentally unsound. “The investigations were carried involving an 11-member committee formed by Sikh organisations and they were satisfied with the probe,” said SSP Rakesh Kaushal on Thursday.The residents had caught a suspect — Zedrol, a resident of Malda in West Bangal — who was later booked by the police for hurting religious sentiments. The suspect, a Rohingya, apparently hailed from Bangladesh, the police suspected.“We have done the background check of the suspect, who was interrogated in the presence of the committee members,” he said.The suspect allegedly worked as a bonded labourer at the residence of Paramjit Singh Pamma of Kakkar village where he stayed for over a year. Later, he worked at the residences of Manpreet Singh of Bachiwind, Rashpal Singh of Jastarwal village, Rana of Umarpura village and Gurtej Singh of Jastarwal village.They confirmed the suspect was mentally unstable. The SSP said he had been admitted to a psychiatric hospital on the orders of the court. The doctors were running tests to ascertaining his state of mind and appropriate action would be taken. His dope test also came out negative, he said.Tension had gripped the village after the incident, which was captured in the CCTV cameras of the gurdwara. The accused was taken into police custody 12 hours after the incident. An 11-member committee of Sikh organisations was formed to unearth any “conspiracy” to create a law and order problem in Punjab. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-conspiracy-behind-jastarwal-incident-ssp-361027
