15-01-2022||An open letter to Alka Lamba||An open letter to Alka Lamba||Dear Alka Lamba ji,Ex-AAP MLA and Punjab Congress media in charge,ChandigarhRespected madam,Congratulations on being appointed as the media in charge of the Punjab Congress. Here are some ‘pearls of political wisdom’ for you. When in Punjab, always remember you are a Chandni Chowk girl not at all well versed with the unpredictable politics of Punjab. If you try to bring Lutyens Delhi to the political playgrounds of Punjab, you will be rendered a misfit. Better stick to the dictum: When in Rome, do as the Romans do. Surveys do not paint a rosy picture for your party. Speculating that the Congress will do an encore of 2017 will be akin to sighting an Igloo in the Sahara. Better be practical and realistic. Do not jump to impracticable conclusions just to make your party men happy. The IT cells of your Opposition parties, known for their notoriety, are waiting for the final lists of candidates to be out. Once that is done, they will launch a blitzkrieg against your party. You, too, may become a target, inadvertently or otherwise. Nobody is invincible in politics. There is also some talk of some sleaze videos hitting the roof. Here your acumen will be put to test. We do not know whether your party has an IT cell or not. If you do not have one, set up one. You will have to counter fire with fire. Whenever you are confronted with a not-so-favourable opinion poll, just remember that any poll is an unfinished horse race except the election result day poll. The Congress, as we have seen in the not too recent past, has wheels within wheels. Leaders wine and dine on Sunday evenings only to lambast each other on Monday mornings. And this continues for the rest of the week till it is Sunday again. It is good that the AICC has chosen you to deal with only the media and not the inner party intrigue. It is not your education that will come in handy here. It will be your political insight and sharpness that will carry the day for you. Remember, politics is war without bloodshed and while war is politics with bloodshed. Everything is fair in love, war and the Punjab Congress. One last bid of counsel. There will be times, as the polls draw near, when you will feel that the heat and dust of Punjab politics is wearing you out. Then it is time to quit. Madam, there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politically correct, nor popular but you must take it because conscience tells you it is right. Politically speaking, Delhi remains an urban constituency while Punjab is a predominantly rural one. Here you will have to deal with the urban fan and the rural fanatic. A majority of Congressmen are from rural backwaters of Punjab. Needless to say, they do not exactly speak the Queen’s English. You will have a hard time tending to the public images of people like the maverick Navjot Singh Sidhu who, over the years, has become controversy’s favourite child. This means you will have to work overtime to ensure he does not get a battering in the press. Notwithstanding his antics, he is still the most erudite man in the Punjab Congress, rather Punjab politics. He is a man who has read everything from the Sheldons and Archers to Sigmund Freud and the holy Quran. He knows the art of survival in politics. After all, his favorite novel is that classic-The Old Man and the Sea-which is the story of an old man fighting the vagaries of a ruthless sea. Nevertheless, he is bound to give you goosebumps every now and then.Regards,Vox PopuliMining activity slows down in PathankotWith Punjab poll round the corner, mining activity pertaining to sand and gravel has slowed down. An official disclosed that with politicians being the main villains in mining, both legal and illegal, they think that it will bring a bad name onto them if the process continues. He also added that once the last vote is cast, there will be a spurt in this activity because then leaders will not have to worry about votes. As of now, district administration officials, perennially under pressure from the state government to check the nefarious activity, are a happy lot. What beckons them after the polls is anybody’s guess.Ensuring fair election his top priorityThe Gurdaspur administration is pulling out all the stops to ensure voters know the importance of casting their votes through the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) programme — Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP). Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, who has earned the reputation of a no-nonsense officer, regularly presides over such activities. Officials say free, fair, accessible, inclusive, transparent and ethical elections build a truly participative democracy by urging all eligible citizens to cast their vote. Officials are keeping their fingers crossed lest any untoward incident happens on D-Day.Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-open-letter-to-alka-lamba-361346
15-01-2022||Jalandhar||Online refresher course at GNDU||Lohri celebrated at GGIGlobal Group of Institutes celebrated the festival of Lohri on its campus. The management, faculty and staff joined in the celebration with great fervour. The faculty added colour and made the day memorable by singing melodious traditional folk songs marking the celebrations. The lady members of the faculty added more verve to the festivities by performing giddha around the bonfire. On the occasion, special Lohri delicacies like rewari, gajjak, groundnuts etc. were offered to the fire and distributed amongst those present and everyone enjoyed the festivities that are of great social, cultural and seasonal significance. The management celebrated the day by distributing the blankets amongst the peons, sanitation workers, gardeners, drivers and others subordinate staff like helpers, labourers etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-refresher-course-at-gndu-361344
15-01-2022||---||IIM, Amritsar, introduces new programme in curriculum||Amritsar, January 14IIM, Amritsar, has launched a new programme titled the postgraduate certificate programme in data science and business analytics (DSBA) from 2022. The new programme provides curriculum focusing on the required tools and techniques to formulate, analyse and find solutions to business problems. It intends to upskill the young minds to excel in this field in upcoming times when the demand for skilled professionals trained in data science and analytics will further increase. The programme will be offered off campus too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-introduces-new-programme-in-curriculum-361339
15-01-2022||Amritsar||Classes on Persian sources of Sikh literature begin||Naad Pargas, a cultural organisation that works in the field of promoting Punjabi literature, has taken an initiative to start classes on Persian sources of Sikh literature. These classes are being run by Prof Jagdish Singh, who is the director of Naad Pargas and chief coordinator for the current programme.Starting from learning alphabets, the three-month course is designed to teach Persian vocabulary, understanding grammar, and finally reading directly from the Persian sources of Sikh texts. Harjot Kaur, one of the members of Prof Jagdish’s team and an instructor for these classes, informed, “The goal shall be to make students capable enough to read, understand, and learn parts of ‘Zafarnamah’ (penned by Guru Gobind Singh) that was originally written in Persian and writings of Bhai Nand Lal Goya, a 17th century Sikh poet in Guru Gobind Singh’s court.”Explaining the importance of Persian sources and its relationship in Sikhi, Prof Jagdish Singh, Director, Naad Pargas, said learning Persian allows for an open conceptual dialogue with Abrahamic traditions of World. “ These classes are open for all age groups,” he said. These classes were begun in offline mode but are now being conducted in online mode due to Covid-19. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/classes-on-persian-sources-of-sikh-literature-begin-361338
15-01-2022||---||Disgruntled govt employees burn Congress poll manifesto||Amritsar, January 14Showing their resentment against the Punjab Government, several employee unions, including school teachers’ unions, lighted copies of the election manifesto of the Congress and burnt effigies of Chief Minister Channi, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Education Minister Pargat Singh.On the call given by the Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front and Democratic Employees’ Federation, teachers, forest workers, mid-day meal workers and employees of various departments protested against the incumbent government and its stand on various issues, including pay fixation, according to the Sixth Pay Commission.Rachpal Singh Jodhangari, one of the leaders of the protesting unions, said the Congress government misled the people of the stated by placing false advertisements in various departments to retain 36,000 raw and contract employees. “Unemployed youth have been deceived as no new recruitments have been made against vacant posts. Similarly, the honorarium workers in Punjab were not brought under the ambit of minimum wages. Under the 6th Pay Commission, the coefficient of 2.72 has not been applied on pay-fixation of employees and pensioners. Thirty-seven types of allowances and ACPs, including the rural area, border area and disability allowances, which were earlier being given to employees, had been withheld. The Probationary Period Act, 2015, had not been repealed and all the arrears of the probationary period of the employees recruited after January 1, 2016, had been caught in red tape. Regular computer teachers have not been merged in the Education Department. All these promises were made, but never fulfilled.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/disgruntled-govt-employees-burn-congress-poll-manifesto-361337
15-01-2022||---||Election Office announces venues for filing nominations||Amritsar, January 14The District Election Office has sought nominations for the 11 Assembly constituencies in the district and spelled out venues for filing nominations for these segments.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, in a communiqué issued here on Friday, stated that as per the election schedule, notification would be issued in the district on January 21, after which the nomination papers could be filed up to January 28.Subsequently, the scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on January 29 and nominations can be withdrawn on January 31. The Assembly poll will be held on February 14 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10.As per the plan chalked out, nomination papers for the court room for the Ajnala Assembly constituency in Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s office, Ajnala, office of Acting Officer, Rajasansi, office of Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Majitha, office of Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Baba Bakala, and the BDPO, Jandiala Guru, will be filed for their respective Assembly constituencies. Similarly, office of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amritsar-II will serve as the centre for filing nomination papers for the Attari Assembly constituency.For the five urban seats, the details of nomination centres were also released. As per the details, the nomination papers of the Amritsar North constituency will be filed at the Municipal Commissioner office in Ranjit Avenue; for the Amritsar West in the court room of Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amritsar I; for Amritsar Central constituency in the office of Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development); for the Amritsar East Vidhan Sabha seat in the office of Assistant Commissioner (Grievances); and for the Amritsar South in the office of the Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation.Constituency-wise list of centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/election-office-announces-venues-for-filing-nominations-361336
15-01-2022||Amritsar||Prisoner escapes from hospital||Youth run over by goods trainTarn Taran: A 20-year-old youth was run over by a running goods train near Jandoke Sarhali village on the Amritsar-Khemkaran rail track here on Thursday night. The body had been recovered by personnel of the Government Railway Police and kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. Sub-Inspector Gurwinder Singh, in-charge of the GRP post, said the clean-shaven victim was wearing black lower. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-escapes-from-hospital-361334
15-01-2022||---||Vigil up to check flow of illicit liquor during elections||Amritsar, January 14With the poll fever slowly gaining momentum, the illicit liquor brewing is still going on with impunity in the rural belt. The Punjab Police, along with the Excise Department, have formed teams to check the illicit liquor trade in the border district.Only yesterday, the excise team, along with the Punjab police, seized a large quantity of lahan (raw material for manufacturing illicit liquor) and illicit liquor.SSP Amritsar Rural Rakesh Kaushal said the police have already started a drive to check the menace which raises its ugly head, especially during the election season. “Instructions have been passed on to all Station House Officers and senior police officials to activate their sources to nail those involved in the illegal trade,” said Kaushal.Alcohol is a potent tool at the hands of the politicians to woo voters not only in the villages but also in the urban areas.In view of the upcoming polls, an excise team led by inspector Rajwinder Kaur, along with the police team, conducted raids at two places in Bhindi Saida police station area and confiscated 9400 kg of lahan along with nine tarpaulin sheets to cover the same and two iron drums. The police have booked Manpreet Singh and Buta Singh, of Bhindi Saida under the Excise Act. Both the accused absconded from the spot. Similarly, following a tip-off,the police teams raided at Bhorsi Rajputa village wherein it seized 1060-kg lahan along with 17 bottles of illicit liquor.The rural police booked 10 persons in separate cases for possessing illicit liquor and some of them were released on bail.Ratan Singh Randhawa, prominent farmer leader of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said, though the election related activities are yet to gain peak in view of Covid-19 induced restrictions, illicit liquor remained a bane in the villages while it was difficult for the police to crack a whip at every bootlegger. The police have to think out of the box to nail them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vigil-up-to-check-flow-of-illicit-liquor-during-elections-361332
15-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Lull hits wedding industry yet again||Amritsar, January 14Hit by Omicron and its SOPs, professional traders associated with the wedding industry claim to have been suffering losses while their bulk orders witness a fall.A wedding offers employment to a large number of people from diverse professions such as band players, waiters, electricians, photographers, videographers, DJ, florists, decorators, security guards, caterers, cooks, taxis and others. It is that time when vegetables, fruit, dairy products, poultry, spices and other eatables are bought in bulk, giving impetus to the sales, thereby, infusing liquidity in the market.Happy Narula, who is into the wedding industry, said, all of a sudden, uncertainty over this industry, has started looming large. “We are keeping our fingers crossed and waiting impatiently for the guidelines to be issued on January 15. However, looking at the high number of fresh Covid positive cases being reported every day, we do not feel the restrictions to go anytime soon.” A rough estimate suggests that business amounting to crores is not taking place and thousands of daily wagers associated with the wedding industry lost their earning completely.Salil, a wedding photographer, said, many organisers postponed while some scaled down their functions, directly hitting their assured income. Ranjit Singh, a resort owner, said, as per schedule, post-Lohri marriage season was to intensify and hundreds of programmes are lined-up till the first week of March. Wedding functions bring sale to a cross-section of trades such as costly jewellery, clothing, cosmetics, wares, domestic electrical gadgets and plethora of other commodities.Vipul Kumar, a florist, said, fresh orders for decorating marriage and reception parties and stages of bride and groom stopped as people were not aware how long the restrictions will remain in place. He said a team of 10 to 12 persons was engaged in decorating a function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lull-hits-wedding-industry-yet-again-361330
15-01-2022||Amritsar||AAP accuses Samyukt Samaj Morcha of luring its leaders||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) accused farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal’s Samyukt Samaj Morcha of attempting to defect AAP leaders here on Friday.AAP MLA Meet Hayer alleged that the Samyukt Samaj Morcha had contacted several leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party and been luring them to contest elections as their candidates and bear all their election expenses. However, it raises question over the funding source of the Samyukt Samaj Morcha?Naming AAP leader Jaspreet Singh from the Amritsar South counsituancy, Hayer claimed that the Samyukt Samaj Morcha had approached him to contest the election and offered to bear all the election expenses. Hayer said the BJP was making many other clandestine alliances apart from the direct alliance of Capt Amarinder Singh and Dhindsa to prevent the Aam Aadmi Party from forming a government in Punjab. “The BJP is funding its aligned leaders and parties and is planning to make them contest elections to divide AAP’s vote share,” he added. Hayer said all the political parties seemed upset over the disturbing fact that people of Punjab had now decided to form an Aam Aadmi Party government in the state. Taking it into consideration, all the parties have secretly united to impede the AAP.Hargobinder Singh Gill, senior AAP leader, said, “After seeing the change in Delhi, people of Punjab too want a revolutionary change and every person of Punjab has made up its mind to form the Aam Aadmi Party government in the state.People are fed up with the loot and corruption of previous governments. The people of Punjab have decided to form an Aam Aadmi Party government to stop the loot, corruption and mafia spread in the governance.”Lok Sabha in-charge Iqbal Singh Bhullar, Prabhbir Brar and Jaspreet Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-accuses-samyukt-samaj-morcha-of-luring-its-leaders-361329
15-01-2022||Amritsar||Poll code violation: Tricycles stuffed in six trucks seized by flying squad in Amritsar||Flying squads of the District Election Office seized cycles stuffed in six trucks, suspected to be distributed among voters in violation of the Model Code of Conduct, here on Friday.Hardeep Singh, Returning Officer from the South assembly seat, said cycles were seized from the South constituency and seemed to have been brought there to be distributed among needy people. He informed that a complaint was received on the phone that a political person had brought six trucks full of cycles which were parked outside a marriage palace.Anshuman Sharma, Duty Magistrate, who was leading the flying squad, reached the spot and after a probe found the material suspicious.Joginder Singh, president of an NGO, said these cycles belonged to his NGO, which did not have association with any political party. He said before enforcing the Model Code of Conduct they had decided to hold a three-day camp from January 15. However, finding the matter suspicious it has been forwarded to the police. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poll-code-violation-tricycles-stuffed-in-six-trucks-seized-by-flying-squad-361328
15-01-2022||---||Quarantined NRIs allege negligence by Amritsar Health Department||Amritsar, January 14As many as 17 passengers from the UK and other countries, who were tested positive for Covid-19 at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, were not allowed to go their home districts during the past four days. The health authorities have kept 10 NRIs under quarantine at a local hotel on the Railway road for the past four days. According to the health officials, seven more patients have been quarantined today.The patients were demanding to shift them to their home districts but the authorities didn’t allow.The employees of district administration, who left the passengers at hotels, had reportedly assured the patients that they may leave the hotel after three days.Manjit Kaur, a patient from Jalandhar, who returned from the UK said, “No one from the Health Department has visited the hospital for the past four days. They had assured to conduct test after three days and allow us to go home. But no one even visited to us.”Assistant Civil Surgeon Amarjit Singh said, “In a meeting with district authorities, it was proposed to allow the passengers go their home towns but no decision has been taken in this regard yet. The patients quarantined in hotels are misguided about the guidelines. They will be allowed to go home after seven days. In case someone tested negative in the meantime he or she may go home.” The health officials claimed that most of the NRI passangers don’t agree to admit in government hospitals. So we accommodate them in the local hostel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/quarantined-nris-allege-negligence-by-health-department-361324
15-01-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar district sees another surge of 445 Covid-19 cases||A day after the highest single-day spike of 731 positive cases, the district reported one death and 445 new cases in the past 24 hours in the district.The deceased has been identified as 78-year-old Jasbir Kaur, a resident of Rajinder Nagar. She was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. With her demise, the toll due to the disease has increased to 1,602 in the district.The district has reported a total of 51,068 cases. Of the cases reported on Friday, 354 are new cases and 91 contacts of positive patients.The district Health Department also reported the recovery of 276 patients with which the total count of those who recovered from the illness has increased to 46,472. Meanwhile, active cases in the district are on the rise and the tally has reached 2,994.Meanwhile, intensifying the vaccination drive 6,243 residents were inoculated on Friday. Of these, 2,337 received the first dose and 3,465 the second dose on Friday.Balram Kumar Sharma, president of the Punjab Sudhar Sabha, urged the district administration and health officials to utilise the services of volunteers to provide relief to a large number of healthcare professionals, including doctors and paramedics, who are testing positive for Covid-19 daily. In this way, they would de-stress the healthcare system and bring down the alarming rise in the number of cases daily.He said volunteers would educate family members and close contacts of positive patients to isolate themselves until their test reports were negative. Meanwhile, there was no decline in the number of crowded places during daytime.Tarn Taran logs 1 deathThe district on Friday recorded one death due to the virus, taking the death toll to 382 till date. Meanwhile, 89 positive cases were reported in the district, pushing the tally of active cases to 486. In a press note, the Health Department informed that 929 samples had been collected by teams of the department from different areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-another-surge-of-445-cases-361322
15-01-2022||---||Amirtsar: GNDU's odd semester exams in online mode||Amritsar, January 14After a delay of over a month, GNDU has finally announced to conduct the odd semester examination for session 21-22 in online mode. In a letter issued on Friday by the office of Controller of Examinations, GNDU, all theory and practical examinations for the odd semester exams will be conducted in online mode, run under the Credit based Evaluation and Grading system. GNDU has also released the guidelines and SOPs for the conduct of examinations to colleges.Given that Covid-19 cases in the district are already running in triple digits and soaring with every passing day, the university has taken this decision. According to the SOPs, official mail ids and passwords will be generated and the departments concerned will be using only these to communicate with students. Test emails with a sample copy of instructions will be sent to students at least four days before the exams and demand acknowledgement giving them a response window.A sample of answer sheets will also be shared with students to familiarize them with the format. The time period given to colleges to conduct the online exams is from January 20 to February 5.Meanwhile, the delay in conduct of examinations had become a cause for concern for students of the odd semester exams. “The university should have announced the conduct of examinations in online mode earlier. The entire month of December got wasted due to the teachers’ strike, so the examinations could have been conducted then if it were to happen virtually.“Now, due to the delay, the completion of our degrees has been pushed further. For working professionals like me, who are pursuing degrees, it’s a hassle to balance job and studies with such disruptions,” shared Vriti Madaan, a student of MA Journalism and Mass Communications, from BBKDAV, who is also working as a content writer for an IT company.Another student, Ajay Singla, a student of BTech (semester 3), the decision to conduct exams in online mode should have been taken earlier. “Panjab University did that back in December 2021 as health experts had already announced a third wave in January- February, 2022. Also, when the teachers strike happened, studies were compromised. Students’ time could have been saved if exams would have conducted then.”He added that the schedule for applying for internships and those planning for overseas education too had been pushed further again.Sakshi Gupta, a semester V student of Bachelors in Journalism and Mass Communication, says, “The third semester got delayed due to the pandemic and the fourth semester was shortened eventually to adjust the academic schedule and syllabus. Now, with further delay, the entire degree will get delayed or will be hurried up. The situation has been confusing since the beginning for students who have been preparing for competitive exams or overseas education.”                                     #Amritsar                                     #GNDU                                     #Semisterexams||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amirtsar-gndus-odd-semester-exams-in-online-mode-361319
