16-01-2022||---||Three deaths, 375 new cases surface in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 15The health authorities reported three Covid-19 related deaths in Amritsar district on Saturday. The toll increased to 1,605 in the district.Over 30 patients serious630 teens come forward to get jabbedThose who succumbed due to the virus include Khushi (11) of Faizpur Nai Abadi, Pawanjit Kaur (60), a resident of Ram Tirath Road, and Sourav (28), a resident of Ram Nagar, in Islamabad. Sourav was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, where he breathed his last.According to the health authorities, a total of 375 persons tested positive on Saturday in the district. Of these, 346 were new cases and remaining 29 were contacts of positive patients.With these new 375 cases, positive cases in the district reached 51,443 and of them, 46,818 have recovered. The district has 3,020 active cases.Apart from the confirmed cases, a huge number of residents have been suffering from fever, cough and cold. With surge in cases, hospitals have been witnessing shortage of beds. Most residents have resorted to self-medication and isolating at their homes.The doctors claimed that the patients visit hospitals when they get critically ill. The health authorities said more than 30 patients were serious and out of this 14 were on oxygen and four on ventilator support. Some serous patients were being referred to PGI, Chandigarh, as well. As many as 12,586 persons (above 18 years) and only 630 teenagers (15-18 age group) got jabbed today.130 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported 130 positive cases in the district on Saturday. With this, the number of active cases reached 616 and the toll stands at 382 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said 5,884 residents were vaccinated today. He said the administration was waiting for the test reports of 561 samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-deaths-375-new-cases-surface-in-district-361720
16-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Allotment of advt sites: RTI activist seeks vigilance probe||Amritsar, January 15An RTI activist has demanded the cancellation of the contract of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation with a private firm for allegedly favouring the latter in the bidding process of advertisement sites.The MC had allotted 345 advertisement unipoles and 12 gantries to two separate advertisement firms on September 9, 2015 and January 15, 2016. These firms did not deposit monthly fee to the MC, which led to a loss of Rs48.37 lakh during 2017-18, Rs5.77 crore during 2018-19, Rs9.31 crore during 2019-20 and Rs10.45 crore from 2020 to 2021. — Suresh Sharma, an RTI activistSuresh Sharma, an RTI activist, alleged that the MC witnessed a loss of Rs 25.53 crore by awarding a contract of advertisements sites.Sharma said the MC had allotted 345 advertisement unipoles and 12 gantries to two separate advertisement firms on September 9, 2015 and January 15, 2016. These firms did not deposit monthly fee to the MC, which led to a loss of Rs 48.37 lakh during 2017-18, Rs 5.77 crore during 2018-19, Rs 9.31 crore during 2019-20 and Rs 10.45 crore from 2020 to 2021.Sharma claimed that the contract of these companies ended on November 30, 2021 and as per the written agreements the firms have to hand over the unipoles and gantries to the MC, but the the firms didn’t hand them over.“The firms didn’t clear the dues, but the same persons got the new contract by changing the name of the company. The MC allotted the contract to the new firm for Rs 12 crore on December 1, 2021. The contract has been allotted by violating the terms of bidding. The bank guarantee has been reduced from Rs 6 crore to Rs 3 crore. The firm did not provide any experience of work to civic body. Moreover, the same sites were allotted for Rs 22 crore in 2019, but it has been now allotted for 12 crores,” said Sharma.The RTI activist has written to Secretary Local Bodies Department and DGP Vigilance.The official concerned of the MC said, “The amount of the previous firm is pending and the matter is sub judice. The allotment rate has been reduced by the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) as no firm was showing interest. The technical evaluation committee has decided about the experience and bank guarantee of the firm.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/allotment-of-advt-sites-rti-activist-seeks-vigilance-probe-361721
16-01-2022||---||All they want is proper education & equal job share in public, pvt sector||Amritsar, January 15The final voter list in the district was released by the district electoral office recently with total 19,44,090 eligible voters ready to exercise their franchise.One of the basic issues is lack of awareness and education, which keeps most members away from exercising their Right to Vote. Until 2014, third gender was not recognised by the EC, so many voters still have either male or female written on their voter cards. We have been working with officials to change that and make new cards mentioning third gender. Also, many in the community hesitate to come forward and share their political opinion as freely as others due to lack of representation. - Mohini Mahant, Punjab-based LGBT rights activist & first transgender jurist at National Lok Adalat in PunjabThe breakdown includes 68 third gender eligible voters. While the number of PwD voters (People with disabilities) has increased from previous years as there are 13,000 new PwD voters, the number of third gender voters has remained the same, with a slight addition of 10 new voters since 2017. The reasons can be many for the low registration of third gender voters. But members of the community, who have been actively working with SVEEP teams to increase voter registration and turnout, spell out some glaring ones.“One of the basic issues in the community is lack of awareness and education, which keeps most members away from exercising their Right to Vote. Until 2014, third gender was not recognised by the Election Commission, so many voters still have either male or female written on their voter cards. We have been working with officials to change that and make new cards mentioning third gender. Also, many in the community hesitate to come forward and share their political opinion as freely as others due to lack of representation. Political parties or electoral agencies must pick icons from the community to encourage others to join the electoral process,” says Mohini Mahant, Punjab-based LGBT rights activist and the first transgender jurist at the National Lok Adalat in Punjab. A PhD holder who also has double Masters degree, Mohini has been running a non-profit organisation at Majitha Road and she was the SVEEP icon during the voter registration campaign in Ludhiana, where she works and has been actively creating awareness among the third gender regarding their electoral rights and duties in Amritsar as well.Dimple, another third gender community leader from Haripur, in the city, says that though, the number of registered voter might be less among the community, the ones who are registered have been actively casting their votes.“The biggest challenge is that not many members of the community are educated. So, they hesitate to join any mainstream process due to social stigma. We have been trying to raise our issues through active participation in awareness programmes. May be with time, it will encourage many others to finally be a part of the system,” Dimple said.As far as their issues are concerned, employment and education remain their top concern. Mohini, who has been campaigning to bring the community into the mainstream, says separate washroom facility for third gender, share in employment opportunities in public as well as private sector and education are the most important election issues for them. She had been running from pillar to post to get her demand of separate cremation ground for the third gender for the last few years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-they-want-is-proper-education-equal-job-share-in-public-pvt-sector-361723
16-01-2022||---||First Dist Research Language Officer takes charge||Amritsar, January 15In a first, the Higher Education and Language Department of Punjab has appointed a District Research Language Officer.Baljit Kaur has joined as the first District Research Language Officer. She shared that her role would primarily include undertaking projects to document literary legacy as well as create literary bank of information.“The post had been lying vacant for many years, due to which the first priority would be to create a literary directory with information regarding all prominent and active literary personalities of Punjabi language from the city. The directory would also have information regarding their body of work and their literary background. It would act as an archive or sort of reference in case it is required. We are also initiating a single literary forum called Punjabi Bhasha Manch that will be hosting literary events, book releases and become a platform for dialogue,” said Baljit Kaur.Currently, the literary directory has compiled information about 24 literary personalities of the city. Baljit Kaur has earlier been active in the projects of Career Guidance, Buddy Mashal and Child Psychology among other activities related to propagation of Punjabi language for 11 years. She is a well-known author and resource person, who has been honoured by both departmental and non-departmental institutions for her contribution to flourish Punjabi language. She said recently, free Urdu classes being offered by the Department of Languages have been revived post pandemic.“These classes will be held in the evening from 5pm to 6pm at our office building at SSSS Chowk keeping Covid-19 norms in mind. I will also appeal to forums and individuals engaged in promoting Punjabi literature to connect with us and add to the creation of literary directory,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-dist-research-language-officer-takes-charge-361725
16-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Core issues amiss during campaigns||Amritsar, January 15Though the poll campaign has been picking up pace after the announcement of Assembly elections, core issues related to public health, education, drug menace, unemployment and development are missing.Development issues are not being discussed during the election campaign. The publicity material and literature of political parties mention only freebies being offered by the parties concerned. Local issues are not being highlighted even in their meetings. — Sarabjit Singh, A social activistPoor health and education are nowhere mentioned during poll campaigns. No political party wants to talk about these issues. Instead of providing employment to youth, SAD promised to provide loans to study abroad and Congress leaders are promising free IELTS coaching. — Sandip Singh, An academicianThough public meetings are not being organised in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions, activists are visiting door to door to campaign.The tussle between Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and SAD leader Bikram Majithia over an FIR in the drug case is the centre of public discussion. The debate over CM face of political parties is also an issue this time. The aspirants, whose party tickets were announced, have similar types of offers or freebies for different sections of society.Kuwar Vijay Partap Singh, candidate of North constituency of AAP, displayed posters to fight against drugs. Otherwise one of the major issues of the 2017 Assembly elections, it is now a ‘non-issue’ for political parties.City dwellers have been facing huge inconvenience due to traffic congestion, non-carpeted roads. Public health and education system, too, are in poor condition. Politicians are not talking about these issues at all.“Development issues are not being discussed during the election campaign. The publicity material and literature of political parties mention only freebies being offered by the parties concerned. Local issues are not being highlighted even in their meetings,” Sarabjit Singh, a social activist, said.“Poor health and education are nowhere mentioned during poll campaigns. No political party wants to talk about these issues. Instead of providing employment to youth here, SAD promised to provide loans to study abroad and Congress leaders are promising free IELTS coaching. Drug addiction is still a major problem in the city as well as rural areas, but this time it is not a poll issue,” said Sandip Singh, an academician.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/core-issues-amiss-during-campaigns-361727
16-01-2022||---||With so many options at hand, difficult to gauge psyche of voters||Tarn Taran, January 15The district, mostly with border areas, has four Vidhan Sabha seats —Tarn Taran, Khadoor Sahib, Patti and Khemkaran.Besides the traditional Congress party and SAD, AAP, farmers outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), too, has entered the political arena this time.So far, it was the SAD, which had declared its all four candidates. On Saturday, the ruling Congress, too, declared its two candidates from Tarn Taran and Patti, while the BJP and farmer outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha are yet to declare its candidates.From Tarn Taran, the candidature of Harmeet Singh Sandhu (SAD), Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal (AAP), Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri (Congress) has been declared.From Patti, Adesh Partap Singh Kairon (SAD), Laljit Singh Bhullar (AAP), Harminder Singh Gill (Congress) has been declaredMeanwhile, Virsa Singh Valtoha (SAD) and Sarwan Singh Dhunn (AAP) have been declared from Khemkaran seat.It is the Khadoor Sahib seat, from where Ranjit Singh Brahampura’s candidature (SAD) had been declared, while the Congress and the AAP are yet to announce their candidates. Hartjinder Singh Tanda of the SSM, too, has entered the fray from Khadoor Sahib.The district has total 8,06,427 voters, of which 8,204 are new voters between the age of 18 and 19 years. There are 88,053 voters between the age group of 18 and 25 years and 79,849 between the age group of 25 and 29 years.In the 2017 election, the Congress had won all four seats. It is the traditional parties — SAD and the Congress — who have been ruling so far.Sukhraj Kaur (50) of Bhullar village was of the view that though the voters are yet to set their mind as to whom to vote for, there are reports that the traditional Congress and SAD have not lost grip from the masses. She said leaders of traditional parties were quite familiar with voters.Sonu (26) and his brother Monu, residents of Tarn Taran, who run a fruit rehri from the local Noordi Adda, said AAP had gained much ground among the masses after announcing freebies and other facilities, but the SAD, too, has its base at the grassroots.Salwinder Singh, former sarpanch of Pandori Rehmana village, said as most of the parties were yet to launch their election campaign, voters are not ready to disclose their allegiance so far.Nanak Singh (60) of Banwalipur village said the Congress and SAD still have a strong mass base. He quoted that a few days ago, Patti’s SAD candidate came to their village and was accorded a warm welcome.Nishan Singh (48) of Padhri Khurd said though AAP had gone ahead in social media campaign, it was still difficult for them gauge the psyche of the people.Congress declares candidates from tarn Taran & PattiTarn Taran: The Congress supporters expressed happiness over the decision of the party to announce their favourite candidates from two out of the four seats in the district. According to the list released by Mukal Wasnik, general secretary of the AICC, also the in-charge of Congress Election Committee (CEC), Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri would be the candidate from Tarn Taran, while Harminder Singh Gill will contest from Patti seat. The district has Tarn Taran, Patti, Khadoor Sahib and Khemkaran four Vidhan Sabh constituencies. The Congress won all four seats in the 2017 election defeating SAD candidates. Both candidates whose names were declared on Saturday won the election for the first time from their respective constituencies after defeating their nearest rivals of the SAD — Harmeet Singh Sandhu (Tarn Taran) and Adesh Partap Singh Kairon (Patti). Harminder Singh Gill is a farmer by profession, while Dr Agnihorti a qualified medical practitioner. Both have a good strength of supporters in their respective areas. OCVoters are yet to make their mind as to whom to vote for. There are reports that the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal have not lost grip among the masses. Traditional parties are quite familiar with voters. — Sukhraj Kaur, A resident of Bhullar village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-so-many-options-at-hand-difficult-to-gauge-psyche-of-voters-361729
16-01-2022||---||BRTS staff demand pay hike, stir enters Day 26||Amritsar, January 15Strike of members of the BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association entered 26th day on Saturday.The drivers have been protesting against the private firm which operates the metro buses. The drivers claimed that the company had promised to increase their salary from Rs 14,000 to Rs 17,000 a few months ago.Then MC Commissioner MS Jaggi was present in the meeting when the firm had promised to increase our salaries. They didn’t fulfill their promise, thus we launched an agitation. We are asking the government to replace the firm. — Davinder Singh, Chief, BRTS Employees’ Welfare AssociationDavinder Singh, chief, BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association, said, “Then MC Commissioner MS Jaggi was present in the meeting when the firm had promised to increase our salaries. They didn’t fulfill their promise, thus we launched agitation. We are asking the government to replace the firm.”Around 215 drivers operate 90 buses on the 35-km BRTS route from 6 am to 10 pm. The metro bus was getting good response during the past few months after the authorities revised the fare.The employees have been sitting on dharna outside the bus terminal at Verka Vallah bypass. The passengers, especially the pass holders, are a harried lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-staff-demand-pay-hike-stir-enters-day-26-361731
16-01-2022||---||GNDU issues instructions to hold odd-sem exams||Amritsar, January 15After the announcement of odd-semester examinations in online mode, GNDU has also issued a set of instructions for the conduct of these examinations by the colleges. The colleges will appoint three invigilators per exam, depending on the number of students appearing at a single time.Also, students will be asked to submit the answersheet online by uploading it through specifically generated e-mail ids and they will also have to keep the hard copy of the answersheet with them.In earlier orders issued, the university had asked all teachers and staff working offline to be double vaccinated to avoid infection or spread of Covid 19. The examinations will be conducted as per the college schedule from January 20 to February 5.The examination results will be evaluated and released within 15 days from the conduct of last exams to avoid any further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-issues-instructions-to-hold-odd-sem-exams-361732
16-01-2022||Amritsar||Challenges  faced by Punjab discussed||Sikh Youth of Punjab (SYP), the youth wing of Dal Khalsa, organised a youth conference on Saturday to discuss the challenges being faced by the Sikh community and Punjab and the role and responsibilities of the young generation in tackling them.Sharing details of the conference, former head of the SYP Paramjit Singh Mand said the issues that came up for deliberations included the direct interference of the Indian state in the religious affairs of the Sikhs, attempts by RSS and BJP to saffronise Punjab polity by luring Sikh faces and refusal of Indian government to release nine Sikh political prisoners, who have completed their prison term.The meet also expressed concern over the continuous arrests of youth under UAPA and other terror-related cases and observed that it was the outcome of government’s denial to resolve Punjab conflict and deliver justice in sacrilege cases. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/challenges-faced-by-punjab-discussed-361733
16-01-2022||Amritsar||Free vax drive for 15-18 age group||Virtual World Maths ChampionshipStudents of Shri Ram Ashram Public School, Amritsar, participated in an online ‘World Maths Championship’ organised by ‘Aditya Birla World Academy’ on January 8. The competition was divided in senior group (Class X) and advance group (Class XII). Harveen, Pallika Mehta and Pushkar Parashar, participated in the senior group and Shivansh Mangal, Hardik Kadd and Harpreet Singh, participated in the advance group. Both the teams have qualified Zonal round. Shivansh Mangal was declared the winner of the North zone in the individual round. Advance group team stood the runner-up in the entire North zone. Maths teacher Atul Sharma prepared the students. Principal Vinodita Sankhyan said there was no joy greater than seeing our students accomplishing on what they deserve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-vax-drive-for-15-18-age-group-361734
16-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Youth run over by train identified||Illegal travel agent bookedAmritsar: An illegal travel agent has been booked for duping a person on the pretext of sending him abroad. The accused has been identified as Balbir Singh Nagra, a resident of Kanwar Avenue, Sultanwind. The victim, Satpal Singh, told the police that the accused cheated him of Rs 9 lakh on the pretext of sending his son on a work permit in Australia. The accused neither fulfilled the promise nor did he return the money. ASI Balwinder Singh said,” After preliminary investigation a case under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act 2014 has been registered against the accused. No arrest has been made so far.” TNSWomAN booked under Sec 144Amritsar: A resident of Vallah has been booked for carrying out construction work near the Army ammunition depot. Any construction within 1,000-sq yard of the depot has been banned by the Police Commissioner under Section 144 of the CrPC. Gurmeet Kaur, a resident of Vallah village, was booked under Sections 188 and 336 of the IPC for disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by the public servant on the complaint of Subedar Jaivir Singh, at the Army ammunition depot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-run-over-by-train-identified-361736
