17-01-2022||Amritsar||Online fraud: Four booked||Rs49,000 cash stolen from carAmritsar: Two unidentified persons decamped with Rs49,000 cash along with other things from a car near Rattan Singh Chowk here. Sakkatar Singh, the victim, told the police that the accused diverted his attention by saying that the coolant of his car was leaking. He said as he came out to check, the accused took away his bag containing the cash, his arms licence, ATM and cheque book. He had gone to Rattan Singh Chowk to buy medicines for his mother. The police have registered a case. TNS20 cigarette packets seizedAmritsar: The Central Jail authorities have seized 20 unclaimed packets of cigarettes and a cell phone from the jail complex, which they claimed was thrown from outside the complex. A case was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-fraud-four-booked-361989
17-01-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar: Man booked for raping niece||The Jandiala Guru police have booked Gurpreeet Singh of Dharad village for allegedly raping his niece. No arrest has been made till now as the accused is absconding.The victim (21) told the police that she, along with her brother, used to live at her maternal grandparents home in Jandiala Guru. She said her maternal uncle brought them up. Yesterday, at around 9 am, the accused came to their house when she and her grandfather were alone, the victim added.Gurpreet was her maternal uncle in relation, the victim said. He took her on bike to the market for purchasing garments, the victim added. The accused forcibly took her to a hotel in Jandiala Guru where he raped her, the victim said.As she was bleeding profusely, her health deteriorated, the victim added. The accused abandoned victim outside her house and fled. The victim was admitted to the Manawala Civil Hospital. Later, a complaint was lodged with the police. The Jandiala Guru police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506, IPC, against Gurpreet. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-booked-for-raping-niece-361987
17-01-2022||---||Taran Taran: 1 arrested with 207-gram heroin||Taran Taran, January 16The Sadar police led by SHO Inspector Sukhbir Singh arrested one person with 207-gram heroin from near Manochahal Kalan on Sunday. The accused had been identified as Sarwan Singh Nikka of Shahbazpur village.The accused was in an i-20 car, when the police signalled him to stop. On checking, they recovered heroin from him. A case under Sections 21, 29, 61, 85 the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/taran-taran-1-arrested-with-207-gram-heroin-361984
17-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||'Government should make efforts to reduce cultivation cost'||Amritsar, January 16Despite the government announcement to “double the farmer income till 2022” the agrarian community is struggling with several issues, including high cost of cultivation, poor seed quality, intolerant weather conditions and difficulty in marketing of crops.After a year-long farm agitation against three farm laws, all political parties have been making tall claims for uplifting the farm economy. However, neither the Centre nor the state governments have made any effort for the policy implementation and reach ground zero to provide relief to farmers.With the implementation of model code of conduct, political parties and their candidates are again making claims to strengthen the farming sector. However, governments have not been able to provide quality seeds to farmers till the date.“Farmers spend a huge amount on cultivation of crops. The government should make efforts to reduce the cultivation cost for increasing profit of farmers. Sometimes they have to cultivate crops twice due to bad weather and poor germination of seeds. Fake pesticides also waste their money. The black market of fertilisers due to supply shortage also increases financial burden of farmers. With depletion of the water table, they have to spend huge amount on installing tube wells in deep waters,” said Ajit Singh, a farmer of Vallah village.“The marketing of non-MSP crops is always an issue. The government provides minimum support price on wheat and paddy only. The market of vegetables, basmati, pulses, oil seeds and maize is not assured. Farmers face major risk after cultivating these crops. Damage of crops should be covered under insurance schemes sponsored by the government,” said Mandeep Singh, a farmer of Tarsika village.“Instead of doubling the farmer income the government policies are creating economic crises in the agrarian sector. We need agriculture-oriented policies. All crops should be covered under the MSP. It will help in diversification of crops. Political parties discuss about agrarian sector, but don’t make any concrete policy after coming to power,” said Sarwan Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.Quality seeds out of farmers’ reach||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-should-make-efforts-to-reduce-cultivation-cost-361982
17-01-2022||Hold elections after covid peak subsides||Open House:  Do you think the EC should revisit its decision to conduct elections as scheduled?||As per the health experts, the dangers of third wave of Covid, with new Omicron variant having 10 times more infection rate, can be well-imagined. The peak is likely to be seen coinciding with voting dates which may prove fatal for citizens taking part in electoral process. Though the EC has put in place a number of curbs to safeguard voters from being infected but it would be a Herculean task to implement all necessary precautions in toto. On the one hand the government is advocating for vaccination for all, on the other hand electioneering is in full swing among political parties, it is but impossible to manage the crowd at election rallies. The only way out is to postpone the elections to a future date after the peak period to save public and government employees from the risk of Covid-19 in larger public interest.Anil VinayakQUESTIONUse of liquor, ration and money to ‘purchase votes’ is not something new in India. With Punjab all set to go for elections on February 14, what measures should be taken to keep a check on such illegal practices?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 20)Safety of people more important than pollElections are an integral part of democracy and holding of timely elections is the very essence of democratic governance. The task of holding elections in a free and fair manner is assigned to the Election Commission. That is why despite facing criticism from the Allahabad High Court which had urged the EC to consider postponing elections in UP, the EC preferred to go ahead to hold the Assembly elections at the scheduled time amidst the rapidly increasing Covid cases in the country with the emergence of the latest Omicron variant. The EC is relying heavily on enhanced vaccination of both polling personnel and voters to hold a ‘Covid-safe’ election. It says it has ensured that most people are vaccinated and the situation is dynamic and it is monitoring it meticulously. Though Omicron spreads fast, it doesn’t cause severe symptoms or leads to hospitalisation. As a matter of fact it has banned all roadshows, padyatras, cycle/bike /vehicle and political rallies and processions till January 15 and avers that there is no need to panic but there is certainly need for caution. The EC functions under certain checks and balances. It has made up its mind to hold elections taking political parties into confidence. So it is unlikely to revisit its decision to conduct elections on the scheduled dates in February/March in Punjab and the other four states. The 3rd Covid wave in the country may peak in early February as per a study conducted by IIT, Kanpur. Punjab has registered 3,969 Covid cases and seven deaths till now and nobody knows which way the 3rd wave will blow, so the EC should revisit its decision to conduct elections on the scheduled dates in February/March. Elections are important but more important are the safety and security of the voters and people at large. Though the EC is keeping its fingers on the pulse of the entire precarious situation, there is the lurking suspicion that its decision may boomerang.Tarsem S Bumrahresidents must learn to live with the virusWith our past two year’s experience, we should have by now learnt how to live with this virus. The long series of variants coming into being of this virus have proved beyond doubt that end of this disease is not nearby. If we have devised ways as work from home for office goers, online classes for students etc then instead of revisiting the decision of the Election Commission we should find out an alternative way for election campaigns. Our basic motive should be to convey the message of the political outfits to the public without making big gatherings. So the best way is to put total ban on road show and rallies and instead give 24x7 days to political parties on regional DD kendras, time slots as per percentage of votes secured by different parties in the last Assembly poll. Further, it should be mandatory to release party manifesto under oath on affidavits. So that while making promises politician may bear in mind in case of coming to power and not fulfilling the promises may land them in trouble. It is generally found that people do vote impressed by the crowds any road show or rally pulls, whereas emphasis should be on the ideology or public welfare plan of the party concerned. So DD debates and mandatory manifestos may change the scenario and bring seriousness in the whole election campaign.Naresh JoharRight time to postpone assembly electionsIn the wake of third Covid wave, the government should mull over rescheduling the election dates. Most of the people do not adhere to Covid norms and social distancing as seen on the occasion of Lohri, where people thronged markets and many were seen without mask. In this predicament, the state authority has already given orders to educational institutions to remain closed and also imposed night lockdown amid fear of omicron cases. Besides entertainment and hospitality sectors run only with 50 per cent capacity. With the cases being skyrocketing, government should postpone elections in order to make situation better as same voting machine would be touched by all voters and people don’t pay heed to social distancing norms.Sukhmeet KaurPoliticians, voters must follow Covid normsAs the Election Commission has already notified the detailed programme to hold Assembly polls in five states, including Punjab, it is not advisable to postpone the same. The commission carefully studied the situation before reaching this decision. No doubt, the third wave of the deadly virus is knocking at our doors like it affected many other countries, but the number of fatalities amongst the new cases is almost negligible. For example, in Delhi, over 20,000 cases were reported on January 08, but with only seven fatalities. Almost similar pattern is observed at other places. However, there is a strong case for strict Covid-19 curbs such as bans on social gatherings, 50 per cent attendance at work, caps on indoor and outdoor gatherings besides Covid-appropriate behaviour. Quite thoughtfully this time, massive political rallies and other meetings are banned in Punjab till January 15 but must be extended by at least two weeks. Politicians must be more responsible and follow all the Covid protocol. At other places like Mumbai, preventive action is stricter. In fact a Graded Response Action Programme is followed depending on the severity of the situation. But one thing is clear. Omicron is not the last virus to be fielded by nature. We have to live with it, with all our awareness and precautions. We cannot afford further lockdown. Elections should be held, must be held, of course amidst a viral ambiance.Mohan SinghPeople’s safety is at stakeAnything done in a rush is likely to have consequences. Recently, the Covid figures have drastically shot up. Everybody is trying to avoid human contact and prefers to avoid visiting public spaces. Assembly polls are a significant event to happen but by rushing towards this action would lay arduous consequences on the government as elections are not something which is to be taken lightly. It leads large masses into march and duties. High excitement, enthusiasm, curiosity and collaboration are to be seen amongst the communities at the time. The EC should take this in consideration that synchronising polls at the time of high surge Covid would be a digging one’s own cave situation. By this decision people’s safety is at stake by the government itself. It is not like we are in high exigency for the ministers right now but we people require a more safer and Covid-free environment. So, the EC by taking into consideration its citizens’ welfare and protection should decide dates when the Covid threat subsides.Dhanvi BansalFestival of democracy should go onThe new wave of Omicron virus has taken all of us by surprise. Thankfully, the new omicron virus despite being highly communicable isn’t severe. Therefore, I believe it’s not a bad idea to let things just flow, let things merge with the process instead of fighting it. Let’s take precautions against it but not fear from it if it does infect us. Elections are the very soul of any democracy and shifting the dates for it would mean things not becoming normal yet again. Hence, I would say as long as the new variant isn’t damaging enough, people are taking precautions and the government has special booths for old citizens, pregnant women, people with certain medical issues, wherein every step is taken to safeguard the health of the delicate strata of citizens, I would say elections should go on.Gurjas SinghParties must focus on online campaigningThe Assembly elections in five states, including Punjab, should have been deferred till March or till the flattening of Covid curve, but it is now of utmost importance that no effort is spared by all the stakeholders to take precautionary measures to avoid infections from Covid. As a consensus had emerged among political parties that poll be held on schedule, so amid the Omicron surge, the EC has announced the date of February 14 for Assembly elections in Punjab in one phase along with other four states. But now the biggest challenge for the ECI is to ensure that the poll campaigns by the political parties don’t become the super-spreaders as Assembly elections are to be held amid Covid’s rampaging third wave. Electoral mobilisations can spread infections even faster in places where ever there is poor healthcare access. Election Commission’s moratorium for a week on physical rallies and roadshows can be helpful to some extent. An indefinite ban risked political parties flouting the order but waiting till January 15 means all stakeholders will have a fair idea of where the Covid surge is headed. The EC should be ready with the option of extending the ban on rallies if the situation so demands. All political parties must concentrate more on online campaigning methods and doorstep visits in groups of five or less which is allowed by the EC. The onus is now on the parties to adhere strictly to EC guidelines. And Election Commission must hold party leaders responsible for cadre’s violations. That is the only punishment that can work because our netas are not used to being upbraided very often, so they will have a strong incentive to ask their rank and file to behave and follow the EC instructions strictly.LJ SinghComplacency can prove fatalThe Election Commission should certainly revisit its decision to conduct elections on the scheduled dates in February and March. Seeing the gravity of situation arising from Covid peak, the Election Commission should boldly postpone the elections. This is because elections are not more important than saving lives of people from coronavirus. Any complacency in this regard will result in havoc for residents. The Election Commission should learn a lesson from foreign countries whereby lackluster attitude of citizens has already worsened Covid conditions in their respective countries. The EC should barely take decisions on pleadings of politicians of our country.Sanjay ChawlaEnsure protocols are followed strictlyThe number of Covid cases has started increasing rapidly in the past few days and many new variants of SARS-CoV-2 are being discovered globally. I believe that elections should be postponed for some time as the election dates will be coinciding with the Covid peak, which is likely coming in the next few months. We know that elections involve a lot of gatherings of people in election campaigns, rallies etc. People are less likely to follow any safety guidelines in these events which can result in the quick spread of the virus among the masses. Thus, the safety of people must be given priority over the elections. Alternatively, if the Election Commission decides to go with the announced schedule due to time or monetary concerns, it should be seen that all of the regulations are strictly enforced with no leniency.Jatinderpal Singh Batth||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-do-you-think-the-ec-should-revisit-its-decision-to-conduct-elections-as-scheduled-361980
17-01-2022||---||Tarn Taran: Kite-flying takes ugly turn||Tarn Taran, January 16Kite-flying on Lohri took an ugly turn the next day in Khawaspur village, when members of the two sides entered into a brawl and injured one person after opening fire at him.The one injured has been identified as Sakattar Singh. He has been admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar.The accused were perturbed over their defeat during kite-flying on Lohri with rival side led by Dev Singh Goru and Amritpal Singh.Armed with dreaded weapons, the accused stopped Dev Singh Goru and Amritpal Singh the next day when they were on their way to the market and indulged in a verbal duel with them. It was during this that their family members Mukhtar Singh and Sakattar Singh came to the spot to rescue them.The accused opened fire at them, in which Sakattar Singh got injured. The accused then absconded from the spot.The Goindwal Sahib police have registered a case under Sections 307, 341, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against Jobanpreet Singh, Gagan, Raman, Jashanpreet Singh, Manpreet Singh Manna, Fateh Singh, Bonu and six other unidentified persons.                                     #KiteFlying||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-kite-flying-takes-ugly-turn-361968
17-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Lukewarm response to Startup India scheme in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 16Even as the Union Government has announced to celebrate January 16 as National Startup Day, the holy city has recorded only 21 entries under the flagship scheme so far.Launched in 2016, the Startup India scheme neither found much votaries in the state nor this border district.Naresh Johar, who obtained this information from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, said only 408 startups were set up in the entire state till 2021, which is less than 1 per cent of the national average, where 46,042 startups established their units.Ahead of the elections, he said, all political parties, including the ruling Congress, compete to outdo each other by offering freebies to people, but no effort was spared for promoting startups. Leaders of these parties are parrying the practical thought as to how a state deep under debt would foot the burden of freebies, he said.The incumbent government is not leaving any stone unturned in extending freebies but it did not put in any effort to capitalise on the national scheme.Under the scheme, it could have revived its industries, which are in doldrums, by offering them a helping hand.According to Raman Gupta, an industrialist, unlike Punjab, Delhi is free from debt, it does not offer subsidy like Punjab is extending to farmers on power.Next year, the financial condition of the state is likely to aggravate further with the discontinuation of the GST compensation. A rough estimate suggests that the GST revenue will fall by nearly 40 per cent.He suggested that the government could have introduced freebies from its own side to implement the scheme. In the contemporary set-up, it is only the industry that could provide jobs, sustain finances, meaningful platform to skilled artisans and keep youth away from drugs and other negative activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lukewarm-response-to-startup-india-scheme-in-amritsar-361959
17-01-2022||---||18 members of 2 gangs booked for opening fire, murder attempt in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 16Tall claims of heavy security in the holy city have fallen flat following a cross-firing between two groups at Fateh Singh Colony in the Anngarh area here on late Friday evening.The incident is stated to be an outcome of gang rivalry between two groups. Following preliminary probe, the police have booked 18 persons of two groups on the charge of opening fire at each other and murder bid.Among those booked are Harpartap Singh, Shamsher Singh, Gora Phuleri, Sunny Baba, Bunty Patwari, Chibu, Ishang, Yuvi, Sonu and Mohit. “No arrest has been made till now. Further investigation is under progress,” said the police.ASI Gurmail Singh, in-charge, Anngarh police chowki, and Investigating Officer in the case, said the police received an information about firing outside the residence of Harpartap Singh following a quarrel. Police teams reached the spot where eyewitnesses told them that Shamsher Singh and his accomplices had quarreled with Harpartap, the ASI said. They pelted each other with bricks and fired 12 gunshots at each other, the ASI added. Two years ago, both group had quarreled with each other in which Harpartap was injured, the ASI said.“A fresh case under Sections 307, 336, 506, 323, 148 and 149, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, has been registered against both the groups and raids are on to nab them,” the ASI added.Unidentified persons open fire at two brothers, bookedAmritsar: Harjinder Singh and his elder bother Davinder Singh, both residents of the Maqboolpura police station area, were injured, when some unknown persons entered into a verbal duel with the latter and later opened fire at them. Harjinder told the police that the incident occurred late on Friday night, when he heard noises outside his house. Harjinder said he came out and found that his elder brother Davinder and two unknown persons were having an argument over some issue. “I tried to intervene, but they took out a pistol and opened fire at us. My brother sustained a bullet injury on his right foot, while my right ankle was injured. Thereafter, the accused fled on a scooter,” Harjinder said. The Maqboolpura police have registered a case under Sections 307 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons. Investigating Officer ASI Harjit Singh said a probe was underway to identify the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/18-members-of-2-gangs-booked-for-opening-fire-murder-attempt-in-amritsar-361953
17-01-2022||---||Amritsar: EC to act tough on those defacing trees||Amritsar, January 16The Election Commission is against defacing trees and green belts with posters during the elections.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira said political parties and candidates would have to face penalty for violating the norms.The Deputy Commissioner directed everyone to remove campaign material from government buildings and trees planted on government land. In his order, he asked officers of all departments to keep an eye on their offices and other government property, so that no candidate could violate the election rules by putting up posters, banners or flexboards on public property.Khaira said all government properties such as electricity and telephone poles, buildings, bus stands, bus shelters, railway stations, roundabouts, pillars of flyovers should be protected from election campaign material. If any such material was found anywhere, it should be removed immediately. In addition, legal action would be taken against those, who display the campaign material.He said any candidate, who wants to conduct his campaign with such means should do so at designated places provided by the Municipal Corporation (MC) and inform the returning officer about the inclusion of this expenditure in his election expenses.Political parties often display their boards and hoarding on trees by putting a nail on these. It not only damages the tree, but restricts its growth as well.Report violations of Model Code of Conduct on mobile appAmritsar: Residents can now use cVIGIL mobile application of the Election Commission to report violations of the Model Code of Conduct by political parties and candidates during the Assembly elections. The application can be downloaded from Google playstore. Kulwant Singh, District Election Officer, Tarn Taran, said: “The application ensures protection of identity of the user and at the same time enables him to report violations of the election code.” He said people should report violations to ensure transparent and fair elections. Users would also be able to upload a picture or a short video of the violation as an evidence while reporting any violation. Kulwant Singh said action of such complaints would be ensured within 100 minutes of receiving the complaint. To check misuse of money during the elections, residents would be required to carry documentary proof if they are carrying more than Rs50,000 cash. The ECI guideline is aimed at checking misuse of cash for luring voters. In case a person is found carrying more than Rs50,000, the money would be confiscated. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-ec-to-act-tough-on-those-defacing-trees-361951
17-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: Disgruntled DCC rural chief Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar joins BJP||Amritsar, January 16Disgruntled after not getting a party ticket from Majitha constituency, District Rural Congress chief Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar on Sunday joined the BJP in presence of party’s national secretary Tarun Chugh and senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina.Sachar has been active in the constituency for quite some time now and was vying for the party ticket from here. Congress has fielded Jagwinderpal Singh, alias Jagga Majithia, cousin of Sukhjinder Singh Lalli Majithia, instead.Following change of guard at the top level and Navjot Singh Sidhu becoming the PPCC president, Lalli Majithia was feeling side-lined. He had unsuccessfully contested from Majitha on a Congress ticket. The party people revealed that he was also upset as Sachar has increased his activities in the constituency for quite some time now. Upset over the recent developments, Lalli Majithia recently switched over to AAP.Sachar remained DCC rural president three times besides remaining the vice-chairman of Zila Parishad. Speaking to the mediapersons, he said he was very upset as he was denied a ticket from Majitha constituency, which forced him to make this decision. He said he had joined the BJP without any condition and would work on any position.“I remained a loyal worker of the party for the last 20 years, but was ignored while distributing tickets,” he said, adding that he was made a victim of groupism in the Congress party. He squarely blamed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu for not giving him the party ticket. He said he was closer to Majha brigade —Sukhwinder Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Bajwa — which has gone against him. He alleged that due to Sidhu’s arrogance, many leaders were forced to leave the grand old Congress party.Tarun Chug, while welcoming him, said every party wanted to increase its base and Bharatiya Janata Party also wants the same. We are including only those whose names are cleared by the screening committee of the party, he said, adding that in the 2022 Punjab Assembly poll, the BJP would bring a positive change in the politics of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-disgruntled-dcc-rural-chief-sachar-joins-bjp-361950
17-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran: Villagers take DC & SSP to task, protest easy availability of drugs||Tarn Taran, January 16The district administration had to face great humiliation in Fatehbad village on Saturday, where Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and SSP Harvinder Singh Virk had gone to appeal to residents to come in big numbers to vote on February 14, as the administration had made proper arrangements.The officials after visiting other villages reached Fatehbad village, where residents lodged a strong protest against the open and easy availability of drugs at every corner of the area.They said deaths were being reported due to drugs at a very large scale. They said young boys were consuming drugs as it was available everywhere.The officials tried pacifying residents, but they went on saying that they had been informing police officials regarding drug traders, but no action was taken. As a result, the nuisance had spread to every corner.The conversation of residents with officials went viral on social media as well.“The Deputy Commissioner and the SSP have never convened a meeting with the public or the District Grievance Committee (DGC) for the last about eight months,” said Major Singh Bhikhiwind, member of the DGC.It is noteworthy that with the sincere efforts of the administration, 11 villages including Mugalwala, Abadi Bhagwanpura, Gill Pan, Theh Kalan, Hundal, Daudpura, Kalanjar, Manawan, Kalia, Masatgarh and Mianwal were made drug-free (nasha mukt) two years ago. The administration could achieve the same with the association of the panchayat of the village concerned. The administration had done nothing beyond this after that.DC Kulwant Singh and SSP Harvinder Singh Virk could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-villagers-take-dc-ssp-to-task-protest-easy-availability-of-drugs-361949
17-01-2022||---||Covid struck: 38-year-old man succumbs to virus, 963 test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 16With 963 positive cases reported in the last 24-hours, the active caseload in the district increased to 3,677 on Sunday.A 38-year-old resident also lost his life to the deadly virus. The deceased has been identified as Kunal Sharma, a resident of Guru Nanakpura. He was undergoing treatment at a local private hospital.Till date, the district has reported a total of 52,406 positive cases and 1,606 deaths due to the disease. While the number of positive cases is increasing daily, a large number of people are also avoiding going for tests. The officials said there could be more residents who are undergoing treatment at their home, but have not got themselves tested so far.The district health authorities have also reported recovery of 305 patients on Sunday, with which the total recovery count increased to 47,123. However, as the positivity rate is more than the recovery rate, the workload on the existing health infrastructure is increasing with each passing day.Apart from the general public, a large number of health employees have also tested positive for the viral disease.The recent spurt in the cases in the district was noticed at the start of this month. In the last fortnight, the district has reported a total of 4,935 positive cases and seven deaths due to the disease.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said: “There is no need for the general public to panic, but at the same time there is greater need to take the precaution guidelines seriously.” He said that unnecessary movement to public and crowded places should be avoided.134 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe Covid-19 report of 134 samples came out positive on Sunday and the number of active cases has gone up to 718 in the district. The press release of the Health Department on Sunday said the toll stands at 382 and that the report of 269 samples was yet to be received. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-struck-38-year-old-man-succumbs-to-virus-963-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-361948
17-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Dalits outfits to block Jalandhar-Amritsar highway for six hours||Jalandhar, January 16Several Dalit organisations have announced to block the Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway, near the PAP Chowk, from 10 am to 4 pm on Monday, to protest against declaration of Assembly elections in state on February 14, which coincides with the 645th Parkash Utsav of Guru Ravidas.Notably, Dalit organisations have taken strong exception against the scheduling of elections on February 14, just two days before the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas, which falls on February 16.Lakhs of devotees head to the Guru Ravidas Janma Asthan at Seer Goverdhanpur/Beghumpura in Varanasi every year during the Ravidas Jayanti. The organisations said the poll date would be spoilsport for series of events planned in accordance with jayanti.Dalit organisations have demanded that the Assembly elections be held either before February 10 or after February 18.Jassi Talhan, president, Guru Ravidas Tiger Force said, “All Dalit organisations, including Ravidassia and Valmiki communities and Kabirpanthis, among others will block the national highway tomorrow to protest against the EC’s decision to hold elections on February 14.” “Doaba has a predominant Dalit population, whose sensitivities have totally been ignored while announcing the election date. Over 20 lakh people from the state head to Shiri Guru Ravidas Janma Asthan at Kashi every year during jayanti. The train from Jalandhar leaves on February 13 and devotees return on January 18. With Dalit groups preoccupied with celebrations, how will we exercise our right to vote? The elections must be held either before February 10 or after February 18,” Talhan added.“To apprise the government about our solid stand against poll date, we have consolidated dharna at one place. We appeal to everyone to come and join us against this attempt to deny us our right to vote,” Talhan said.Chief Minister Charnajit Singh Channi had recently written to the EC to postpone poll date, Talhan added. The issue had also been taken up by Delhi MP Hans Raj Hans, Union Minister Som Parkash and Capt Amarinder Singh, Talhan said.Balwinder Singh Bugga, district president, Ambedkar Sena Punjab, said, “A week ago various prominent Dalit organisations had given a demand letter to the Jalandhr DC seeking postponement of elections. But, no one took it seriously. Lakhs of people from Doaba itself are going to Banaras. They will not be able to vote. The train from Jalandhar will leave Dera Sachkhand Ballan on February 13.”Meanwhile, at a meeting of various Dalit groups held here today, a decision was taken to hold dharna at one place. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Dera Sahkhand Ballan, Shri Guru Ravidas Sadhu Sampraday Society, Guru Ravidas Tiger Force and the Ambedkar Sena Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee. Pendu Mazdoor Union Punjab has also extended support to dharna.Kashmir Singh Ghushore of Pendu Mazdoor Union said, “We will extend our support to dharna. Dalits will be playing a key role in the electoral process. A clash between two important events will play spoilsport for the jayanti.”Subhash Sharma, the BJP state general secretary, and Jasvir Singh Garhi, the BSP state president, have also sought postponement of the Punjab Assembly elections from the Election Commission.Kainth writes to ECIn his letter to Sushil Chandra, Chief Election Commissioner, Election Commission of India, Paramjit Singh Kainth, president, National Schedule Caste Alliance, has written, “The Scheduled Castes community in Punjab is almost 33 per cent of the state’s population. Majority of them are followers of Guru Ravidass Ji. The birth anniversary of Shri Guru Ravidass falls on February 16. To participate in celebrations on this auspicious day, guru’s followers embark on a journey to Varanasi, the birthplace of the saint. This pilgrimage usually begins on February 10 every year. Considering such circumstances, a huge population will not be able to exercise their constitutional right to vote in Assembly elections of the state on February 14.”“The Punjab Government should’ve been aware of such a dilemma. It is an utter disappointment on part of the Punjab Government to not to advise your institution regarding the possibility of such inconvenience for the public in the state. As is the case, I request you to consider postponing the voting process to or after February 18 so that pilgrims can return to their home districts and exercise their right to vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dalits-outfits-to-block-jalandhar-amritsar-highway-for-six-hours-361893
