18-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Sub-Post Office opened in court||Three held with illicit liquorTarn Taran: The police arrested three residents of different villages with 22,800 ml of Illicit liquor here on Sunday. The police on Monday said Patti police arrested Khajan Singh of Patti city with 4,500 ml and Sukhraj Singh, a resident of Kairon, with 4,320 ml of illicit liquor. Meanwhile, Kulwant Singh, a resident of Chandigarh locality in Fatehbad village, too was arrested with 18,000 ml of Illicit liquor. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-sub-post-office-opened-in-court-362274
18-01-2022||Amritsar||Online refresher course at GNDU||Vaccination camp held at GGSSSSA vaccination camp was held at Government Girls Senior Secondary Smart School, Mall Road, on Monday. It was conducted in collaboration with the Civil Hospital, where health officials inoculated 50 students with Covid-19 vaccination. It was meant for school students aged between 15 to 18 years (students of Classes X to XII). The consent form was sent to the students by the school. After receiving their consent, the students were vaccinated. On this occasion, children were accompanied by their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-refresher-course-at-gndu-362273
18-01-2022||Amritsar||Attack on Sikh pilgrims returning from Takht Sri Patna Sahib condemned||The SGPC has strongly condemned the attack on the pilgrims who were attacked in Bhojpur district of Bihar, while returning from Takht Sri Patna Sahib, leaving them injured.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami has approached Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Six Sikh devotees, on way to their home in Mohali from Patna, suffered injuries when their vehicle was pelted with stones by a mob when the victims denied donation for a religious ritual and construction of a religious place in Charpokhari, Bhojpur on Sunday. —                                     #AttackonSikhs                                     #TakhtSriPatnaSahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attack-on-sikh-pilgrims-condemned-362271
18-01-2022||---||CKD condoles Dr Hardas Singh's death||Amritsar, January 17The office-bearers of the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Monday expressed sorrow over the passing away of its member Dr Hardas Singh. Considered a doyen of orthopaedic surgery, Dr Hardas was a philanthropist and had also served as a senate member of GNDU. He passed away on Monday morning.Nirmal Singh, president, CKD, expressed grief over the demise of Dr Hardas Singh, who had been associated with it for a long time.A competent doctor, Dr Hardas was a member in-charge of Chief Khalsa Diwan Hospital, where he did public service by giving his valuable time to patients in the OPD. He said special contribution was made by him in establishing Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital run under SGPC.The medical fraternity from the city also expressed their condolences, including the IMA city chapter, and remembered the contribution made by Dr Hardas in serving his patients and in the field of orthopaedic surgery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-condoles-dr-hardas-singhs-death-362269
18-01-2022||---||Changing educational scenario during pandemic||Amritsar, January 17City-based educator Neera Sharma and entrepreneur Gariema Sharma were honoured by the Bharat Vikas Parishad city chapter for their contribution in the field of education. In a ceremony held at Jagat Jyoti Senior Secondary School, the two women were hailed for their recent projects to make education accessible to all.Gariema is one of the directors of the US-based company SnapWorks, which is a cloud-based solution provider specially architected for schools to transform themselves into an active digital community in a simpler and easiest way. Gariema Sharma has been working towards changing schools to go digital, especially after the pandemic hit, has influenced 50,000 plus teachers of varied technical experience to adopt this technical tool. The company had initiated online learning way back in 2015, with DAV Public school Lawrance road, with Neera Sharma as its principal. According to Gariema, many schools in city were already using edutech tools before pandemic as well.The digital transformation enables students to plan their academic work, keep a track of their progress and for teachers to concise and customise their digital chores in hybrid mode. With online mode now becoming a norm, providing edutech solutions for better, easier adaptability for schools and students about digital classrooms becomes imperative. With this particular application, parents can transact digitally with school, school can support running digital book stores, uniform stores. This application also helps parents to avoid in person visits and stay safe in the uncertain times of Covid-19.Edtech entrepreneur, educator honoured by Bharat Vikas ParishadGariema Sharma is one of the directors of the US-based company SnapWorks, which is a cloud-based solution provider, specially architected for schools to transform themselves into an active digital community in a simpler and easiest way. Gariema has been working towards changing schools to go digital, especially after the pandemic hit. She has influenced 50,000 plus teachers of varied technical experience to adopt this technical tool. The company had initiated online learning way back in 2015, with DAV Public school Lawrance road, with Neera Sharma (in pic right) as its principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/changing-educational-scenario-during-pandemic-362268
18-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Won't be easy for farmers in fray to translate support to votes||Amritsar, January 17It seems that it would be rather difficult for Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, the consortium of farmer unions contesting the Assembly elections, to be able to translate the support it had received in the two border districts — Amritsar and Tarn Taran into votes.REASON Inter-union rivalries, race for one-upmanship among different farmer unions, opposition from unions who announced to stay away from elections would be some of the biggest challengesOf the 15 Assembly constituencies in the two districts, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha has so far announced candidates from three seats. It has fielded Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala, a veteran farmer leader and a former agricultural technocrat from Rajasansi constituency.Harjinder Singh Tanda, an Azad Sangharsh Committee leader has been announced as candidate from Khadoor Sahib constituency, while 25-year-old Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon from Tarn Taran Assembly constituency.The farmer leaders confided that Indian-American cardiologist Dr Swaiman Singh, who had played key services during the agitation at Delhi borders, had vouched for Dr Dhillon.The inter-union rivalries and the race for one-upmanship among the different farmer unions coupled with opposition from farmer unions who have already announced to stay away from elections would be some of the biggest challenges for SSM candidates.“The day the agitation at Delhi borders had ended, the agitators were no more farmer activists. They returned back to be Akalis, Congressmen or AAP volunteers,” said a senior farmer leader. He said the committed support base of the farmers’ unions is still intact but the unprecedented support the cause (farmers’ agitation) had received from different sections of society has faded away.While SAD, Congress and AAP have announced candidates from most of the seats in the two districts, the SSM has lagged behind. If sources in the SSM are to be believed, it may take another seven to 10 days for it to finalise candidates on the remaining seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wont-be-easy-for-farmers-in-fray-to-translate-support-to-votes-362266
18-01-2022||---||Tarn Taran: Election office of SSM candidate inaugurated||Tarn Taran, January 17Dr Swaiman Singh, senior leader of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), has assured the farmers that the whole debt of the state’s farmers would be waived when the morcha would come into power in the state.Dr Swaiman had also advocated for free trade of farm-produce at the international level. He was here on Monday to inaugurate the election office of the morcha’s Tarn Taran candidate Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon.The SSM is a combination of those farmer organisations who were previously a part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which was claiming to be the organisation of non-political farmers’ outfits.The candidature of Dr Dhillon was declared on January 12 by the state leaders of the morcha. Dr Swaiman Singh said the farmer of the state would be made rich when his produce would be sold on the international market and the farmers would earn in Dollars. He said the morcha would waive the whole debt of the state farmers and the morcha would pay the debt of the state to make it debt free. He stressed on free trade across the border.Dr Swaiman Singh joined the agitation from California and served farmers with free medical services throughout the agitation. While commenting on those farmer organisations who were not in favour of contesting the Vidhan Sabha elections, he said, “We wanted to do everything for the welfare of farmers and without political power, we won’t be able to do anything for them.He said Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon was his brother. The morcha had declared its two candidates out of the four seats of the district. The nominees for the Patti and Khemkaran seats were yet to be declared by the morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-election-office-of-ssm-candidate-inaugurated-362263
18-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Industrialists resent 'one size fits all' approach by successive governments||Amritsar, January 17Industrialists resented the ‘one size fits all’ approach by successive governments as it is not leading local manufacturing sector in any direction. They said political parties must incorporate trade specific demands in their manifestos.For instance, hardware units require R&D support, textile-trained artisans and latest technology. The holy city is a hub of diverse industries such as plywood, wire drying, hardware, textile, plastic, rice-shelling, chess and others. Industrialists are of the view that the trend would be eventually replicated at the centre.Samir Goyal, a nut and bolt manufacturer in the city, said despite being cheaper than the Chinese locally rolled out nails, screws, nuts and bolts were not preferred by domestic customers. It is not possible for the MSME industrialists to upgrade themselves with the quality of domestically available machines and set up their own R&D cells. Political parties must incorporate it in their manifestos to provide one R&D centre in the city to provide the know-how to hardware units to manufacture products accordingly.“The Union Government was unaware of the basics of MSMEs and their ground work is zero. It is developing its policies for the MSMEs while keeping in view the Maharashtra and Gujarat model, where the technology level is already high in comparison to this part of the country,” he said.Piara Lal Seth, a shawl manufacturer, said textile was a labour-intensive industry, which requires massive funds, technical support, knowledge of constant upgrading technology across the world, containing input cost on a par with rivals in other states and even overseas to remain in the competition. He opined that leaders of the political parties must incorporate demands and needs of trades in their model of development for the state and city.According to Sudarshan Wadhwa, a tweed and blazer manufacturer, artisans trained in handling modern machines were highly sought after. He said government-run institutes must upgrade their curricula and machines to train young students, so that they could easily be absorbed in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-industrialists-resent-one-size-fits-all-approach-by-successive-governments-362254
18-01-2022||---||17 mobile phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, January 17Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated 17 mobile phones during a search operation in the complex here on Sunday.Following complaints by jail authorities, Islamabad police station have booked 11 prisoners for possessing the same. Among those booked included Akash Arora, alias Bunty Arora, of Gurbax Nagar, Gagandeep Singh of Gurnam Nagar, Dev Darpan of Tilak Nagar, Jalandhar, Lovepreet Singh of Udaan Wal, Gursdaspur, Gurwinder Singh of Fatahpur, Harpreet Singh of Sandu Colony, Karandeep Singh of Gurdaspur, Manpreet Singh of Kherabad, Harpinder Singh of Verka, Pargat Singh of Dhapai village and Deepak Kataria of Fateh Singh Colony.Rising incidents of seizure of cell phones, cigarettes and tobacco have raised questions not only about the functioning of the jail but also exposed lapses in security.At a time when ISI-supported anti-national elements are pushing in explosives, weapons and drugs from across the International Border, the intelligence had pointed out that the modules were running their networks from jail through phones. Amritsar Central Jail houses many cross-border smugglers, operatives of terror modules and banned organisations.A jail official wishing not to be named blamed the foggy season. Taking the advantage of the fog, miscreants throw the banned material inside the complex. He said a drive was launched to check the menace which has resulted in the seizure of huge quantity of mobiles. He said complaints were lodged with the police and further investigation was under progress.Fog to blame?A jail official wishing not to be named blamed the foggy weather. Taking the advantage of fog, miscreants throw the banned material inside the complex. He said a drive was launched to check the menace which has resulted in the seizure of huge quantity of mobiles. He said complaints were lodged with the police and further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/17-mobile-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-362253
18-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Power cuts in harsh winter irk people||Amritsar, January 17Frequent power cuts in biting cold has made the life of people difficult, besides hampering the crucial health care facilities in the wake of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Anil Vinayak, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, says that there seems to be no solution to unnecessary power cuts, which last throughout the day on Mondays. In biting cold, people, especially old and children, are suffering the most.“People must ask political leaders when they go door to door for votes if the state has surplus power, why scheduled and unscheduled power cuts are being introduced every week. Mass awareness is needed to redress the issue. Vaccination centres are also facing issues while logging sites,” says Anil Vinayak.The third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has once again put entire working of education and offices online. Power cuts snap links of computer terminals and handsets need to be re-charged soon.Lakshita, a Class X student, says the current phase is extremely crucial in the run-up to the final examination. Power supply remains snapped throughout the day on Monday on the GT road, where her residence is situated. Power outages are experienced on other days also.Industrialists of the Focal Point are also irked at unscheduled or erratic power cuts causing deterioration in quality of products under process at that moment. They say the Focal Point falls in category-II where power cuts cannot be enforced without prior intimation and without a valid reason like maintenance.Healthcare units are also facing difficulties due to erratic power outages. Staff at private and government-run hospitals state that pressure on medical services has increased with the re-emergence of Covid-19 and harsh cold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-power-cuts-in-harsh-winter-irk-people-362252
18-01-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Talwara Jattan — a bridge to prosperity & votes||Pathankot, January 17In the fall of 2018, housemaid Sushma Rani led a group of women to Pathankot MLA Amit Vij’s residence where she narrated her tale of woes. She said she was married in the city while her parental house was across the Chakki river.Her grouse was that her in-laws did not allow her to visit her parents as many times as she wished to.Reason: Her parental village, Chani Makimpur, was 80 km away and public transport was at a premium.Rani’s case was symptomatic of scores of other married women. The legislator asked PWD officials to prepare a blueprint. The fact that the MLA himself was involved in the planning and execution of the project ensured that red tape did not rear its head. It took two years and Rs35 crore for the 380-m-long four-laned high-level structure to be established. Its significance in an election year was surely not lost on the government. Last month, officials pushed the idea of holding a virtual inauguration ceremony in front of CM Charanjit Channi.Knowing its vote-catching ability, the CM himself decided to come over to dedicate the venture to the public.The Talwara Jattan bridge has opened up scores of opportunities for local residents. Now, sugarcane farming no longer remains the main occupation.If Sushma Rani and others of her ilk had heaved a sigh of relief, the farmers of this sugarcane-rich belt, too, were happy. Earlier, they had to take their produce 100 km away to the nearest sugar mill at Mukerian. Now, the distance has been reduced to 30 km. Moreover, an added advantage is that the bridge also connects to the Pathankot-Jalandhar national highway.Ever since the CM inaugurated it last month, life has changed for the better for the 10,000-strong populace spread across 70 villages.Earlier, youngsters of the area were apprehensive of travelling such a long distance to Pathankot to find employment. Now, scores of youth can be seen every day crossing the structure on the way to their jobs in the city.Politically speaking, there are approximately 5,000 votes in the area lying across the Chakki. In a five-pronged contest, with the Congress, AAP, SSM, SAD-BSP and BJP-Punjab Lok Congress in the fray, the victory margins will be narrow. “The bridge will prove to be a game changer for the legislator if he polls even a majority if not all of these votes,” said a Congress MLA.Sources say in 2019 these votes were cast en bloc in the favour of the BJP because some of its leaders had promised “if their party was voted to power at the Centre, they would bring funds to ensure the bridge was built.”The year 2019 is now passé. If the Congress works hard to sustain the euphoria till the D-Day, the bridge surely has the potential to swing votes to its side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/talwara-jattan-%E2%80%94-a-bridge-to-prosperity-votes-362244
18-01-2022||---||A day after joining BJP, miffed Amritsar district Cong rural chief Bhagwantpal Sachar returns to party||Amritsar, January 17A day after joining the BJP miffed Congress leader Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar returned to the party fold.He changed his decision after Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa met him at his residence here on Monday.Taking a cue from senior party leaders from the region, Sachar, Congress Amritsar Rural president, had been campaigning and distributing even grants in the Majitha Assembly segment.However, his hopes were dashed when the party gave ticket to Jagwinder Pal Singh, alias Jagga Majithia, 60, for the seat. Jagga Majithia is the brother of Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, who had switched over to the Aam Aadmi Party.Political experts are of the view that the move aims at stopping the split in party votes in the rural segment by fielding brother against brother. Jagga Majithia, who had won an election of councillor in 1992 and remained general secretary of Punjab Youth Congress, claimed that he had the support of the entire Congress leaders, including MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla.Return of Sachar to the party fold has avoided further split in the Congress votes in Majha, where senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia had won all three previous elections in a row.On being asked as to what prompted him to join the BJP, Sachar said the decision was taken in the heat of the moment and he will repent all his life for taking this step. He attributed this to extreme shock which he felt after not finding his name as the Majitha candidate. He said the party has now called him to Chandigarh on Tuesday to attend a meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-day-after-joining-bjp-miffed-amritsar-district-cong-rural-chief-bhagwantpal-sachar-returns-to-party-362234
18-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Punjab Assembly poll 2022: It won't be a cakewalk for Congress to repeat its 2017 feat||Amritsar, January 17It won’t be a cakewalk for the Congress to repeat its 2017 feat. The grand old party had won 10 out of 11 seats in the holy city, which is likely to have a four-cornered contest this time as SAD had parted ways with its old alliance partner — BJP.As far as the urban seats — Amritsar East, Amritsar West, Amritsar North, Amritsar South and Amritsar Central — are concerned, a couple of these could witness a close contest in the upcoming Assembly poll.With elections being just round the corner, the poll scenario is slowly gaining heat. Nevertheless, voters are this time silent and therefore, it was yet not clear in which direction the wind is flowing. All five urban seats had previously gone in the Congress’s pocket.Three major parties — Congress, SAD-BSP and AAP — have declared the names of their candidates, but BJP, which joined hands with former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s SAD (Sanyukt), was yet to open its cards.AAP which has remained third during the last Assembly poll has gained some ground among the public. The BJP and its alliance partners till now has failed to declare their candidates.Five urban constituencies likely to have four-cornered contest as SAD had parted ways with old alliance partner — BJPAmritsar NorthCurrently represented by Congress candidate Sunil Datti, this particular constituency is being keenly watched upon. SAD has fielded former Cabinet minister and two-time MLA Anil Joshi after he joined the party following his expulsion from the BJP over farmers’ protest. He remained Local Bodies Minister besides holding the portfolio of Medical Education and Research Minister. A majority of development works in the area were carried out during his tenure as a minister and therefore he has a strong support base. AAP has fielded former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh from here. He is known as an honest man and his popularity among the masses will be a major factor during polling. Datti would also be facing some infighting from other ticket aspirants, including Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, who had unsuccessfully contested against Joshi from here. BJP and its alliance partners are yet to announce any candidate.Amritsar SouthLike Amritsar North, Amritsar South constituency is likely to have a close contest. It is currently being represented by Congress Inderbir Singh Bolaria. With three terms as an MLA from here, he is still considered a strong candidate. Against him is SAD’s Talbir Singh Gill, a close aide of former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia. Gill has been active in the constituency for quite a long time now and is giving a tough fight to him. He was seen holding demonstrations with people of the constituency over different issues especially police atrocities in the area. Last time, SAD had fielded Gurpartap Singh Tikka, district SAD president, who had remained third. AAP candidate Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar had remained second with 26.7 per cent votes. AAP has reposed faith in him again.Amritsar EastPunjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu represents the constituency. There seems no face with other political parties who could give a fight to him. Before him, his wife Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu represented the constituency in 2012. In the present scenario, it seems a cakewalk for the Congress from here. Nevertheless, the SAD and BJP are yet to announce names of their candidates. There are rumours of SAD fielding senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia from this constituency, though SAD leadership denied the same. AAP has fielded its district president Jeevanjot Kaur from here.Amritsar WestThis strongly remained a Congress party constituency. Currently, it is being represented by Raj Kumar Verka, who successfully contested from this seat twice in 2012 and 2017. Before him, Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni won in 2007 as a Congress candidate. Earlier, as per arrangement between SAD and the BJP, BJP’s candidate had contested from here. After parting ways, SAD has fielded Dalbir Singh Verka from here this time. Dalbir Verka had unsuccessfully contested from Jandiala constituency in 2017. He had won in 2007 from Verka Assembly seat, which was later rechristened as Amritsar East and given to BJP as per the arrangement. AAP’s Dr Jasbir Singh is contesting for the first time.Amritsar CentralRepresented by Deputy Chief Minister and five-time MLA Om Parkash Soni, this seat also seems to be an easy seat for the Congress. Soni won the seat twice since his candidature from here after Amritsar West constituency which he represented earlier was declared a reserved constituency. Earlier, Soni had won from Amritsar West three times, once on Congress ticket and twice as an Independent. He has strong support base and manages a good hold here. BJP’s national secretary Tarun Chugh had unsuccessfully contested against him. While BJP was yet to declare its candidate, SAD has given the seat to its alliance partner BSP. Former councillor Dalbir Kaur is contesting from the BSP, while AAP has reposed faith in its previous candidate Dr Ajay Gupta. Dalbir Kaur is the mother of notorious gangster-turned-‘priest’ Bhupinder Singh, alias Sonu Kangla, who has been facing trial in many criminal cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-assembly-poll-2022-it-wont-be-a-cakewalk-for-congress-to-repeat-its-2017-feat-362227
18-01-2022||---||Covid-19: Schools fear ending current academic year in online mode||Amritsar, January 17With the government extending the closure of schools and colleges in the state till January 25 due to rising Covid-19 cases, school heads feel that like last year, the academic situation has come back to square one, when an entire academic session was compromised due to the pandemic.Under the given situation, when the current count of Covid-19 cases in the district is about to touch the 1,000 mark, most schools are concerned about the health safety of students, though they do seek clarity over the issue from the government.“It still is a very tough situation for students and teachers alike. The state is in for elections next month and all other social activities continue without much change, but schools are the first ones to shut down and hence education is disrupted. It’s again examination season for senior secondary classes and once again the shift towards online learning is going to impact the learning process. However, we are helpless as health of students is also important and even if we open schools with restrictions, parents would be hesitant to send their wards for offline classes,” said Anita Bhalla, Principal, Bhavans SL Public School.The Government Girls’ Senior Secondary Smart School, Mall Road, had organised a vaccination camp for its students on Monday, with an aim to get 100 inoculations done. “We could only give 50 students vaccination as many students reportedly did not show up due to fever and other health issues. So, the fact remains that health safety must be considered before anything right now. Of course, the online classes are no replacement for offline learning as students have already suffered for two years,” shared Manpreet Kaur, Principal, GGSSSS, Mall Road. She expects the closure to continue till February.With GNDU announcing the conduct of online examinations, schools as well might take a similar approach if the closure extends till the next month. “It’s the most logical way of not wasting any more academic session. We are already adapted to online learning and examinations. With the third wave expected to continue for another month, according to experts, there is a big possibility that examinations, too, might be conducted in online mode,” said Upasna Mehra, Principal, The Senior Study II.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-schools-fear-ending-current-academic-year-in-online-mode-362215
18-01-2022||---||Amritsar district logs two more deaths, 555 new Covid cases||Amritsar, January 17With two deaths in the district due to Covid in the last 24 hours, the toll increased to 1,608 on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Rachna Kapoor, a 57-year-old woman from Basant Avenue and Bawinder Kaur (70) from Tilak Nagar.The district has also reported 555 positive cases with which the active caseload has further increased to 3,988. Of the cases reported on Monday, 470 are new cases, while 85 are contacts of positive patients. The district health authorities have also reported recovery of 242 patients on Monday, with which the total recovery count increased to 47,365.Meanwhile, the district Health Department has sped up the vaccination drive and a total of 25,581 residents were inoculated on Monday.Of these, 11,232 have received the first dose, 13,512 received the second dose and 837 received the booster dose.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said residents should get themselves vaccinated at the earliest.He said vaccination centres in the district were handling the rush of patients amicably and the entire process was hassle-free.He also advised people to take ample precautions against the virus and get themselves tested if they experience any symptoms associated with the disease. The health official said one should isolate him or her from other family members in case of any symptoms.One dies, 63 test positive in Tarn TaranA person succumbed to the virus in the district on Monday taking the toll to 383. The Health Department in a press release issued here on Monday said 63 persons tested positive taking the active caseload to 663 in the district. The teams of the department collected 1,361 samples to be tested for the virus symptoms from different centres. — OCThird dose mandatory for employees on election dutyAmritsar: In view of the Assembly election, the government has issued new guidelines regarding the precautionary dose of the Covid vaccine. Kulwant Singh, District Election Officer, Tarn Taran, said according to these new guidelines, all officers and employees who are on poll duty must be given the precautionary dose even if there was not a 9-month gap after the second dose. He said these guidelines have been issued in view of the Covid spread. He said the nine-month condition which applies on other residents would not apply on officers and employees who have been assigned duties related to election. Tarn Taran Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta also appealed to the officers and employees on duty to strictly follow these instructions and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour — wearing mask, using sanitiser and maintaining social distance while on duty. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-two-more-deaths-555-new-covid-cases-362212
18-01-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Congress in dilemma over Batala Assembly seat||Batala, January 17The Batala Assembly seat has become the bone of contention among various stakeholders, with senior Congress leaders failing to arrive at a consensus on the name of its candidate.In the past seven elections held since 1985, this seat was always the last one to be announced by the party. Interestingly, on all these seven occasions the final nod has always gone in favour of ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri, considered to be the party’s most prominent Hindu face in Gurdaspur district. This time, too, he is in contention and his name was expected to be on the first list of 86 nominees. Observers term the seat as the Achilles’ heel of the Congress as every time it is with much difficulty that the party arrives at a consensus.Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa was eyeing the territory. However, once his name was finalised from his old constituency, Sekhri should have been an automatic choice. However, his detractors have ensured he will have to fight every inch if he has to be re-nominated for the eighth successive time.Tripat’s son and Gurdaspur Zila Parishad Chairman, Ravi Nandan Bajwa, is also in the fray. In between this tug of war, the name of Rajinder Kumar Pappu Jaintipuria has cropped up. He was a close aide of Bikram Majithia before last month Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa pulled him to his side.In fact, Randhawa had accompanied him to Chandigarh where he was made to join the party in the presence of CM Charanjit Singh Channi. It is believed the CM is strongly backing Jaintipuria at the insistence of a US-based NRI.“Sekhri’s name was almost cleared but for the last minute push by the CM in favour of Jaintipuria,” said a leader engaged in distribution of tickets. Caste configurations have now come into play. A strong section of the leadership claims that like in the past, this time too Sekhri should be the candidate because “Batala is a predominantly a Hindu seat”.On December 27, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu at a rally held in Batala had openly declared the candidature of Sekhri.Tug of war: Many claimants                                     #AshwaniSekhri                                     #Batala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-in-dilemma-over-batala-362105
