20-01-2022||Amritsar||BSF seizes 7.25 kg heroin ‘air-dropped’ along Indo-Pak border||The Border Security Force (BSF) has seized 7.25 kg heroin, which is suspected to have been air-dropped from the neighbouring country, along the India-Pakistan international border in the Amritsar Sector, officials said on Thursday.In a statement, the BSF said a patrolling party heard the humming of a flying object on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.“Troops heard the sound of dropping from the flying object. The entire area was cordoned and in the morning a comprehensive search operation was launched,” the statement read.The troops fired at the flying object and also lit up the area with illumination bombs.It said seven packets of heroin, totally weighing 7.25 kg, were recovered.Further investigation is being carried out, the BSF stated. —                                     #Amritsar                                     #BSF                                     #Heroin                                     #Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-seizes-7-25-kg-heroin-air-dropped-along-indo-pak-border-362975
20-01-2022||Amritsar||Drone found near India-Pakistan border||Farmers to stage protest on Jan 31Amritsar: Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab, announced to stage a protest at the district headquarters on January 31 to get their pending demands accepted. The leaders met on Wednesday and said many demands that were accepted by the Centre have still not been implemented. Dhanwant Singh of the union said: “Demands like withdrawal of cases against farmer activists and sacking of Minister Ajay Mishra after the Lakhimpur Kheri incident were still pending.” He said as their union was not contesting the poll, they have decided to use the time to sensitise farmers about the issues being faced by agriculturists and unite them. TNSASHA workers up in armsTarn Taran: Members of the local unit of ASHA Workers and Facilitators Union, Punjab, held a protest in front of the Community Health Centre, Sarhali, on Wednesday against the removal of Sarabjit Kaur, an ASHA worker posted at sub-centre in Fatehabad, from her services. The protesters were led by Lakhwinder Kaur Narli and Nachhattar Singh, district president, Democratic Teachers’ Front, Punjab. They alleged that Sarabjit had been removed from her services by the SMO, CHC, Sarhali, under political pressure. The protesters warned that if her services were not reinstated, the protest would be intensified. The union members presented a memorandum to officials as the SMO was not present on duty. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-found-near-india-pakistan-border-362888
20-01-2022||A 100-yard stretch of the main road in Tarn Taran has become a bane for local residents. The road was dug for laying the sewerage pipeline six months ago. After the work was finished||Tarn Taran diary: Dilapidated 100-yard stretch cries for attention||Poll a litmus test for farmer organisationsThe forthcoming elections would be a litmus test for the farmers’ organisations in the district. They were divided over the issue of being a part of the poll. As many as 22 farmer organisations, under the leadership of Balbir Singh Ralewal, had entered the fray under the banner of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) which had declared the candidature of two out of the four seats of the district. The district has Tarn Taran, Patti, Khemkaran and Khadoor Sahib constituencies. Harjinder Singh Tanda from Khadoor Sahib and Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon from Tarn Taran have been declared as the SSM nominees. There were certain farmer organisations which had affiliation with one or the other political party. They had been fighting unsuccessful elections for the last decades directly or indirectly. These were the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha (RMPI), Kul Hind Kisan Sabha (CPI), Kirti Kisan Union and Kirti Kisan Union Punjab. The other farmer organisations, namely Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee, Punjab, Kisan Sangharash Committee Punjab (led by Kanwalpreet Pannu), Azad Kisan Sangharash Committee Punjab, Kisan Sangharash Committee Punjab (Kot Budha) too were existing in the district which are said to be non-political. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Urgahan), too had made its inroads during the Delhi agitation in the district. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee, Punjab, had its remarkable mass base among the farmers in the district. The name “Kisan Sangharash Committee” had become much popular among the farmers and other sections across the state. In 2000, a group of youths with the Left leaning ideology had formed Kisan Sangharash Committee, Punjab, with Kanwalpreet Pannu as its state convener only to fight for the farmers’ cause. The organisation faced a split in 2007. Similarly, other groups too were formed from the same organisation with the popular name of ‘Kisan Sangharsh Committee’. Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the KMSC, said, the organisation was not participating in the election as ideologically it is of the view that the elections were not the solution for the farmers’ problems and it would mislead their agitation. He said the organisation would not campaign in the favour of any candidate or the political party. Inderjit Singh Kot Budha, state president of the KSC (Kot Budha) also said the organisation too was not participating in the election fray. It is yet to be observed what would be the results of the present situation on the farmers’ unity. The present situation must put its shadow on the campaign of the candidates come in the fray.Sanyukt SaMaj morcha gets a shot in the armAn NRI medico Dr Swaiman Singh, hailing from Pakhoke village has taken the command of election campaign of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) in the district. During the farmers’ Delhi protest, Dr Swaiman Singh, who is settled in California (USA), came to the protest site to provide free medical services for a few days but due to his dedication for the farmers’ cause, he almost forgot to return to the USA. His family is well known in the political circles as Alwinderpal Singh Pakhoke, SGPC member, (former President of the SGPC too) is his uncle. He was in Tarn Taran a few days back at the time of opening of the election office of Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon, SSM candidate from Tarn Taran. Dr Swainam Singh is the main attraction among people. The SSM had declared the candidature of two of the four seats of the district, who are DR Sukhmandeep Singh (Tarn Taran) and Harjinder Singh Tanda (Khadoor Sahib).(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-dilapidated-100-yard-stretch-cries-for-attention-362883
20-01-2022||Amritsar||Students make it to INTACH finals||Chinmaya Vanprastha anniversaryThe 267th anniversary of Chinmaya Vanprastha was celebrated by the management of the Bhavans SL School. The Chinmaya Vanprastha is the senior citizen wing of the Chinmaya Mission, which aims to unite people above 60 years and helps them to make easier transition from mainstream life. Avinash Mahindru, chairman, Bhavans SL, said the school management had recently opened Bhavans Ashray, a shelter home for elderly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-make-it-to-intach-finals-362879
20-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Four AAP MLAs surrender in Tarn Taran court||Four AAP MLAs surrendered in a local court in a case registered against them by the Sadar police station on August 20, 2020, under Sections 188 of the CrPC, 269 of the IPC and 54 of the Disaster Management Act. The accused have been identified as Kulwant Singh, MLA Mehal Kalan (Barnala), Kultar Singh Sandhwan MLA (Kotkapura), Jai Krishan Rori MLA (Garshankar) and Manjit Singh Bilaspur MLA (Nihal Singh Wala), Manjinder Singh Lalpur from Tarn Taran area.The accused had gheraoed the local DC and SSP while protesting against the district administration during the lockdown period for not keeping a check on illicit liquor. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-four-aap-mlas-surrender-in-court-362877
20-01-2022||---||Students are being pushed into intellectual disadvantage, says DTF||Amritsar, January 19The Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) has strongly opposed the Punjab Government’s decision to close schools and colleges for students till January 25.Calling the government’s decision unreasonable, the DTF said it would exclude millions of students from teaching and learning process, like the previous year of pandemic.DTF state president Vikram Dev Singh and finance secretary Ashwani Awasthi said the rising number of cases due to fresh coronavirus wave and strict restrictions being imposed on it were irrational and contradictory.“While it is clear that Omicron infections are increasingly spreading, but why schools and colleges have been closed while every other institution is functioning with restrictions? Even the imperialist institutions such as the World Bank consider the closure of educational institutions as unreasonable and have advised against it,” said Ashwani Awasthi.DTF members said instead of strengthening public health facilities and privatisation and corporatisation in the health sector, full responsibility for combating any disease needs to be shifted to the government level.“But instead of doing so, school-college students are being pushed into intellectual disadvantage and disruption of education. The Punjab Government is imposing discriminatory and privatised online education to fill all vacancies in schools and colleges instead of strengthening the education system by recruiting new staff and retaining raw staff,” he said.The Democratic Teachers’ Front urged the Punjab Government to open all schools and colleges amid restrictions and instead speed up vaccination among 15 to 18-year-olds instead of depriving children of their right to education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-are-being-pushed-into-intellectual-disadvantage-says-dtf-362874
20-01-2022||Amritsar||ED, CBI mere tools in hands of government: Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla||MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla accused the AAP of being a proxy to the BJP and said a seizure of over Rs 10 crore from CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s kin might be a planted move.He, along with Raj Kumar Verka, a candidate, who is seeking re-election from the Amritsar West seat, unveiled the AICC’s programme for farmers, here on Wednesday. He said ED, CBI, Income tax and other such agencies were mere tools in the hands of the Central government. He alleged that the ED sleuths could have come with money and ‘got it planted at the raiding site’.Aujla also drew attention on the timing of the ED raid, which coincided with the announcement of Bhagwant Mann as CM face of the AAP. He added that AAP did not take part in the protests held against three farm laws. Though, they were held just in their backyard. Raj Kumar Verka alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had snatched land of 21,000 Punjabi farmers when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ed-cbi-mere-tools-in-hands-of-government-362872
20-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Kejriwal told to clear stand on how he will give regular jobs||Amritsar, January 19AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal had extended support to contractual employees before the Model Code of Conduct. Now, these employees and even opposition leaders are asking him to make his stand clear on giving them regular jobs after coming to power.Harpreet Singh, a member of the B Ed, TET Pass Union, says Kejriwal had voiced concern over agitating contractually appointed and even qualified but unemployed teachers in the state.He even quoted the Delhi model in his speeches. Now, it is the turn of his party to elaborate the plan on the hiring of teachers. He rued that qualified youth have been the biggest sufferers of the policies of successive governments whether the Akalis or the Congress.Kuljit Singh, a leader of the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said there are over 37,000 contractual employees working in the state government as well as in the state-owned boards and corporations across the state. They appreciated the gesture of Kejriwal, when he had participated in the protest of state government employees. These employees and their families look towards Kejriwal with a glint of hope in their eyes to resolve their economical problems.Opposition leader Lakshmi Kanta Chawla asked Kejriwal what would be the policy of his party towards workers employed on contract, outsourced and third party.She said the erstwhile Charanjit Singh Channi, Captain Amarinder Singh and Parkash Singh Badal governments completely disappointed the employees. These leaders hired more than 50,000 employees through various modes and assured them of regularisation after three years. However, even after serving for more than 15 years, these employees were employed as temporary workers.“These days, AAP supremo and his party leaders are making many announcements. So, in this light they should make their stand clear before the elections on the service sector.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kejriwal-told-to-clear-stand-on-how-he-will-give-regular-jobs-362871
20-01-2022||Amritsar||Fading heritage: Rambagh's boundary wall in ruins||Despite spending crores to beautify and restore the historical Rambagh, giving aesthetic makeover to it from inside and outside, the boundary wall of the garden, which was constructed some years ago to give it a heritage look, has got damaged from several points.The wall has been broken by trespassers and in-roads have been made to create easy access for entry.With no security to check violators and regular trespassing by drug addicts, anti-social elements, walls have been damaged and not repaired for the past few months now. The wall was found demolished on Malviya and Mall Road, recently, where prime commercial areas are situated across the historic garden.Rambagh, popularly known as the Company Bagh, was declared a national monument in 2004 after de-notifying the 40-kanal land for the construction of panorama. In 2006, a team of conservationists came across vital evidence at the garden as recorded in the ‘Gulgashat-e-Punjab’, manuscript of Tota Ram. The team also noticed that the total area of Rambagh was nearly 75 acre as compared to the popular belief that it was 84 acre.In 2015-16, under the HRIDAY (Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana) Scheme, gardens and its boundary walls were restored and beautification work was carried out with tribal paintings made on the outer boundary walls. A protected area, the garden has been falling prey to trespassing over the years, resulting in damage of walls and other property inside the garden. Authorities concerned have failed to check the damage and trespassing. — TNSLegend has itRam Bagh, popularly known as the Company Bagh, was declared a national monument in 2004 after de-notifying the 40-kanal land for the construction of panorama. In 2006, a team of conservationists came across vital evidence at the garden as recorded in the ‘Gulgashat-e-Punjab’, manuscript of Tota Ram. The team also noticed that the total area of Rambagh was nearly 75 acre as compared to the popular belief that it was 84 acre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fading-heritage-rambaghs-boundary-wall-in-ruins-362870
20-01-2022||---||Local issues take back seat in poll discourses||Amritsar, January 19As all political parties are leaving no stone unturned in keeping opponents out of power, the general public feels that local issues, especially lack of development and unbalanced development, have taken a back seat in the pursuit.While the political sloganeering has overshadowed the concerns of the common man, residents feel that political parties’ agenda should also include local issues.As the politicians are talking about big and floating lofty ideas, their lack of interest in taking up basic issues as better streets, clean and regular water supply, proper street lights is disheartening for residents of areas which are devoid of these civic amenities.“It is good that politicians are showing concern about bigger issues as economic health of the state but most localities in the city are still waiting for decent streets,” said Joginder Lal, a resident.Another resident, Harwant Singh, from the Sultanwind area said, “The politicians are not talking about sewerage lines, garbage heaps, lack of proper and economical public transport. For me, it’s a bad sign for the democracy as people want better living conditions.”The residents also complained that in the past the development works have been influenced by political reasons. They stated that unbalanced development in different city areas is quite visible but none of the political parties or candidates has ever made it an election issue.Kewal Singh, a retired transport department employee, said, “The corruption at government offices is rampant and no political party has ever tried to stop it.” He added that every time people hope that the new government would bring some change but it never happens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/local-issues-take-back-seat-in-poll-discourses-362869
20-01-2022||Neha Saini||Punjab poll expectations: PwDs seek stable jobs, accessible administrative system||Amritsar, January 19Noticing marked increase in voter registrations of persons with disabilities (PwD) this time, the Election Commission has committed itself to making the upcoming elections inclusive and accessible for them.In the district alone, 13,067 new PwD voters registered to exercise their right to vote in the upcoming Assembly poll, which is a significant increase from 6,101 PwDs registered during the 2019 General Elections. The district administration has launched project Samman (honour), with a punch line “Aao Vote Paun Chaliye” to encourage and facilitate PwD voters to cast their vote.A mobile application for PwD voters has also been launched, which will help them in accessing information regarding polling booths, availability or request for wheelchairs on polling day, identification of PwD voters, availability of ramps, wheelchairs, drinking water, toilets, parking facilities etc. with signs marked.But just as all preparations are being made to make the elections ‘inclusive’, PwD voters feel that the political system, too, needs to direct its attention towards issues that this particular segment of voters face.“There has never been an attempt made from political class to merge PwDs into the mainstream politics. With almost no representation politically, largely this segment of voters has been limited to just a vote bank. There must be a quota made mandatory for political parties to include PwD candidates. There are a lot of issues regarding persons with disabilities that need to be taken up including employment and accessibility issues. But no one talks about that,” shares Dr Sunil Kumar, Associate Professor, department of Hindi, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, nodal officer, equal opportunity cell for PWDs. As a PwD voter, Dr Sunil says that Punjab has a huge backlog to clear in terms of vacancies in public sector for people with disabilities.“Despite 5 per cent reservation for skilled PwDs, the state has not been able to fill vacancies in government sector. Welfare schemes including scholarships, fee concessions or even acquiring a disability certificate is a hassle. According to the CBSE guidelines, every school needs to have a post of special educator, but only a few government schools have made appointments in this regard, making it difficult for even educated, skilled PwDs to get job security,” he adds.Another demand that remains unfulfilled among PwD voters is the consistent implementation of the disability pension scheme under the Directorate of Social Security and Women and Child Development.A pension of Rs250 is given every month to a person with disability of 18 years and above. Monthly income of the disabled person should not exceed Rs1,000 in case of an individual.“The state leadership has failed to empower people with disabilities. Like in many states, a separate department for empowerment of people with disabilities must be set up, just like chief commissioner for PwD, to ensure that the guidelines under welfare schemes are followed in regard to PwDs and infrastructural lacunas are filled in time,” says Payal, another PwD voter from the city.Kavish Khanna, 21, a first-time PwD voter, who is excited to exercise his vote, says that for young PwD voters, employment is a big issue to judge the calibre of a government. “As a voter, my core concern is job security and infrastructural development keeping in mind accessibility issues for PwDs. The government representatives must work to identify stable jobs for PwDs.”As a voter, my core concern is job security and infrastructural development keeping in mind accessibility issues for PwDs. The government representatives must work to identify stable jobs for PwDs. — Kavish Khanna, a first-time PwD voter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poll-expectations-pwds-seek-stable-jobs-accessible-administrative-system-362868
20-01-2022||---||Will win 80 seats & form stable govt in Punjab, says Sukhbir Badal||Tarn Taran, January 19SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal claimed that SAD will win 80 seats in the 117-member Vidhan Sabha in the forthcoming election and form a stable government in the state.He was here to address a gathering convened by prominent Congress leaders, who declared to join SAD.Speaking on the occasion, the SAD president made a scathing attack on the Congress government in the state and on AAP for their style of functioning. He said corruption had crossed all limits in the state at present as had been proved in the recent raids conducted by the ED on the places of the near and dear ones of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. He said PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu was blackmailing the party high command by threatening to quit and creating troubles in his style of working.Badal said AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal had humiliated Bhagwant Mann many a times in one or the other way. He called AAP supremo an outsider, who had no affection with Punjab. Prominent Congress leaders who joined SAD were Gurminder Singh Rataul (PPCC secretary), Vijay Pal Chaudhry, Jagdish Kumar Muradpur and Anita Kumari Verma among others. They were appointed as state-level party office-bearers by Sukhbir Singh Badal.Members of three gram panchayats of the area, who had allegiance to the Congress, too, joined SAD on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-win-80-seats-form-stable-govt-in-punjab-says-sukhbir-badal-362867
20-01-2022||---||Rs 11.45L looted from bank in Ramdas area||Amritsar, January 19Four unidentified armed miscreants robbed Rs11.45 lakh from a cooperative bank at Nanoke Sudhar village, near Ramdas, on Wednesday. The robbers, who came in an i-20 car, snatched the pistol of the bank guard and hit him on the forehead leaving him injured.In his statement, Gurdev Singh said four persons came in a car around 3.30 pm. Two of them alighted and entered the bank. They asked where the deposit forms were. When the guard moved towards the help desk to get the form, the persons who were in the car also came inside.One of the robbers took his pistol and hit him with its rear side on his forehead. The guard received a deep injury. They took his gun in their custody.Then, the robbers asked the bank staff to line up and one of them reached the cash counter. He collected the cash from the box. Another robber took the DVR of the CCTV cameras installed at the bank. Within a few minutes, the robbers looted Rs11.45 lakh and left.Major Singh, SHO police station Ramdas, said: “We are collecting the CCTV footage of nearby establishments. The accused would be nabbed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-45l-looted-from-bank-in-ramdas-area-362866
20-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar: No polarisation on caste lines in the region, believe experts||Amritsar, January 19If experts are to be believed, apart from the Congress appointing a ‘Dalit CM’ and the BSP’s alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to woo Dalit votes, there ain’t no polarisation in favour of any political party in the region.There were assumptions that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may adopt the Haryana model to tap “Jatt dominance” in the region with a coalition of non-Jatt castes. However, the BJP is itself struggling for its space in the Dalit community. No major Dalit face has joined the party so far.A few months ago, it was being propagated that Dalits were being ignored by the mainstream political parties as no party had appointed a Dalit CM for Punjab. The SAD had announced to appoint Dalit deputy CM. Meanwhile, Congress came up with Charanjit Singh Channi’s name as the CM of Punjab and satisfied the aspiration of the community.Now, the Congress is again divided as to who the next CM face would be. Instead of annoying the Dalit community by not announcing Channi as the CM face, Congress has decided to contest the elections without a CM face.“The voters in Punjab don’t think on communal and caste lines like that in UP and Haryana. Here, the vote dynamics are different. People from all religions, castes and social groups had supported the farm agitation against the three agri laws. Fortunately, voters in the region are not caste conscious. It is good for a healthy democracy. They are looking for a change keeping development in mind,” said advocate Vishav Luthra.Professor Amandeep Singh Gill, a political expert, said: “With the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM of Punjab, the Congress would definitely get some benefit. The Dalits in Majha region (rural), who were earlier with SAD, would now tilt toward the Congress. The BJP’s plan to polarise the Dalit votes has not succeeded.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-polarisation-on-caste-lines-in-the-region-believe-experts-362865
20-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||PUNJAB POLL 2022: Amidst ban on political rallies, candidates take to social media||Amritsar, January 19Amid ban on political rallies and large gatherings, candidates of all political parties have adopted social media in a big way. Many of them have hired IT professionals to put across their point of view.Cricketer-turned-commentator-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, president of the PPCC, who is seeking re-election from the Amritsar East Assembly constituency, was the first among the elected leaders from this border district to accept social media in a big way to further his point of view on burning topics. He introduced a separate IT cell at his local office to run the affairs on social media. He had even introduced a YouTube channel ‘Jittega Punjab’ (Punjab will win) in March 2020, where he liberally spoke on the opening of Kartarpur corridor, controversial three farming laws, progress model for state among other things.Aditya Dutti, son of Sunil Dutti, incumbent MLA who is seeking re-election from the North seat, said they did set up an IT cell but to distribute voter slips to the electorate of the constituency. Besides, he did not deny the fact that they were operating a Facebook page to update the constituency voters about the movement of their leader and his activities in the constituency. He said they were also disseminating text and video messages on WhatsApp groups.The significance of social media has not lost even in those constituencies, where several slum, semi-urban and under-developed localities are situated. For instance, in South constituency, leaders including Inderbir Singh Bolaria of the Congress, Inderbir Singh Nijjar of AAP, Talbir Singh Gill of SAD are taking assistance of social media apps to reach out to voters. In the West constituency, Raj Kumar Verka of the Congress, Dr Dalbir Singh of SAD and Jasbir Singh of AAP are utilising Facebook and WhatsApp groups to put across their ideas to influence the thought process of voters. Verka said all development works and activities in the constituency were being highlighted on social media groups to connect with voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-poll-2022-amidst-ban-on-political-rallies-candidates-take-to-social-media-362864
20-01-2022||---||7 succumb to virus in Amritsar district, 471 test positive in last 24 hrs||Amritsar, January 19In a worrisome development, the district reported seven deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, the toll due to the disease has increased to 1,615. The district health authorities have also reported 471 positive cases in the last 24 hours.The deceased have been identified as Avtar Singh, an 80-year-old resident of Green Avenue; Jaswnt Singh (72) of Green Valley, Batala Road; Kundan Singh (60) of Lopoke village; Manjit Kaur (48) of Bahadur Nagar, Sultanwind Road; Satpal Singh (62) of Nehru Colony, Majitha Road; Sewa Singh (80) of Chappa Ram Singh village and Rajeev Kumar (32) of Kot Khalsa.The cases reported on Wednesday include 423 new cases and 48 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities have also reported recovery of 480 cases, with which the total recovery count increased to 48,300. The district at present has a total of 4,129 active cases.Meanwhile, the Health Department has stepped up vigilance to identify suspected patients. For the purpose, Covid-testing centres have been set up at the entrances of Government Medical College, where all visitors, including patients and their attendants, would be tested.The health authorities said as a large number of sick people were reporting at hospitals, it was required that visitors are tested and suspected cases isolated from others to check the chances of the spread of the virus.As the situation is turning bad with each passing day, shopping malls in the city have also stopped the entry of those who have not been vaccinated. Visitors are required to show the vaccination certificate at the entrance to gain entry. The district administration officials said the situation was being keenly watched and residents were required to take ample precautions.118 positive in Tarn TaranAs many as 118 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases to 824. The Health Department authorities said the department was yet to receive the report of 727 samples from laboratories. As many as 383 citizens have succumbed to the virus in the district so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-471-test-ve-in-last-24-hrs-362863
20-01-2022||Amritsar||UAE attack: Kin urge NGO to airlift body of Amritsar man||A youth from Mahisampur village in Rayya was killed in a drone attack at an oil facility in Abu Dhabi among two others on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Hardeep Singh (26) of Mahisampur village.Balwinder Singh, father of Hardeep, had also died sometime ago. Hardeep was the only son of parents and had married a few months ago.Hardeep was supposed to land in Amritsar today. He also got a Canadian visa as his wife was settled in Canada. The relatives urged the Sarbat Da Bhala Trust to airlift Hardeep’s body. The deceased is survived by his mother and wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uae-attack-kin-urge-ngo-to-airlift-body-362731
