22-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Nurse robbed of car at gunpoint||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-nurse-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint-363473
22-01-2022||Amritsar||Congress anxious after raids on Channi's kin: Bikram Majithia||Congress High Command seemed nervous with raids conducted by the ED on premises of nephew of Punjab CM Charanjit Channi and these raids have proved that share of loot was going to High Command. This was shared by former Cabinet Minister and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia while taking to media here on Friday. He said the CM projected himself doing humble jobs, though he got exposed when the ED has recovered more than cash besides gold from his kin.                                      #BikramMajithia                                     #CharanjitChanni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-anxious-after-raids-on-channis-kin-363471
22-01-2022||Amritsar||Interactive talk at BBK DAV College for Women, Amritsar||Students bag jobs in AccentureIn an online campus placement drive under way at DAV College, as many as nine students of the institution have been selected by an Irish-domiciled multinational company Accenture at a package of Rs 3.35 lakhs per annum. Expressing happiness over it, Dr Rajesh Kumar, Principal said, “This was indeed a matter pride as well as satisfaction that the DAV students were bagging good job offers and that too on lucrative packages by the international firms at a time when millions have lost their jobs due Covid-19 pandemic”. Of the total nine students, five students are of BCA, one from BSc IT, one each from BBA, B Com, BSc (CSc ) for the role of System and Application Services Associate.Apply for self-employment coursesThe Lifelong Learning Department of GNDU opened admissions to the self-employment, skill-based courses on a priority basis. Class X and XII pass boys and girls (without age limit) can apply for the courses till January 31, 2022. Six-month Certificate Courses in Cutting and Tailoring (for 10th pass girls), Beauty Culture (for 10th pass girls), Web Designing (for 12th pass boys and girls), English Speaking and Communication Skills are being started along with Computer Basic Concept. The head of the department, Dr Saroj Bala said that the candidates interested in getting admission in these courses can fill up the online application form on the website of GNDU at www.gandu.ch.ni/lidiolong/doult.uspan till January 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interactive-talk-at-bbk-dav-college-363470
22-01-2022||---||Amritsar: BRTS staff strike enters 32nd day||Amritsar, January 21The strike of members of the BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association entered 32nd day on Friday. The drivers have been protesting against the private firm which operates the Metro buses. The drivers claimed that the company had promised to increase their salary from Rs14,000 to Rs17,000 a few months ago.Davinder Singh, chief, BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association, said: “Then MC Commissioner MS Jaggi was present in the meeting, when the firm had promised to increase our salaries. They didn’t fulfil their promise, thus we launched an agitation. We are asking the government to replace the firm.”Around 215 drivers operate 90 buses on the 35-km BRTS route. The Metro bus was getting good response after the authorities revised the fare. The employees have been sitting on dharna outside the bus terminal at Verka Vallah bypass. As a result, passengers, especially pass holders, are a harried lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-brts-staff-strike-enters-32nd-day-363469
22-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar-based traders pin hopes on Union Budget for impetus||Amritsar, January 21Ahead of the Assembly election and the Union Budget, city-based manufacturing industries have been looking forward to the financial assistance to help bolster their trade.Samir Jain, secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said, both manufacturing and trade were once again affected by the third wave of Covid, so the MSME sector rightfully deserved a relief package from the Union Budget.He urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to provide relief package to the affected businesses in view of the third wave of covid-19 and Omicron.Various sectors of business were affected in the third wave of Covid-19, such as tourism, retail, wholesale trade, real estate and manufacturing.The PPBM in a letter to Nirmala Sitaraman demanded that Punjab should be given a special economic package on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal. On the lines of corporate tax; partnership companies should also be extended a rebate on tax. Partnership and other companies being run by small household are being taxed at 30 percent while the corporate companies are being charged 22 percent tax. It sought a relief package in the budget for the MSME sector. Pension to every income tax taxpayer after attaining 60 years of age, this pension should be determined at the rate of income tax deposited by the taxpayer.Raman Gupta, a leading pharmaceutical exporter, said, the state in general and the border district in particular required fiscal stimulus. Around 6,521 items are being exported out of the state and the contribution of the district is considerable in this regard.Among the goods being exported from here, major share is of basmati rice. Arab countries being the major customers of the locally grown Basmati. Chess and plant extracts for medicine are being exported to especially developed and European countries.The city is also a manufacturing hub of printing and packaging industries, textile, winter textile, wood screw, nail, imitation jewellery and many more who wish to come out of the GST setback by the government support.Seek special economic packageThe PPBM, in a letter to Nirmala Sitharaman, has demanded that Punjab should be given a special economic package on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal. On the lines of corporate tax; partnership companies should also be extended a rebate on tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-traders-pin-hopes-on-union-budget-for-impetus-363468
22-01-2022||---||Amritsar: District public library makes education accessible to all||Amritsar, January 21With online studies now becoming a norm with colleges and schools being shut due to Covid-19, students from rural areas are yet again facing the challenge of accessing online learning without disruption. And in this endeavor, public libraries seem to be the most important link.District library, which has now been shifted to the administrative building, has been filling-up the absence of public libraries in rural areas, providing online learning access and literature to students preparing for competitive exams and otherwise. Library education has been promoted in the previous year among school and colleges students from border rural population, who do not have proper internet access. But lack of infrastructure, has once again become the biggest hurdle.“A lot of students from rural areas travel to city to make use of our library for literature and online facilities. We have created a bank of educative and academic content for students, who do not have any library nearby. But the discourse has been disrupted as power connection to the library remains suspended ever since the shift from old premises at Rani ka Bagh three months back,” said Prabhjot Sandhu, district librarian. She said many students, who are regular members and visitors to the library, have been facing the problem of having access to learning material online due to no power and reading room facilities too have been hit.“There is only one public library in the district with online learning facility and access to e-books and rural areas too do not have any other library where students can go. With schools and colleges closed again, it is important to keep them connected to reading and provide learning material that they need. Many had struggled with education in these conditions; everyone understood the importance of free public library. But without power, that benefit is denied,” she said. Understanding the challenge of not having public libraries with adequate learning material to help children in rural areas, FICCI FLO’s city chapter too has come forward with a collaboration with the Local Police Department and volunteers to set up small public libraries. These libraries will be set up in different villages and in city, equipped with a computer and other requirements.“During the pandemic, many have realised how public libraries have become a valuable resource centre, especially for the marginalised section of the society. Not many schools across the rural border belt have libraries and even so, with educational institutions now closed, they cannot have access to them. In such a scenario, public libraries can become learning centres for students and people of all ages,” said Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-public-library-makes-education-accessible-to-all-363467
22-01-2022||---||70 round-the-clock checkpoints across Amritsar||Amritsar, January 21In view of the upcoming Assembly poll and the Republic Day celebrations, the police have set up as many as 70 checkpoints in and outer areas of the city. Cops, along with the paramilitary force jawans, would remain present at these checkpoints round-the-clock.D Sudervizhi, Joint Commissioner of Police, today, supervised a special checkpoint near the India Gate on Chheharta Bypass Chowk here. She was accompanied by Assistant Commissioner of Police, Tushar Gupta and ACP Ravi Kumar and ACP Gurinderbir Singh. Vehicles were checked while suspicious elements were questioned at the naka. The police noted down the details of the vehicles moving in and out of the city, including goods carriers and auto-rickshaws.Sudervizhi said in order to ensure a peaceful atmosphere, the police were also conducting search operations, flag march and foot patrolling in the sensitive areas. She said CCTV cameras were keeping an eye on the movement of suspicious vehicles moving on the roads. She urged people to cooperate with the police force in maintaining law and order and a peaceful atmosphere. She asked them to share the information of suspicious persons roaming in their areas.She said the police were also keeping an eye on the visitors staying at inns, guest houses, hotels and paying guest. The police have been on toes with the repeated instances of seizure of RDX, explosives, weapons and IED being smuggled from ISI supported anti-national elements in Pakistan. Today also, RDX was seized in Gurdaspur while a few days ago, STF for drugs had seized an IED from Bachiwind border village area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/70-round-the-clock-checkpoints-across-amritsar-363465
22-01-2022||---||Two nabbed with weapons in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 21The police on Thursday nabbed two persons, including an accomplice of notorious gangster-turned-priest Bhupinder Singh, alias Sonu Kangla, for allegedly possessing weapon.Prabhjit Singh (one of those arrested), a resident of Sher Singh Colony located on the Tarn Taran road, was held for allegedly possessing a pistol along with live cartridges at a naka. The police said he was told to deposit the weapon either at the police station or with respective gun house, but the accused did not bother about doing so.“Moreover, his arms licence had also expired around six months ago and he had not got it renewed,” said Sub-Inspector Shamsher Singh. The police recovered a .32 bore pistol along with 20 bullets from his possession at a checkpoint.He said the district administration and the Police Commissioner had banned carrying of weapons in view of the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct, but Prabhjit did not care to follow the order and therefore a case was registered against him.A case under Section 188 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the accused for violating the orders promulgated by the Police Commissioner.Meanwhile, the police arrested another youth, Jatin Arora, a resident of Himmatpura locality opposite Gilwali Gate, and recovered an illegal weapon along with four bullets from his possession. He said the weapon had the mark (KF 7.65 made in Italy).Assistant Sub-Inspector Raj Kumar, in-charge, Gujjarpura police chowki, falling under the Division C police station, said Jatin had two criminal cases registered against him.In October last year, he was arrested along with notorious criminal-turned-priest Bhupinder Singh in Chatiwind police station area. The police had recovered two Chinese semi-automatic pistols with 20 rounds at that time from their possession. Currently he was out on bail.Firing in Lodhigujjar village, 4 bookedThe Lopoke police have booked four persons for firing in Lodhigujjar village here two days ago. Those booked have been identified as Nirmal Singh, his son Ranjit Singh, both residents of Lodhigujjar village, Rupinder Kaur of Dehriwal village and Harmandeep Singh of Lodhigujjar village.Baljinder Kaur, wife of late Ravinder Singh, the complainant, told the police that accused Nirmal Singh was her father-in-law and wanted to live with them, but they did not want to. She said on Wednesday late evening, he came to her house and said they would have to face consequences for not allowing to live with them.She said her son Komaldeep and her brother-in-law Navjeet Singh also reached the spot. She said in the meantime, an SUV came to the spot and four armed persons alighted from it. She said the accused started firing at them and her son and brother-in-law had a narrow escape in the firing. She said later, her father-in-law Nirmal Singh, along with unknown assailants, fled from the scene.The police have registered a case under Sections 336, 506, 120-B, 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the four suspects and raids were on to nab them. Further investigations were under progress, said the police authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-weapons-in-amritsar-363464
22-01-2022||---||Amritsar district reports four deaths, 487 cases||Amritsar, January 21After mounting figures of Covid-19, casualties are also rising each day. As many as 487 fresh cases and four deaths, which were eight yesterday, were reported on Friday. The death toll rose to 1,627 and the total number of positive cases now stand at 55,056.The deceased have been identified as Mukhtar Singh (87) of Bhorshi Rajputan village, Jagir Kaur (95) of Greenland Colony, Vicky (35) of Housing Board colony and Ajit Singh (62) of Jagdev Kalan village. The health authorities have also reported recovery of 448 cases today, with which the recovery count increased to 49,479.The district presently has a total of 3,950 active cases. Meanwhile, the Health Department has stepped-up the vaccination drive as 25,497 persons were vaccinated on Friday. It took the total number of people vaccinated with both doses to 25,14,387.Tarn Taran reports 229 casesAs many as 229 Covid positive cases were detected in the district on Friday. The number of active cases has reached 959. The death toll stands at 383. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said the Health Department teams collected 1,776 samples from different parts of the district on Friday. As many as 8,188 citizens have been given jabs on Friday. A total number of 10,13,019 persons have received the doses so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-four-deaths-487-cases-363463
22-01-2022||---||AAP accuses Punjab government of pruning security of Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh||Amritsar, January 21The district Aam Aadmi Party unit has alleged that the security cover of the party’s North candidate former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh has been compromised with by reducing the number of security personnel. Leaders and workers of the party has sought guarantee of his well-being from the government.AAP North spokespersons Arvinder Bhatti, Shukrat Kalra, Rajinder Palah, Ravinder Sharma and district media in-charge Vikramjit Vicky on Friday said the security of the former cop-turned-politician, who is the AAP candidate from the North constituency, had been reduced.Bhatti said Kunwar was known as a formidable cop who tightened the noose around gangsters during his tenure. So he feared that reducing Kunwar’s security cover could make him vulnerable to anti-social elements. He said a written complaint had also been shot off to the DGP and the Election Commission in this regard.Shukrat Kalra and Rajinder Palah accused Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of carelessness being shown to the security of Kunwar. In case any untoward incident happened to Kunwar, it would be the sole responsibility of the Home Minister, they alleged.Shukrat Kalra stated that growing popularity of Kunwar in the northern constituency was causing heartburn among the opposition.He alleged that from reliable sources it was learnt that a conspiracy to defame Kunwar had been hatched as per which a call recording of a jailed gangster promising help to Kunwar during the poll could go viral. Then it could be used by his opponents for bad publicity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-accuses-punjab-government-of-pruning-security-of-kunwar-partap-363462
22-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amid Covid infections, Punjab Congress devises novel way to reach poor voters||Amritsar, January 21Though the political rallies and public meetings are restricted due to the outbreak of the third wave of Covid-19, the political parties are adopting alternative modes for the election campaigns.The Congress party in the Majha belt has hired publicity vans, equipped with LEDs, to propagate its policies.Goods vehicles have been modified to install the LEDs to play political videos. Such vans are being deployed in rural constituencies such as Fatehgarh Churain.Generally, it is stationed in a village for two to four hours and plays documentary movies on the development work conducted during the Congress regime, the attitude of BJP and SAD during the farm agitation and poll manifesto. Rural people are showing interest in the movies being displayed on the LEDs.“After the Covid-19 restriction, the candidates and political leaders are not able to conduct public meetings. These vans are good to share their message. Villagers have been showing interest in these videos as it provides interesting political insights,” said Raju, a resident of Kala Afgana.As the political parties are well aware that a large section of rural society does not have smartphones and without political rallies and public meetings, those voters, especially from economically weaker section, cannot be approached. These publicity vans are stationed in the localities of the weaker sections so that they also get information about the ongoing political discourse.“Well-off sections of society read newspapers, watch TV channels and are active on social media platforms. Most of the time they don’t attend any political rally or meeting to support any leader of the party. But people from economically weaker section don’t have time and privilege to get these modes so the political party contact them physically.The LED-equipped vans may help political parties to express their views in front of voters,” said Navdeep Singh, a political activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-infections-cong-devises-novel-way-to-reach-poor-voters-363461
22-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||BJP fields first-timer Sukhminder Singh Pintu from Amritsar North||Amritsar, January 21With the BJP announcing a first-timer, Sukhminder Singh Pintu, as their candidate from the Amritsar North constituency here on Friday, it is likely to witness a four-cornered contest from here.The SAD-BSP alliance has fielded former Punjab cabinet minister Anil Joshi while former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh is contesting from the AAP. Sitting MLA Sunil Datti is a Congress candidate.Pintu has been among the strong supporters of Anil Joshi and enjoys a solid support base in the constituency. However, Joshi later joined the SAD after he was expelled by the BJP for anti-party activities for openly supporting the farmers’ agitation in Delhi.He remained a municipal councillor from Ward No.51 two times (in 2007 and 2012) while in the previous MC elections in 2017, the ward was declared reserved and hence his mother contested the poll and is currently a sitting municipal councillor. In 2012, Pintu had won the election by a big margin.Pintu, who is at present district general secretary of the party, said he would try his best to bring the seat in the party’s kitty by winning from the constituency considered to have a strong Hindu base. “I’ll try my best to live up to the expectations of the party by winning from the seat,” he said.Amritsar North constituency is considered a strong Hindu belt while the SAD never had any strong base here.Suresh Mahajan, district BJP president and one of the aspirants for the party ticket from here, said every party worker would be standing with Pintu shoulder to shoulder and they would campaign in his favour with all available resources to ensure his win.“Party is supreme and it has given the responsibility to Pintu and we are standing by him,” he said. About the party’s prospects from here, especially against Anil Joshi, he said the party had a strong cadre in the constituency. He expressed hope that the BJP would win from the seat by defeating other rival candidates. His supporters were elated and danced to the beat of dhols, besides distributing sweets after his name was announced during a press conference by the party high command in Delhi.Meanwhile, Navreet Singh Safipur (55), who has been declared a BJP candidate from the Tarn Taran constituency, is the first-time contender. He belongs to a farmer’s family of Safipur village in Tarn Taran. He would fight against three-time MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu of the SAD, present MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri of the Congress party, Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal of the AAP and Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon of the SSM. Navreet Singh did his graduation from the local SGAD Government College.He entered the BJP fold with the initiative of former BJP leader Anil Joshi who joined SAD after his expulsion from the party last year. He was appointed the district president from 2013-16. He got premature retirement from the post of branch manager of Co-Operative Bank. He is considered a humble leader as compared to other candidates. The Tarn Taran constituency is considered a Panthic seat, which had not even a single municipal councillor or a sarpanch, block samiti or Zila Parishad member from the BJP.Manjinder Singh Lalpura AAP candidate from Khadoor Sahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-fields-first-timer-sukhminder-singh-pintu-from-amritsar-north-363460
22-01-2022||Amritsar||Central Sikh Museum in Golden Temple to have 2 Behbal Kalan police firing victims' portraits||The portraits of two persons killed in police firing during a peaceful protest against the sacrilege incidents at Behbal Kalan will be installed at the Central Sikh Museum in Golden Temple complex. A decision to this effect was taken by the SGPC executive body during a meeting chaired by president Harjinder Singh Dhami.The move is being seen as an attempt to tone down the heat being faced by the SAD as the two were killed in 2015 during the party regime.                                     #BehbalKalan                                     #GoldenTemple                                     #sacrilege                                     #SGPC                                     #SikhMuseum||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-museum-to-have-2-behbal-victims-portraits-363382
22-01-2022||Moga/Amritsar||2 killed in drone attack in United Arab Emirates cremated in Punjab||The mortal remains of two Indians killed in the United Arab Emirates on January 17 in a suspected drone attack by Iran-based Houthis reached Amritsar on Friday and were cremated at their native villages.The deceased, Hardeep Singh of Mehsampur Khurd village in Rayya block of Amritsar and Hardev Singh of Nathoke village near Baghapurana in Moga, were employees of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. They were killed and six others were injured in a drone attack claimed by Houthi rebels in YemenThe bodies of the two Punjab youths reached at the international airport in Amritsar in the afternoon, where they were handed over to the family members for cremation and performing last rites.Sukhdev Singh, brother of Hardev, along with other family members received the body from the airport authorities. Hardev was married and is survived by his wife and a 4-year-old son.On the other hand, as per the reports received from Amritsar, Kanupriya Kaur received her husband Hardeep Singh’s body, which was taken to Mahisampur village for cremation, which was performed in the evening. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-killed-in-drone-attack-in-united-arab-emirates-cremated-363380
