23-01-2022||IIM strikes 100% placement||IIM strikes 100% placement||Amritsar: IIM, Amritsar, achieved 100 per cent placement for the MBA batch of 2020-22. The average cost-to-company figure achieved this year was Rs14.63 LPA and the average for the top-quartile came out to Rs18.54 LPA. Over 230 offers were made by 110 companies that visited IIM, Amritsar, while teams from IIM, Amritsar, achieved podium place in prestigious national-level competitions such as Hero Campus Challenge 7.0, Flipkart WiRED, GMC, Mi Summit 3.0, Valuation Olympiad (Global Banking Challenge, London), VIP GEAR.Voter awareness campaignDAV College’s NSS unit performed a range of cultural programmes, including music, dance, and drama in various areas to encourage people to vote in the upcoming elections. We are holding such campaigns to create awareness during the election time. This helps create awareness of the democratic process among students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-strikes-100-placement-363710
23-01-2022||The Red Cross De-addiction Centre on the Gurdaspur-Sri Hargobindpur road is once again in the news. Owing to the Covid-induced restrictions||Covid hits rehabilitation of drug addicts||Ex-BJP MLA Sita Ram Kashyap passes awayLife in Dinanagar on Friday began with a sad news.Ex-BJP MLA Sita Ram Kashyap (84), who had endeared himself to his constituents by doing yeoman’s service during his stint as a legislator from 2007 till 2012, died in his sleep. Residents would not believe that Kashyap was no more till the social media announced his demise. His son, Vikas, said his father was suffering from age-related ailments but he had no serious medical problems. An immensely likable personality, people from all walks of life gathered at his residence, to pay their last respects. Obituaries poured in from administration officials as well as BJP big wigs. Politicians cut across party lines to pay their last respects. His daughter-in-law Renu Kashyap is a school teacher and is in the reckoning for the BJP ticket from the Dinanagar assembly seat. “My father-in-law did a lot for his constituency. We all have to die some day or the other. The goal is not to live forever, the goal is to do something creative that will live on forever,” she said.Ticket allocation rattles Congress leaderLast week, when the Congress announced the candidature of Mandeep Singh Rangar Nangal from the reserved seat of Rangar Nangal, there were many who claimed they had never heard of the man. In fact, his candidature was propped up and backed by Cabinet minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa. The moment his name was officially announced, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa held an impressive gathering and told all and sundry that, “Mandeep was not a good choice. He has been named without consulting me. I am asking for a review. There are several contenders better suited for the ticket than him.”(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-hits-rehabilitation-of-drug-addicts-363709
23-01-2022||---||Chief Khalsa Diwan to open 5 new schools, offer NDA coaching classes||Amritsar, January 22The Chief Khalsa Diwan on Saturday organised a meeting of the working committee and general house at Gurdwara Sri Kalgidhar Sahib. As many as 100 members of the CKD working committees attended the meeting. Condolences were read out to the late Chief Khalsa Diwan members Col. Narsher Singh and orthopaedic surgeon Dr Hardas Singh before the commencement of the meeting.Among several decisions taken, the CKD approved a five-member committee to commence the NDA classes in collaboration with the Educational Committee at Sri Guru Harkrishan CKD School of Excellence. The classes will be provided at a minimal fee and free of cost for needy students. Nirmal Singh, president, CKD, highlighted the ongoing development works of CKD schools, as he proposed to open five new schools under the Chief Khalsa Diwan within two years. A five-member committee to survey the land being donated by the donors for the construction of these schools at proposed sites was also constituted.During the meeting, it was decided to install a solar system in all CKD schools while CKD members Avtar Singh and Satnam Singh were re-elected as Chief Khalsa Diwan members.                                     #CKD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chief-khalsa-diwan-to-open-5-new-schools-offer-nda-coaching-classes-363707
23-01-2022||---||Protesting teachers meet AAP leaders||Amritsar, January 22A delegation of teachers from the PCCTU and the PFUCTO on Saturday met leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party, including the CM-candidate Bhagwant Mann, to submit their demands and got assurance that it will be part of AAP’s election manifesto. The delegation of teachers also met AAP leaders Dr Ajay Gupta and Dr Nizar, to raise their demands for implementation of the wages under the 7th Pay Commission.After the implementation of the poll code, teachers have decided to campaign against the Congress. The teachers also held door-to-door rallies on the policies of the government and distributed pamphlets regarding their demands.Members of the PCCTU had even announced to boycott the Congress. Dr BB Yadav, area in charge, GNDU and Dr Gurdas Sekhon, district president, PFUCTO, said, “We have been failed by all education ministers before Pargat Singh. First Aruna Chaudhary, then Vijay Indra Singla also wanted to solve our issues by holding meetings with teachers, but could not. Pargat Singh himself had asked for Education and Sports Department. But the Congress government could not deliver their promise instead kept us hanging by the thread,” said Dr Sekhon.Earlier, teachers delegations had met Arvind Kejriwal on his visit to Amritsar before Code of Conduct was implemented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-teachers-meet-aap-leaders-363706
23-01-2022||---||9-year-old dancing star makes his acting debut with short movie||Amritsar, January 22While most kids of his age spent the previous year, locked inside their homes, glued to screens and dealing with online schooling, 9-year-old Azeez Bassi, a young dancing star from the city, was hooked to dancing like a pro.At a time when kids had been spending more time in front of screens than off it, Azeez kept his focus on dancing, learning freestyle, Bollywood and other dance genres. Busting a move or two since he was three, according to his mother Priyanka Bassi, Azeez, has been creating dance videos, featured in several music videos and performed at several dance competitions, impressing many and is talent is already known in city circle. Now, the young talented dancer has made a debut in front of camera, with a short film Laado, by city-based filmmaker Harinder Sohal. Sohal has previously helmed several critically acclaimed short films. Shot last year just after the second wave of Covid-19 subsided, Azeez is featured in the film that is based on Award winning children’s writer Kulbir Singh Suri’s story Sajji Baanh (right hand) and talks about issues related gender disparity, migrant crisis and class disparity.Azeez shares that he was selected because of a dance video that got viral. “I love dancing and I used to create dance videos with my dance teachers and one of such video got me attention of Harinder Sohal sir. He asked me if could act and it just happened,” he says. Laado has been released recently on digital platforms and Azeez has managed to surprise many, including his mother. A student of DAV International, Azeez has previously participated and auditioned for several dance reality shows. His passion for dancing surpasses any physical pain, as he recently suffered a leg injury after a fall and was back in the dancing studio weeks after recovering. While dance remains his first love, acting is something he just agreed to spontaneously and would like to continue now. “I had appeared in some Punjabi music videos because of my dancing skills. Acting in Laado was fun, we had to shoot for two consecutive days for 10 hours straight, amid Covid-19 restrictions and it was a different experience. I would like to continue if I can,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-year-old-dancing-star-makes-his-acting-debut-with-short-movie-363705
23-01-2022||---||Unseasonal rain hits Tarn Taran farmers||Tarn Taran, January 22Rain that started in the morning continued to lash the district the whole day on Saturday. A light to moderate shower not only disrupted normal life in city areas but also put the farmers in a difficult situation.Jagwinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer (CEO), said today’s rain till evening was not harmful but if it continued further then the wheat crop must be affected with the yellow rust which would decrease the yield of the crop.Gurbaj Singh Sidhwan, a farmer of Sidhwan village, said rain was not beneficial for the wheat or any other crop at this time as the cold weather coupled with lack of sunshine was already not in favour of farmers.He said the field had not dried till date though it rained three weeks ago as the sun had been playing truant for the last many days. The skies remained overcast making the climate colder which meant farmers would not be able to get a good yield of wheat crop.He said there was acute shortage of fodder crops and dairy owners were facing troubles as prices of the dry fodder (toori) too had gone up from Rs300 to Rs700 per quintal in the last few days.Farmer Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Shahabur-Dial village, said the fields, had not been sown with wheat crop (after harvesting potato and green peas) due to wet fields for the last three weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unseasonal-rain-hits-tarn-taran-farmers-363704
23-01-2022||Amritsar||Finance firm employee robbed||Immigration fraud: 2 bookedAmritsar: The Ranjit Avenue police have booked two persons including a woman of Chandigarh-based immigration firm for allegedly duping a local resident on the pretext of sending him abroad. Wilson Warris told the police that Pooja Mahajan and Lovish Mahajan, having their immigration firm office at Sector 42 in Chandigarh, defrauded him of Rs5.50 lakh on the pretext of sending his son Ankash Warris to Canada. Neither they sent him abroad, nor returned the money, he alleged. The police have registered a case under Sections 420, 120-B of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act against the duo. No arrest was made so far. The police said investigations were under progress. TNSBJP leader seeks Bhullar’s releaseAmritsar: Sarchand Singh, spokesperson of Damdami Taksal, who had joined the BJP recently, has written a letter to Chairman, National Minorities Commission, to secure the release of Davinderpal Singh Bhullar from jail. Sarchand said Bhullar has spent 27 years in jail and the Central Government had given relaxation to eight Sikh prisoners on the occasion 550 birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Sarchand alleged that the AAP government in Delhi was not clearing the file of Bhullar’s release.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finance-firm-employee-robbed-363702
23-01-2022||---||Wooing urban voters a challenge for Shiromani Akali Dal this time||Amritsar, January 22Having fielded candidates from all urban seats in the district for the first time, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has a tough task ahead as it would have to woo urbanites.Previously, except for Amritsar South constituency, all the remaining four urban seats were contested by the BJP. Having relied on BJP for urban votes for long, the SAD seems to have made inroads faster than political observers expected.No doubt, the SAD had faced backlash due to desecration and other issues. But by breaking the alliance with the BJP on the issue of farm laws, it has managed to win the support of its cadres. Sanjeet Singh, a shopkeeper near Darbar SahibIn the new seat-sharing arrangement with the new alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the SAD is contesting from Amritsar North, Amritsar East, Amritsar West and Amritsar South constituencies, while Amritsar Central is being contested by BSP candidate.For SAD, the first shot in the arm came when it managed to woo Anil Joshi, the former BJP minister who was sidelined by the state BJP leader. At present, he is contesting from Amritsar North constituency and is being considered a strong candidate.For Amritsar South constituency represented by Inderbir Singh Bolaria, a former SAD leader who had joined the Congress in 2017 elections, the SAD has fielded Talbir Singh Gill, a close confidant of Bikram Singh Majitha. Though Gill is contesting the Assembly elections for the first, he has been managing Majithia’s constituency and given his ‘dabang’ style of politics is much popular among the youth.Sanjeet Singh, a shopkeeper near Darbar Sahib, said: “No doubt, the SAD had faced backlash due to incidents of desecration and other issues. But by breaking the alliance with BJP on the issue of farm laws, it has managed to win the support of its cadres.”Political observers feel that the worst time for SAD is over. Even though it still faces backlash for desecration and other issues, to an extent it has managed to mend fences with its biggest support group, — the rural peasantry — by breaking the alliance with BJP on farm law issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wooing-urban-voters-a-challenge-for-shiromani-akali-dal-this-time-363699
23-01-2022||---||Vehicle-lifters’ gang busted, 3 arrested||Amritsar, January 22With the arrest of three persons, the police on Saturday busted a gang of vehicle-lifters active in the city. The police recovered two bikes and two scooters besides a sharp weapon from them.The gang had snatched a scooter from a woman police constable posted in the Amritsar rural police, when she was going to her duty 10 days ago. Those arrested were identified as Sardara Singh of Poohla village, Gagandeep Sharma of Bhikhiwind and Gurwinder Singh of Chungh village in Tarn Taran.Paramjit Kaur said on January 12, she was going on her scooter for her duty, when three armed youth snatched her scooter. ADCP Prabhjot Singh Virk said during investigations, the police zeroed in on Gagandeep, Gurwinder and Saradara Singh, all residents of Tarn Taran. Their arrest led to the recovery of two bikes and a scooter, which were stolen from different parts of the city. The police also seized the bike and sharp weapon used in the crime, he said.Meanwhile, the police also arrested a vehicle lifter identified as Lovekaran Singh of Bal Khurd village and confiscated two bikes from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-3-arrested-363697
23-01-2022||---||3 held for stealing vehicles at gunpoint||Amritsar, January 22The Vallah police busted a gang of carjackers and recovered a car from them. They were identified as Harpreet Singh of Mohan Bhandaria village, Harpal Singh of Majitha and Bhagwan Singh of Naag Kalan village in Majitha.Kanwalpreet Singh of Manawala Kalan told the police that he was going on his bike, when three car-borne persons snatched his mobile and cash on January 11. A week later, the police arrested Harpreet Singh along with the snatched mobile phone. During interrogation, he admitted that he along with Harpal Singh, Bhagwan Singh, Raman, Hira and Shakha committed the crime. He also confessed to have committed some other robberies during probe. He was produced in court and brought on three-day police remand. ACP, Gurinderbir SinghTheir three accomplices — Raman, Hira and Shakha — are still at large and raids were on to nab them, said ACP, Gurinderbir Singh.The police have also recovered a snatched mobile and a .32 revolver along with five live bullets from them. While giving details, ACP said Kanwalpreet Singh of Manawala Kalan told the police that he was going on his bike, when three car-borne persons snatched his mobile and cash on January 11. A week later, the police arrested Harpreet Singh along with the snatched mobile phone. During interrogation, he admitted that he along with Harpal Singh, Bhagwan Singh, Raman, Hira and Shakha committed the crime. He said he also confessed to have committed some other robberies during probe. He was produced in court and brought on three-day police remand.On Friday, the police got an information regarding the presence of the accused near Majitha railway crossing. A checkpoint was laid and the police team intercepted an i-10 (PB02-BN-7791).The police arrested Harpal Singh and Bhagwan Singh from the spot, while Raman, Hira and Shakha fled with the car. They told the police that they had snatched the car from the Khilchian police station area, while another Alto car was snatched by them from the Kamboh police station area. The police have recovered the Alto car. The ACP said the accused were produced in court and brought on police remand for further investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-held-for-stealing-vehicles-at-gunpoint-363695
23-01-2022||---||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to unfurl national flag on Republic Day||Amritsar, January 22Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will unfurl the national flag here to mark Republic Day.Officials of the district administration, led by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, held a meeting in this regard here on Saturday. He stated that the Republic Day would be celebrated with full vigour following the Covid-19 protocols. He instructed the officials to diligently discharge their responsibility so that no shortcomings of any kind could be observed.A full dress rehearsal of the function would be held on January 24. The freedom fighters who made special contribution for the country would be honoured by the district administration by visiting their homes. He asked the district police to make proper security and parking arrangements on the occasion.The Deputy Commissioner stressed that the staff on R-Day duty should be fully vaccinated. He said apart from the provision of sanitation, drinking water, temporary toilets, etc, at the venue, arrangements should also be made for the deployment of a medical team by the Health Department.He asked the district police to conduct a rehearsal to present excellent march past. No cultural programme and tableaux would be taken out keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols.Additional Deputy Commissioner Ruhi Dugg and District Revenue Officer Ravinder Singh, among others, were also present.Tarn Taran DC issues instructionsTarn Taran: Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana convened a meeting of officials of different departments at the local ground in the Police Lines here on Saturday. He delivered instructions regarding the arrangements for the district-level celebrations on the Republic Day on the Day. Cabinet minister, Punjab, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria would unfurl the national flag on the occasion. The Deputy Commissioner issued instructions to the officials regarding making fool-proof security arrangements, supply of drinking water and maintaining sanitation. The DC also instructed them to make arrangements for parking of the vehicles, medical facilities and supply of electricity for the function. Other officials of the administration and the departments were present in the meeting. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deputy-chief-minister-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-to-unfurl-national-flag-on-republic-day-363693
23-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||IED seizure: Cops yet to make any breakthrough||Amritsar, January 22The Special Task Force of drugs has failed to make any breakthrough in the seizure of improvised explosive device (IED) recovered from near Dhanoe Khurd village located on the Attari-Bachiwind border village road here over a week ago.The IED contained over 2.7-kg RDX along with 1.36-kg iron ball packed in three containers to enhance its potency. The seized IED was already assembled and it was just to plug in for explosion with a time window of over an hour.Mohinish Chawla, IG, Border Range, said investigations were still under progress to identify sleeper cells involved in sneaking explosives to India for creating law and order problem, especially when the Republic Day and Assembly elections were round the corner.According to sources privy to the investigations, the IED was smuggled into India with a drone. There was different module used in sneaking this IED (from Dhanoe Khurd village), while RDX seized from Gurdaspur on Friday was smuggled by another module.The Gurdaspur police had confiscated 3.79-kg RDX along with a grenade launcher, two compatible grenades, nine electrical detonators and two sets of timer devices for IEDs. The seizure was made following interrogation of Malkeet Singh of Gazikot, who was arrested after intelligence inputs. The police had booked gangster Sukh Bikhariwal, who was deported from Malaysia along with Sukh Ghuman, Tharanjot Singh besides ISYF chief Lakhbir Singh Rode and fugitive gangster Arsh Dhalla in the case.AIG STF Rashpal Ghuman said the probe was on to identify the terror module and sleeper cell who were to retrieve the IED from Dhanoe Khurd village.Earlier, Rode’s name had prominently figured during investigations of terror modules recently busted by the Punjab Police. The police official had claimed that ISI-backed anti-national elements had pushed in large amount of explosives including RDX, IEDs, hand grenades and firearms besides narcotics using drones to create trouble and disrupt peaceful atmosphere in Punjab and other parts of the country.What happened & when||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ied-seizure-cops-yet-to-make-any-breakthrough-363692
23-01-2022||---||Amritsar district reports 3 deaths, 654 +ve Covid cases||Amritsar, January 22With three deaths reported due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the toll increased to 1,630 in the district on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Pardumanjit Singh, a 66-year-old resident of Ranjit Avenue; Satinder Kaur (70) of New Amritsar and Amarjit Kaur (74) of Dolonangal village.The district Health Department reported 654 cases on Saturday, with which the total count increased to 55,710. Of these, 550 are new cases, while 104 are contacts of positive patients.The health authorities have also reported the recovery of 373 patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 49,852. The district, at present, has a total of 4,228 active cases.Meanwhile 22,454 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 10,260 received the first dose, 11,722 received the second dose and 472 received the third dose. A total of 1280 children in the age group of 15 to 17 years were vaccinated on Saturday.254 test +ve in Tarn TaranAs many as 254 persons tested positive for the virus in the district on Saturday, with which the active caseload increased to 1,132. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said the toll due to the disease stands at 383. The teams of the department collected 2,000 samples to be tested for the virus. To prevent the disease, 6,839 jabs were given to eligible beneficiaries on Saturday and total 10,19,723 jabs have been given to residents so far. The results of 889 samples were still awaited from laboratories. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-3-deaths-654-ve-covid-cases-363690
