24-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Crackdown on illicit liquor||6 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities seized six mobile phones during a search operation on the jail complex. While two of them were found unclaimed, four were confiscated from four prisoners. They were identified as Paramjit Singh, alias Mann, of Mudhal village in Verka; Surinder Singh, alias Sangha, of Jhander village; Jagga Singh of Lodhigujjar village and Gurbaaz Singh of Warring Subha Singh in Goindwal Sahib. The police have registered a case and further investigations were on. TNSPunbus staff assaultedAmritsar: Employees of a private transport belonging to a senior SAD leader clashed with a driver and conductor of Punbus at the ISBT here on Saturday. The accused allegedly tossed the turban of Punbus driver and conductor in the clash. A video of the same came out in the media. The Punbus was coming from Patti and going to Chandigarh via Amritsar and the driver said the accused clashed with them when they stopped them from taking passengers from their bus. The accused manhandled them besides using verbal abuses. They alleged that the accused also took out a pistol. Pawan Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station, said the police were verifying the claims. He said appropriate action would be taken after probe. TNS Action against Cong defector Tarn Taran: Rajnish Arora, returning officer-cum-SDM, Tarn Taran, rejected the reply of Gurminder Singh Rataul, PPCC secretary, submitted against the notice served to him for organising a huge gathering to join SAD here on January19 without seeking permission. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal was the chief guest on the occasion in which Gurminder Singh Rataul along with his other supporters joined SAD after parting their ways from the Congress.  In his reply, Rataul said he was not aware of the visit of Sukhbir Singh Badal who suddenly entered his house without informing him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crackdown-on-illicit-liquor-363953
24-01-2022||Amritsar||Youth held for allegedly attempting sacrilege in Ajnala village||Tension gripped Bhindi Aulakh village in Ajnala after its residents caught a youth for allegedly attempting blasphemy.A video made at the shrine by people also surfaced, in which he was seen admitting that he was lured by some person to attempt sacrilege.The police authorities later, took the youth into custody and started probe. It had a tough time in pacifying residents and assuring them that appropriate action would be taken against him following a probe. The incident occurred late on Saturday evening.For now, the police have booked him on the charges of theft and criminal tresspass. He was taken on police remand for further investigation, confirmed Deepak Hilori, SSP, Amritsar Rural, here.The suspect identified as Gursahib Singh was caught by people for entering village gurdwara by jumping over the wall. He was thrashed by them.In a video, while answering the questions of the people, he confessed that he was lured by one Ganna of the same village for attempting sacrilege. He offered Rs1 lakh for the same, but he refused. However, later he entered the gurdwara to see if someone was there after he was lured him with intoxicants. He said Ganna stole cash from the Golak of gurdwara. However, people were saying in the video that no other youth was found in the CCTV cameras.“Following preliminary probe, the police have booked him under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the IPC. Appropriate action would be taken after investigations in the case. The antecedents of Ganna was also being looked into,” Hilori said. —                                     #sacrilege||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-held-for-allegedly-attempting-sacrilege-363950
24-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar Goldsmith Suicide: Two months on, police fail to nab MLA's PA, ASI||Amritsar, January 23It’s been over two months since a goldsmith ended his life while accusing a Congress MLA’s personal assistant and an ASI besides another goldsmith and his two sons of harassment, but the police are yet to nab the prime suspects.The Division B police have booked PA Paramjit Singh, ASI Narinder Singh besides goldsmith Harbhajan Singh and his two sons on the charge of abetment to suicide.While Harbhajan was arrested, his two sons secured anticipatory bail from the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Paramjit was still at large. The police also initiated departmental probe against ASI Narinder Singh, who is also still at large.The incident hit headlines after SAD leader Talbir Singh Gill along with his supporters staged a dharna outside Division B police station over alleged rising ‘goondaism’ in the area.Sukhwinder Singh, the victim, ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance in a hotel room here on November 9, 2021. He left a suicide note before taking the extreme step.In the suicide note, Sukhwinder alleged that he had a monetary dispute with Harbhajan Singh. He said Harbhajan along with his son and several unidentified persons attacked his house and ransacked it, besides injuring him and his family members on October 25. They also damaged his car and a scooter during the assault.He had alleged that instead of taking action against him, the Division-B police acted in a biased manner and registered a case against him after allegedly bribing ASI Narinder Singh. He said a day before the incident, the PA invited both parties to strike a compromise. However, he was humiliated and pressurised to cough out money for cancelling the FIR. He alleged that the ASI threatened to arrest him and his family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-months-on-police-fail-to-nab-mlas-pa-asi-363948
24-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Harjinder Singh Thekedar's entry in Amritsar South may dent Congress candidate's prospects||Amritsar, January 23With Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) announcing Harjinder Singh Thekedar as the candidate from crucial Amritsar South, the Assembly constituency would witness a four-cornered contest now.A former MLA from the constituency from 2002 to 2007, Thekedar was associated with the Congress since late ’80s and had served as chairman of Forests Corporation. In December last year, he had resigned as chairman, Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation and joined Captain Amarinder Singh.His entry into the poll arena is expected to make contest difficult for Congress candidate Inderbir Singh Bolaria. In the 2012 Assembly elections, Bolaria’s father Raminder Singh contesting on SAD ticket had defeated Thekedar with a considerable margin.In 2012, Inderbir Singh Bolaria (then with SAD) had defeated Jasbir Singh Dimpa (presently MP from Khadoor Sahib). During 2017 elections, Inderbir joined the Congress and defeated Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjer of AAP.Now, the entry of Thekedar has turned the election into a four-cornered contest. Talbir Singh Gill of SAD, Inderbir Singh Bolaria of Congress and Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjer of AAP are already in contest.As Thekedar has remained in Congress for most of his political life, his candidature has further dented the prospects of Bolaria. With the Congress vote bank divided between Thekedar and Bolaria, it would help Dr Nijjer or Talbir Gill. Political observers feel that though Thekedar is not in a position to win the election, he certainly would cause huge damage to the Congress candidate.Meanwhile, PLC has also announced the candidature of Tejinder Singh Randhawa (Beauty Randhawa), the former vice-president of District Congress Committee, Gurdaspur, from Fatehgarh Churrian constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thekedars-entry-in-south-may-dent-cong-candidates-prospects-363944
24-01-2022||Report those involved in this practice||Open House:  What measures should be taken to check use of liquor, ration and money to 'purchase votes'?||Everyone must do solemn efforts to stop the practice of ‘purchasing votes’ in the Assembly elections. The authorities concerned can’t singlehandedly stop this bad practice and need the support of citizens. Surveillance teams should be set up that patrol the polling stations randomly throughout the polling day. The people who report the mischievous persons involved in this practice must be rewarded in some form by the authorities so that they are motivated to contribute in the process of fair elections. It should be noted that the utmost responsibility lies with the citizens who should not only decline such ‘free things’ but also report such persons so that immediate action can be taken by the government. The vote of every citizen matters and it must be ensured that he/she uses this constitutional right without any unfair influence so that the dream of ‘free and fair elections’ is achieved.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHDamaging for pillars of Indian democracyElections are is a festival of democracy that comes once in five years. People feel elated to see the politicians begging votes at their doorstep with a variety of promises. However, when sensible and educated voters succumb to their mischievous smiles then there is no escape for the poor to get allured by liquor, ration and money. They may understand the sinister designs of politicians but their immediate needs make it necessary to accept such offers. This shoddy practice can be controlled by reminding the people to learn from their earlier mistakes. But who will bell the cat? Awakened youth can bear this onus. Anyone accepting such offers should be socially boycotted at least till the election results are announced. As giving and accepting bribe is a crime, so is this illegal gratification of the voter and by the voter. Unless this is not declared a crime the electorate and the political parties will continue with this practice. Anyone found guilty of indulging in such activity should taken to task for damaging the pillars of Indian democracy.Madhu SharmaStop accepting freebies from political partiesUse of money, liquor and ration during elections to lure voters is not new concept in India. It has been considered as shortcut way to purchase voters at end moment after sitting idle for years on political chairs. Everyone knows these all are illegal activities but government does not refrain itself from indulging in these activities. Although, liquor is harmful substance and cause health hassles to people who consume it but it is used as weapon to win victory of election in which promises are being made to public to provide them with improved health infrastructure and so on. In addition to this, meagre amount is not sufficient even for basic necessities. The things which political parties offer during elections are just considered as lolipopes and public fall in this trap in order to satisfy their temporary lust. This illegal activity must be banned so that country and its constitution can be given in hands of true and honest leader. The results can be positive only if people will stop accepting these freebies by political parties.Sukhmeet KaurStrict check on illegal practices need of hourThe most precious belonging of a citizen is his or her vote. After analysing the progress in the surroundings for five years, people come out to vote to elect the candidate whom they feel is capable of working for their welfare. Prior to the elections, some candidates try to befool the community by distributing liquor, cell phones, money etc. Any party, if caught, using illegal practices should be strictly dealt with and a ban should be imposed on their candidature for a stipulated period of time. Police patrolling should be increased manifold. These days a close check should be kept on the roads at night. The media should come forward and make citizens realise the worth of their vote for their own betterment. We must believe in the adage, “Somewhere inside all of us is the power to change the world.”Nimish Sehgalexercise franchise in the right spiritProviding liquor to voters is the cheapest and all-weather freebie to ensure a ‘gentleman’s vote’, whether in the Zila Parishad or State Assembly elections. Sewing or knitting machines used to entice women voters earlier, but now standards are different. Mobiles, laptops, gas cylinders are the minimum in some constituencies. It is not at all illegal. The state government leads in offering such sops. The Election Commission is either powerless or looks the other way. Witness the promises made, the concessions announced, the loans written off or the roads that had been crying for repair all these years, given a new look overnight. Right now, it is difficult to suggest ways and means of checking this practice. Presently, in our system there is no true leader, no team, no vision, only loud lectures. Their only aim is to seize or retain power, if not by hook, then by crook. It all now depends on the voter. If he/she accepts these freebies to please the benefactor but exercise their franchise in the right spirit, he /she will not elect the right candidate, because there aren’t any in the fray. But it will change the way future elections are held and perhaps more suitable candidates fielded.Mohan SinghVoters need to be well-educatedAs elections are approaching Punjab, use of liquor, ration and money to purchase votes would be commonly practiced by politicians. To keep a check on such illegal practices, voters need to be enlightened and well-educated. Secondly, the EC should increase vigilance to catch hold of such illegal practices and take stern action against politicians found guilty of it. Thirdly, political parties should be warned in advance of dire consequences if they or their leaders indulge in any sort of such illegal practices. Last but not the least; vigilance should be increased throughout the state by all authorities concerned to take immediate action on politicians indulging in such illegal practices.Sanjay ChawlaMoral awakening needed among votersIt is an admitted fact that political parties woo the electorates with liquor, ration, money, household benefits and even drugs. The problem has become a menace during elections and has assumed alarming proportions. It demonstrates how the people place more faith on money, liquor, ration etc. than the policies and programmes of the candidates contesting the elections. The Election Commission exercises full discretionary and disciplinary powers during the election period. It is its foremost duty to ensure that electoral offences, malpractices and corrupt practices such as impersonation, bribing and inducement of voters, threat and intimidation to the voters are prevented by all means. In case of violation appropriate measures should be taken to check the use of liquor, ration and money to conduct free, fair and peaceful elections in Punjab in particular and in other four states in general. The EC should strictly ensure the observance of the Model Code of Conduct by all parties including the ruling party in the state and the contesting candidates in the discharge of its constitutional duties for conducting a hassle-free election. For that a deterrent environment is indispensable to keep a tab on the vicious culture of cash, liquor and ration distribution in elections. The EC should allow its flying squad to check all these sordid dealings. Its observers, surveillance teams and enforcement agencies should raid the dens of malpractices to set an example before the prospective purchasers of votes. Its enforcement agencies should be made proactive to prevent the contesting candidates from alluring the electorates with cash and kind. However, the EC alone cannot solve this knotty problem. People should be made aware that accepting money, ration or liquor to vote or not to vote for a candidate is punishable with prison terms, fines or both. There should be moral and ethical awakening among the voters. In democracy public is the most powerful entity. If it doesn’t vote in favour of criminals, dishonest and corrupt politicians who wish to purchase their votes with liquor, money, ration and muscle power the menace of malpractices during elections will automatically disappear.Tarsem S BumrahIlliterate, greedy voters easy preyIn a representative, multi-party democracy, people’s participation in the electoral process, their interaction with the government and public opinion play a crucial role in its success. It is unfortunate that Indian politics has been characterised by the culture of freebies since Independence. In the absence of true empowerment, politicians have taken upon themselves the unwarranted responsibility of satisfying the immediate needs of the people. This has depoliticised the electorate which now largely depends on the ruling dispensation or the Opposition for this and helps the shrewd leaders to consolidate their vote bank. Come elections, parties and their leaders start planning their strategies to woo the electorate. Frequently defying the Model Code of Conduct, they manage to distribute liquor and other intoxicants, ration and different mobile or immobile articles of daily use much before the polling day. Many innocent, illiterate and greedy voters fall easy prey to this political jugglery, least realising that it violates the sanctity of the election process. It stultifies the overall governance of the state and makes a mockery of the world’s largest democracy. Until and unless parties stop fielding tainted candidates or people are educated , tight security and intense police patrolling are imperative to check the ongoing unlawful electioneering activities in the state.Simran & Tajpreet S KangIn democracy each vote plays important roleIllegal practices to fetch votes cannot be ruled out in the coming Punjab Assembly elections 2022, as these illegal practices are not new in the system. Allegations vice-versa were framed on each other by the political leaders but these illegal practices cannot be proved. To woo the voters the candidates go to such an extent in adopting illegal practices which cannot be defined as they set aside all the benchmarks and proofs. In democracy every vote plays important role. As the Election Commission should call a meeting district wise by the returning officer, representatives from various political parties be invited and guidelines be issued to refrain from illegal practices, specify the sensitive points where security forces be deployed round the clock to keep strict vigil on the distribution of liquor, money. Similarly, through checking of the vehicles be also carried out. Until and unless the masses do not expose the illegal practices to my opinion it will be very difficult for the Election Commission to curb the menace of illegal practices during the election process. The purchase of votes cannot be proved as these are the under the table deals with the voters to vote in favour of particular political party, candidate. The Election Commission, the police, and administration can only curb the menace of illegal practices during election period and above all the voters.Rajat Kumar MohindruMonitor poll expenses and other violationsElections to the Punjab Assembly are held and governments formed at regular intervals, but the overarching problems continue to haunt the state perpetually. Over the years, people have been abortively hoping for the addressal of socio-economic issues such as poverty, unemployment, corruption, inflation, shrinking incomes, drugs, health, education, farm distress and so on. The need of the hour is to choose educated, honest and dedicated leaders who can guide the destiny of the state.DS KangQUESTIONWith depleting water table, isn't it a travesty that issues such as environment and water conservation are not being raised by various candidates in the elections this time? What should be done to wake them up from their slumber to address such important issues?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (January 27)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-measures-should-be-taken-to-check-use-of-liquor-ration-and-money-to-purchase-votes-363939
24-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's brief halt in Amritsar during  his 'great escape' to Afghanistan||Amritsar, January 23The nation celebrated the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose on Sunday, but a few people know that he had a brief halt in the city while fleeing to Afghanistan in 1940-41 as well.Disguised as a Muslim life insurance agent, Netaji escaped from his family home in Kolkata and halted here before crossing over to Afghanistan.Legend has it...Dr Saifudin Kitchlew, a prominent freedom fighter, was instrumental in giving invaluable tips to Netaji to understand the Islamic culture. During his visit to the city, Bose had stayed in the Islamabad locality and interacted with local leaders.A family, which had its roots in the city’s Islamabad area, still possess the rare picture of Netaji with local leaders and residents during his stay here. Besides, there were many locals who were part of his Azad Hind Fauj.It was not his maiden visit to the city. Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had even chaired a meeting in Amritsar on April 8, 1931, and declared that a mela would be held at the spot of cremation of Bhagat Singh every year.Meanwhile, members of the Azad Hind Fauj Association paid rich tributes to Bose here on Sunday. Despite overcast sky and biting cold, several family members of freedom fighters were also present. The association headed by Manohar Singh Saini garlanded the statue of Bose located on Bhandari Railway over bridge. Saini said the nation was proud and indebted to the supreme sacrifices made by freedom fighters like Subhas Chandra Bose, which led to the freedom of the country. He said young generation should remember these sacrifices, follow the footsteps of freedom fighters and work for the development of the country.                                     #NetajiSubhasChandraBose||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/netajis-brief-halt-in-city-during-his-great-escape-to-afghanistan-363933
24-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Civic issues being 'ignored' by candidates during campaigning||Amritsar, January 23Potholed roads, choked sewer lines, waterlogging in low-lying areas, poor garbage lifting and sanitation, etc, are not finding a mention during the poll campaigns of five urban constituencies in the city.Residents face these perennial issues throughout the year and often complain to the authorities concerned about choked sewer lines and bumpy roads.The political parties and leaders are targeting each other on sand mining, drug trade and corruption during the poll campaigns.Road infrastructure, water supply, sewer lines and sanitation are not even being mentioned in the poll campaign material and posters. Roads are crying for repairs and choked sewer lines is a regular affair in densely populated areas but public representatives are not even discussing these issues.Successive governments have failed to upgrade city infrastructure with time. The grants by the Central and state governments were used on several unproductive projects in the past.“The local issues are being ignored during door-to-door election campaigning. The road that links Daburji and Sultanwind is in a pathetic condition. Several localities do not have a trace of sewer lines and water supply. The political parties are making tall claims to change the face of the whole city, but fail to revamp a two-kilometre road stretch during five years,” said Ravinder Singh, a resident of Sultanwind area.“The number of vehicles on city roads has been increasing with each passing day. There is no proper public transport in the city having a population of 12 lakh. City dwellers have to spend hours in traffic jams. No political party and leaders have the vision to address the issue. They are discussing trivial issues during TV debates. The problems which are being faced by the residents regularly are not being taken in the campaign,” Harkirshan Singh, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-issues-being-ignored-by-candidates-during-campaigning-363932
24-01-2022||GS Paul||Sohna-Mohna roped in as role models to encourage people to come out & vote||Amritsar, January 23Conjoined twins Sohna and Mohna, who were abandoned by their biological parents at the time of birth, will now become role models for people as they have been roped in by the district administration to motivate people to go and exercise their ‘right to vote’ in the ensuing Assembly poll.Securing their ‘separate’ voting rights after completing 18 years in June last year, they would cast their vote for the first time.Under a special project ‘Sanmaan’, the Amritsar administration has chalked out a programme with a slogan christened “Aao Vote Paun Chaliye” (Come, let’s go and vote).Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said Sohna and Mohna would lead the project representing the PwD (persons with disabilities) and first-time voters, as well, during the electoral process.“Sohna and Mohna are not only first timers, but specially-abled too. They represent both segments. The idea was to encourage people to vote, especially those with disability, the first-timers and the elders in the above 80 group. They will be provided transport to reach special booths meant for PwDs, where special arrangement of ramp, wheelchair, water and toilet facilities with proper signage have been made for their convenience. The entire process will be documented to be part of the government gazette,” he said.Born on June 14, 2003, at a New Delhi’s hospital, Sohna and Mohna were conjoined below the torso, having one pair of legs. They have two hearts, two pair of arms, kidneys and spinal cords, but only one liver and gall bladder.As their parents refused to accept them, they were brought at Pingalwara Home in Amritsar. Dr Inderjit Kaur, head of the Pingalwara Society, says both brothers had different minds, opinions and choices. They are two brains in one body.The twins have an ITI diploma (electrical) and were recently appointed as Regular T Mate (RTM) at the 66-kV PSPCL office near the Dental College Amritsar. However, technically they would be drawing one salary on the name of Sohna only, but as far as voting was concerned, they would be treated as two individuals.Khaira said: “They were registered by the Election Commission and will be able to cast their votes in the Assembly election this time,” he said.Now, the officials have been working out on the modalities to comply with the technical issues dealing with the ‘secret ballot norms’, as no other person can be present when one is casting his or her vote.“As the twin brothers are conjoined in such a way that their heads are in the same direction, one could be made blindfolded when the other one would be casting his vote,” said the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sohna-mohna-roped-in-as-role-models-to-encourage-people-to-come-out-vote-363931
24-01-2022||---||Sexagenarian succumbs to virus, 401 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 23A 60-year-old resident lost his life to Covid-19 on Sunday, with which the toll increased to 1,631. The deceased has been identified as Paramjit Kaur of Shaam Nagar village, near Majitha.The district Health Department has also reported 401 cases, with which the total count of infections increased to 56,111. Of these, 395 are new cases and six are contacts of positive cases.The administration has also reported recovery of 963 patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 50,815. At present, the district has a total of 3,665 active cases.Meanwhile, 17,322 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 7,556 received the first dose, 9,563 received the second dose and 203 received the third dose. A total of 531 children between the age of 15 and 17 years were inoculated on Sunday. The health officials said 14,330 children have been vaccinated so far.Tarn Taran reports one death, 118 +ve casesThe Covid-19 report of 118 samples came out positive and one person succumbed to the virus on Sunday. The toll due to the pandemic increased to 384. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta informed here on Sunday that 7,791 citizens were given jabs on Sunday. So far, 10,27,369 persons have been given vaccination in the district. The district administration was yet to receive the reports of 889 samples .The teams of the Health Department collected 1,195 samples to be tested for the virus. — OCHelpline numbers for Covid patientsControl Room: 0183-2500398, 0183-2500498, 0183-2500598, 0183-2500698, 0183-2500798 (Open 24*7)Health Dept helpline: 0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline: 104Contact a doctor: 1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sexagenarian-succumbs-to-virus-401-test-ve-in-district-363929
24-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Search, combing operations on in Amritsar's border villages ahead of R-Day||Amritsar, January 23The Punjab Police have been carrying out search and combing operations in villages along the Indo-Pak border in the border districts here.This is being done to thwart any untoward incident in view of the ensuing Assembly elections and Republic Day celebrations.The police have been carrying out intelligence-based operations as there has been regular seizure of explosives including RDX, hand grenades and IEDs being pushed into the country by Pakistan-based banned terror modules.IG Border Range Mohinish Chawla, while talking to The Tribune, said special nakas have been set up and round-the-clock vigil has been maintained to check the movement of miscreants near the border.“These are sensitive times as Punjab Assembly poll and Republic Day celebrations are just round the corner. We have paramilitary forces companies with us and therefore border areas were combed and intelligence network has been strengthened,” the IG said.There has been a rise in the movement of drones to drop arms, ammunition, explosives and narcotics by Pakistan based smugglers who are in cahoots with banned terrorist organisations who are hell bent on creating law and order trouble during the poll.The Amritsar rural police on Sunday carried out flag march in Rajasansi, Lopoke and Ajnala area besides carrying out search and combing operations in different border villages.Deepak Hilori, SSP Amritsar rural, said we are acting in close coordination with the BSF. The Punjab Police is working as the second line of defence and we have strengthened the same.A close eye was also kept on history sheeters who had come out on bail, said the police authorities. We are taking the details of residents staying at the border villages.Rain hits rehearsalAmritsar: Incessant rain on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday threw life out of gear. The day was cloudy and light showers were also received in isolated areas. The roads and grounds witnessed waterlogging due to continuous rain. The weather conditions also affected the rehearsal ahead of Republic Day at Guru Nanak Stadium in Amritsar. However, the full dress rehearsal would be held on January 24. Today, the rehearsal was done on wet ground, as rain water accumulated over it. No cultural programme would be held and school students would also not participate this time. “Hopefully the weather will be sunny on January 26. The jawans are enthusiastic for the march past,” said a police official. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will unfurl the national flag here on Republic Day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/search-combing-operations-on-in-border-villages-ahead-of-r-day-363920
24-01-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Cops in tizzy, banned liquor brand makes way into Punjab||Gurdaspur, January 23In the run up to the polls, the UK-1 brand of whisky, the storage and consumption of which is illegal in Punjab, is giving cops of Batala and Gurdaspur districts the goosebumps as candidates have developed a special affinity for this product, keeping in view the low cost at which it is available in Chandigarh and Haryana.Fortuner and Innova cars, which in any case are spacious enough to carry scores of cartons in one go, are being used to ferry in UK-1 from outside Punjab. Cartons are being stocked at sugarcane fields and tubewells of loyalists.This brand can be sold only in Chandigarh. “Anybody found to be carrying it in Punjab is liable to be prosecuted,” said Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh.Insiders claim that UK-1 is flowing freely in election-bound Punjab. “However hard we may try, it is an insurmountable task to check its availability because of the elaborate network put in place by carriers,” said a senior officer. The Batala police yesterday seized 80 cartons of UK-1 from a Fortuner car at Shikhala village in Sri Hargobindpur. The cops were acting on a specific tip-off. Senior SAD leader Bikram Majithia claimed that the consignment was to be delivered to a prominent candidate.Batala SSP Gaurav Toora said, “All forward and backward linkages with the named politician are being probed.” Officers claim in the election time they normally receive inside information about liquor being illegally stored from rival candidates. “We have tangible information that the UK-1 brand of liquor will be distributed by the candidates during the polls as it is available at a cheap rate in Chandigarh. We are using our network of informers to zero-in on the storage places,” said an officer. The police are also keeping an eye on liquor being produced illegally by bootleggers. The villages located on the banks of river Beas are being keenly watched. The Batala hooch tragedy of August, 2020, in which more than a hundred people lost their lives, is still playing on the minds of the law enforcement officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-in-tizzy-banned-liquor-brand-makes-way-into-state-363834
