26-01-2022||Amritsar||Pet owners' meet at veterinary college||R-Day celebrated at DAV SchoolDAV Public School, Lawrence Road, celebrated the 73rd Republic Day while adhering to Covid guidelines. Teachers paid tributes the freedom fighters and the leaders of the country. They recited poems highlighting the importance of the day, as well as the research that led to the making of the Constitution. The assembly concluded with the rendition of the National Anthem. Anita Mehra, Principal, in her address, urged everyone to abide by the Constitution and fulfil duties as responsible citizen.Pledge to uphold democracyThe Global Group of Institutes organised a meeting to mark the 12th National Voters’ Day. The staff pledged to uphold democracy and the dignity of free, fair and peaceful elections. They promised to vote in every election fearlessly without being influenced by religion, race, caste or community. The staff also resolved to encourage the youth to elect the representative of their choice. The theme of the 2022 National Voters’ Day is ‘Making elections inclusive, accessible and participative’. The management and the staff pledged to work towards ‘Electoral literacy for stronger democracy’.Seminar to mark National Voters’ DayNational Voters’ Day was observed by the Department of Political Science at DAV College, under the aegis of the Electoral Literacy Club. An online seminar was organised to mark the day. Gaurav Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, welcomed Principal Rajesh Kumar, Professor Surinder Kumar, head, Department of Political Science, other faculty members and students on the virtual platform. The Principal talked about the theme of the 12th National Voters’ Day, ‘Making elections inclusive, accessible and participative’. He urged the participants to cast their vote rationally. He explained students the procedure of getting themselves registered as voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pet-owners-meet-at-vet-college-364559
26-01-2022||---||Nagar kirtan to mark Baba Deep Singh’s birth anniversary||Amritsar, January 25A nagar kirtan will be taken out to mark the 340th birth anniversary of Baba Deep Singh Shahid here tomorrow.Besides, a two-day gurmat samagam will also begin at Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh Shaheed at Chatiwind Gate. Being organised by the SGPC in collaboration with sabha societies and sangat, an akhand path was held in this regard at the gurdwara here on Tuesday.Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, deputy secretary of the Shiromani committee, said like every year the birth anniversary of Baba Deep Singh was being celebrated at the gurdwara. The bhog of the akhand path will take place on January 27.The nagar kirtan will start from Akal Takht and after passing thorugh Guru Ramdas Niwas, Braham Buta Market, Mahna Singh Road, Jallianwala Bagh, Lakkar Mandi Bazaar, Sultanwind Gate, Swaran House, Golden Cloth Market, Sultanwind Road, Tej Nagar Chowk, Chatiwind Gate, etc, will conclude at Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh Shahid.                                     #AkalTakht                                     #SGPC                                     #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-to-mark-baba-deep-singhs-birth-anniversary-364557
26-01-2022||---||Metro bus back on roads after 35 days||Amritsar, January 25The employees of Metro bus being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) resumed services after their demands were partially addressed, here on Tuesday.On the call of the BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association, the Metro bus drivers were demonstrating at the BRTS terminal at Verka-Vallah bypass for the last 35 days. The buses went off road on November 20. Today, 50 buses returned on the route. The drivers were demanding revision in pay from the operating company.Once, the operating company had assured them to increase the salaries from Rs14,000 to Rs17,000 in November. Today, the BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association leaders avoided responding to the media as a number of drivers were not satisfied with the decision of the union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-bus-back-on-roads-after-35-days-364550
26-01-2022||Amritsar||Foundation celebrates its 4th year with Pingalwara inmates||In a novel way, Abhay Kochar Foundation celebrated its fourth foundation day with the inmates of Pingalwara Charitable Society on Tuesday.Jatinder Jain, director of the foundation, said Abhay Kochar Foundation believes in giving back to society and today was one such day. The day started with a short movie followed by a magic show, games, food, dance among other things.“There are a lot of events that a corporate plans and executes, and foundation day is one day, where we wholeheartedly dedicate to these people and spend the day with them every year. In the coming years, we wish to do the same and bring a lot of smile and happiness,” he said. Lastly, he thanked Pingalwara Charitable Society for giving them the opportunity and special students of Bhagat Puran Singh Special School and their teachers and Principal Anita Batra. —                                     #Pingalwara||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foundation-celebrates-its-4th-year-with-pingalwara-inmates-364547
26-01-2022||---||‘Respect right to vote, exercise it with responsibility’||Amritsar, January 25A webinar was organised by the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on National Voters’ Day.Ministry’s Field Publicity Officer Gurmeet Singh (IIS) said everyone should respect their right to vote and must exercise it with responsibility.“People around the world have struggled to achieve this. Our Constitution gives every citizen an equal right to vote. That is why we are indebted to framers of our Constitution and must participate in the most important aspect of democracy,” he said.SVEEP coordinator Siddharth Chandra said Baba Sahib Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, chief architect of the Indian Constitution, has considered the right to vote as the most important thing. He especially appealed to women voters, the disabled and senior citizens to take the lead in voting. As January 25 is also marked as the National Tourism Day, people were also encouraged to encourage domestic tourism. District Tourism Officer Gursharan Singh said there were many places and tourism sites in the country, which have been included in the list of World Heritage Sites. At the same time there are many places in Punjab in terms of religious and tourism that the countrymen must come.“Punjab offers a wide spectrum of tourism attractions, with spiritually important sites and historically significant sites as well,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/respect-right-to-vote-exercise-it-with-responsibility-364544
26-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Principal attacked: Chowkidar booked||Dr Harwinder Singh Bhalla, Principal, Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government College, was attacked by the college chowkidar on the complex here in Monday. The Principal has lodged a complaint with the local city police against the accused. He said he was on routine checking of the complex on Monday, when chowkidar Juggpreet Singh and his associate Gaurav, a private driver of the college teacher, attacked him. The accused manhandled the Principal and snatched his mobile. The Principal took treatment from local Civil Hospital and was discharged after the first aid. The Principal alleged that the chowkidar often shirk work and he used to ask him to do his work honestly. In a fit of rage, he attacked him and fled in the car of the teacher being driven by Gaurav. ASI Manjit Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case under Section 341, 323, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/principal-attacked-chowkidar-booked-364541
26-01-2022||---||Man found  dead: Cops get clues about suspects||Amritsar, January 25A week after Inderpartap Singh, a resident of Deep Avenue in Tarn Taran, was found dead at Vanchari village falling under the Chatiwind police station here, the police have registered a case for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and destruction of evidence against unidentified persons following an initial probe.Inderpartap Singh went missing on January 1 when he along with his friends had gone somewhere but never returned home.Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Ghasitpur village in Batala and a relative of the victim, told the police that Inderpartap had gone with his friends, but did not return home.He alleged that his unidentified friends gave him some poisonous thing which led to his death.Later, in order to dispose of the body, they threw it near Vanchari village. He said they also took away his clothes, expensive Apple iPhone, Apple watch, earpods, purse and a gold chain. ASI Gurbaksh Singh, investigating officer, said following a preliminary probe it was found that Inderpartap was hooked to drugs.He apparently died of drug overdose. He said the police had found important clues about the suspects who would be arrested soon.Earlier, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and now a case under Sections 304, 201, 379 and 34 of the IPC had been registered against unidentified suspects. Raids were on to nab the suspects, added Gurbaksh Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-found-dead-cops-get-clues-about-suspects-364539
26-01-2022||---||Show-cause notice to Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira||Amritsar, January 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a show-cause notice to Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, while asking him why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him.The notice was issued following a contempt petition filed in court by Kotak Mahindra Bank authorities regarding district administration’s failure in complying with its orders in January 2020.The High Court had ordered the DC to pass necessary instructions in connection with a case regarding the possession of properties of a loan defaulter under Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SRFAESI) Act within 30 days of the order.Now, the court has asked the DC to appear before it on March 17 to file his reply.Bank lawyer Sandeep Kapur said the application for possession of properties of loan defaulter was pending with the Deputy Commissioner-cum-district magistrate for the past over three years.Giving details of the case, Sandeep Kapur along with former secretary of Amritsar Bar Association Inderjit Singh Ari on Tuesday said Tarn Taran resident Sukhdev Singh had taken loan of Rs40 lakh for expanding his garment business in 2014. He mortgaged his three properties with the bank. Nevertheless, Sukhdev Singh failed to pay instalments after several months with around Rs32 lakh were still pending against his name. He said the bank filed a case under SRFAESI Act with the DC court. As the administration failed to act in the case, they filed a petition in the High Court in 2019, which was disposed in January 2020. But for the past around two years, the DC again failed to act on the file despite repeated reminders.Last year, the bank filed a contempt case with the High Court which scheduled January 19, 2022, for hearing. But, the duty magistrate ADC on January 18, just a day before, passed the necessary orders for occupation of properties. But the High Court has now issued a show-cause notice seeking his reply as to why it was delayed for two years.In a nutshell||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/show-cause-notice-to-deputy-commissioner-364538
26-01-2022||---||Amid 3rd Covid wave, theatre spaces count their losses||Amritsar, January 25The art and culture space has faced extreme challenges and economic losses during the first and second waves of the pandemic, as most live performances and creative discourse remained suspended.The sector continues to count its losses as fresh restrictions due to the third wave of Covid-19 has once again halted live performances and art events, keeping the audience away.The pandemic has brought out the acute vulnerability of the art and culture sector as all prominent cultural spaces remain shut.“The faint ray of hope for the revival of theatre and cultural activities that came with complete resumption of activities last year has dwindled. Prominent theatre spaces, with auditoriums that used to host live performances are now facing depleted financial reserves, as zero activity means no source of revenue,” said Kewal Dhaliwal, noted theatre person and president of Virsa Vihar society.The overhead expenses of running a space like Virsa Vihar that has a hi-tech auditorium and three exhibit-cum-workshop halls, on an average, comes between Rs70,000 and Rs75,000.“It includes electricity bills, salaries of staff, which is at bare minimum currently and the cost of maintaining sets and equipment. We had almost no income during 2020-21 period, we have been bearing the cost of overhead expenses as well as any live events being organised through donations collected by Virsa Vihar Society members, which include prominent writers and artistes. Apart from that, no financial support has been provided by the government or cultural agencies,” he said. The primary source of revenue for Virsa Vihar is the rent-income generated through the auditorium. The venue used to host year-round events, including concerts, theatre festivals and literary seminars.“We have cancelled five bookings that were scheduled for the month of January and now, no further bookings for performances are being done until further notice,” he said.Similarly, Punjab Natshala, another important centre of cultural discourse in the city, too, has been struggling financially to support the livelihood of several theatre artistes associated with it.Jatinder Brar, founder of Natshala (in pic left) and a noted playwright, said Natshala’s two home productions, made at high cost, were scheduled to be staged over a period of six months. “Saka Jallianwala Bagh, one of our most expensive and highly acclaimed play had completed 102 shows, when the lockdown was announced. We had planned to stage 200 shows, but could not. Post lockdown, in December last year, we staged another home production ‘Sabz Bagh’, with 33 artistes, to a rousing reception. We planned to host more shows, but now it seems unlikely as with the third wave going on, there will be no audience,” he said.According to Brar a quality theatre production demands an expense of Rs4 lakh to Rs5 lakh. “Earlier, a good run of plays at multiple platforms used to cover the cost of production and even bring in revenue. With such high cost, recovery is almost impossible under restrictions such as having 50 per cent audience capacity. This directly impacts the livelihood of artistes involved in production and also the functioning of theatre spaces,” he said.Brar said the audience in the city used to pay up to Rs100 entry fee per play, but currently, even free-runs of theatre productions are difficult to host. Natshala boasts of a technically advanced stage being the only place in the city with an auditorium for people with special needs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-3rd-covid-wave-theatre-spaces-count-their-losses-364535
26-01-2022||---||Covid-19: 4 succumb to virus, 453 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 25With four deaths reported in the district on Tuesday, the Covid-19 toll increased to 1,640. The deceased have been identified as Lubhaya Ram, a 55-year-old resident of Bandala village; Galwinder Kaur, a 56-year-old female from Waraich village near Beas; Pritam Singh (65) from Nawan Kot and Lakhbir Kaur (80) from Friends Colony.The district also reported 453 positive cases, with which the total count of infections increased to 57,019. On Tuesday, the district reported 324 new cases and 129 contacts of positive patients.The district health authorities have also reported recovery of 612 patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 51,982. At present, the district has a total of 3,397 active cases.148 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe Tarn Taran district received 148 positive cases on Tuesday with which the number of active cases reached 1,238 in the district.The Health Department informed that the deaths due to the pandemic were 384 so far. As many as 1,777 samples were collected to be tested for Covid-19.The report of 822 samples were yet to be receive. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-4-succumb-to-virus-453-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-364534
26-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Teens not interested in voting rights?||Amritsar, January 25The nation on Tuesday observed National Voters’ Day, but strangely only 24 per cent of the voters in the 18-19 age group applied for getting the voter ID card in the district. The district has 90,524 voters in this age group. Of them, only 22,036 applied for voter cards.Today’s youngsters are under extreme stress due to disruptions in education and job placement in the past two years. So, they are not motivated to join the electoral process. Dr Amit Chopra, Assistance Placement Officer at GNDUIt is a matter of concern that less than a quarter of young voters (90,524) applied for the voter ID cards. This despite the fact that the Election Commission had organised a number of activities focused on first-time voters.District Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) Programme had organised a string of activities focusing on first-time voters.Naresh Shaurya Johar, a senior citizen, says it seems that young voters have become indifferent to the biggest festival of democracy. Shrinking job opportunities, peer pressure to perform and overseas dreams have burdened these young voters like never before. So there is a possibility that a large number of them may have gone abroad to pursue their studies and professions, he says.The trend is not limited to the district, but it can be noticed in the entire state. There are 9,30,406 voters in this age group in the state. Of them, 2,78,962 applied for votes. The neighbouring district of Tarn Taran recorded the minimum number of youngsters applying for votes. It has 41,594 voters in the 18-19 age group and only 8,204 applied for votes.In a recent interaction with Dr Amit Chopra, Assistance Placement Officer at Guru Nanak Dev University, stated that today’s youngsters were under extreme stress due to disruptions in education and job placement in the past two years. So they were not motivated to join the electoral process.Shaurya Talwar, a 20-year-old local youth, said he was pursing law here, but wanted to move abroad hoping for a bright future as there was a dearth of opportunities.Five Newly registered voters honoured by DEO-cum-DC in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The district administration on Tuesday virtually observed National Voters’ Day in which voters were apprised of the importance of their right to vote. The voters vowed to cast their vote definitely. On the occasion, five newly registered voters were honoured with their Electoral Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) by DEO-cum-DC Kulwant Singh. District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh presided over the function while Additional Deputy Commissioner Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal, District Revenue Officer Aditya Gupta were among others who attended the function. Kulwant Singh said the voters, particularly newly registered voters of the age of 18-19, were apprised of the importance of the casting vote and asked them to cast their vote. He said the move to make the voters aware had been launched for the last six months through SWEEP activities. Students of educational institutions had been involved in these activities, he added. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teens-not-interested-in-voting-rights-364532
26-01-2022||---||Teams formed to monitor poll campaign in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 25After the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct, officials are on toes to comply with it.The district administration and the Municipal Corporation (MC) removed more than 40,000 defacements from the city. Mobile vans with cameras atop are on the move to monitor campaigning.There are 33 vehicles equipped with pan, tilt, zoom (PTZ) cameras in the city. As many as 33 teams have been constituted for video surveillance, video viewing and accounting (11 each). Another 11 teams have been constituted as expenditure observers.The district electoral officials said 15,098 government employees of various departments have been deployed on election duty. As many as 1,136 observers are on duty. Out of 41,694 weapons, the authorities deposited 39,460 and the status of 2,234 were still pending.As far as law and order are concerned, the police have nabbed only 300 proclaimed offenders under Section 299 of the CrPC out of 1,969. Around 1,669 are still at large. The police have seized two revolvers, one pistol and 17 cartridges after implementation of the Model Code of Conduct. The district administration received a total 104 complaints of violation of the code conduct of which 87 were disposed of and 17 were pending. All 95 complaints received through the c-VIGIL app have been disposed and of these 56 were disposed within 100 minutes.The district authorities revealed that 138 model polling stations would be established in the district. Around 13 polling stations would be managed by women. Majitha, Amritsar Central and Amritsar East are expenditure sensitive constituencies.Action so far...22,036 young voters to exercise franchise this timeAmritsar: A total of 22,036 first-time voters would exercise their right to franchise during the state Assembly election scheduled to be held on February 20 in the state. Giving details about the profile of voters, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the district also had 753 centenarian voters. The number of nonagenarian voters in the district is 8,545. Khaira said apart from giving the facility of postal ballot to senior citizens and persons with disabilities, the administration was running a campaign to motivate them to cast their vote. Khaira said a total of 19,44,090 voters; 10,23,975 males, 9,20,047 females and 68 third-gender voters were registered in the district. He added that as compared to the 2017 assembly, the total number of voters in the district had increased by 1,63,123. With a population of 28,33,408, the district has a ratio of 686 voters per thousand of the population. Election officers have also identified three expenditure-sensitive constituencies — Majitha, Amritsar Central and Amritsar East — where a special watch is being kept on the election expenditure by the candidates. The District Election Officer said a total of 2,194 booths would be set up for polling. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teams-formed-to-monitor-poll-campaign-364530
26-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Day 1: No one turns up to file nominations in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 25On the first day of filing nominations on Tuesday, no candidate from any political party or even Independents turned up to file their nominations from any of the 11 Assembly constituencies in the district.It being a public holiday on Wednesday, candidates would now be able to file their nominations on Thursday only. Even as the process for filing nominations would end on February 1, the candidates have only five working days to complete the formalities.The officials associated with the election said usually, very few candidates prefer submitting their papers on the first day, as they have to get their papers in order.Of the 11 Assembly segments in the district, five — Amritsar South, Amritsar North, Amritsar West, Amritsar East and Amritsar Central — are in urban sector, while the remaining six — Ajnala, Attari, Rajasansi, Baba Bakala, Jandiala Guru and Majitha — are rural constituencies.Another reason for the slow start of the nomination process is that many political parties were yet to announce their candidates. But as the last day to file nominations is on February 1, parties, too, would have to announce their candidates in a couple of days, so that they get ample time to submit their nominations.While Congress has announced candidates from all constituencies, except Attari, BJP has so far announced only one candidate apart from another by its alliance partner Punjab Lok Congress, which has announced its candidate from Amritsar South constituency.Sanyukt Samaj Morcha floated by farmer unions has so far announced its candidate from Rajasansi constituency only. Shiromani Akali Dal has announced candidates from all seats except Amritsar South, from where Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu is contesting. So far, AAP is the only political party which has announced candidates from all seats.SAD candidate files papers from Khadoor SahibTarn Taran: Of the four Vidhan Sabha constituencies of the district, only one candidate filed his nomination paper on the first day on Tuesday. Ranjit Singh Brahmpura filed his papers from Khadoor Sahib Vidhan Sabha constituency. The SAD candidate filed his papers before the Returning Officer-cum-SDM Khadoor Sahib. The nomination papers would not be filed on Wednesday, as January 26 is a public holiday. Ranjit Singh strictly followed Covid-19 precautions and was accompanied by his associates at the time of filing his papers. No one filed nominations from Tarn Taran, Patti and Khemkaran constituencies. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-1-no-one-turns-up-to-file-nominations-in-amritsar-364529
