28-01-2022||Amritsar||Two nabbed with 750-gm heroin||Illicit liquor destroyedTarn Taran: The joint team of the Excise Department and the police, under Operation Red Rose, conducted a major search operation on Thursday, with the help of drone cameras in the mand area of Kirian and Marar villages. Excise Officer Navjot Bharti said during the day-long operation, 63,060 kg of lahan stored in 19 big tarpaulin sheets and three iron drums was recovered from the area along Beas. The illicit liquor was destroyed on the spot. Cases have been registered against the unidentified persons of Kirian village at Chohla Sahib police station. Vishal Jeet Singh SP (D), Navjot Bharti, local Excise Officer and Preetinder Singh DSP Goindwal Sahib supervised the operation. Shiv Darshan Singh, SHO, Chohla Sahib, Excise and Taxation Inspector Purshotam Pathania, ETI Jatinder Singh, along with the Excise Police, Tarn Taran, and the district police, headed the teams. OC4 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: During a search operation, Amritsar Central Jail authorities seized four mobile phones in the high-security jail complex. The mobiles were recovered from Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi of Baler village in Tarn Taran, Kunal Barian of Dhamnode Panch Mehal and Lovepreet Singh of Bhura Kona village in Tarn Taran. A case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act was registered against them on the complaint of Assistant Jail Superintendent Sarabjit Singh. TNSRoad accident claims one lifeAmritsar: An unidentified beggar was run over by an unidentified vehicle near Jaintipur village here on Wednesday evening. Mukha Singh of Chachowali village informed the police that he was going from Chachowali village to Jaintipur village when he found the body of a handicapped beggar who used to roam in the area. The police have registered a case under Section 304-A of the IPC against the unidentified driver of the vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-750-gm-heroin-364938
28-01-2022||Amritsar||Crime record of candidates just a click away||Getting information whether a candidate has a criminal record or not is just a click away. The Chief Election Commission has launched a mobile application ‘Know your candidate’ for the voters to know the particular and criminal antecedents of a candidate.DC-cum-District Electoral Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira on Thursday that as per the norms, it was mandatory for a candidate to make a detail of the criminal cases, if any, while filing his nomination papers during the assembly poll.“During digitisation of all the documents, the returning officer would ensure that right documents are scanned and uploaded on the mobile application,” he said. He added that this would help the voters while selecting their candidates during the poll.Khaira appealed to the people to download the mobile application, which was developed to apprise the people of the criminal antecedents of the contesting candidates. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crime-record-of-candidates-just-a-click-away-364937
28-01-2022||A frigid morning failed to dampen the spirits of men and women in khaki as they gathered at Guru Nanak Stadium to participate in the Republic Day ceremony. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa presided over the ceremony as the chief guest. Addressing after the flag hoisting ceremony at the stadium||Majestic march & folk hues||Different units of the Punjab Police performed drills to mark the day while men and women cops also conducted the march past ceremony. Deputy CM honoured Parade Commander Gurinderbir Singh Sidhu, who led the Republic Day parade. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, along with MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, and Commissioner Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill were also present during the ceremony. Due to the recent surge in Covid-19 and keeping in mind the restrictions, this year, no spectator was allowed to attend the parade. The traditional cultural programmes that are performed by folk artists and students were also missing, keeping the overall mood of the ceremony sombre.At Wagha-Attari Border, BSF and the Pakistan Army exchanged sweets and patriotic performances were held to celebrate the day. Contrary to the sombre celebrations at Guru Nanak Dev Stadium, the celebrations at Wagah Attari border were colourful and spirited. Students from army schools and various folk artiste groups performed dances such as bihu, garba, lavani and bhangra. Sweets were distributed and the Beating the Retreat ceremony was held with fervour. Only selected audience, including the army officials, their families and senior dignitaries were allowed to attend the ceremony||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majestic-march-folk-hues-364936
28-01-2022||---||Covid: Five deaths, 161 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 27With five deaths reported in the district in the last 24 hours, the death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 1,646 in the district. The deceased have been identified as Subh Darshan Kumar, a 69-year-old resident of Friends Colony, Surjit Singh, an 83-year-old resident of Chhehharta, Sudarshan Kumari, a 55-year-old resident of Ghumiaran Wala Mohalla, Teja Singh, a 73-year-old resident of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar and Kulwant Kaur, a 68-year-old resident of Thatha village.District health authorities also reported 161 positive cases on Thursday with which the total count increased to 57,525. Of these, 57 are new cases while 104 are contacts of positive patients. The authorities also reported the recovery of 525 patients with which the tally of those cured rose to 52,978. At present, the district has a total of 2,901 active cases. Meanwhile, 31,293 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. Of them, 13,604 persons, including 1,888 children, received the first dose and 16,770 the second dose and 919 the third dose.119 test +ve in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The district reported 119 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The death toll stood at 385. The Health Department collected 932 samples, the report of which was awaited till filing of this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-five-deaths-161-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-364930
28-01-2022||---||Sukhbinder Sarkaria unfurls Tricolour in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, January 27On the occasion of 73rd Republic Day of the country, Cabinet minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria unfurled the national flag at the district-level function organised here on Wednesday .The minister also inspected the parade and took the salute from the march past.   Keeping in view Covid-19 protocols, the function was organised in a simple way.DSP Maninderpal Singh led the Punjab Police parade in which women policemen and Punjab Home Guard jawans too participated. Addressing on the occasion, the minister remembered the sacrifices of the country’s great heroes who made supreme sacrifices for the freedom of the country. He also paid rich tributes to them. He said in the freedom struggle Punjabis made maximum sacrifices.The minister was honoured by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana on the occasion. District and Sessions Judge Priya Sood, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal, and local SDM Rajnish Arora were among the dignitaries present in the function. The function concluded with the playing of the national anthem sung by students of the local Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School.Functions were organised at the office of the local municipal council, the Civil Hospital, Congress Bhawan, the railway station and in certain educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarkaria-unfurls-tricolour-in-tarn-taran-364929
28-01-2022||---||2 of 4 Padma recipients in Punjab have Amritsar  connection||Amritsar, January 27Two out of the four recipients of the prestigious Padma awards from Punjab this year have connection to the holy city.The late legendary singer Gurmeet Bawa, who passed away last year, has been awarded Padma Bhushan posthumously and educationist and writer Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi Padma Shri.Gurmeet Bawa was the first artiste to perform on Doordarshan and was celebrated for her contribution in the field of folk Punjabi music. She holds the record for the longest hek (a form of alaap in the beginning of a song), a 45-second hek that no artiste has ever come close to break it yet. Her daughters, Lacchi Bawa and Glory Bawa, too are famous Punjabi folk singers though Lacchi Bawa passed away two years ago due to cancer.At present, Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi is Vice-Chancellor of Central University in Himachal Pradesh. He would receive this award in the education and literature category. Professor Bedi retired as professor and head of the department of Hindi from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, in 2010 where he also served as dean and Director of the Chairs of Bhagat Kabir, Satguru Ram Singh and Swami Vivekanand.His contribution towards creating a literary bridge between the Hindi and Punjabi languages has earned him immense acclaim in the field of literature. He has also served as Hindi Adviser to the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Government of India. He has also been on the panel of the National Language Council, Government of India, for preparing the draft of the New Education Policy.About Dr Harmohinder Singh BediDr Harmohinder Singh Bedi is Vice-Chancellor of Central University in Himachal Pradesh. He would receive this award in the education and literature category. Professor Bedi retired as professor and head of the department of Hindi from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, in 2010, where he also served as dean and Director of three Chairs.‘If only mother were alive to receive award’Reacting to the news of her mother receiving the third highest civilian award in the country, Glory Bawa, daughter of Gurmeet Bawa, and a prominent artiste herself, said she wished her mother would have been given this honour when she was alive. “She dedicated 53 years of her life to music and her passion and service towards Punjabi music remained same till her last. It would have been wonderful if the honour had come when she was alive. We had written to the government several times over the years. The entire family is happy though over the news and after going through a tough time losing my sister and mother in a span of one year, I believe that this is a welcome news,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-of-4-padma-recipients-in-state-have-city-connection-364927
28-01-2022||---||KMSC holds rally, honours family members of martyr farmers||Amritsar, January 27The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) organised a massive rally on January 26, in Jandiala, against the corporate sector’s invasion in the agriculture sector and marked the day as Fateh Diwas. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said more than one lakh farmers, labourers, women and youth from Punjab, Haryana and UP participated in the historic ‘Alternative building rally’.Tributes were paid to 750 peasant workers and martyrs of peoples’ movements across the country and the world, including Navrit Singh Dibdiba, who was martyred in a clash with police on January 26, 2021. The families of the martyrs were honoured.Addressing a large gathering of the masses, state president Satnam Singh Pannu stated that the pro-imperialist policies of the Indian state would be uprooted by a mass movement and a pro-nature and pro-people state will be brought in.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Gurbachan Singh Chabba, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, leaders of the KMSC, addressed the rally and announced that effigies of the Modi government will be burnt at district, zone and village-level across Punjab on January 29, in protest against the attack on Delhi morcha stage of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee with the connivance of the police on January 29, 2021. The leaders said by setting-up a labor and nature-friendly agricultural policy in the state, agro-based small scale industries would be set-up in the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-holds-rally-honours-family-members-of-martyrs-364925
28-01-2022||Amritsar||3 candidates file nomination in Tarn Taran||On the second day of the filing of the nomination papers, three more candidates filed their nominations, taking the tally of nominations to four in the district on Thursday.The candidates who filed their nomination papers are Harjinder Singh of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Harmeet Singh Sandhu of SAD and his wife Kanwaljit Kaur Sandhu (also of SAD), who is her husband’s covering candidate. The candidates filed their nomination papers in the office of Returning Officer-cum-SDM (Tarn Taran) Rajnish Arora.Ranjit Singh Brahampura was the only candidate who filed his nomination papers on January 25, the first day of filing of the nominations from the Khadoor Sahib constituency. District Election Officer-cum-District Magistrate Kulwant Singh said no one had filed his nomination papers from Khadoor Sahib, Patti and Khemkaran today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-candidates-file-nomination-in-tarn-taran-364924
28-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Bonny, 6 others file papers||Amritsar, January 27A total of seven candidates filed their nominations from four different Assembly constituencies on Thursday. Cabinet minister and Congress leader Sukhbinder Sarkaria, along with his nephew, Dilraj Singh Sarkaria filed his papers from the Rajasansi Assembly segment. While Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Dilraj Singh Sarkaria have filed nominations on Congress ticket, Amarpal Singh Bonny and his wife Anu are SAD candidates. Ajay Gupta and his son Sarthak Gupta are AAP nominees and Sham Lal Gandhi has filed his papers as an independent candidate.Amarpal Singh Bonny Ajnala and his wife Anu filed their nominations from Ajnala Assembly segment on SAD ticket. Ajay Gupta and his son Sarthak Gupta filed nominations on AAP ticket from Amritsar Central segment. A labourer Sham Lal Gandhi also filed nominations as an independent candidate from Amritsar West seat.Sarkaria’s nephew, Ajay’s son and Bonny’s wife are covering candidates. It was the second day for the nominations today. Earlier on the first day, none of candidates had filed their papers from any of the 11 constituencies in the district.Of all the candidates who filed their nominations on Thursday, Sham Lal Gandhi is the poorest as his total net worth is just Rs 41,841. It includes Rs 40,000 as cash in hand and Rs 1841 as bank savings. He or his wife does not have any immovable property. They also do not have any liabilities.So far, no candidate has submitted his nominations from Amritsar South, Amritsar North, Amritsar East, Attari, Baba Bakala, Jandiala Guru and Majitha constituencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bonny-6-others-file-papers-364921
28-01-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Navjot Singh Sidhu vs Bikram Singh Majithia: Mother of all battles in Amritsar East||Chandigarh, January 27The Amritsar-East constituency has become the hottest seat with the Shiromani Akali Dal announcing on Tuesday to field drugs smuggling accused Akali leader and ex-minister Bikram Singh Majithia against sitting MLA and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.With a “down-but-not-out” attitude, Majithia had last week hinted that he would be ready to contest against Sidhu, who he accused of conspiring to falsely implicate him in the drugs smuggling case. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced his candidature in Amritsar. Immediately, media and political analysts touted the contest between the two leaders as the mother of all battles in Punjab. The Akalis have been defensive since the drugs smuggling case against Majithia with party leaders preferring to fight the allegations legally. However, in a sudden change, the party adopted an aggressive move and field Majithia. He will contest from his home constituency Majitha also.It is not only going to be high-adrenaline contest, going by the decade-old rivalry between the two leaders, but also of much political significance for the state. Navjot Sidhu is keen on becoming the Chief Minister face of the Congress but will lose the claim if he tastes defeat at the hands of Majithia. On the other hand, Majithia risks loss of face against his bitter rival if he does not return victorious. He looks at the victory as validation of his claims that he was falsely implicated and won in the court of people.The history of the seat does not augur well for the Akali leader. SAD had last won from the seat in 1951. Since then, the seat has been the stronghold of the Congress and the BJP. Sidhu won in 2017 on the Congress ticket, pocketing almost little more than 60 per cent votes. His wife was elected from the seat in 2012. Sidhu had led from the segment while winning the Lok Sabha poll thrice from the Amritsar, including a byelection.PCC chief won 2017 polls                                     #BikramMajithia                                     #NavjotSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-vs-bikram-singh-majithia-mother-of-all-battles-in-amritsar-east-364794
28-01-2022||---||Charanjit Singh Channi or Navjot Sidhu? Decision soon, says Rahul Gandhi||Jalandhar/Amritsar, January 27On his daylong visit to the state, former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi today said he would soon announce the chief ministerial candidate for the state Assembly elections.Addressing a virtual rally in Jalandhar, Rahul said either of the two — Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi or PCC chief Navjot Sidhu — would be picked. He said opinion would be sought from the party workers before making the announcement.Rahul said he discussed the issue with both Sidhu and Channi on his way to the venue. “They told me the biggest question everyone is asking in Punjab is who of the two will take the lead. There cannot be two leaders. If one gets the chance, the other one will pledge support for him. I was really happy with it. So, I thought that if the party leaders, workers and Punjab want it, we will take the decision. We will do it by seeking the opinion of our workers and I want everyone to fight as a team.”Prior to his speech both Sidhu and Channi set the narrative in this direction. Sidhu said: “People are asking who will be the leader to put forth the party agenda. I will accept your decision. Meinu darshani ghoda na bana dena (Do not make me a mere showpiece).”Starting his speech with the verses of Guru Ravidass, Channi told Rahul, “If you have liked my 111 days of CMship, a thought could be given for the next five years.” He was, however, quick to change his stance, “You have already given too much to someone whose family has not even had anyone even as an MLA. Pick anyone as CM face. I assure you my full support.” At this, he invited Sidhu near him on the dais and hugged him. Sidhu responded with a warm gesture as ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Pargat Singh also came along.Rahul also spoke on many plans already put forth by Sidhu in his Punjab Model for the past few days.Affirming that his party would give a push to the industry, Rahul said, “We want ‘Made in Punjab’ labels to go popular.” On governance, he said, “We will start single window system for 160 services under ‘Sarkar aapke dwaar’ project. We will focus on decentralisation.” On women issues, he said, “I have suggested that a dedicated women manifesto must be released with two-three main promises”.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi along with party’s all candidates kicked off the election campaign after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple here today. He also paid tributes to martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh, before visiting Durgiana Mandir and Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath temple.Rahul landed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, at 12.30 pm from where he directly reached the Golden Temple. Unlike his June 2017 visit when he opted to stand in a queue meant for common devotees, he gained access from the VIP lane to the sanctum sanctorum and offered ‘rumala’ and ‘karah parshad deg’ at the shrine. In acknowledgement, SGPC staffers presented him a ‘sehra’ (a garland). Congress leader Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachchar presented him a ‘kirpan’. He also listened to the kirtan for some time.He was flanked by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Deputy CMs OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. During the course of his visit, he kept on sharing his experience through tweets in Hindi.Eight of nine MPs not presentOf a total of eight Congress MPs, only Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla accompanied Rahul. Punjab Lok Congress leader Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur (Patiala), Manish Tewari (Anandpur Sahib), Ravneet Singh Bittu (Ludhiana), Jasbir Singh Gill (Khadoor Sahib), Mohammad Sadique (Faridkot), Chaudhry Santokh Singh (Jalandhar) and Amar Singh (Fatehgarh Sahib) were conspicuous by their absence. Congress leaders said most MPs were busy with their prior commitments. The Khadoor Sahib MP clarified due to his personal obligations he was not able to attend the Amritsar function and for this he had already informed his leadership, ‘no assumptions please’.There can’t be two chiefsThey (Channi & Sidhu) told me the biggest question everyone is asking in Punjab is who of the two will take the lead. There cannot be two chiefs. If one gets the chance, the other one will pledge support for him. Rahul Gandhi, former AICC chief                                     #CharanjitChanni                                     #Congress                                     #NavjotSidhu                                     #RahulGandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-or-navjot-sidhu-decision-soon-says-rahul-gandhi-364783
