30-01-2022||---||Artistes steer clear of poll campaigns this time, Covid to blame?||Amritsar, January 29It’s poll season and politicians are usually seen using all kinds of mediums to woo voters and theatre or rather streetplays used to be the most common of it all. But, not this time!Due to Covid-19, this medium seems to be missing amid the pre-poll hustle and bustle. Theatre, especially street theatre used to be the most popular propaganda tool used by political parties during election campaigning. This year, keeping in mind the Covid-19 restrictions, the usual flavour of theatre seems to be underwhelming.Apart from the pandemic, dis-interest in traditional political discourse is also one of the reasons that theatre artistes are choosing to stay away from ground campaigning. Manchpreet, a noted theatre artisteManchpreet, a noted theatre person, who had been actively participating in the electoral process through theatre, said apart from the pandemic, dis-interest in traditional political discourse is also one of the reasons that theatre artistes are choosing to stay away from ground campaigning.“I used to perform a lot of street theatre in rural and border areas before elections as part of awareness as well as campaign purpose. This year, too, a lot of offers came, but I chose to stay away, as there was a sense of disappointment towards traditional politics. I feel that theatre must be done for right reasons,” he said.Gurinder Makana, another theatre personality from the city, who actively participated in awareness through street plays, also chose to wait this time. “Because of Covid-19, there are restrictions regarding ground campaigning as there are no clear guidelines on live performances during election campaigning. Hence, it’s better to wait and consider health safety of artistes,” he said.While most theatre artistes are missing from ground campaigning for parties, Narinder Sanghi, a noted theatre director, and his group have been performing street plays for AAP. Sanghi said streetplay was the most effective and basic mass medium used for ground electoral campaigning. The content usually is about welfare schemes, election manifesto and voter awareness.“Six artistes from my theatre group have been hired by AAP to carry out a series of street plays during their ground campaigns. Mostly young artistes and groups are participating in ground campaigns,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artistes-steer-clear-of-poll-campaigns-this-time-covid-to-blame-365502
30-01-2022||---||Covid-19: 4 die, 301 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 29With four city residents losing life to Covid-19, the district toll increased to 1,652 on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Kul Bhushan, an 86-year-old resident of Hussainpura; Kamla Vishnu Devi (76) of Airport Road; Manga (38) from Bypass Road and Amarjit Kaur (60) of Bhagatawala area.The district health authorities have also reported 301 positive cases, with which the total count increased to 58,039. The cases include 217 new cases and 84 contacts of positive patients.The district Health Department has also reported the recovery of 657 patients, with which the recovery count increased to 54,122. At present, the district has a total of 2,265 active cases.Meanwhile, 30,329 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these 14,038, including 1975 children in the age group of 15-17 years received the first dose, while 14,717 received the second dose and 1,574 received the third dose.30 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe Tarn Taran district reported 30 Covid cases on Saturday with which the number of active cases increased to 999. The Health Department teams said the reports of 710 samples were yet to be received. As many as 385 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district so far. — OCSubmit application for Death compensationThe administration has asked families of those who died of Covid to submit applications at the DC office for compensation of Rs50,000 as announced by the government earlier. The families are required to submit identity proof of the deceased along with the identity proof of the claimant, proof of relation of the deceased and claimant, copy of the Covid test, cause of death as ascertained by the hospital, death certificate, legal heir certificate, a cancelled cheque of the claimant and no objection certificate from other legal heirs in case claimant is only one person. The applications can be submitted with the Deputy Commissioner office after which these would be scrutinised by a district-level committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-4-die-301-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-365501
30-01-2022||AMRITSAR||Rahul Gandhi 'pickpocketed' during Amritsar visit?||SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal has created a political furore in the politically charged atmosphere by tweeting, “Who picked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s pocket during his recent visit at the Golden Temple?”In a tweet posted on Saturday, former Minister of State for Food Processing said, “Who picked Rahul Gandhi’s pocket at Sri Harmandir Sahib? Charanjit Channi? Sherryontopp or Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa? These were the only three persons allowed by Z-security to get near him. Or is it just one more attempt to bring bad name to our holiest shrine after the ‘be-adbi’ incidents?”Responding to the allegation of Harsimrat Badal, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala categorically stated that no such incident had occurred. Disseminating allegations also amount to sacrilege. However, endorsing the three laws on agriculture in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet was indeed like pick-pocketing of farmers, added Surjewala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-pickpocketed-during-amritsar-visit-365379
