01-09-2021||Business||CVC flags 42 cases, 10 by railways and 5 by Canara bank||The Central Vigilance Commission has flagged 42 cases, including 10 by the railways and five by Canara Bank, where government departments significantly deviated from its advice to act against corrupt officials, according to a report. Besides the railways and Canara Bank, there were two such cases each by Syndicate Bank, Bank of India, Mahanadi Coalfields Limited and Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), the report said. Also, one case each has been reported in Union Bank of India, Andhra Bank, LIC of India, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), Oil India Limited and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, it said. One case each by the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD), Khadi and Village Industries Commission, NTPC Limited, Bureau of Indian Standards, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Shipping, National Highways Authority of India and Airport Authority of India among others were also noted for noncompliance of the CVC advice against the corrupt. The CVC has observed that during the last year, there were some significant deviations from the Commission's advice, said the 2020 annual report tabled in Parliament during the recently-concluded Monsoon session and uploaded on its website on Tuesday. Non-acceptance of the Commission's advice or non-consultation with the Commission vitiates the vigilance process and weakens the impartiality of the vigilance administration, it said. Giving details of the cases of deviation by the railways, the report said a Senior Section Engineer/Quality Assurance/Signal & Telecom/Research Designs & Standards Organisation inspected and passed substandard signalling cable of length 42.196 km supplied by the contractor. On 18 November 2019, the Commission, after considering the report of Inquiry Officer and comments of Disciplinary Authority (DA), advised imposition of a major penalty on the Senior Section Engineer/Quality Assurance, the report said. The Disciplinary Authority (General Manager/Southern Railway), in an order on March 17, 2020, however, imposed a minor penalty on the Senior Section Engineer, it said. Citing details of a case by Canara Bank, the CVC said a limited company engaged in infra projects was sanctioned working capital fund based limit of Rs 50 crore and non-fund based limit of Rs 150 crore by Credit Approval Committee (CAC) on August 1, 2013. There were persisting over dues in the working capital account. DGM of the branch permitted an additional bank guarantee limit of Rs 21.50 crores in favour of Family Credit Limited for allowing funds against retention money receivable, beyond his delegated powers with 5% margin on 12.01.2016, it said. After issue of the bank guarantee of Rs 21.5 crore, there was a credit of Rs 20.16 crores into the account, subsequent to which the account turned NPA, the report said. The Commission advised for imposition of a major penalty on the DGM as recommended by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO). The DA imposed a major penalty of reduction to a lower stage in time scale of pay by one stage for a period of one year during which period he shall not earn increments of pay and the reduction shall have the effect of postponing future increments of his pay . On an appeal preferred by the DGM, the Appellate Authority reduced the major penalty to that of a minor penalty of censure, it said. Mentioning another case, the report said the officials of a branch of Life Insurance Company including the then Senior Divisional Manager (Marketing) had used foul play, pressured the branch manager to resort to bogus business to achieve targets of the branch. Huge amount was spent on get together parties, gift items, cash offers, TA, DA etc. in violations of underwriting procedures, it said. The Commission had advised for initiation of major penalty proceedings against the officials involved including the then Senior Divisional Manager, the report said. The Disciplinary Authority imposed penalty of censure' against the then Sr Divisional Manager. The Commission has decided to include the case as deviation by the Disciplinary Authority in its annual report, it said. The CVC report said the CBI had registered a case against officials of Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC) on the basis of complaint with allegations that the public servant has cheated the government to the extent of Rs 80.78 lakh on the pretext of executing Central programmes in respect of Marketing Development Assistance (MDA) scheme. One of the alleged officers of the case did not conduct the inspection before release of MDA assistance, it said. As a result of which huge amount of funds meant for artisans could not reached them, the report said. The CVC on January 31, 2018 advised the initiation of a major penalty proceedings against four officials of Khadi & Village Industries Commission. On advice of the Commission, the Disciplinary Authority imposed the penalty in line with Commission's advice on the three charged officers. One of the charge officers was exonerated by the Disciplinary Authority without consultation of the Commission which is violation of vigilance administration. The decision of disciplinary authority is at variance with Commission's advice," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
01-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops 214 points on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 214 points on Wednesday, led by losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and TCS as investors booked profits at record levels despite a positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 57,918.71 during the session, the 30-share index pared all gains to end 214.18 points or 0.37 per cent lower at 57,338.21. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 55.95 points or 0.33 per cent to 17,076.25. It touched an intra-day record of 17,225.75. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, TCS, HDFC and Infosys. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Nestle India, Axis Bank and Titan were among the gainers. "Despite a strong opening after favourable GDP data, domestic indices failed to hold onto its early gains due to profit booking strategy from the recent rally, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. India's GDP rose due to the low base effect and was powered by private consumption expenditure and investment. The auto sector showed a flattish trend as sales for August saw a decline following supply constraints, he added. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Equities in Europe were also trading with gains in the afternoon session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.31 per cent to USD 71.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 200 points to hit fresh record||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale a fresh record in early trade on Wednesday, following strong GDP data and heavy foreign fund inflow.  The broader NSE Nifty too surged to its lifetime high of 17,194.35.  After touching a record high of 57,783.34, the 30-share index was trading 205.86 points or 0.36 per cent up at 57,758.25. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 56.55 points or 0.33 per cent to 17,188.75 in the opening session.  Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, L&T, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Tata Steel, HDFC, Maruti and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the BSE index ended 662.63 points or 1.16 per cent higher at its record close of 57,552.39, and Nifty soared 201.15 points or 1.19 per cent to an all-time closing peak of 17,132.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,881.16 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to experts, market sentiment got a boost following record growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) during the first quarter of the fiscal, putting India on track to achieving the world's fastest growth this year.  The Indian economy grew by a record 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter, helped by a very weak base of last year and a sharp rebound in the manufacturing and services sectors in spite of a devastating second wave of COVID-19.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  US equities ended with mild losses in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.63 per cent to USD 72.08 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Maruti expects 40% of normal output in September due to chip shortage||Maruti Suzuki India on Tuesday said the shortage of semiconducters would force it to drastically cut production in September to as low as 40 per cent of normal across its plants in Haryana and Gujarat . The company’s production capacity at Gurgaon and Manesar plants in Haryana is around 15 lakh units per annum. Besides, Suzuki Motor Gujarat, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation, has an additional installed production capacity of 7.5 lakh units per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Exide Industries to venture into ACC battery storage||Lead acid battery major Exide Industries on Tuesday said the company is evaluating options to venture into Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) battery storage through participation in the production linked incentive scheme of the Centre. “Your company is seriously exploring the option of venturing into Advance Cell Chemistry Project or ACC for short and is evaluating the possibility of participating in the PLI programme of the government,” Exide Industries managing director and CEO Subir Chakraborty told shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting. After the AGM, Chakraborty said the company is awaiting the release of PLI documents by the government which is expected shortly, following which Exide would be able to determine the feasibility and scale of the project. Under the PLI scheme an ACC battery storage manufacturer would have to commit to set up an ACC manufacturing facility of minimum 5 GWh capacity and ensure a minimum 60 per cent domestic value addition at the project level within five years. The government has laid an outlay of Rs 18,100 crore to achieve 50 GWh capacity of ACC in India. ACCs manufactured under the programme are expected to accelerate electric vehicle adoption and the government has estimated a direct investment of around Rs 45,000 crore in ACC battery storage manufacturing projects. According to industry estimates depending on the scale of projects, roughly Rs 700 crore per GWh could be the capital spend required in the projects which makes cell manufacturing capital intensive. As a step towards diversification into alternative battery technologies, Exide has already set up a 1.5 GWh lithium ion battery pack factory in Gujarat with an investment of Rs 192 crore as of March 31, 2021 and an additional Rs 40 crore has been pumped into the project this year. Cautious outlook Chakraborty said that with the pandemic still continuing and with changing regulatory and technological landscape, the company has to remain cautious. “The uncertainty in the value chain owing to semiconductors, lockdowns and raw materials remains a concern during the current financial year. Any disruption in operations because of these events may create cash-flow concerns and may pose a threat to the survival of some of the value chain partners. The rapidly changing regulatory and technological landscape is further adding to the uncertainty, which makes maintaining cash reserves a more prudent choice,” he said. “The performance in the next three quarters largely depends on how effectively all our citizens follow the government’s advice to get vaccinated and observe safety protocols. If we can avert the third wave, or substantially reduce its effect, economic activities can improve significantly over what was achieved last year,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business|| Kotak Mahindra Bank to sell 20 crore shares held in Airtel Payments Bank ||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Tuesday said it will sell 20 crore shares held in Airtel Payments Bank (APBL) for a cash consideration of Rs 294 crore or more to Bharti Enterprises Ltd. A share purchase agreement has been executed by the bank for divestment of 20 crore shares (8.57 per cent stake) held by Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd in APBL. These shares were acquired for Rs 200 crore,  invested in tranches during calendar years 2016 and 2017, the bank said in a regulatory filing. The sale is expected to be completed by September 15 or before, for a “cash consideration equal to or higher than Rs 294.8 crore; to be determined in accordance with the terms of the share purchase agreement,” it added. APBL was incorporated on April 1, 2010, under the RBI licence for payments banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Four Tesla EVs clear homologation phase, ready to launch in India||Four models of electric vehicle maker Tesla has cleared the homologation phase and are now up and ready for a full-fledged launch in the Indian market. The Indian subsidiary, Tesla India Motors and Energy, has received approval for all the four vehicles that the company had applied for, the ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) said on its website. Homologation is a process that certifies a particular vehicle is roadworthy after meeting all the specified criteria. While it is not clear which variants have been cleared for launch but multiple test cars of Tesla have been spotted regularly on Indian roads. Model 3 and Model Y have been seen in India during the past several weeks. The company, however, has not revealed any launch plans as yet. Instead, it has sought lowering of import duties from the Indian government. It is hoping to put a cheaper price tag on its cars which is not possible because of the steep import duties. Import duty on electric vehicles in India is 100 per cent if CIF (cost insurance and freight) value is more than $40,000 and 60 per cent if CIF value is less than $40,000. The Model Y and Model 3 of Tesla are priced in the range of $38,700 to $41,200. Both models made up 90 per cent of Tesla’s volumes in 2020. The balance share of 10 per cent came from Model S and Model X, which are priced in the range of $81,200 and $91,200. Tesla chief Elon Musk had tweeted that import duties in India were among the highest in the world and that the nation treats clean energy vehicles the same as gasoline, which isn’t consistent with its climate goals. He had also said a Tesla factory in India is quite likely but the company would first test the market with imported vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||PayU to buy digital payments provider BillDesk for $4.7 billion||In one of the biggest deals in the Indian consumer internet space, global player Prosus NV on Tuesday said its fintech business PayU will buy digital payments provider BillDesk for $4.7 billion (about Rs 34,376.2 crore). With the deal, the Netherlands-incorporated Prosus NV's investment in India will jump to more than $10 billion. The PayU-BillDesk transaction, which is subject to approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI), is expected to close by early 2022, Prosus Group CEO Bob van Dijk told reporters during a briefing. “The combination will create a leading digital payments company in India and globally, and it’s exceptionally well-positioned to expand deeper into the Indian fintech ecosystem as more and more Indian customers move from cash to digital transactions,” he added. Dijk noted that Prosus has been a long-term investor in India and has already invested close to $6 billion in India in tech companies since 2005. Prosus has invested in companies such as  Byju's, Meesho, Swiggy, Urban Company and others in India. The latest transaction builds on previous acquisitions by PayU in India, including CitrusPay, Paysense and Wibmo. It will help PayU — the payments and fintech business of Prosus that operates in more than 20 markets — become one of the leading online payment providers globally, handling total payment volume (TPV) of $147 billion. BillDesk was founded in 2000 and is backed by investors such as General Atlantic, Visa, TA Associates, Clearstone Venture and Temasek.  Dijk said along with classifieds, food delivery, and education technology, payments and fintech is a core segment for Prosus. Dijk said that over the next few years, more than 200 million new users are expected to adopt digital payments and the average of the number of annual transactions per person is expected to rise 10-fold in the next three years from 22 to 220 . For the financial year ended March 2021, PayU reported a strong performance, increasing TPV  by 51 per cent year-on-year to $55 billion across India, Latin America and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa). PayU offers credit solutions for consumers and small businesses. “By bringing together these two complementary businesses, we expect to create a fintech ecosystem handling 4 billion transactions annually,” Anirban Mukherjee, CEO of PayU India, said. Asked if BillDesk will operate as a separate entity, Mukherjee said the transaction is expected to close in a few months and “even post close, we will take our time to figure out how to bring the platforms together”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||RBI to conduct fine-tuning to manage unanticipated and one-off liquidity flows||The RBI will conduct fine-tuning operations to manage unanticipated and one-off liquidity flows to ensure balanced liquidity conditions in the system, governor Shaktikanta Das has said. In the monetary policy statement of August 6, Das had set out a road map for the gradual restoration of the variable rate reverse repo auction as the main operation under the revised liquidity management framework of February 6, 2020. Das said it is also an opportune time to consider new instruments to facilitate hedging of long-term interest rate and re-investment risk by market participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks gallop to record highs for yet another session||Equity benchmarks galloped to record highs for yet another session on Tuesday with the Sensex closing above 57000 for the first time while the Nifty scaled the 17000-mark as investors remained on a buying mode amid growth optimism and bullish global cues. Market sentiment was positive ahead of the release of first-quarter GDP data, traders said, adding a strengthening rupee added to the momentum. The rupee increased 29 paise to close at 73.00 against the dollar on Tuesday, marking the fourth straight day of gains. Rising for the fourth session on the trot, the 30-share BSE Sensex soared 662.63 points, or 1.16 per cent, to its fresh record close of 57552.39. It touched a lifetime high of 57625.26 during the session. The market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies jumped to an all-time high of Rs 2,50,02,084.01 crore at close of trade. It took the Sensex just two sessions to climb from the 56000 closing level to the 57000-mark. The broader NSE Nifty extended its winning streak for the seventh day, rallying 201.15 points, or 1.19 per cent, to an all-time closing peak of 17132.20. It touched an intra-day record of 17153.50. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 6.99 per cent, a day after its chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal indicated raising tariffs. “Led by bulls, domestic indices breached record highs amid broad-based buying due to continuation of Fed’s dovish policy and the expected release of domestic GDP data,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. World stocks maintained their upward trajectory on economic recovery hopes, bolstered by dovish comments from the US Federal Reserve. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Equities in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Brent crude fell 0.83 per cent to $71.63 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market on Monday as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,202.81 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Output of eight core sectors grow 9.4 per cent in July||The output of eight core sectors grew 9.4 per cent in July mainly due to a low base effect and an uptick in production of coal, natural gas, steel, cement and electricity, official data showed. The eight infrastructure sectors had contracted 7.6 per cent in July 2020  . According to the commerce and industry ministry data, production of coal jumped 18 per cent, natural gas 18.9 per cent, refinery products 6.7 per cent, steel 9.3 per cent, cement 21.8 per cent and electricity 9 per cent. Crude oil output contracted 3.2 per cent during the month under review. The fertiliser segment recorded a growth of 0.5 per cent. During April-July this fiscal, the eight sectors grew by 21.2 per cent against a negative growth of 19.8 per cent in the same period last year. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said: “The core sector growth barely budged to 9.4 per cent in July 2021, with an unfavourable base absorbing the positivity engendered by the further lifting of restrictions and mobility.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “The  sharp rise in cement and steel growth can be related to the infra push given by the government”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Economy jumps record 20.1 per cent in first quarter of 2021-22||The economy jumped a record 20.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2021-22 but only after it got hollowed out in the first quarter of the last fiscal by the pandemic that makes any semblance of normality appear as a giant statistical leap and raises doubts on government claims of a V-shaped recovery. Sequentially the economy actually slowed down 16.9 per cent over the January-March quarter and was 9.2 per cent short of the pre-Covid GDP number for the first quarter of 2019-20. The sequential contraction in GDP in the first quarter of the current fiscal came after three consecutive quarters of expansion. The economy had contracted a massive 24.4 per cent in April-June 2020 after one of the world’s most stringent lockdowns was imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus infections, crippling economic activity. The government’s chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian said private investments and consumer spending were driving a V-shaped recovery, and that the economy was well placed to deal with the impacts of any move by the US Federal Reserve to tighten liquidity. But there were many who held a different view. “The sharp year-on-year expansion in Q1 FY2022 is analytically misleading, with a sequential slowdown of 16.9 per cent over the fourth quarter of FY2021 and a shortfall of 9.2 per cent relative to the pre-Covid level of Q1 FY2020,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra. Even more troubling is the fact that there is no sign of a resurgence in demand or investment. Private final consumption expenditure (PFCE), which largely measures household spending, remained 11.9 per cent lower than in the same quarter of 2019 at Rs 17.83 lakh crore while gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) — a proxy measure for investment — plunged 17.10 per cent to Rs 10.22 lakh crore from the level in the comparable pre-Covid quarter. Agriculture and electricity, gas and other utilities were the only two sectors that displayed growth rates of 8.2 per cent and 3 per cent over the 2019 numbers. Trade, hotels and transport was down by over 30 per cent while construction was floundering at almost 15 per cent lower than the same quarter in 2019. Growth in the manufacturing sector — which underpins non-farm jobs — was over 4 per cent lower at Rs 5.43 lakh crore from the level of Rs 5.67 lakh crore in the first quarter of 2019-20. Gross value added (GVA) — which strips out the effects of taxes and subsidies — was down by 7.8 per cent from the level in 2019, which made the government’s insistent talk about an economic recovery sound hollow. Many analysts said the risk of spiking infections from the Delta variant and the sluggish pace of vaccinations in some states could slow momentum, with the economy unlikely to regain its pre-pandemic size of about $2.9 trillion before the middle of fiscal year 2022-23. “The vaccination progress will be crucial, given the possibility of a third wave of infections and the experience of countries which witnessed it,” said Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist-fund management at IDFC AMC in Mumbai. D.K. Srivastava, chief Policy adviser, EY India, said: “The adverse impact of the second wave has largely dragged the performance of the key service sector namely trade, transport and storage.” Rumki Majumdar, economist at Deloitte India, said: “The devil is in the detail and clearly, consumption spending has lagged suggesting that pandemic uncertainties are weighing on household finances and outlook. With risks looming over pent-up demand, the biggest driver of growth may take a while to take off. “The record year-on-year rise in Q1 of FY2021-22 was due entirely to the base effects. The risk of further outbreaks clouds the outlook,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics, said. Deficit outlook The central government’s fiscal deficit stood at Rs 3.21 lakh crore, or 21.3 per cent of the budget estimates, at the end of July, according to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts on Tuesday. The deficit figures this fiscal appear much better than the previous financial year, when it soared to 103.1 per cent of the estimate, mainly on account of a jump in expenditure to deal with the pandemic. Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday said the economic activity in India is picking up with the gradual easing of restrictions and there could be further upside to growth. Moody’s retained India’s growth forecast for the 2021 calendar year at 9.6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
01-09-2021||India||CBI questions Anil Deshmukh's son-in-law, books lawyer for trying to influence probe against him||The CBI has registered an FIR against the lawyer of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for allegedly trying to influence the Bombay High-Court directed preliminary enquiry into corruption allegations against the leader, officials said Wednesday.  The CBI Wednesday also questioned lawyer Anand Daga for allegedly trying to pay "illegal gratification" a sub-inspector-rank officer of the agency to "subvert the preliminary enquiry", they said,  A report of preliminary enquiry purportedly giving clean chit to Deshmukh was leaked Saturday night.  The CBI started a probe into the leakage which has so far revealed that Deshmukh's team allegedly tried to influence the conduct of PE against him by paying illegal gratification to a sub-inspector ranked officer of the agency, the officials said.  The central agency Wednesday examined Deshmukh's son-in-law Gaurav Chaturvedi and lawyer Anand Daga in over its probe after which an FIR was registered, they said.  The CBI did not find Chaturvedi's involvement so far and he was allowed to go, they said.  "Attempt of Anil Deshmukh's team were in contempt of Bombay High Court which had directed that all concerned should fully cooperate with the CBI while conducting the PE. In this case it has appeared that Deshmukh's team tried to subvert the PE," an official told PTI.  Their attempt could not succeed as there is a procedure in the CBI in which evidences on record and legal opinion is also taken on record before the registration of the FIR, he said.  "They could not influence people at higher level," he said.  The CBI had started a PE on the orders of the Bombay High Court which had issued the direction while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.  The claimed PE findings which were leaked showed the Deputy SP probing the matter had purportedly opined that no cognisable offence was made out against Deshmukh.  It was later converted into an FIR based on a contrasting opinion of the Deputy SP. The opinion mentioned in the FIR said that cognisable offence is made out against Deshmukh.  "The Preliminary Enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then Home minister of Maharashtra, Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR alleged.  In the FIR, the CBI had booked Deshmukh and others unidentified under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty."  Allegations against Deshmukh had surfaced after the removal of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.  He was removed after the role of a policemen Sachin Waze surfaced into the case of an explosive-laden SUV which was found parked outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Waze was arrested by the NIA.  In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after his removal, Singh had alleged Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai, they said.  The FIR alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
01-09-2021||India||Haryana govt shifts Karnal SDM days after his 'break heads' remark||The Haryana government on Wednesday transferred 19 IAS officers, including Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who was recently caught on tape allegedly telling policemen dealing with a farmers' protest to "break their heads".  Sinha will now be the additional secretary of the Citizen Resources Information Department, a government order said, adding that he has been shifted against a vacant post.  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier admitted that the choice of words by Ayush Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer, was wrong but had defended the police action.  Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had also disapproved of his remark and promised action against Sinha amid mounting opposition attack against his government over the lathicharge on farmers.  The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers' outfits spearheading the stir against the Centre's farm laws, had said a murder case should be registered against Sinha and he be dismissed from service.  The Morcha had fixed September 6 as the deadline to meet its demands while threatening to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat.  A Congress delegation led by the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Tuesday submitted to the Governor a video of the official, in which he is seen telling police to break the farmers' heads.  Submitting a memorandum, Hooda had reiterated his demand for a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court or a retired judge into the lathicharge incident, in which around 10 farmers were injured.  Police had used force on the protesters at Bastara toll plaza when farmers allegedly tried to march towards the venue of the a BJP meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior BJP leaders from the state were present.  Meanwhile, among other IAS officers transferred include Varinder Singh Kundu, Additional Chief Secretary to Haryana government, Labour Department. He has been posted as the ACS, Employment Department.  S N Roy, ACS, Urban Local Bodies Department, will now be ACS, Forests and Wildlife Department, relieving G Anupama of the charge.  Raja Sekhar Vundru, ACS, Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, will now be the ACS, Labour Department, relieving V S Kundu of the charge.  The Haryana government also issued transfer and posting orders of one HCS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
01-09-2021||India|| Sonia Gandhi to decide on Prashant Kishor's induction in Congress||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi will take a final call on the induction of election strategist Prashant Kishor in the party after a series of meetings with senior leaders, many of whom are opposed to the idea, sources told NDTV today. Kishor, who had a botched stint with Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United), had a series of meetings with the three Gandhis in July, where a role for him in the party was explored in detail. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi worked with Kishor in the run-up to the last Uttar Pradesh elections and sources say they have no objection to his joining the party. But the party's senior leaders are divided over the recruitment, with some keen, saying it would be good optics for the party. Others say the wild card entry will not make a difference and the Gandhis must be ready to listen and engage with party leaders and workers, which they have stopped doing. Kishor had shared a list of plans to be implemented by the party from public rallies, opposition get-together's and a host of other not-so-suitable plans for the Congress. "Prashant Kishor has no magic wand," said one leader who doesn't belong to the dissenting group. The election strategist, he said, might also find it difficult to adapt to the culture and approach of the party. After the death of Ahmed Patel, interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi has been searching for advisers to help resurrect the party, which had a series of defeats in elections in several states. Kishor's experience with the Congress, however, has not been satisfactory and in the past, he had criticised the party and its style of functioning. In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance had failed. For Kishor, the only bright spot was Punjab, where the Congress had beaten the Akali-BJP coalition. In May, Kishor remarked that the Congress is a "100-year-old political party and they have their ways of functioning". "They are not open to working on the ways suggested by people like Prashant Kishor or others. They won't be open to working with my style of functioning," he had said, adding that the Congress "must realise that it has a problem and then do something about it".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Cong constitutes 11-member panel to plan for India’s 75th year of Independence celebrations||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has constituted an 11-member committee headed by former prime minister Manmohan Singh to plan and coordinate the year-long celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence. While Manmohan Singh will be the chairman of the committee, other members are former defence minister AK Antony and former speaker Meira Kumar and senior party leaders Ambika Soni and Ghulam Nabi Azad, an official statement issued by the party said. Party general secretary Mukul Wasnik will be the convenor of the committee and its other members are former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, party leaders Pramod Tiwari, Mullappally Ramachandran, KR Ramesh Kumar and Pradyut Bordoloi, MP, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||SC expresses ‘serious concern’ over rights violations of women inmates in mental health institutes||The Supreme Court on Wednesday expressed serious concern over the alleged violations of human rights of women in mental health institutions like tonsuring of their head and lack of privacy and asked the Centre to immediately take up the issue with the States and Union Territories (UTs) to alleviate these problems. The top court also directed all the States and UTs to ensure time bound Covid-19 vaccination of all inmates lodged in mental health institutions along with health care workers and others. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli noted that based on certain research studies conducted in 2016 by NIMHANS and National Commission for Women in 2020, it has been highlighted that women who are institutionalised in government run mental health establishments across the country face several indignities and violation of human rights. The issues which have been flagged in the interlocutory application are of serious concern. We direct that the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment shall strictly raise each of the concerns which have been expressed in the research studies and has been formulated with the States/UTs in the course of monthly monitoring that has been directed, the bench said. The top court directed that necessary directions shall be issued for taking steps to ensure that the problems which have been highlighted in the study are alleviated by the state governments and UTs by taking necessary measures. The bench took note of submission of advocate Gaurav Bansal, who has filed an interlocutory application, saying that three research studies conducted by an NGO Human Rights Watch in 2014, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences in 2016 and National Commission for Women in 2020 have highlighted that women institutionalized in government run mental health establishments are facing several problems. He said that they are facing problems like lack of Sanitary Napkins, lack of Privacy, tonsuring of head, lack of issuance of Identity Cards (like UIDAI / Aadhar Card ), lack of issuance of disability certificates and lack of issuance of disability pension. Bansal pointed out that women institutionalized in Mental Health Establishments (for treatment or rehabilitation purpose) are not allowed to keep their Children with them as there is no separate mother child ward in many of the government run mental health establishments. The top court also noted that the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has requested to all the States and UTs in pursuance of the orders of the court to ensure vaccination of mentally ill persons, who are lodged in mental health establishments against COVID-19 on a priority basis. In order to ensure, that these directions are complied with by all the States/UTs, we direct to lay down a time bound schedule for facilitating vaccination of all persons who are lodged in mental health care institutions, no later than within a period of one month from the date of receipt of this order, the bench said. It said that a progress report shall be filed by every States/UTs with the department of social justice and empowerment of the union ministry on or before October 15, 2021 explaining the steps taken, the number of persons who are vaccinated against COVID-19 in the mental health care institutions. The bench said, The vaccination of inmates must also be coupled with vaccination of all the service providers as well as health care professionals, and other staffs associated with these institutions . It added that the progress shall be monitored by the Centre and details shall be submitted to this court, when a status report is next filed, in pursuance of the directions given in this order. On July 6, the top court had directed the Centre to ensure that people lodged in mental health establishments are tested for COVID-19 and fully vaccinated at the earliest. It had taken serious note of Maharashtra government's shifting patients lodged in mental health institutes to homes for beggars and asked it to discontinue the practice immediately saying it is counter-productive and runs against the provisions of Mental Health Act. It had noted Centre's assurance that vaccination of inmates would be taken up with utmost priority. Bansal in his plea has said that around 10,000 people who are fit to be discharged are forced to live in different mental hospitals across the country due to social stigma. On July 26, 2019, the top court had asked the Centre to explore the possibility for rehabilitation and reintegration of people who have recovered from mental illness and are fit to go home but are languishing in hospitals due to social stigma. It had asked the Centre to submit a plan with regard to compliance of its 2017 verdict by which the court has asked all the States and UTs to rehabilitate those who have recovered from mental illness but are staying in the hospitals. Earlier, the apex court had favoured framing of a uniform national policy to deal with those suffering from mental illness and their release from hospitals on being cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||BJP ally JD(U) asks government to roll back hike in cooking gas cylinder price||The BJP ally Janata Dal (United) demanded on Wednesday that the government roll back the hike in cooking gas cylinder prices and step in to check the rising fuel prices as these have affected common households. JD(U) spokesperson K C Tyagi said the repeated hike in the LPG price has affected people's budget adversely. "The government should roll back the hike," he said. He also spoke against leaving petrol and diesel prices to market mechanism, and said the government must step in to curb their cost for people's benefit. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's party has of late taken positions on certain issues that have raised eyebrows. Kumar had backed the opposition's demand for a probe into the alleged snooping involving Pegasus spyware. He has also led the chorus for a caste census, a politically fraught issue over which the BJP has so far maintained silence. The prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cooking gas cylinders across all categories including subsidised gas were hiked on Wednesday by Rs 25 per cylinder -- the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. Subsidised as well as non-subsidised LPG now costs Rs 884.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi, according to a price notification of oil companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Asthma, allergy symptoms prevalent in school kids in Delhi, 2 other cities: Study||A study examining the lung health status of over 3,000 school students in Delhi and two cities in southern India has found "high prevalence" of symptoms related to asthma and allergy, and childhood obesity, doctors claimed on Wednesday. The primary aim of the study was to assess the respiratory health of adolescent school children in the age brackets of 13-14 and 16-17 studying in private schools in Delhi, and compare it with relatively cleaner cities in terms of air pollution -- Kottayam in Kerala and Mysuru in Karnataka, they said. The Lung Care Foundation and the Pulmocare Research and Education (PURE) Foundation had joined hands for this exercise, which began in 2019, across 12 randomly selected schools in these three cities, noted lung surgeon Arvind Kumar said. Kumar, founder trustee of the Lung Care Foundation, said the study conducted on 3,157 school children got published in a leading peer-reviewed medical journal, Lung India, on August 31, 2021. The study has found that there is a "high prevalence of symptoms related to asthma and allergy, airway obstruction or asthma, and childhood obesity," the team which led the study said in a statement. A press conference was also held online to announce the findings of the study. All children completed a comprehensive questionnaire developed by the International Study for Asthma and Allergic Diseases in Children (ISAAC). Besides, they also underwent an on-site spirometry, which is the gold standard test to assess lung function, by certified technicians and nurses, Kumar said. One of the key findings from the questionnaire data was that "an alarmingly high number of children reported asthma and allergy-related symptoms". In Delhi, 52.8 per cent school children reported sneezing, 44.9 per cent reported itchy and watery eyes, 38.4 per cent reported significant cough, 33 per cent reported itchy rash, 31.5 per cent reported shortness of breath, 11.2 per cent reported chest tightness, and 8.75 per cent reported eczema, according to the study. In Kottayam and Mysuru, 39.3 per cent school children reported sneezing, 28.8 per cent itchy and watery eyes, 18.9 per cent significant cough, 12.1 per cent itchy rash, 10.8 per cent shortness of breath, 4.7 per cent chest tightness, and 1.8 per cent reported eczema, it said. Among the sample population, boys were observed to have a two-fold higher prevalence of asthma than girls. This observation was common at all the three sites, the study said. In Delhi, 37.2 per cent of boys vis-a-vis 19.9 per cent girls had prevalence of asthma, 31.4 per cent boys in Kottayam and 29.7 per cent in Mysuru, it added. Among the 29.3 per cent children observed to have asthma on spirometry in Delhi, only 12 per cent reported to have been diagnosed with asthma, and only three per cent used some form of inhalers. In contrast, among the 22.6 per cent children observed to have asthma on spirometry in the two southern cities, 27 per cent reported to have been diagnosed and eight per cent were using some form of inhalers, as per the study. Thus, a significant number of asthmatic children are not diagnosed to have asthma and a vast majority do not receive the right treatment. This figure is much higher in Delhi as compared to Kottayam and Mysuru, doctors said. Children from Delhi were more obese and overweight than children from the other two cities combined, (39.8 per cent vs 16.4 per cent), the study claimed. "Children who were obese and overweight had a 79 per cent greater chance of having asthma on spirometry across all three sites combined. However, overweight and obese children living in Delhi had 38 per cent higher chance of spirometrically defined airflow obstruction than overweight/obese children from Kottayam and Mysuru," it said. "The association between obesity, overweight in children and higher prevalence of asthma is being reported for the first time in any study from India," the study claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Delhi schools full of chatter as students return to classroom after 17 long months||The corridors and staircases that had fallen silent after COVID-19 forced schools in the national capital to shut down in 2020 woke up to the familiar sound of footsteps and indistinct chatter over a year later as students returned to their classrooms on Wednesday. After looking at their teachers and classmates on computer screens for 17-long-months during their virtual sessions, uniform-clad students of classes 9-12 were visibly overjoyed on their first day back to school meeting their friends, running to classrooms, and attending classes. And while the familiarity of being back at school was reassuring, there was no denying that the experience of going to school amid COVID-19 was starkly different from the one during the pre-pandemic world. Social distancing, wearing masks, thermal screening, and no exchange of stationery and lunches on school premises felt alien to many students. Ayushka Gupta, a student at a government school in Tilak Nagar was thankful for the Wednesday morning rains that made wearing masks through the school day a lot more bearable. "Since the weather was pleasant, we could wear masks and study. That was a blessing. Had the weather been hot and humid, wearing masks and concentrating in class would have been a challenge," she said. While most schools have reopened on Wednesday, some institutions in Delhi, however, chose to adopt a wait-and-watch approach and have decided to call children for physical classroom studies only after a few weeks. Classrooms in several schools had the list of Covid-appropriate behaviour written out on the blackboards. At the Government Boys Secondary School in Sunder Nagri, the list of instructions also included encouraging fellow classmates to return to school, continuing online classes post school hours, and sharing their experience of coming back to school. At the Mount Abu Public School in Rohini that welcomed back students of classes 10,11 and 12 on Wednesday, children were allowed to enter the premises post a thermal screening. "Our staffers were there at the entrance with their umbrellas to oversee thermal scanning and sanitisation processes. We had prepared a special entrance gate for the open area between the main gate and reception to welcome students but it could not be placed since it was raining quite heavily in the morning. "The gate had been adorned with flowers and had the message written on it 'Welcome Back To School' and an inspirational quote but rain played spoilsport. We are looking to place it when we will be reopening for class 9 students," said school principal Jyoti Arora. While the new regulations and restrictions appear to be disconcerting of the idea of school life that has been traditionally characterised with a sense of freedom and uninhabitedness, given the circumstances, most students were just relieved to resume classes face-to-face. Like Richa Rani of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Vasundhara Enclave. A class 12 student, Richa faced a lot of network issues during her online classes, and is happy to get back to school. "One of the major challenges we faced during online classes was network issues. Due to bad signals, our time and energy went into getting connected with regular classes. But now that we are in school, we have a set routine. We have a proper mindset and can stay focused," she said. Richa's batchmate Ravina Kumari agreed that online and offline education experience was quite different, particularly for specific subjects. "I found it difficult to follow economics during online classes. Concepts are tricky and require analysis. But now that I'm back in school and have my teachers by my side to clear my doubts on the spot, I'm hopeful I can improve and perform well in the subject," she said, adding her school opened at 7:30 am and closed by noon. For others, online classes after a point of time just felt "boring". "Attending offline classes becomes boring after a point of time and we tend to lose interest. "Now I'm back in class. It's exciting and I enjoyed learning with my classmates. In class, we have our teacher around us explaining the concepts in depth and clearing our doubts," she said. For teachers too, reopening of school and physical classes felt like a reassuring return to normalcy. "We were completely ready to reopen our school. We have completely sanitised our school. All our staff have been vaccinated and students are also extremely happy to be back in school. "Now all their queries and doubts can be addressed promptly by teachers. Students were also missing schools. Third wave is a concern but we are hopeful if all precautions are being taken, we will be able to function smoothly," said Usha Rajput, Head of School, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Vasundhara Enclave. The Delhi government last week had allowed schools to reopen from September 1, citing a marked improvement in the Covid situation in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Unsatisfied over UP Police probe on missing girl case, SC asks Delhi Police to join investigation||The Supreme Court Wednesday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh Police for its probe into a case of a 13-year-old missing girl and directed it to forthwith share the investigation report with Delhi Police so that the minor could be traced. The apex court also warned the Uttar Pradesh Police that the case may be handed over to the CBI if it failed to trace the minor, who has been missing since July 8. The top court, which termed the case as "a very sensitive matter," also said that the time factor is equally important" and every minute is precious. It was hearing a plea filed by the mother of the girl seeking directions to the Uttar Pradesh Police and the Delhi Police to trace her minor daughter. The mother, who works as a domestic help in Delhi, has claimed in her petition that her daughter is believed to have been kidnapped from Gorakhpur by a man when her family members had gone there to attend a marriage ceremony. An FIR was registered in the case at Gorakhpur. "You (Uttar Pradesh Police) share the entire information with Delhi Police. We will ask them to do the needful. You share your investigation report with Delhi Police by tomorrow. We are directing you," a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar told the counsel appearing for state of Uttar Pradesh. The counsel representing Uttar Pradesh told the bench, also comprising justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar, that police is trying to trace the girl and they also have the call detail records. The counsel said the police be given two more weeks as the case involves investigation in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and they have also received information that the girl might be in Bengal. "The time factor is equally important. We may transfer it to the CBI if you are unable to do it. The incident is of July. We have entered in September. If you have the details, why you will take time," the bench asked. The top court said the police will have to investigate the matter and find out the details. "In this case, every hour, every minute is precious. You are not showing the anxiety that is expected in a matter like this. It is a very sensitive matter," the bench observed. "Where is the question of two weeks, it said, adding, You have the call details and yet you have not moved into action. We are surprised." The top court directed the Uttar Pradesh Police to share the entire investigation report with the Delhi Police by Thursday. The bench, while posting the matter for hearing on Friday, asked the Delhi Police Commissioner to ensure that prompt further investigation is undertaken for tracing out the girl. The top court had on August 27 issued notice on the petition and posted it for hearing today. In her petition filed through advocate Pai Amit, the girl's mother has sought directions for carrying out investigation into the disappearance and kidnapping of her daughter and take appropriate action against those who may be found involved in this. The habeas corpus petition, which has sought to produce the girl before the court, has alleged that despite an FIR being lodged at Gorakhpur and an attempt being made to make a complaint with the Delhi Police, no action has been taken to trace the minor. It said the man, who is suspected to have kidnapped the girl, was constantly luring and coaxing her to accompany him. She claimed after an FIR was registered in Gorakhpur, she returned to Delhi and approached a police station where she had complained regarding the man on a previous occasion but the police refused to register or take steps towards recording her complaint with respect to kidnapping of her daughter on the grounds that a prior FIR has already been lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Jallianwala Bagh complex restored with utmost respect, says Culture Ministry||Amid allegations the government was "glamourising" the Jallianwala Bagh complex, the Culture Ministry Wednesday said it has been "restored" by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the agency that has restored World Heritage sites in the country, to conserve it for posterity. It also said a "poignant" soundtrack has been chosen as part of the sound and light show describing the event on the day of the massacre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently inaugurated four new galleries and opened the renovated memorial virtually, a year-and-a-half after it was closed for the revamp. The well into which the people jumped when forces led by Reginald Dyer opened fire on them has been covered with a transparent barrier. The narrow entrance has been adorned with sculptures. A daily sound and light show explaining the events has been started. Ministry of Culture Secretary Raghvendra Singh argued the complex was in dire need of conservation. "It has been restored by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) which is the agency that restored World Heritage sites in the country. Instead of letting a derelict structure to fall, we have restored it to conserve it for posterity," he told PTI, but refused to comment on the political storm brewing over the restoration. On the criticism over the light and sound show, Singh said that the show existed but it became defunct over time. "The soundtrack is so poignant. It has been very sensitively done and is informative as well. Anyone coming to this place will leave better informed. The galleries too have been improved, technology has been improved to bring out the poignancy of the killings of innocents and how the incident influenced other bravehearts," said Singh. He said the work has been done with "utmost respect". Slamming the revamp, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said only a person who does not know the "meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh". "I am the son of a martyr I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost We are against this indecent cruelty," he had earlier this week. Some historians have also criticised the work terming it an "insult towards the martyrs". "This is corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent," tweeted historian S Irfan Habib. Officials, however, say that these allegations are "untrue". They said the accusation that the bullet marks have even "hidden" was false. The bullet marks have been conserved, they said. They said the earlier structure was "filthy" with defunct fountains which have now been restored, cleaned and a lily pond installed. The entire area has been landscaped, officials said, making the place visually appealing. Officials involved in the process said the well was covered with rubbish, now it has been restored and even lit from inside. In terms of tourist footfall too, the restoration will bring rich dividends for the city, officials said. Near to the Golden Temple, the renovated complex is expected to draw in tourists with its moesha halls, laser show and galleries, the ministry hopes. The Golden Temple received a footfall of around one lakh per day during the week and 1.5 lakh during weekends and special day before the coronavirus crisis forced its closure. Over 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919 when British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||NIA, Maha govt oppose bail pleas of Elgaar Parishad accused||The Maharashtra government as well as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday opposed applications for `default' bail filed by some of the accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoists links case before the Bombay High Court. After both sides concluded arguments, the court reserved its order. Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira have challenged the power of the Pune sessions court which took cognizance of the charge sheet in 2019, and sought bail on this technical ground or `by default'. On Wednesday, senior advocate Sudeep Pasbola, Dhawale's lawyer, told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that the accused were booked for `scheduled offenses' under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), and hence only a special court for UAPA cases could have handled the case and not an ordinary sessions court. On the other hand, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, the state government's lawyer, argued that in September 2018 the Pune court had granted extension of 90 days to Pune Police (who probed the case initially) to file a charge sheet. As the charge sheet was filed within that period, the accused were not entitled to default bail, he said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, made the same argument. A court taking cognizance of charge sheet has no relevance for default bail application, he added. Advocate Pasbola said the NIA's argument was that the case should have gone before a special court only after the central agency took it over in January 2020, but that was not what the law mandated. The bench then reserved the matter for order. Activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, a co-accused, too had filed a similar plea earlier this year seeking default bail. Bharadwaj's counsel and senior advocate Yug Chaudhry had argued before the HC that judge K D Vadane, who had taken cognizance of the police's charge sheet and remanded Bharadwaj and seven other accused in judicial custody, was not a designated special judge. The bench led by Justice Shinde reserved its order on Bharadwaj's plea on August 4. It is yet to be pronounced. The case relates to Elgaar Parishad, a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. Pune Police had alleged that it had been backed by Maoists, and provocative speeches made there led to caste violence near Bhima-Koregaon war memorial the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Jaishankar speaks to British counterpart Dominic Raab on Afghanistan situation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to his British counterpart Dominic Raab on Wednesday on the situation in Afghanistan, their second such conversation in a week. India has been in constant touch with all major countries on the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan, particularly after the Taliban took control of the country on August 15. "Nice speaking again to UK Foreign Secretary @DominicRaab. Conversation focused on Afghanistan related developments," Jaishankar tweeted. The Jaishankar-Raab conversation came a day after the US completed the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan, ending its two-decade war in the country. The external affairs minister spoke to Raab on August 25 as well on the Afghan crisis. On Wednesday, Jaishankar also spoke to Omani Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Al Busaidi. "Good to talk to Omani Foreign Minister @badralbusaidi. Discussed Afghanistan and Covid. Thank Oman for supporting our repatriation flights," Jaishankar tweeted. India has been closely monitoring the unfolding developments in Afghanistan. Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in Doha on Tuesday, in the first formal and pubicly acknowledged contact between the two sides. The meeting took place at the Indian embassy in Doha at the request of the Taliban side and came two weeks after the outfit seized control of Kabul. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly USD 3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
01-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi equates rise in GDP for Govt with price hike of gas, diesel, petrol||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the government over the rising price of domestic cooking gas, diesel and petrol, and alleged that an amount of Rs 23 lakh crore has been earned by increasing prices of these commodities in the last seven years. He also alleged that while sections such as farmers, salaried class and labourers were being demonetised, a few industrialist friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were being monetised. At a press conference, Gandhi said the government has come up with a new concept of GDP, wherein a rise in GDP means a rise in prices of Gas, Diesel and Petrol. The former Congress chief alleged that the government has earned Rs 23 lakh crore from increasing prices of gas, diesel and petrol in the last seven years, and said the people of the country should ask where is this money going. "On one hand there is demonetisation and on the other there is monetisation. Whose demonetisation is taking place -- farmers, labourers, small traders and informal sector, MSMEs, contract workers, salaried class and honest industrialists. Whose monetisation is taking place -- four-five friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Gandhi said. The Congress leader alleged that a transfer of wealth is taking place from the poor and the weak to the prime minister's friends. He said that the government was panicking over not being able to fulfil its promises and was surviving on fuel prices. Gandhi added that the day when the international crude oil prices rise to about USD 90-100, the situation will spiral out of control here. He also compared figures of cooking gas cylinders, petrol and diesel between the time when UPA was in power in early 2014 to now. The LPG gas price was Rs 410 per cylinder in 2014 when the UPA (Congress-led United Progressive Alliance) was in power, now it is Rs 885. Petrol was at Rs 71.5 per litre in 2014 when the UPA was in power, now it is Rs 101 and diesel has risen from Rs 57 to Rs 88, Gandhi said. International prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas are down since 2014, but prices are still rising in India, he said. The Congress party has been attacking the government over the rise in petrol, diesel and LPG prices and has been demanding a reduction in them by removing some of the taxes imposed by the central government. The prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cooking gas cylinders across all categories including subsidised gas on Wednesday were hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder -- the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. Subsidised as well as non-subsidised LPG now costs Rs 884.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi, according to a price notification of oil companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Aadhaar to Ayushman: special camps to facilitate all in Chhattisgarh’s naxal-hit areas ||Villagers in the naxal-affected areas of Chhattisgarh are now getting easy access to basic services including Aadhaar and ration card enrolment at special camps set up by the local administration, officials said Wednesday. They said a large number of people are coming out of their villages to enroll themselves for different welfare measures. "As part of an initiative, the district administration is providing all basic facilities to the villagers at one place through convenience camps in remote villages," a statement issued here by the Chhattisgarh information Centre said. Through this facility, villagers have been facilitated to take benefits of Aadhaar card, ration card, Ayushman card, pension registration etc., it said Vinit Nandanwar, the collector of worst naxal-affected Sukma district, said these camps are receiving a very good response from the local. "A camp being organised at silger village has helped 717 villagers to enroll themselves for Aadhaar cards, 287 for ration cards, 100 for Ayushman card and 31 for pension (old age, disability) facility as of now," he told PTI. He said the villagers have been approaching the local administration seeking more such camps. "They are happy to come out and get themselves enrolled for different welfare schemes at these camps," said Nandanwar, a 2013-batch IAS officer. He said the camps are instilling confidence among the villagers to come out of the villages and to take benefits of government measures. He said the administration has made arrangements of vehicles and food to facilitate the locals coming to the camp. In the past, a camp was also organised in Kankerlanka village to make Aadhaar, Ayushman and ration cards of the villagers. In the coming days, camps will also be organised in other villages, so that more and more rural people of the district can easily get Aadhaar card, Ayushman card, ration card etc. and can take the benefit of various government schemes, Nandanwar said. Ritesh Kumar Agrawal, the collector of neighbouring Bijapur, another naxal-hit district, said these integrated development camps are facilitating much-needed welfare measures for these villagers. "The government has been trying to ensure that the villagers do get benefits of welfare measures meant for them. These integrated development camps help them in taking such benefits," he told PTI. Agrawal said, through these camps, the administration was able to make 11,484 new Aadhaar cards while 11,000 Aadhaar cards were updated. "There has been tremendous response from the villagers towards these camps. We plan to make it a permanent feature by converting these camps to a fixed kiosk or settlement where people can go and get themselves enrolled for different welfare measures," he said. Agrawal, a 2012-batch IAS officer, said such camps will ensure that other development avenues like roads, schools and more ration shops reach these areas, usually cut-off from such basic facilities due to different reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||NHRC notice to Delhi police chief, UP DGP over woman's self-immolation bid outside SC||The National Human Rights Commission sent notices to the police heads of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh after an alleged victim of sexual assault and police apathy set herself afire outside the Supreme Court in August, officials said Wednesday. Issuing the notices, the National Human Rights Commission has observed that it is "shocking" the woman felt "victimised by the system". "The National Human Rights Commission has taken cognisance of a complaint that a woman, victim of alleged sexual assault and police apathy set herself on fire along with a man outside the Supreme Court in New Delhi on August 16, 2021. Subsequently both died while undergoing treatment at RML Hospital," the NHRC said in a statement. The commission has issued notices to the Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh and the Commissioner of Police, Delhi, asking them to submit a detailed report in four weeks, along with the action initiated against the errant public servants, it said. The Uttar Pradesh DGP has also been directed to "ensure safety and security of the family members of the victims", the statement said. Allegedly, before immolating themselves, they recorded a live video on Facebook, wherein the woman had said that in June 2019 she had lodged a rape case against an MP from Uttar Pradesh, but the "accused police officials were supporting the offender", the rights panel said in the statement. "Allegedly, instead of taking action against the accused MP, the police registered a false case against her and get issued a non-bailable warrant against her," it said. After the woman and the man had attempted self-immolation, the police had registered a case under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. They suspected the man had convinced the woman to take the extreme step. They had said she was from Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur and was allegedly raped by Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai in 2019. The MP has been in judicial custody in the case for the last two years. Earlier, a senior police officer had said that the man and the woman took the extreme step as a court had issued a non-bailable warrant against them in a case of forgery for allegedly submitting wrong proof of age in the rape case. In her Facebook video, the woman had mentioned the warrant and that she had been summoned by the judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Pradhan reviews status of reopening of schools in country||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan held a meeting with senior ministry officials on Wednesday on the status of the reopening of schools across the country and the roadmap for vaccinating their staff. Schools were closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of novel coronavirus infection. The Centre had allowed the reopening of schools as per the Covid-19 situation in respective states in October last year. While several states began partial reopening of schools, there was a complete closure again in April this year when an aggressive second wave of COVID-19 hit the country. With the improvement in the COVID-19 situation, several states have begun reopening schools now even as concerns have been expressed over the staff and teachers not being completely vaccinated. "Shiksha Mantri Shri @dpradhanbjp reviewed the status of schools reopening across the country with senior officials of Deptt. of School Education & Literacy. He also  in schools by the month of September," the Ministry of Education said in a tweet. The ministry added that the Centre is prioritising vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff in schools across the country to "ensure a safe environment for reopening of schools".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Breakthrough Covid infection numbers well within expectations, says government panel||The reported breakthrough Covid-19 infections in India are well within the expected numbers taking into account the total infections and other factors, genome sequencing government consortium INSACOG has said in its recent bulletin while stressing that inoculation protects from severe illness. The INSACOG said Delta continues to be the dominant lineage in India and globally. When a person gets an infection even after being vaccinated against it, it is called a breakthrough case. The number of reported vaccination breakthroughs in India are well within the numbers expected from the total number of infections, the fraction of population that is vaccinated and the known reduction in the effectiveness of Covishield/Covaxin against infections by Delta. Vaccines continue to protect against severe disease and remain a cornerstone of public health strategy, the bulletin dated August 30 said. It said based on high stringency reclassification by INSACOG, the total number of Delta sub-lineages - Delta Plus AY.1 to AY.12 - in India are only 856 out of all samples analysed, which is much less than what is reported on some global websites. It said AY.12 that was first noted in Israel and currently driving infection in the country, which has inoculated 60 percent of its population, is not yet seen in India. Similar sequences that are also being classified as AY.12 at low stringency do not have the same epidemiological significance, the INSACOG said. However, there was no word on the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, that has been detected in South Africa and many other countries globally which could be more transmissible and evade protection provided by vaccines. Scientists from National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and the KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP) in South Africa said the potential variant of interest, C.1.2, was first detected in the country in May this year. C.1.2 has since been found in China, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mauritius, England, New Zealand, Portugal and Switzerland as of August 13, they said. The INSACOG said there are no new VOC (Variant of Concern) or VUIs (Variant Under Investigation) added globally. Updated biological data suggest that Delta plus K417N (AY.1, AY.2) is antigenically similar to Delta with cross-neutralisation. There is thus no significantly increased risk of immune escape by Delta+K417N in people with immunity to Delta, as per the updated biological data. Vaccination breakthroughs with Delta continue to be highly frequent and the same is likely to be true for Delta sub-lineages, it said with regards to infections globally. The INSACOG said AY.4 variant is a major evolutionary branch of Delta, as would be expected with time and spread, and presently has no other known clinical significance. Since the new lineage-defining mutations are not presently of clinical significance, these should not be considered Delta plus which is, in any case, an inexact terminology best restricted to AY.1 and AY.2 variants at this time, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Allahabad High Court pulls up Uttar Pradesh government on funding of religious institutions ||The Allahabad High Court has sought details from the Uttar Pradesh government on funding of religious institutions like madrasas recognised and aided by it, and asked whether the policy to provide financial aid to such institutions is consistent with the secular scheme of the Constitution. Hearing a writ petition filed by Madrasa Anjuman Islamia Faizul Uloom and another, Justice Ajay Bhanot asked the state government to file a counter affidavit within a period of four weeks and fixed October 6 as the next date of hearing. The bench asked the state government to bring in the record the syllabi/courses, conditions and standards of recognition including the requirement for playgrounds at the madrasas and all other religious institutions which are recognised or aided by the state government. The court also asked whether madrasas so recognised and aided also admit girl students.The state government shall also indicate in its affidavit the details of various other boards of education with institutions imparting theological education of other religious sects. The court directed the state to reply that whether the policy of the state government to provide financial aid to institutions imparting religious education is consistent with the scheme of the Constitution particularly in light of the word secular in the Preamble to the Constitution. The court asked whether other religious minorities are also provided government aid for running theological schools and whether there is a prohibition against women from applying as students in religious schools and if so whether such bar is an act of discrimination prohibited by the Constitution. In its plea, the madrasa recognized by the Madrasa Board, sought the creation of additional posts of teachers in view of the increasing number of students. The court passed these directives on August 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Afghan protestors outside UNHCR could act as super spreader of Covid, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday expressed concern over a large gathering of Afghan nationals protesting outside UNHCR office and seeking refugee status, saying it could act as a super spreader of coronavirus as there is lack of adherence to COVID-19 appropriate norms. The high court said the situation cannot be permitted to continue as the protestors could be seen sitting and standing next to each other without even wearing masks and asked the authorities to act on it. Justice Rekha Palli asked the Centre, Delhi government and police to coordinate on how the issue can be resolved and to see the gathering does not act as a super spreader of COVID-19. The high court issued notices to the ministries of Home Affairs and External Affairs, Delhi government, Delhi Police, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Jal Board on a petition by Vasant Vihar Welfare Association which stated that the foreign nationals (refugees/ asylum seekers) have gathered outside the office of the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) at B Block in South Delhi's Vasant Vihar since August 15, including lanes and parks adjoining it and residents are facing difficulties due to this. The point is that the general public is suffering because of this, the court said and asked the Delhi government to inform what it has done in pursuance to the Supreme Court's direction to frame guidelines on the issue of the right to protest so as to ensure a balance between fundamental rights and the maintenance of law and order. The petition said the number of such foreign nationals from Afghanistan has increased manifold in the past week owing to the takeover of Afghanistan by Taliban forces, forcing many to seek asylum in different countries including India. Advocate Hrishikesh Baruah, appearing for the association, said the residents are facing difficulties in commuting and going to markets for purchasing essential goods and the manner in which the foreign nationals are protesting sitting next to each other is likely to be a super spreader of COVID-19 and sought to remove the protestors from there and clear the passage. He said people are staying there, littering, defacating in open and encroaching upon the area and they are probably not even vaccinated for COVID-19. The petition, filed through advocates Shahrukh Ejaz and Nilotpal Bansal, also sought direction to the Ministry of External Affairs to frame appropriate policy for ensuring that such nuisance to the local residents does not occur on the account of foreign missions/ diplomacies being in the vicinity of residential localities. Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul submitted that it was not a normal situation and the residents should have some humanitarian approach and these are international issues that cannot be decided overnight as they have huge international consequences. Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam said there are around 500 protestors at the side and sufficient force has been deployed therein day and night and Centre shall be asked to resolve the issue of foreign nationals at the earliest. The high court asked the authorities to take instructions on how the issue can be resolved and listed the matter for further hearing on September 3. "We are also dealing with COVID-19. Look at the pictures. What if this could be super spreader of COVID-19. What is this, there are no masks. You should ensure some protocol is there. Why are they not wearing a mask? You are challenging people daily for not wearing masks in cars," the court said. "It is not the inconvenience only with which I am concerned. I am more concerned that it should not act as a super spreader of COVID-19 again. The city has barely coped with the second wave. You have to ensure that the protestors follow COVID protocol. Let them wear mask and then protest," the judge further said, The petition said the area has turned into a protest site where people from all age groups including children are congregating and added that putting children in a situation especially where the third wave of COVID-19 is imminent and is predicted to affect children more severely is extremely disastrous. In absence of any arrangement by the authorities to settle these foreign nationals, they are dwelling on the lanes and park of the petitioner's vicinity while congregating in large numbers, thus, posing a high health risk to the residents, it said. It further said the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has also pushed the Afghan refugees already living in India to desperation as they are left without any financial backing from their families and friends there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Google Search, Maps and Assistant to now offer detailed information on vaccine availability||Google on Wednesday said users will be able to get more information about vaccine availability and appointments for over 13,000 locations in the country across its three products - Search, Maps and Assistant - starting this week. The information is powered by real-time data from the CoWIN APIs, and includes details like availability of appointment slots at each centre, vaccines and doses offered (Dose 1 or Dose 2), pricing (paid or free), and link to CoWIN website for booking, a statement said. The information will automatically show up when users search for vaccine centres near them, or in any specific area across Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant, it added. In addition to English, users can also search in eight Indian languages including Hindi, Bengali, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Gujarati, and Marathi. Google said it will continue to partner closely with the CoWIN team to extend this functionality to all vaccination centres across India. In March this year, Google started showing information on COVID-19 vaccination centres, in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. "As people continue to seek information related to the pandemic to manage their lives around it, we remain committed to finding and sharing authoritative and timely information across our platforms, said Hema Budaraju, Director of Google Search, said. With 1.33 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses being administered on Tuesday, the highest ever in a single day, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has exceeded 65.41 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Swiggy agent kills restaurant owner over delay in order||A delivery agent of online platform Swiggy allegedly shot dead the owner of a restaurant in Greater Noida near Delhi over delay in getting an order ready, NDTV.com reported. The police have registered a case and are studying CCTV footage from the area to track down the delivery agent. The man who was killed owned a restaurant inside a residential complex called Mitra. Late on Tuesday, the Swiggy agent reached the restaurant to collect an order of chicken biryani and poori sabzi. While the biryani was ready on time, the delivery agent was told by a worker that the other order would take a little more time. An argument broke out between the two, following which the delivery agent allegedly verbally abused the restaurant employee. This is when the owner of the restaurant, Sunil Agarwal, tried to intervene and end the argument. The delivery agent allegedly shot him in the head with the help of his friend, according to NDTV.com. The restaurant employee and other staff members rushed him to hospital where he was declared dead. "I was called (by the restaurant staff) to say their owner was shot. When I reached, he was still breathing. I first dialled 100 and then for an ambulance. But later, we took him to hospital in our vehicle," said Rakesh Nagar, who lives near the restaurant. "The delivery boy killed the restaurant owner because there was delay in getting the order ready," police officer Vishal Pandey said, adding that three teams have been formed to catch the culprit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||Under attack, Rawat apologises for his 'Panj Pyare' remark||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat, who courted controversy by referring to the party's Punjab leadership as 'Panj Pyare', on Wednesday apologised for hurting the sentiments of the people. Rawat, who had arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday amid the ongoing rift in the party's state unit, had used the word 'Panj Pyare' for the Punjab Congress chief and four working presidents after a meeting at the Punjab Congress Bhawan. In Sikh tradition, 'Panj Pyare' is the term used for five beloved of the Guru. In 1699, Guru Gobind Singh, the last of the ten Gurus, initiated five men into the order of 'Khalsa' (pure). 'Panj Pyare' is the name given to five baptised Sikhs who perform a baptism ceremony to initiate Sikhs into the order of the 'Khalsa'. On his Facebook page on Wednesday, Rawat acknowledged his mistake for his 'Panj Pyare' remark. "Sometimes by expressing respect, you use such words which are objectionable. I too have made a mistake of using the word 'Panj Pyare' for my honourable president and four working presidents," wrote Rawat. He said he was a student of the country's history and the leading position of 'Panj Pyare' could not be compared with any other. "I have committed a mistake. I apologise for hurting the sentiments of people," he said. Rawat, who is party's Punjab affairs in-charge, said he will clean a gurdwara in his state with a broom as atonement. He said that he always had a sense of dedication and respect to Sikh religion and its great traditions. The Shiromani Akali Dal had taken exception to Rawat's remarks and had sought an apology for the same. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema had slammed Rawat for his remark and had demanded that the state government should book him for hurting sentiments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
01-09-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, Asthana's stand on PIL challenging his appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought the Central government and Rakesh Asthana's stand on a public interest litigation challenging the appointment of the Gujarat-cadre IPS officer as Delhi Police Commissioner. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on a plea by one Sadre Alam and listed the matter for further hearing on September 8. Appearing for NGO, 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL), which has challenged the appointment before the Supreme Court, lawyer Prashant Bhushan stated that Alam's petition was malafide and a complete copy paste of the plea pending before the apex court. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, opposed the PIL and sought time to respond to it on merit. The petition before the high court seemed to have been copied from the one before the Supreme Court, he added. In his petition before the high court, Alam has sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. The plea, filed through advocate B S Bagga, also sought initiation of steps for appointing Delhi Police Commissioner strictly in accordance with the direction issued by the Supreme Court earlier. The impugned orders (of MHA) are in clear and blatant breach of the directions passed by the Supreme Court of India in Prakash Singh case as respondent no.2 (Asthana) did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months; no UPSC panel was formed for appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner; and the criteria of having a minimum tenure of two years has been ignored, the plea said. It claimed the High-Powered Committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the Leader of Opposition, in its meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the Central government's attempt to appoint Asthana as the CBI Director on the basis of the six-month rule as laid down by the Supreme Court in the Prakash Singh case. The appointment of Asthana to the post of Commissioner of Police, Delhi must be set aside on the same principle, it said. The petition with similar prayers which has been filed by CPIL before the Supreme Court has urged to direct the central government to produce the July 27 order it issued, approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre. The petition has also urged the apex court to set aside the Centre's order to extend Asthana's service period. On August 25, the Supreme Court had asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment of the senior IPS officer as Delhi Police Commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams govt over rise in prices of LPG||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the government over the rise in prices of domestic cooking gas, and said the country is uniting against this injustice. The Congress party has been attacking the government over the rise in petrol, diesel and LPG prices and has been demanding reduction in them by removing some of the taxes imposed by the central government. "The one who is forcing the public to sleep empty stomach is himself sleeping under the shadow of friends....but the country is uniting against the injustice," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress leader used the hashtag "#IndiaAgainstBJPLoot" and shared a chart with prices of domestic LPG cylinders in four metros in the country from January this year showing how the prices have risen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Air pollution could cut life expectancy by 9 years in North India, Maharashtra||India's air pollution levels have expanded geographically over time and increased so much in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh that an average person is now losing an additional 2.5 to 2.9 years of life expectancy, according to a new report. India is the most polluted country in the world, with more than 480 million people or about 40 per cent of its population living in the Indo-Gangetic plains in the north where pollution levels regularly exceed those found anywhere else in the world by an order of magnitude, stated the University of Chicago's Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) report. The study by the varsity's Energy Policy Institute ascertains how much longer a person can live if they breathe clean air. Residents of northern India are on track to lose more than nine years of life expectancy if pollution levels of that of 2019 persist as the region experiences the most extreme levels of air pollution in the world, it said. In 2019, India's average particulate matter concentration was 70.3 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3 ), the highest in the world and seven times the World Health Organisation's guideline of 10 g/m3, the report said. It said that alarmingly India's high levels of air pollution have expanded geographically over time. "Compared to a couple of decades ago, particulate pollution is no longer a feature of the Indo-Gangetic plains alone. Pollution has increased so much in the states of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. For example, the average person in those states is now losing an additional 2.5 to 2.9 years of life expectancy, relative to early 2000," the report said. For Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan, the AQLI data reveals that the average person would live 5.6 years longer if pollution were reduced to meet the WHO guidelines, it said. "Due to South Asia's high population and pollution concentrations, the region accounts for 58 per cent of total life years lost due to particulate pollution exceeding the WHO guideline," it said. The benefits of clean air policy are even greater in the Indo-Gangetic plains, where 480 million people regularly breathe pollution levels that exceed those found in Europe and North America by an order of magnitude, the report said. Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan account for nearly a quarter of the global population and consistently rank among the top five most polluted countries in the world, it said. As a result, South Asia accounts for 60 per cent of the person-years that are expected to be lost globally due to pollution levels exceeding the WHO guideline, the University of Chicago's report said. "Average life expectancy across these four countries would be 5.6 years higher if pollution concentrations complied with the WHO guideline," it said. In India and Pakistan, the number of vehicles on the road has increased about four-fold since the early 2000s while in Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan combined, electricity generation from fossil fuels tripled from 1998 to 2017, the report said. Crop burning, brick kilns, and other industrial activities have also contributed to rising particulates in the region, it said. The AQLI, the report said, particulate pollution is the world's greatest threat to human health. "South Asia is consistently the most polluted region, with the people there seeing their lives shortened by an average of 5 years relative to what it would be if the region met the WHO guideline and even more in the most polluted parts of the region like northern India," the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||India logs almost 42,000 fresh Covid cases, 460 casualties in a day||With 41,965 people testing positive for COVID-19, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,28,10,845, while active cases have increased to 3,78,181, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,39,020 with 460 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,78,181 and comprise 1.15 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.51 per cent, ministry said. It said that active cases increased by 7,541 in a span of 24 hours. On Tuesday, 16,06,785 tests were conducted, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 52,31,84,293. The daily positivity rate has been recorded 2.61 per cent, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 68 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,19,93,644, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. With 1.33 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses being administered on Tuesday, the highest ever in a single day, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has reached 65.41 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 460 new fatalities include 115 from Kerala and 104 from Maharashtra, the ministry said. It said that 4,39,020 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,313 from Maharashtra, 37,318 from Karnataka, 34,921 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,823 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,788 from Kerala and 18,447 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Schools in Delhi reopen amid strict Covid safety guidelines||Wearing masks and carrying umbrellas as heavy rains lashed Delhi, students of classes 9-12 returned to schools after they reopened on Wednesday following a long hiatus due to COVID-19. Some institutions, however, chose to adopt a wait-and-watch approach and have decided to call children for physical classroom studies only after a few weeks. Following a marked improvement in the Covid situation in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday had announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1. It had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory. "I am excited on meeting my friends," a Delhi government school student from east Delhi said, adding that with COVID-19 still around, everybody has to take precautions. "This is the new normal and we will have to adjust," the student said. Though it has allowed institutions to open, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has notified several safety guidelines. Allowing only 50 per cent students per classroom, mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement and avoiding routine guest visits are among the guidelines announced by the DDMA for reopening of schools. The DDMA has said students, teachers and non-teaching staff living in Covid containment zones will not be allowed to come to schools and colleges. "Physical classes are better than online classes. There is of course a fear of the virus but I hope that we can follow the appropriate norms and keep the virus at bay," a government school student from Dwarka said. Mount Carmel School in Dwarka does not plan to reopen for at least a month as its entire staff is not completely vaccinated, and has decided to continue with online learning. "We are not prepared to open our school right now. They haven't started vaccinating children and all my staff is not vaccinated. We are still in the middle of a pandemic. We are not going to take a chance," Dean, Mount Carmel School, Michael Williams, said. "It is being said that Zydus-Cadila has launched its vaccine for 12 to 18 year olds. I think it is much smarter to wait for another two months. We have waited for long and we can wait some more," he added. Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh, reopened on Wednesday, but it is not providing buses for students as a precaution against COVID-19. While the government has noted that vaccination centres and activities like ration distribution which were going on in different schools will continue, the DDMA said the area being used for these activities should be separated from the area which will be used for academic activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Rains lash Delhi, traffic movement disrupted||A fresh spell of heavy rain pounded the capital on Wednesday morning, submerging low-lying areas in knee-deep water and affecting traffic movement in parts of the city. Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD said the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, gauged 112.1 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Wednesday, the highest in at least 12 years. In 2010, the capital had recorded 110 mm rainfall on September 20. The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ridge, Palam and Ayanagar recorded 120.2 mm, 81.6 mm, 71.1 mm and 68.2 mm rainfall, respectively, in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am. On Tuesday, Delhi gauged 84 mm rainfall in just six hours -- between 8:30 am and 2:30 pm -- that flooded roads and led to massive traffic snarls on key stretches such as ITO, Ring Road near IP Estate flyover, Dhaula Kuan, and Rohtak road. At 6 am on Wednesday, the IMD issued an alert for "one or two spells of moderate rain" and "heavy rain at isolated places" in Delhi-NCR. Between 5:30 am and 8:30 am, the Safdarjung Observatory received 28 mm rainfall, officials said. The weather department said the rain could "flood low-lying areas and streets and disrupt the traffic flow on major roads". The Delhi Traffic Police issued an advisory against traffic obstruction at the Azad Market Subway going towards Pratap Nagar due to the heavy waterlogging at the road. It said the Zakhira underpass was also closed due to waterlogging. The IMD said more rainfall is likely during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||India and Taliban hold first official meet at Doha embassy||India on Tuesday officially had its first contact with the Taliban after the Afghanistan takeover when a senior leader of the group met the Indian ambassador to Qatar at the embassy in Doha. “Today, ambassador of India to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha. The meeting took place at the embassy of India, Doha, on the request of the Taliban side,” the Indian external affairs ministry said in a media release. Although India had purportedly opened channels of communication with the Taliban in the run-up to the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, this is the first time New Delhi is acknowledging contact with the militant outfit that now rules the trouble-torn country. Before this, India had acknowledged any communication with the Taliban only once — during the Kandahar hijack crisis in 1999. Now, the official contact in Doha has taken place even before the Taliban regime has been recognised as the legitimate government of Afghanistan. As for diplomatic recognition of the Taliban, India remained silent, waiting like most other countries for the situation to stabilise in Afghanistan and see how the group reconciles differences within. The Doha meeting came hours after the last US soldier left Afghanistan, making it the first day the Taliban is officially in charge of the country although no government is technically in place yet. India said the conversation between the envoy and the Taliban official focussed on the safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The travel of Afghan nationals, especially the minorities there, who wish to visit India also came up, according to the release. Mittal iterated India’s concern that Afghanistan’s soil should not be used for anti-India activities and terrorism in any manner. The release said the Taliban representative assured the ambassador that these issues would be positively addressed. The Taliban has had a political office in Doha since 2013. Soon after a comprehensive peace agreement was signed between the US and the Taliban in Doha in February 2020, Mittal — who had been the joint secretary, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran, in the external affairs ministry, was sent to the Qatari capital to head India’s mission there. That the first official contact with the Taliban took place in the Doha embassy with Mittal running point suggests this is work in progress. Stanekzai, too, has an old relationship with India, having passed out of the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. Last week, he had extended an olive branch to India, claiming that the Taliban wanted to maintain political, economic and cultural ties with the country and keep the air corridor active, as also the overland trade via Pakistan. Stanekzai told CNN-News 18 on Monday that the Taliban wanted to have friendly relations with all its neighbours and even the US. On the apprehension in New Delhi that the Taliban may team up with Pakistan against India, he said the two countries shared a long border and should settle their scores there. “We will not allow any of these two countries to use Afghanistan.… We will not allow anyone to use Afghan soil against any country,” Stanekzai said, articulating the hope that Afghan Hindus and Sikhs who had left Afghanistan after the Taliban assumed control would return and India would remain invested in Afghanistan. The only other time India has acknowledged any form of contact with the Taliban was in December 1999 for the release of the hijacked Indian Airlines flight that had been taken to Kandahar. India never recognised the Taliban when it was in power in Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. But the investments that successive governments in New Delhi have made in the strife-wracked country over the past two decades have made it necessary for India to rethink its policy of not dealing with the Taliban, particularly in the face of the growing footprint of both China and Pakistan in Afghanistan. UN resolution The United Nations Security Council on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country, shelter or train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks. The UNSC iterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated in Resolution 1267. Both the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad are UN-banned organisations under UNSC Resolution 1267. Russia and China abstained but were one with the other countries in underlining the importance of ensuring that Afghanistan does not become a safe haven for terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Supreme Court orders demolition of 850 flats in twin-towers in Noida||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the demolition of 850 flats in two towers of 40 floors each in Noida for not maintaining the requisite distance between buildings and asked the realtor, Supertech, to pay Rs 2 crore as compensation to the local residents’ welfare association. “The purpose of stipulating a minimum distance is a matter of public interest in planned development. The residents who occupy constructed areas in a housing project are entitled to ventilation, light and air and adherence to fire safety norms,” said Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who authored the judgment. Supertech had constructed 17 towers, out of which the two have been ordered to be demolished within three months at the developer’s cost. Instead of the minimum required distance of 35.6 metres from Tower 1, only 9 metres separated Tower 1 from Tower 16 and Tower 17. These two towers (T-16 and T-17), which encroached on the open area including the garden of Tower 1, will have to be demolished. The court ordered the prosecution of the promoters and the conniving officials of Noida (the New Okhla Industrial Development Authority) on the fringes of the capital. Noida falls in Uttar Pradesh but for all practical purposes, it is an extension of Delhi. Supertech will have to refund all existing purchasers of flats in T-16 and T-17 with interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum payable with effect from the date of the respective deposits until the date of refund, the court said. The stipulated minimum distance addresses several concerns such as “safeguarding the privacy of the occupants and their enjoyment of basic civic amenities, including access to well-ventilated areas where air and light are not blocked by the presence of close towering constructions”, the court added. “Access to these amenities is becoming a luxury instead of a necessity. The prescription of a minimum distance also has a bearing on fire safety. In the event of a fire, there is a danger that the flames would rapidly spread from one structure to the adjoining ones. Moreover, the presence of structures in close proximity poses serious hurdles to fire-fighting machinery which has to be deployed by the civic body. “If a developer is left with the unbridled discretion to define the content of the expression ‘building block’, this will defeat the purpose of prescribing minimum distances, leaving the health, safety and quality of life of flat buyers at the mercy of developers,” the court said. The bench issued the directives while dismissing an appeal filed by Supertech challenging a 2014 judgment of a division bench of Allahabad High Court that directed the demolition of the illegal structures. The high court had passed the order while allowing an appeal filed by the Emerald Court Owner Residents’ Welfare Association seeking action against the authorities and the builder for the violations. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court bench said: “The appellant (Supertech) has stooped to the point of producing a fabricated sanctioned plan.” The illegal construction of T-16 and T-17 has been achieved through acts of collusion between officials in Noida and the appellant and its management, the bench added. The apex court said the consent of the individual flat owners of the original 15 towers, individually or through the RWA, was a necessary requirement under the Uttar Pradesh Apartments Act before T-16 and T-17 could have been constructed since they necessarily reduced the undivided interest of the individual flat owners in the common area by adding new flats and increasing the number from 650 to 1,500 flats. “In order to ensure that the work of demolition is carried out in a safe manner…, Noida shall consult its own experts and experts from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee,” the court said. The demolition shall be carried out under the overall supervision of the CBRI or another expert agency nominated by Noida if the central institute is unable to involve itself, the bench said. The cost of the demolition and all incidental expenses, including the fees for the experts, shall be borne by the appellant, the bench added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Politicians criticise JNU 'jihadi terrorism' course ||CPI parliamentary party leader Binoy Viswam has criticised as “deeply prejudiced”, “historically inaccurate”, “politically motivated” and “malignant” a recently approved course at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) that links Islamist and communist terror and describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”. In a letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday, Viswam demanded a review of the course. Jawhar Sircar, Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha MP and retired bureaucrat, traced the roots of such courses to “competition within the pro-BJP groups on campus to show who is more aggressive”. On August 17, JNU’s academic council approved a course on counter-terrorism that describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”, and claims that the erstwhile “Soviet Union and China have been predominant state sponsors of terrorism”, a model that has been “well adapted by several radical Islamic states” after the Cold War. The optional course — Counter-Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers — will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at JNU’s School of Engineering. Viswam said in his letter: “It is deeply unfortunate that higher education is being used as a platform to communalise and politicise geo-political issues through the presentation of half-truths and academically dishonest information. “Distorting history in an attempt to serve the vested political and communal interests of a certain ideology, the contents of the course make incredulous assertions pertaining to global terrorism and political regimes that have supported it.” The CPI parliamentarian added: “These statements are not only historically inaccurate, they are also deeply prejudiced and politically motivated…. As education minister of India and a constitutional representative, it is incumbent on you to ensure that the centres of knowledge are not used for such malignant agendas. “The decision on the course was passed without any discussions involving faculty members. Given the divisive nature of content and serious ramifications of such inaccurate information, I appeal to you to immediately intervene in this matter and ensure that the university undertakes a comprehensive review of this course.” Sircar, the Trinamul MP, alleged that the purpose of the course was to “provoke” those who uphold the values of the republic. “There is competition within the pro-BJP groups on campus to show who is more aggressive. It is a ruse to grab attention. It has been this way since M. Jagadesh Kumar became vice-chancellor (of JNU in 2016), and he has gotten away with it,” he told The Telegraph. Sircar added: “Nobody is saying there is no Islamist terrorism, the worst of which is seen in two of our neighbours…. The counter-terrorism course at Counter Insurgency and Jungle Warfare School, Mizoram, explains a whole array of such threats to the republic. To bracket them all under one religion is meant to provoke those among us who uphold the values of the republic.” Bahujan Samaj Party MP Danish Ali told this newspaper: “This is unacceptable in a democracy like India which upholds secular values — values that JNU stood for…. Under the current VC, JNU has been in the news for the wrong reasons…. The new course is just to demonise a particular community.” The JNU administration has not responded to queries from this correspondent on the new course. It had backtracked on introducing “Islamic terrorism” as an area of study in 2018 after a notice from the Delhi Minorities Commission. CPM Rajya Sabha leader Elamaram Kareem said: “By introducing this particular course with such malignant content, the political motive of the present JNU administration is being uncovered. This is a part of the larger plan of the Sangh parivar to rewrite history with blatant lies and cooked up stories. “Here they are trying to spread the narrative that terrorism is equal to Islam and are trying to give theoretical back-up for their propaganda. The roots of terrorism are not in any religion, but in the plans of imperialism to destabilise the socialist and third world alternatives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Olympians earn medals, Modi basks in glory ||None can accuse Narendra Modi of being slow off the blocks when it comes to spotting a propaganda opportunity. The Olympics and the Paralympics seem to have handed the Prime Minister another diversionary opportunity to sprint, jump and swim across the economic, health and freedom-curbing cesspool that his government stands accused of creating. Modi has been effusive in his praise for the Indian contingents’ achievements in the Olympics and now the Paralympics in Tokyo, making incessant social media posts, speaking to sportspersons who have won medals and calling them over to his residence for a felicitation. None can find fault with such encouraging gestures of the Prime Minister in a country where sports other than cricket have often been ignored. However, the optics of Modi’s overtures, with his telephone conversations with Olympic achievers being videographed and shared widely on social media, the elaborate multi-camera coverage of his in-person interactions with sportspersons, his pep talks to them and his breathless tweets have sparked speculation whether the politician is trying to appropriate the sporting achievements for political gains. “Soaring higher and higher!” Modi tweeted on Tuesday to congratulate Mariyappan Thangavelu for winning the silver medal in high jump at the Tokyo Paralympics. “Mariyappan Thangavelu is synonymous with consistence and excellence,” he waxed eloquent. “Congratulations to him for winning the Silver Medal. India is proud of his feat.” Similar fulsome praise for each achiever has filled Modi’s social media timelines. “The indomitable @sharad_kumar01 has brought smiles on the faces of every Indian by winning the Bronze Medal! His life journey will motivate many,” he tweeted about Sharad Kumar who bagged bronze in the same high jump event. Modi had been eloquent while congratulating Indian sportspersons’ feats at the Olympics too, while many in the BJP have suggested that the country’s haul of an unprecedented seven medals was another feather in the Prime Minister’s cap. While most sportspersons have lauded the Prime Minister’s effort to boost the morale of the players and generate a positive atmosphere for the promotion of sports in the country, the political motive behind the extraordinary and well-coordinated drive has either been papered over or deliberately ignored. Internally, BJP managers acknowledged that the good show by sportspersons at the Olympics and the Paralympics had helped the government to drown the criticism over the allegations of snooping using the Israeli sypware Pegasus, the steep rise in the prices of essential commodities, Covid mismanagement and relatively slow pace of vaccination. The ruling party insiders even appeared happy about the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, saying the development had come at an opportune moment and would blur the crises the Modi government was facing on multiple fronts. The rise of the extremist Taliban is being indirectly used by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in his alleged polarising campaign for the Assembly elections next year. The underlying intention of basking in the reflected glory of sportspersons was evident at the well-planned event to felicitate the Olympic medal winners at the Prime Minister’s residence. The stage for the event had a large banner in which Modi’s picture dwarfed those of the winners, who had been relegated into a cluster. Multiple cameras followed every move of Modi from several angles and recorded his interactions as he treated sportspersons to their favourite dishes. Bemused social media users had assailed it as a public relations exercise and wondered who had won the medals, Modi or the sportspersons. Ministers and BJP leaders have also been going all out on social media platforms in their quest to project the sporting heroics as achievements of the Modi government. “That special moment when India’s Prime Minister calls to congratulate you…. Just after you’ve won the #Paralympics GOLD and broken the world record…. Well done Sumit Antil!” newly appointed information and broadcasting and sports minister Anurag Thakur tweeted on Monday.A video of javelin star Antil talking to Modi over the phone in the speaker mode was also uploaded. During the Olympics too, Modi’s calls to players in Tokyo had been elaborately videographed and shared widely on social media. The political intentions became even more stark when the Modi government renamed the country’s highest sporting honour, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, to Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award, on the back of the men’s hockey team bagging an Olympics medal after four decades. Addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh, Modi linked the hockey bronze with two controversial events that have been the ideological cornerstones of his government — the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya and the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
01-09-2021||India||Nine new Supreme Court judges sworn in by CJI Ramana||Nine new judges were sworn in to the Supreme Court on Tuesday by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana who administered the oath of office and secrecy at a solemn function held at the auditorium of the newly constructed additional building of the apex court. The nine judges sworn in according to their order of seniority are Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Justice Vikram Nath, Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Justice Hima Kohli, Justice Bangalore Venkataramiah Nagarathna, Justice Chudalayil Thevan Ravikumar, Justice M.M. Sundresh, Justice Bela Madhurya Trivedi and Justice Pamidighantam S. Narsimha. With this the total strength of the Supreme Court has risen to 33 as against the sanctioned strength of 34 judges. This is the first time in the history of the Supreme Court when nine judges were sworn in at one go. It is also the first occasion when the event was held in an auditorium instead of the CJI’s court due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Delhi University plans to raise fees amid pandemic||Delhi University will focus on increasing internal resources through revision of fees, creating endowment funds with the help of corporates and engaging with alumni for donation and various activities. The university in its proposed tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the education ministry and University Grants Commission (UGC) will make these commitments as part of the government’s push to all central universities for taking efforts to reduce dependency on public funding. “The university shall endeavour to continue to charge and revise fees for its various courses and facilities, keeping in view the need to make quality education accessible to all. Additionally, efforts will be made to augment the financial resources from other sources such as through endowments, and a one-time grant from public private organisations/individuals,” a provision in the MoU said. All the central universities are signing these types of agreements since 2019. However, the increase in fees has largely remained muted so far because of the outbreak of Covid in early 2020. This year, the commitment for increasing fees has come a shocker to several faculty members and students because of job losses and salary cuts owing to the economic crisis that got aggravated by Covid-induced restrictions. Abha Dev Habib, a faculty member of Miranda House College, said that the fees as such in DU colleges are very high. The fees may have a small component of tuition fee but it ranges between Rs 5,000 and Rs 42,000 in a year. St Stephen’s College charges Rs 42,000 annually, which includes charges for building, furniture, IT and similar facilities. “The parents are more stressed this year. Many have lost jobs and those in the private sector have faced salary cuts. The commitment to fee revision will add to the stress of students,” Habib said. Last year, hundreds of students of different DU colleges failed to pay their fees. Students of different colleges like St Stephen’s, Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) and Hindu College started fund-raising campaigns to help their needy peers. The effort became popular as many alumni and philanthropists came forward to support through money or in terms of gadgets for online education. A DU official said that the UGC keeps sending letters asking to augment funds and cut spending on different heads. “The UGC keeps monitoring the implementation of the tripartite agreement. For the last two years, Covid has created hurdles in implementation. The government also ranks universities based on how much they could keep to their commitments. So there is pressure to implement the commitment,” the official said. The National Education Policy (NEP) too has emphasised on raising funds by institutions. “The public universities provide education to all types of students. A majority of them are from economically and socially deprived sections. Any change in funding pattern will harm their interest,” Habib said. An email sent to DU vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi to get his comments on giving such commitment on revision of fees received no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||With severe Covid, jabs falter, says AIIMS study||Full vaccination significantly reduces the risk of severe Covid-19, but if inoculated people develop oxygen deprivation or respiratory distress, their odds of critical illness or death are similar to those of unvaccinated people, a real-world vaccine effectiveness study in India has suggested. The study at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, has indicated that the few vaccinated people who develop severe disease due to either old age or underlying chronic health disorders have a similar risk of death as unvaccinated persons. The results, in line with earlier findings, show that full vaccination protects patients from oxygen deprivation or severe inflammation, needing steroids, requiring respiratory support, or dying from Covid-19 and underlines the need to expedite two full doses. India’s vaccination campaign, since its start on January 16, has administered more than 650 million doses up to Tuesday, but only around 150 million people (16 per cent) of the estimated 943 million adults have been fully vaccinated. The AIIMS doctors who tracked 1,464 unvaccinated, 231 partially vaccinated and 53 fully vaccinated Covid-19 patients admitted between April and June this year noted severe illness at admission in 48 per cent of unvaccinated, 40 per cent of partially vaccinated and 13 per cent of fully vaccinated. Among subsets of patients, 61 per cent unvaccinated and 54 per cent partially vaccinated required respiratory support compared with 18 per cent of fully vaccinated. About 22 per cent of unvaccinated and 19 per cent partially vaccinated died, compared with 5.7 per cent of fully vaccinated. Larger proportions of unvaccinated and partially vaccinated patients also had showed signatures of hyper-inflammatory responses compared with fully vaccinated patients, indicating that vaccination also reduces the risk of Covid-19-linked inflammatory responses. But once a patient developed hypoxia, or oxygen deprivation, or acute respiratory distress syndrome, the odds of developing critical illness and death were similar to those of unvaccinated individuals, the AIIMS doctors said in their study. The findings are consistent with a multi-hospital study in the US in June this year that had found that if hospital treatment is required in fully vaccinated patients, elderly patients with significant underlying health disorders remain at high risk for severe outcomes regardless of vaccination status. “Vaccinated people are protected from severe disease, but it is not 100 per cent,” said Randeep Guleria, the AIIMS director. “If a few of them go on to develop severe disease, they may have a bad outcome. Other factors also contribute to the disease severity.” The results show that two doses of vaccines protect patients from developing oxygen deprivation or severe inflammation, requiring ventilator support, or dying from Covid-19, in line with other studies underlining the benefits of full immunisation with two shots. At least two other studies — one by Max Hospital doctors, the other by Sir Ganga Ram Hospital doctors — have over the past month highlighted the need to expedite two doses. The current vaccination policy recommends a 12-week gap between the first and second dose of Covishield, one of the two primary vaccines currently used in India’s campaign. Sections of public health experts and doctors want the dose shortened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Mulayam Singh Yadav ‘invites’ UP BJP chief to join Samajwadi Party||Mulayam Singh Yadav has invited Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh to join the Samajwadi Party, according to a tweet by Manish Jagan Agrawal, digital media coordinator of the SP. Agrawal’s tweet was re-tweeted by Samajwadi chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday. Singh had met the Samajwadi patron at his residence in Lucknow on Monday and then tweeted in Hindi with a picture holding the left hand of Mulayam: “I met respected Mulayam Singh Yadav ji ‘Netaji’ at his residence to know his well-being and take his blessings. I wish for his good health and long life.” Initially, observers had considered it as a courtesy call as Mulayam enjoys good relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mulayam had blessed Modi to become Prime Minister again in 2019. Although Akhilesh had lost the Assembly elections in 2017, both he and his father Mulayam were present on the dais with Modi and Yogi Adityanath at the latter’s oath-taking ceremony on March 19 (2017). Agrawal tweeted on Monday night: “The BJP’s state president Swatantra Dev Singh met respected Netaji today. Netaji has offered Swatantra Dev Singh to join the Samajwadi Party. Swatantra Dev Singh is unhappy as the BJP is neglecting the backward castes and Dalits. May be that Swatantra Dev Singh dubs it a courtesy call but there is something in it.” However, Singh ridiculed Akhilesh for the tweet and said that the SP boss was desperately trying every trick for power. “Mulayam is a senior leader of the state and I met him because he is unwell,” Singh said. A Samajwadi source said: “Singh had invited Mulayam to attend the last rites of former chief minister Kalyan Singh and the SP patron had informed the BJP state president that he was unwell and wouldn’t be able to be present. In fact this decision was taken by Akhilesh that the SP would stay away from Kalyan’s last rites. We want to send a clear message among the minority community that we don’t admire Kalyan, during whose tenure as chief minister, Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya in 1992.” Kalyan and other BJP leaders had claimed that Babri Masjid was built by Mughal emperor Babar in the 16th century after razing a Ram temple. A Ram temple is under construction at the same site on the order of the Supreme Court. BJP leaders had dubbed Kalyan as the “hero of Ram temple” after his death last week. Reacting on the tweets, senior Congress leader Dwijendra Tripathi said: “Mulayam as chief minister had ordered the police to open fire on kar sevaks of the BJP-Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Singh and all other BJP leaders call Mulayam a killer of kar sevaks. And now Singh meets Mulayam to know his well-being. How long will they cheat the voters by dividing them as Hindus and Muslims?” Making fun of the entire incident, an user Ranjan Kumar Singh tweeted with some pictures of Adityanath with Mulayam and Akhilesh: “Yogiji is unhappy with the BJP. May be he would join the SP tomorrow or day after.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Kashmir: Farooq says party ready to  participate in Assembly elections||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday appeared ready to participate in the proposed Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir predicting a victory for NC and making bureaucracy accountable for their actions, in what is being seen as the most firm indication that his party was readying for the polls. “We will win. I want to tell you, with full confidence, that if there is a fair election, National Conference will be the biggest party,” Farooq told reporters in Srinagar after a specific query on whether his party will contest the proposed elections. The elections are yet to be announced and while the Centre favours elections before restoration of statehood, the Valley parties have been calling for statehood before polls. The NC too had previously favoured the restoration of statehood to be followed by Assembly elections but Farooq on Tuesday chose not to delve into the issue. Asked if officers will take calls of the people since he was indicating a change in government, Farooq issued a warning to the bureaucracy of action, as if his party was just a stone’s throw from power. “They (bureaucrats) will not only pick up phones but they will be held accountable tomorrow about what they have done. They think of themselves as kings today. They are not kings, they are servants of people. They have to work for people,” he said, referring to the growing complaints that officers, who are mostly outsiders, refuse to even take calls of the people. An NC leader said his party continues to favour restoration of statehood before holding Assembly elections but said only the top brass can tell if there was any change in its stance. Farooq was not available for comment. Farooq heads the six-party alliance fighting for restoration of Article 370. When the alliance was floated in 2019, it had clearly stated that restoration of Article 370 was its utmost priority and that all their political activities would be “subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of J&K as it existed on 4th August, 2019”. The NC chief’s comments came on the sidelines of the first-ever parliamentary outreach programme for Jammu and Kashmir panchayat bodies presided over by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, where Farooq and lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha sparred over a host of issues. Farooq said if they were with the country, the country should also take care of them. He said India was a diverse nation and no single religion can build the nation. “There is nothing common between those who live in Chennai or Srinagar but the binding factor was that we came together to create this country. India is a diverse nation and it cannot prosper if we don’t protect its diversity,” he said. “India cannot be run on the basis of one religion. There is more threat from the enemy within. We know about the enemy which is outside.” The former chief minister regretted that his party didn’t participate in the panchayat elections in 2018. The Valley parties had boycotted the rural polls to oppose the scrapping of special status. Their absence helped the BJP win many seats. Farooq said militancy still exists and the government should not live in “cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory”, urging the government to provide security to panchayat workers. Sinha, during his speech, claimed that every penny was accounted for under the new dispensation and “no one can usurp public funds like they did earlier”, in an apparent reference to the claims of Farooq that the present government was not accountable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Scholar predicts India's shift into ethnic democracy under Modi||A French scholar who has studied Narendra Modi’s politics and policies over the past 20 years has just published a 639-page book on the Prime Minister in which he predicts that India’s transformation into an ethnic democracy, “where minorities are second class citizens”, and authoritarianism risks reaching a “point of no return”. Modi’s India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy by Christophe Jaffrelot, professor of politics and sociology at King’s College London, has been translated from French by Cynthia Schoch and published by Princeton University Press. The author explained how he sees the model of democracy in India in an interview: “Democracy, nowadays, is a notion you need to qualify when applied to India. You may say, like some scholars do, that it is an ‘illiberal democracy’. “I prefer to use the concept of ‘ethnic democracy’ that has been first used in the case of Israel. An ‘ethnic democracy’ is a regime where pillars of democracy are still practised, including elections — something populists across the globe need to retain to acquire legitimacy — but where minorities are second class citizens because of all kinds of discrimination. “You may (also) use the word ‘majoritarianism’, which designates the attempt for transforming a cultural majority into a permanent, political majority”. Jaffrelot predicted that “changes under Modi may be permanent if the Hindutva forces have not only captured power, but also society — at least temporarily — and if this hegemonic position allows them to get deeply entrenched in the State apparatus, then a point of no return will be reached”. “This book has tried to make sense of the political trajectory of India from populism to ethnic democracy and authoritarianism under Narendra Modi, a journey of less than ten years,” writes Jaffrelot. The drift of the book is apparent in the headings given to chapters and sections: Hindu Nationalism: A Different Idea of India; Hindutva: What It Means to Be a Hindu; Modi in Gujarat: The Making of a National-Populist Hero; Targeting Minorities; Anti-Christian Xenophobia; Recurrent Mobilisations against Muslims; The Slow Death of the Right to Information; and What Fourth Estate? Among Indian scholars, his book has been called “the most comprehensive account to date of Narendra Modi’s capture and consolidation of power” by Partha Chatterjee of Columbia University, while Patrick Heller said “Modi’s India is quite simply the most detailed, theoretically sophisticated and comprehensive analysis of the rise of Modi’s BJP as a dominant electoral force”. Jaffrelot wears a number of other hats. He is based in Paris where he was elected president of the French Political Science Association last year and is a permanent consultant with the policy planning staff of the French foreign ministry. He is director of research at CERI-Sciences Po/CNRS and a non-resident scholar at the Carnegie Endowment of International Peace. His books include The Pakistan Paradox, Hindu Nationalism: A Reader and a biography of B.R. Ambedkar. In the conclusion of Modi’s India, the author cites political scientist Suhas Palshikar: “In 2019, Suhas Palshikar concluded his contribution to Majoritarian State by considering that ‘electoral defeat alone can puncture the BJP’s resolute march towards crafting a new hegemony’, but electoral defeat may not make much of a difference, or, to be more precise, while it is a necessary condition, it may not be a sufficient one. “First, the Sangh Parivar is so deeply entrenched in the social fabric that it may continue to dictate its terms to the State on the ground — and to rule in the street. Second, the ‘deep state’ may remain in a position to influence policies and politics even if the BJP is voted out. In that sense, Hindu nationalism does not rely as much on one man to push its agenda as the BJP does to win elections.” Jaffrelot said he had “interviewed hundreds of people in the 20-years-long research that I have devoted to Narendra Modi’s politics in Gujarat and at the Centre”. In 2014 he decided to study whether Modi would use the five pillars of his “Gujarat model” as Prime Minister of India. “I continued to visit Ahmedabad once a year and other cities as well, including Delhi and Mumbai, but also Lucknow where the Hindu nationalist forces were adapting the Gujarat model to the local conditions of UP,” he said. Referring to “elitism and authoritarianism”, he said: “I show that the rise to power of the BJP has translated into a comeback of upper caste politicians, a dilution of reservations, and pro-rich policies in terms of taxation among other things…. I distinguish two modalities of authoritarianism, which are not mutually exclusive. “The first one pertains to vigilantism and consists in enforcing social and religious norms by resorting to physical threats and intimidation. Several components of the Sangh Parivar, including the Bajrang Dal, are in charge of such activities. “The second one relies on State institutions — such as the police — which are implementing governmental will — at the state level or at the federal level. In my book, I try to demonstrate that both are two sides of the same coin — partly because of the emergence of a kind of deep state.” Jaffrelot said he was introduced to Indian philosophies at 18, has long taken an interest in Hinduism, Buddhism and Sufism, did his PhD on Hindu nationalism, and has been to India at least twice a year since his first visit in 1984. Among politicians, he has interviewed Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L.K. Advani, Kanshi Ram, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Nanaji Deshmukh and Madhu Limaye. His view of the Fourth Estate is that “the mainstream media is losing its independence for all kinds of reasons, including the ads policy of the government, intimidation due to income tax and Enforcement Directorate raids, concentration of media outlets in the hands of businessmen who need the government’s support or are close to the rulers — not to say anything about the lack of courage of many newsmen who are easily co-opted by the regime”. He said that “the Election Commission has lost some of its independence”. As for the Supreme Court, “under four different chief justices it abstained from opposing the government for all kinds of reason, ranging from the fact that some of its members had been blackmailed, shared ideological affinities with the regime or anticipated post-retirements sinecures”. Jaffrelot hopes to visit India to debate and discuss the ideas in his book. “If academic works relying on years of empirical research could not be discussed any more in India, the very notion of democracy would be in question.” He has no idea how the Modi government will react to the book. “No government likes its work to be examined because all governments paint rosy pictures of their achievements. The question is how far will they engage with scholars who analyse their policies and strategies. It’s a test of freedom of expression.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Attendance remains poor even as schools reopen in several states||Several states have reopened schools, some only for the higher classes, and many others like Delhi are poised to do so from September. Reports, however, say that attendance has so far been poor in several states that have resumed physical classes after nearly 18 months of closure, with many parents reluctant to send their children to school because of the pandemic situation. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday issued guidelines allowing the reopening of schools for Classes IX, X, XI and XII in the capital from September 1. But it restricted the attendance in classrooms to 50 per cent and said a formal consent from the parents was a must. Authorities at a private Delhi school suggested that attendance was not expected to go over 50 per cent anyway, given the parental reluctance seen elsewhere, but if required they might hold classes in two shifts. Members of two parents’ groups of 40-odd members each whose children study in two different private schools in Delhi told The Telegraph their groups had collectively decided not to send their children to school for now, at least for theory classes. The parents, who declined to be named, said their children would continue with the online classes, which the schools will not be stopping even after resuming in-person classes. Bihar reopened schools for students of all classes a fortnight ago while Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have done so for Class VI upwards. Odisha and Haryana have resumed Classes IX to XII. Uttar Pradesh will restart primary classes from September 1. Bengal will consider reopening schools only after the Pujas, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said. Attendance in Uttar Pradesh has been 20 to 30 per cent on average since the reopening a week ago, reports say, especially with the government continuing to send dry rations to the children’s homes instead of serving cooked midday meals at school. A parent from Meerut said attendance was around 15 per cent at the budget school where his child was enrolled. Reports from Bihar suggest that social distancing is not being followed rigorously in the classroom. Anita Rampal, former dean of the faculty of education at Delhi University, said governments should reopen schools in rural areas and district towns that are experiencing minimal Covid spread instead of waiting for a uniform decision for the entire state. She said the big challenge for the schoolteachers now was to help the students make up the learning deficit caused by the long school closure. “Students from the poor and socially disadvantaged sections have been pushed to the margins (during the closure). They need more support, empathy and encouragement to pick up from where they are now, and gain the confidence to learn,” she said. Rampal said the schools must not hold exams or assessments now or threaten the children with “judgemental labels”. “The children need to sit and work in groups, while observing Covid protocols, so that they gain motivation and confidence from each other,” Rampal said. She also stressed the importance of ensuring immediate repairs and maintenance of schools’ infrastructure, which have suffered greatly during the long closure. Pritish Acharya, professor of social science and humanities at the Regional Institute of Education, Bhubaneswar, argued for the resumption of junior classes, saying most first-generation learners depend entirely on the schools for their foundational learning. “The primary school children (from poor families) have been the biggest losers because many are unable to handle the electronic device, or their parents are unable to help them, or they lack learning space at home,” he said. “Nor is the online mode the preferred form of imparting the foundational learning of alphabets, etc.” Mitra Ranjan, coordinator of the NGO Right to Education Forum, said many children from disadvantaged sections may not even have masks. “The schools should be supported with the necessary material to ensure students from all sections follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Ranjan said. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava from Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Odisha government withdraws weekend shutdown||The Odisha government on Tuesday withdrew weekend shutdowns from all places in the state in view of the declining rate of coronavirus infection in the state. Weekend shutdowns were in force in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri. Badly hit by the lockdown, people from various walks of life, especially traders, had been demanding an end to weekend showdowns. Business activities had been, in particular, hit by these restrictions. Announcing the guidelines for September, special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said: “ There will be no weekend shutdown in the entire state. However, curfew will remain in force in the urban areas from 10pm to 5am. All the emergency services are allowed during the curfew period.”  Earlier the curfew was enforced from 8pm to 5am. With this the state government has given a clear go ahead to the business communities to resume their activities in a normal way. All types of shops, including malls, are allowed to open from 5am to 10pm. Cinema halls can run with full capacity adhering to the Covid-19 norms. However, it will be the responsibility of the owners of the shops and market associations to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour followed by the staff and the customers. The state government has also increased the limit on the number of guests in the marriage, funeral and other social functions. The Odisha government has also extended the ceiling on the number of participants in weddings, thread ceremony and funerals from 50 to 250. However, all social, religious, political and cultural gatherings are prohibited. “Exhibitions, trade fairs and melas shall remain prohibited,” according to the guidelines. Auditoriums, assembly halls and similar facilities shall remain only open for official meetings as per the seating capacity adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state on Tuesday reached 10,07,750 with a new 638 number of cases surfaced and the death toll reached to 7,969 with 68 number of Covid deaths in the last 24 hours. The state has 7, 255 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||India||Jail for retired colonel for cheating defence personnel in Bhubaneswar||A retired lieutenant colonel and his associate, a builder, were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for five years and fined Rs 1 lakh each by a court in Odisha for cheating defence personnel with the promise to provide them residential plots. If they fail to pay the fine, they will have to undergo imprisonment for one more year. Retired Lt Col Rakesh Rana in association with builder Purna Chandra Panda had launched a scheme in Bhubaneswar in 2011-12 in the name of “Defence Intercity Vatika Association” and collected huge amounts of money from defence personnel with the assurance of providing them plots. The duo had assured to provide residential plots to serving and retired defence personnel only. In order to gain the confidence of the defence personnel, Rana had also floated an organisation named Sainik Welfare Organisation-India (SWO-India). An official of the economic offence wing of the Odisha crime branch on Tuesday said: “One Patitapabana Biswal had registered case against Lt Col Rakesh Rana (retired), chairman of Sainik Welfare Organisation-India and Purna Chandra Panda, managing director of Brookson Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd, and others for cheating by not providing them with plots. They had also defaulted in refunding the deposit amount received from the complainant and others, who had booked plots in the ‘Defence Intercity Vatika Project’.” They collected the money from the intending buyers between 2011-12 and 2014-15 but never gave plots to them. “The SWO-India, collected about Rs 31.57 crore from 542 numbers of defence personnel towards cost of land, development charges and registration fees, etc. Moreover, the SWO-India represented though its chairman, Rakesh Rana, during August 2011 entered into an agreement with accused, Purna Chandra Panda, managing director of M/s Brookson Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd to purchase land for the above project,” said a media release issued by the economic offence wing. However, the accused persons (Rana and Panda) in a criminal conspiracy hatched between themselves and others did not purchase adequate land to provide the same to the intending buyers as assured to them. They did not provide any land to the investors and misappropriated the entire amount collected from them, the release added. “After completion of investigation of the case, a charge-sheet was submitted against the accused. The case was heard in the court of presiding officer, designated court under OPID (Odisha Protection of Interest of Depositors) Act, Cuttack, and the court convicted the accused persons,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll violence: Bengal moves SC against high court CBI probe order||The West Bengal government Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing the court-monitored CBI investigation into all heinous cases like rape and murder during the post poll violence in the state after accepting the recommendations of an NHRC panel. The state government in its special leave petition alleged that it did not expect fair and just investigation by the central agency which is busy foisting cases against the functionaries of ruling Trinamool Congress Party. Earlier, lawyer Anindya Sundar Das, one of the PIL petitioners on whose plea the High Court August 19 verdict had come, had filed a caveat in the apex court urging that no order be passed without hearing him if the state or other litigant move appeals. A five-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year in which the ruling TMC came back to power. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be investigated by a Special Investigation Team under the monitoring of the court. The high court bench, which also comprised justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Ordering setting up of an SIT to probe all other cases, it had said that it will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation, it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation." The bench had said the State failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction." "Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned," it had noted. It had said allegations that the police had not registered a number of cases initially and that some were registered only after the court had intervened or the committee was constituted were found to be true. It had observed that the facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee, was obstructed from discharging his duty and he and his team members were attacked by some undesirable elements on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted. The PILs had alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought impartial probe into the incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Special court summons 2 Bengal ministers, 3 others in Narada case||A special court on Wednesday ordered the issuance of summonses to Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim besides three others after taking cognizance of a complaint by the Enforcement Directorate under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in the Narada sting tapes case. The special CBI judge ordered the appearance of the accused on November 16. Apart from the two ministers and Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra, cognizance was also taken against former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and suspended IPS officer SMH Mirza. The court directed that the summonses to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the West Bengal assembly speaker since the three are MLAs. Summonses to the other two are to be served directly at their addresses, the court directed. The Narada sting operation was conducted by Narada news founder Mathew Samuel for over two years in West Bengal. Samuel formed a fictitious company and approached several TMC ministers, MPs and leaders for favours. Many of them were shown accepting money in TV footages. The CBI had arrested Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada bribery case in May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Banks to operate full time in Bengal from Thursday, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said banks in the state would start functioning full time from Thursday. Banking hours were revised several times in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Bengal during the course of the second wave. “Banks need to operate full time now. Many new accounts are being opened due to the Lakshmir Bhandar' scheme. Therefore, we have decided to allow banks to operate as per the usual schedule,” Mamata said. The usual banking hours are 10 am to 4 pm. The chief minister said that around 1.5 crore women have applied for the scheme already, adding that withing three and a half months, she has fulfilled 90 per cent of her election promises. Around 1.6 crore people are expected to be a part of the Bengal government scheme, which was a part of the Trinamul Congress' election manifesto, aimed at providing financial assistance to women heads of families in the age group of 25-60 years. Under the initiative, the state government will provide Rs 1,000 per month to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families, and Rs 500 to those belonging to the general category. The chief minister also laid the foundation stone of Dhunseri Group's poly films plant in Paschim Bardhaman district, which is expected to provide employment opportunities for over 1,500 people. The Rs 1,250-crore flexible packaging factory will be spread across 38 acres at Panagarh Industrial Park. In the first phase, the plant will manufacture polyester films with a production capacity of 45,000 tonnes per annum at an investment of over Rs 400 crore, company officials said. It is expected to commence commercial operations by March 2023. The first unit will be a downstream facility of Dhunseri's existing Haldia plant where it makes PET (polyethylene terephthalate) resins, Group Chairman C K Dhanuka said. He said the plant will provide direct employment to around 500 people and provide indirect employment opportunities for nearly 1,000 people. The company aims at producing 1,60,000 TPA by 2026-27, with an expected turnover of Rs 1,500 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Rujira Banerjee cites Covid situation, urges ED officials to question her at Calcutta||Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on Wednesday expressed her inability to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi in connection with the coal pilferage scam citing the prevailing Covid situation, and requested the agency sleuths to visit her Calcutta residence instead. The ED had summoned Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP, and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in Bengal. Rujira Banerjee was asked to the appear before the ED on September 1, and the TMC leader, who is the nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on September 3. "This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021 asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk. "It would be convenient to me if you consider asking me to appear in Kolkata at my residence since your organisation has its office in Kolkata and I reside in Kolkata too," she said in her letter addressed to Sumat Prakash Jain, Assistant Director of ED. "Besides, as per my understanding, the alleged cause of action of the subject matter of your inquiry too arises out of West Bengal. You may communicate your decision. I assure you every cooperation from my side," she said. A CBI team had questioned Rujira Banerjee at her residence in February in connection with the coal pilferage case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||20 people hurt in stampede at Covid vaccination camp in Jalpaiguri ||Around 20 persons, mostly women, got injured in a stampede at a Covid-19 vaccination camp underway at a high school in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri district on Tuesday. Among the injured, four women who are serious, have been shifted to the district hospital here. The district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu has ordered an inquiry and police are probing the incident. Sources said on Tuesday morning, hundreds had come to Duramari Chandrakanta High School for vaccination as announced by the block administration earlier. However, owing to some “communication gap", school authorities had kept the main gate closed. When the gate opened suddenly, residents rushed, leading to the stampede, said a source. Around 20 people were injured. Some locals rushed for help and took the injured for treatment to a primary health centre. Some were taken to the state general hospital in Birpara and later, four of them, all women, were shifted to the district hospital here. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said the BDO of Banarhat has been asked to visit the spot and file a report on Wednesday. “All arrangements were made and even then such an incident happened. We are conducting a detailed inquiry,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Delhi positive on funds for Ghatal master plan: Bengal team||A nine-member team comprising Bengal ministers, and Trinamul MPs and MLAs on Tuesday sad they had elicited a positive response from Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Sekhawat and NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar who they met to ask for funds for Ghatal master plan and four other schemes, including restoration of the cyclone-hit Sunderbans and Digha. “The meeting was positive as both the Union minister and NITI Aayog assured that they would provide funds for the Ghatal master plan. They also asked us to submit a detailed project report on the Sunderbans and Digha masterplans, both brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. We also asked the Centre to fix a compensation package for the people who lost their houses to Ganga erosion,” said Bengal minister Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, a member of the team, from New Delhi. Bhuniya apart, state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra, MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, MP Dipak Adhikari (Dev), ministers of state Humayun Kabir and Srikanta Mahato were among those who attended the meeting with Shekhawat and NITI Aayog officials. The visit took place following Mamata’s statement earlier this month that she would send a team to Delhi to push the Centre to release funds for Ghatal master plan and other schemes. Mamata had said she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi several times seeking funds for the Ghatal master plan to no avail. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that includes the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, and widening of the confluences of at least 10 large rivers, including the Kansabati, Rupnarayan and Shilabati in addition to around 40 channels and sub-channels that cross the twin Midnapores. In 2012, the state government sent to Delhi a detailed project report of the plan, estimated at Rs 1,200 crore, and received administrative and financial approvals from the Narendra Modi government in 2015. The Centre had agreed to pitch in 75 per cent of the project cost but later reduced it to 50 per cent. No money was sent. The state government dredged a large part of the Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers using its own funds. “We are very hopeful that the Centre will now give the money for the project... let us see what happens,” said Mahapatra, the state irrigation minister. Bhuniya said apart from Ghatal the team also raised the issue of rehabilitation of people affected by Ganga erosion. “There is a government policy to support people affected by cyclones, floods or other disasters. However, there is no policy for those who are affected by Ganga erosion mainly in districts like Malda and Murshidabad in Bengal. I have asked the government to bring in a specific policy (for such calamities),” said Bhuniya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Swollen Mahananda river floods twin municipalities in Malda ||The swollen Mahananda river flooded a number of wards in the twin municipalities of Englishbazar and Old Malda in Malda. The river that skirts these civic areas was flowing a little below the danger level on Tuesday, said state irrigation department sources. “In the past 24 hours, there has been an alarming rise of 17cm in the water-level of Mahananda. The river is now flowing at 20.63m, 37cm below danger level,” said an official. In Englishbazar, at least five wards have been flooded by the river that spilled over its right bank. Sumala Agarwala, chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, took stock of the situation on a boat. “Nearly 2,000 families have been shifted to safer places. We are keeping tabs,” she said. The situation is equally worrying in Old Malda municipal area on the left bank of the river. Bashistya Trivedi, chairperson of the board of administrators, said water from the Mahananda entered in four wards. “We are in touch with the civil administration so that relief can be provided to the affected people,” Trivedi said. In Old Malda civic area, around 500 families were affected, sources said, In Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri district, around 200 residents from Manmohandhura went to the office of the BDO to demonstrate for a temporary bridge to restore road link washed away by floods. They also blocked the road that connects the office with NH31C. The demonstrators said that a few days back, a culvert over local stream Sukhani had been swept away, leaving around 30,000 people cut off from the block headquarters. “We had to trudge through agricultural fields to reach the national highway and head for the block office and neighbouring areas. The block administration should immediately build a temporary bridge so that road connectivity can be restored,” said a demonstrator. The blockade started at around 11am and halted movement of vehicles through Nagrakata. Later, representatives of the local panchayat samiti and the block administration spoke with them and assured necessary help. Finally, the blockade was withdrawn at around 2pm. “We have prepared the estimate of a culvert. It has been sent to the district administration for approval,” said an official at the block office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Hill politics abuzz with meetings||Darjeeling resembles a place going for polls immediately when in reality no elections have been scheduled yet. Hectic political activities are on in full swing as the hills are churning with new political alignments. Major political entities in the hills such as Gorkha Janmukti Morcha factions headed by Anit Thapa, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung, and the Gorkha National Liberation supporters of Ajoy Edwards, who announced his decision to quit the party on Sunday evening, are holding meetings. On Tuesday, Prabhaskar Blone, spokesperson of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, and Bimal Jhawar, adviser to the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president Edwards, along with other GNLF leader like Udip Moktan, GNLF town president Robert Chhetri, general secretary Gopal Pariyar and others left the GNLF to support Edwards. “I have decided to disassociate myself from the GNLF following developments centring around Edwards. I consider Subash Ghisingh my leader but I can still follow his principles and ideals without staying within the GNLF,” said Blone. Ghisingh’s son Mann now heads the GNLF. Edwards has accused Mann of sidelining him. Meetings are a regular affair for the GNLF, too. On Sunday, a meeting of youths was held by the GNLF in Darjeeling that MLA Neeraj Zimba addressed. Tamang, who said he would start his “third chapter” in politics after resigning in July from the Morcha that he formed in 2017, has been holding a series of meetings. “From demanding an explanation on the donation collected as part of the GTA relief fund during the pandemic, to accusing the GTA officials of trying to help a certain political leader (read Anit Thapa) to levelling corruption charges in the GTA, Tamang is going hammer and tongs in these meetings,” said an observer. Thapa plans to launch his new party on September 9. Gurung is also holding meetings almost every day. “Just a few days ago he started functioning from his party office in Singmari.Almost daily he meets supporters, reorganises committees and inducting new people,” said a source. Edwards is on his way from Ladakh by road and is expected to reach Darjeeling by September 5. His supporters plan to give him a rousing reception. No election has been announced in the hills, though elections to the GTA, Darjeeling Municipality and panchayats are due.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Assault slur on Trinamul Congress pradhan Zulfikar Ali||The chief of a Trinamul-run panchayat in Kaliachak-I block of Malda allegedly hit an executive assistant in the panchayat with a revolver's butt on Tuesday. Accused pradhan of Jalalpur, Zulfikar Ali, has denied the charges. Injured employee Mobarak Hossain is being treated a health centre at Silampur in Kaliachak. Sources said some panchayat members, including some from Trinamul, had planned to table a no-confidence motion against Ali, alleging around Rs 1 crore, allotted for carrying out development projects, was lying idle for months. Allegedly, executive assistant Hossain had accepted the letter submitted at the panchayat office by some members on the proposed no-confidence motion against Ali. This angered Ali and he allegedly assaulted Hossain with the butt of a firearm. BDO Selim Habib Sardar has initiated an inquiry into the incident. The district Trinamul leadership has instructed block leaders to submit a report on the incident as well, sources said. Ali called the charge a conspiracy against him and said hundreds of people were present at the panchayat office where a vaccination camp was on. "I have not assaulted anyone,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP loses one more MLA to Trinamul Congress||One more BJP MLA returned to the Trinamul Congress on Tuesday with the defection of Biswajit Das, who represents the Bagda Assembly segment in North 24-Parganas. On Monday, Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh had rejoined Trinamul. Both Das and Ghosh had been with Trinamul and joined the BJP before the Assembly polls. “Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee are leading the party impressively.... Because of some misunderstanding, a few things took place in between. But now, I am back at home,” Das said on Tuesday. There are murmurs that at least seven more BJP MLAs, including three from north Bengal, are likely to switch their allegiance soon. Asked if the party would take action against the defectors, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “These people didn’t hold any post in our party.…What action can we take against people who have left us...” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the Opposition, sent letters to Ghosh and Das giving them a week’s time to clear their stand on political affiliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||No SIT by Bengal government yet: Calcutta High Court ||Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday said the court was aware that the state government was yet to form the special investigation team (SIT) to probe alleged incidents of post-poll violence, except rape and murder. The acting Chief Justice also added that action would be taken if the order to the state government to constitute an SIT, which had been issued by the a five-member bench of the high court on August 19, was not implemented properly. He made this remark while rejecting a plea by the counsel of an alleged post-poll victim, who sought to move a petition demanding action against the state government for not forming the SIT despite the court order. On August 19, the HC had ordered a CBI probe into cases of murder and rape that allegedly took place after Assembly poll results were announced on May 2. The bench headed by the Acting Chief Justice had also ordered an SIT comprising IPS officers including DG (telecommunications) Suman Bala Sahoo, Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra and ADG (administration I) Ranveer Kumar, to probe other alleged offences. The August 19 order was passed after the court accepted a report filed by a committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The order clarified that the court would monitor the progress of probes by the CBI and the SIT. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had vehemently denied the occurrence of post-poll violence in the state and accused the NHRC of doing the bidding of the ruling BJP at the Centre. On Tuesday, counsels appearing for the petitioners informed the court that after the August 19 order the CBI had started its probe but the state government was yet to constitute the SIT. “The state (government) is yet to constitute the three-member special investigating team to probe other incidents of clash and torture during the period,” advocate Rabishankar Chattopadhyay, the counsel appearing for a petitioner, Kashinath Biswas, told the court. A CBI officer on Tuesday requested the high court’s registrar general to take necessary steps so that investigators could access post-mortem and DNA test reports of Abhijit Sarkar, who was allegedly murdered at Beliaghata in Calcutta after poll results were announced. The registrar general asked the officer for a formal application, which the CBI immediately supplied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Manoj Malaviya temporary DGP as Delhi delays list||Manoj Malaviya, a 1986-batch IPS officer, was given the charge of director general of police (DGP) on a temporary basis after Virendra, the incumbent, retired on Tuesday. Sources said Malaviya, who is the senior most IPS officer in Bengal, had to be given the charge temporarily as the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) failed to send a list of three IPS officers from whom the state was to choose the DGP. “The Bengal government had sent a list of 10-odd officers to the UPSC for its consideration for the post of DGP. But it was learnt that the UPSC was yet to hold a meeting in this regard and send back the list of three names.… In such a situation, Malaviya was given the charge on a temporary basis,” said a senior government official. According to a Supreme Court ruling, all states need to send the names of eligible officers for the post of DGP to the UPSC and then the central body forwards three names to the states. The state is allowed to choose any one officer out of the three for the post. The officer, who would be selected for the post, would have to be appointed for a period of two years even if that person’s retirement is due within the period. “We followed the Supreme Court ruling and sent names of eligible officers…. But the UPSC is yet to send three names to Nabanna,” said a source. According to sources, the state expects that the name of Malaviya would figure in the list of the UPSC given that he is the senior most IPS officer and has a good service record. “It is likely that the name of Malaviya would be on the list of the UPSC and the government will appoint him for two years after the UPSC list reaches Nabanna,” said a source. Some states were recently forced to appoint DGPs on temporary basis for a few days as the UPSC hadn’t sent the list on time, the sources said. Malaviya , who is currently DG (organisation), would continue to work in the post and hold the charge of DGP additionally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 546 new infections, 640 recoveries, 13 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 72 consecutive days of a fall in its total number of Covid-19 active cases, with 546 new infections, 640 recoveries and 13 deaths. With this, Bengal has 8,815 active cases now, having fallen by 107 on Tuesday. Bengal now has 2.36 per cent of the national total of active cases, and occupies the seventh spot among states with the most active cases. Calcutta logged 92 new infections and three deaths. Tuesday was the third consecutive day again, of not one of the 23 Bengal districts reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.24 per cent now, its highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.48. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.65 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Calcutta reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. The state currently has over 15.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.21 lakh recoveries and 18,447 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah likely to visit north Bengal in September||Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit north Bengal in September with the trip being planned in the backdrop of a rapid realignment of politics in the Darjeeling hills and some BJP leaders’ demand for north Bengal’s statehood. Shah’s visit will be the first to Bengal after the Assembly polls which the Trinamul Congress won with a thumping majority despite the BJP’s high decibel campaign. A source said Shah would be coming to north Bengal — no one wanted to confirm the itinerary on record as the final word is still awaited from Delhi — with the primary objective of taking stock of the political situation in the region. The BJP bagged 30 out of 54 Assembly seats in the region. “In the hills, a number of regional parties and even some apolitical organisations like the National Gorkhaland Committee have renewed their demand for the permanent political solution (PPS). The situation in the hills is fluid and he is likely to go there,” said a source. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista had said recently that the Centre wanted to hold a meeting with the state government and hill stakeholders next month on the PPS. The other burning issue in the region is the sudden demand by a section of BJP leaders led by Alipurduar MP and Union minister of state John Barla that north Bengal be turned into a state or a Union territory. Barla has been backed by Cooch Behar BJP MP Nisith Pramanik, who is also a Union minister of state. Although BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and other leaders had initially distanced themselves from the demand, many of them later began rallying around Barla’s call. “As the Union home minister, Shah is aware of the fast-paced changes taking place in the region.... That’s why his trip has been planned,” said the source. Mamata Banerjee is also slated to visit north Bengal for five days next month, which would be her first trip after assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the chief minister, who retained the north Bengal development portfolio with herself, had lined up the trip as she was aware that the BJP was likely to make the statehood demand a political issue in the coming days. “Shah and Mamata visiting the region in the same month means that the nucleus of political battle is likely to shift to north Bengal for some time,” said an observer. The fact that the state unit of the BJP is trying immaculate planning for Shah’s visit became clear when a sudden meeting of all party MPs and MLAs of north Bengal was convened in Siliguri on Wednesday. “For the first time after the polls, such a meeting has been convened by the party. A delegation of state BJP leaders will be present to discuss issues in the region,” said a BJP MLA in Alipurduar district. At the meeting, the state leaders are likely to take note of the legislators’ opinions on issues like the demand for the statehood, said a source. “The BJP’s state unit or the central leadership haven’t said anything on the issue.… So, there is a need to assess the mood of the people by talking to MLAs and MPs,” said a source. Besides, the lawmakers will also discuss strategies for ensuing polls in the region. “Keeping in mind the ensuing civic polls and also the three-tier polls of Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad, certain instructions would also be passed to the MLAs and MPs,” the MLA added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati executive council to close university sine die||The Visva-Bharati executive council, headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, in an online emergency meeting on Tuesday evening reportedly decided to close the university sine die (with no date set for resumption) in view of the ongoing protests by students against the rustication of its three student leaders. A formal notification from the varsity to this effect is awaited. “The VC mooted the proposal to close the varsity sine die and members of executive council unanimously agreed with the decision. The decision has been taken but formal notification is being awaited. It will come into effect from tomorrow (Wednesday),” said an executive council member who took part in the online meeting but did not want to be named. “The draft of the notification is under process and it would take some time to issue the official notice,” said a senior varsity officer. Once the decision is officially declared, it would be the first time that Visva-Bharati, set up by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, would be closed sine die. The order would mean closure of all academic and administrative activities, including those underway online because of the pandemic. Sources said the process to disburse salaries for August, scheduled to be done on Tuesday evening, was also stopped. This paper sent a text to the varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar but did not receive a reply. Many varsity teachers and students saw in the decision the VC’s ploy to thwart the students’ movement demanding revocation of the rustication of Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty, who were seen as dissenters against the VC’s “whimsical” decisions and alleged campus saffronisation bid. While Sow and Chakraborty are with the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), Pan is a leader of the Left-wing Students’ Unity for New Society in Visva-Bharati. “The university had never been closed sine die. It shows that the VC and his administration are incapable of handling a students’ movement,” said Sabuj Kali Sen, a former officiating VC of the varsity. Earlier in the day, a protesting student filed a complaint with Bolpur police that the VC directed two varsity gates be shut to stop entry of officials associated with the salary disbursement. The student stated that authorities had locked gates in a ploy to blame the students’ movement. Rajib Ray, president of Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Association (FEDCUTA), said it would be an unprecedented incident to close the university sine die because students were protesting against authorities. “The authorities should sit with the students and resolve the impasse,” Ray said. Sources said gherao of the VC was not new in the history of universities in India and it had happened in Visva-Bharati in the past too, and that did not warrant closing the varsity sine die. “Many universities had to be closed sine die but for very grave reasons. Academic activities in the university are hit in the pandemic and closure of varsity will have no effect at all. The VC wanted to stop the disbursement of salary to employees. Admission and publication of results have already stopped,” said a senior Visva-Bharati official. The students, however, said they would continue their movement even if the VC closes the varsity sine die. “We have heard about the decision and it is yet another pressure on us as employees won’t get paid and the admission process had been stopped. If the VC thinks that such a decision would help him to curb our movement, he is mistaken. We will request all the employees to join hands with us against the VC’s move to stop the disbursement of salaries,” said Sow. SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya said it was an attempt to thwart the movement that demanded revocation of the rustication orders. “The VC intentionally invited such situations by rusticating the students. The students never stopped any activities of varsity that could force him to close the varsity sine die. If the rustication was withdrawn there was no need by the VC to stage such a drama,” said Bhattacharya. Sources said, the VC, whose residence has been gheraoed by students from August 27 night, held emergency meetings on Tuesday evening. The first was held with departmental heads, principals and senior varsity officials and second the executive council meeting. “In both meetings the VC raised the issue to close the varsity sine die and finally the decision was endorsed by the executive council. Under the decision, the closure of the varsity would continue till the ‘normalcy’ returns to the campus,” said a senior varsity official. Sources said the decision was taken after the SFI took out a large procession on Tuesday in support of the protesting students. The rally was headed by president of Jawaharlal Nehru University students’ union president Aishe Ghosh and SFI’s state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. Many people from Santiniketan, including residents and traders, supported the movement, along with a group of teachers of the varsity, mainly members of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. Trinamul has decided to join the protest from September 2. “The VC said in the meeting that the protesting students did not allow newspapers, milk and bread to his residence on Tuesday and the gherao is going on for over four days. He said that he would not open the varsity till normality comes,” said an EC member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Invisible pride||Two Indian athletes have won gold medals in quick succession at javelin throw events in Tokyo. The first was Neeraj Chopra, who won the Olympic gold; the second is Sumit Antil, who won the coveted gold at the Paralympics event. Mr Antil is not the only Indian athlete to clinch a gold medal at the ongoing Paralympics; the Indian shooter, Avani Lekhara, brought the nation’s gold tally up to two at the women’s 10-metre air rifle standing SH1 event. She also became the first Indian woman to win gold at the Paralympics. The prime minister was profuse in his praise for India’s showing at the Tokyo Olympics and said that the momentum that India has gained in sports cannot stop. The scope of this momentum, however, ought to be extended to include Paralympians, who have consistently done the nation proud. In 2016, the Indian contingent at the Paralympics had a better tally than their fellow athletes at the Rio Games. And yet, the national broadcaster and private television networks did not cover the competition live, ostensibly on the grounds that the event would not garner enough viewership. Matters may have marginally improved five years on, owing to the advent of live streaming platforms for sports — and, once again, the Indian delegation of Paralympians continues to better the tally of Indian Olympians — but the tradition of rendering differently-abled athletes and citizens invisible continues. While administrative support has been extended to some para-athletes — the high jumper, Sharad Kumar, has been training in Ukraine since 2017 under the government’s Target Olympic Podium Scheme — it has been inconsistent. The silver-winning discus athlete, Yogesh Kathuniya, said that he is still training without a coach. Is that because the prevalent mindset does not allow for reconciling the idea of athleticism with alternative forms of physical capacity? This could be why para-athletes are passed over in favour of their able-bodied counterparts for sports-related endorsements. Embedded prejudice and a dearth of inclusivity in terms of policies and opportunities are some of the main challenges for India’s differently-abled constituency. To eliminate such forms of exclusion, the disdain for physical infirmity must be tackled and the glory brought by Paralympians turned into capital to generate accommodation for the community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Lathi-charge on farmers in Haryana||Brutal tactics Sir — The purported directive of the Karnal sub-divisional officer, Ayush Sinha, to police personnel to break the heads of protesting farmers to enforce law and order was cruel; it was an open call to violence. The justification for this — the SDO reportedly did not sleep for two consecutive days — is bizarre. It is a shame that an Indian Administrative Service officer doubling as a duty magistrate thought that this was the best way to deal with protesters. He could not have been unaware of the constitutional right to protest. His action might have been emboldened by the hope that the state government would protect him. The use of force on farmers for blocking a national highway and causing congestion was completely unjustified. It was disturbing to watch farmers being felled to the ground. A farmer is reported to have died in the aftermath of the lathi-charge. It is unfortunate that the chief minister of Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar, has not been receptive to the farmers’ demand for the dismissal of the SDO and the policemen responsible. In fact, he endorsed the measures taken by saying that ‘strong action’ was needed. He was expected to have some sympathy for the farmers even though he heads a state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, which passed the three new farm laws. Repressive measures are unlikely to deter the farmers from continuing their struggle for the repeal of the laws that threaten their livelihood. The farm laws were bulldozed through Parliament without consulting the primary stakeholders — the farmers. The prime minister should go beyond his offer to suspend the laws and repeal them to do justice to the slogan, “Jai Kisan”, if his government is to be known as ‘pro-farmer’. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The lathi-charge by the Haryana police on agitating farmers is heart-breaking. The duty magistrate clearly misused his power and provoked the police with his orders. His command was inhuman and should be condemned, irrespective of political affiliations. The Haryana government should initiate an impartial inquiry into the incident and take stern action against the guilty. A.K. Mukhopadhyay,Hooghly Sir — After the lathi-charge on the agitating farmers, the deputy chief minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala, said that the SDO of Karnal could face action. This is too little too late. Chautala, now part of the ruling party, has forgotten his responsibilities towards the farming community. The farmers are aware of this, and are unlikely to fall for the pretence of care. Both the state government and the Centre will have to pay heavily for passing the farm bills without the farmers’ consent and then refusing to take them back in the face of stiff opposition. The arrogant dispensation will be overthrown. The governor of Meghalaya, Satya Pal Malik, could be a major help — he has demanded that the Haryana chief minister apologize to the farmers. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The brutality perpetrated on farmers by the Haryana police needs an independent, court-monitored inquiry as the police and the government are clearly hand in glove. Photographs suggest that the police did, in fact, break the heads of the farmers following the SDO’s orders. However, the BJP leader, Varun Gandhi, has raised questions about the authenticity of the video that shows the SDO making the remarks under the guise of expressing his anguish. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Game over Sir — After its crackdown on foreign cartoons on prime-time television and certain karaoke songs, China has come up with a new restriction — minors will henceforth be prohibited from playing video games for more than three hours each week. This is ridiculous. While addiction to gaming is harmful, especially for children, surely there are better ways to discourage them. They could instead be inspired to take up interesting hobbies — collecting stamps, painting, learning a musical instrument. Children already have enough rules to follow; such orders will only weigh them down further. Pranay Ghatak,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Chapter closes||Having failed to midwife the birth of a robust, inclusive democracy in Afghanistan, the United States of America has now retreated from that war-scarred land after two decades, leaving the country in a far more chaotic state. The mess in Afghanistan has numerous manifestations. A humongous humanitarian crisis is unfolding, with countless Afghans battling death, hunger and displacement. The shadow of reprisal hangs heavy over the nation as the Taliban, Afghanistan’s new masters, conduct a witch-hunt against their opponents in spite of an announcement of granting general amnesty. Reports of extrajudicial killings, abductions and intimidation of civilians — women, journalists, members and employees of the former regime and, as usual, ethnic minorities — are not uncommon. Worryingly, the spectre of terrorism — this has ramifications for India’s borders — seems to have mutated, as was evident from the chilling attack on Kabul airport by the Islamic State-Khorasan. Splinter fundamentalist outfits with shadowy patrons that remain opposed to the Taliban could pose a long-term threat to the stability of the region. Other local formations, such as those resisting the Taliban in Panjshir, are unlikely to settle for a peaceful resolution either. These divisions in Afghanistan are being mirrored in the deep chasms in the international fraternity. Russia, China and Pakistan have moved quickly to press for international assistance — recognition? — for Afghanistan’s new overlords, while India and the United States of America are among several democratic countries that have desisted from reaching out the hand of cooperation just yet. These fissures in the coalition of global nations would, undoubtedly, affect Afghanistan’s ground realities adversely. The challenge, therefore, is for stakeholders, including competitors like India and Pakistan and the US and China, to arrive at a consensus to usher in stability in the country. This is easier said than done given the conflicting geo-strategic interests of the stakeholders. Yet, the signs of a thaw between the Taliban and the international fraternity cannot be ruled out entirely. Recently, the United Nations security council dropped a reference to the Taliban from a statement that called on Afghan groups to renounce terror. India was a signatory to the statement. This outreach can be beneficial mutually: the Taliban needs the comity of nations for legitimacy and to rebuild Afghanistan while the fledgling camaraderie could open up newer avenues of cooperation for the West and the Taliban to hunt down common scourges such as the IS-K. Prioritizing peace and people’s welfare on the part of Afghanistan’s rulers and the world would be instrumental in ushering in new equations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||The Age of Dissatisfaction||Karl Marx continues to be debated for his critique of capitalism. One of his important critiques, alongside that of growing inequalities under capitalism, was of the growing sense of alienation. His early writings referred to alienation of a spiritual kind where the “species-being” that had inner morality and compassion remains disengaged and suppressed under capitalism. However, the ‘later Marx’ began to emphasize a more structural and technical aspect of alienation, wherein the workers are divested of the process as well as a sense of satisfaction, pride and identification with their product; instead, the division of labour pushes them into mechanical and repetitive work in order to improve efficiency at the cost of human sensibilities and the urge for recognition. The anthropologist, David Graeber, pointed to the phenomenon of what he termed as “Bullshit Jobs” under capitalism. ‘Bullshit Jobs’, he argues, are “a form of paid employment that is so completely pointless, unnecessary, or pernicious that even the employee cannot justify its existence even though, as part of the conditions of employment, the employee feels obliged to pretend that this is not the case.” Such jobs do not add to the self-worth of the employee and are, on the contrary, meaningless. They are more about the perceived need to manage the workforce. But one could extend this to argue that this malaise of meaninglessness and worthlessness has become all-pervasive, and that it is only set to grow further with the rise of automated work and the introduction of Artificial Intelligence in the years to come. The sense of satisfaction in what we do is depleted because we become a tiny, unremarkable part of the process, often referred to as the ‘cog-in-the-wheel’, where the work is repetitive, boring, and does not generate curiosity and creativity. The sense of something being spontaneous is being replaced by algorithmic, arithmetic and financial considerations. The historian, Yuval Noah Harari, says that ‘algorithm’ is the single- most important word of the 21st century. This is further compounded by what the development economist, Guy Standing, refers to as the new precariat working conditions of being on time-bound contracts with the declining number of permanent jobs that offer such benefits as pension and medical care. Work, thus, becomes a source of both insecurity and meaninglessness. Many scholars, including Standing and Graeber, have identified universal basic income as one possible alternative to the phenomena of ‘Bullshit Jobs’ and precarious working conditions. However, as Amartya Sen has argued, employment is not merely about income; it is also about self-fulfillment and satisfaction. Under modern capitalist conditions, the sense of self and recognition are being replaced with or compensated by what the Marxist geographer, David Harvey, refers to as “compensatory consumerism” wherein the market is flooded with products that give us temporary, but instantaneous, gratification. Consumption has become the new leitmotif of life, and it continues to drive our instincts and appeals to our sensory and visceral needs. The question of satisfaction and meaning keep getting back at us, while we tend to ward them off through newer gadgets, technological innovations, and modes of communication. Spiritual questions are being displaced rather than being answered. Newer modes of consumption — Harvey refers to these as non-exclusionary modes and cites the example of Netflix — have emerged where the product can be consumed simultaneously by many and also instantaneously. New kinds of shopping experiences in malls create newer spatial experiences — Frederik Jameson refers to these as being neither public nor private — that leave behind a sense of depravity, transforming consumption into a repetitive, boring, banal act. Marx had predicted this loss of control over sense and sensibility, a time when we will come to see, mediate and replace human relations with commodities. It is a condition where exchange-value dictates the use-value of goods: he referred to it as ‘commodity fetishism’, which, in turn, adds to the sense of alienation propelled by the working conditions and the nature of the jobs. The modern condition of alienation, however, is not limited to market, jobs and consumption. It extends to social, personal and political life as well. The State and its notions of sovereignty and territoriality are markers of their own versions of alienation on the populations they govern. Contemporary democratic means of representation have pushed forth centralization of power, exceptionalism and exclusion. Representation has become more a condition of alienating the collective rather than of mediating collective interests. Recent global protests, from ‘Arab Spring’ to ‘Occupy Wall Street’, are reminders of alienated collectives struggling to identify with the political life of the nation. This has led to varying demands — from electoral reforms to direct democracy to blatant forms of authoritarianism. The underlying sense of alienation from the collective is, today, articulated as the ‘crisis of representation’ and anger against corruption. There is a need to explore the relationship between ‘compensatory consumption’ and the ‘politics of presence’ characterized by sectarian identity politics. The underlying condition for both seems to be a lasting and gnawing sense of alienation from self and collective. The new modes of imagining durable solidarity that is secure and meaningful has become a pressing need to fight capitalism and preserve democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||A sickening deal||A few weeks ago, I was asked to write on the gendered communal ire faced by Muslim women in light of the ‘Sulli Deals’ incident. I wrote a few paragraphs and realized that this would be the first time I would be writing as a Muslim woman. Identity is a strange word when you think of it in isolation, suspended on a sunbeam bereft of the granular structural differences we grow up with. An intersectional identity essentially means our social identities are multi-dimensional, creating a prism of experiences that is the sum of our parts. Let us understand this as a gradient of the human rights theory that argues in favour of acknowledging the multiple facets of our identity that come together to form one compound identity. This new definition of identity includes the convergence of factors that really make us who we are. Let me assert at the very beginning that this essay is not a dialogue on gender identity. Neither is it about the struggle to assert religious identity. It is about free will and deterrence. Women, anywhere in the world, are not a homogenous group and India is no exception to this. While it is a fact that Muslims form the largest minority in the country, a discourse on the identity of Muslim women in India is not as linear as it might appear. We may contextualize this by considering our domestic socio-political situation. It was an ordinary day when the words, ‘Find your Sulli Deal of the day’, caught my attention on social media. Unaware of the fact that ‘sulli’ is a word with pejorative connotations, I clicked on the link which went on to display a real-life photograph of a Muslim woman. Psychologists have long argued that personally relevant stimuli can successfully attract our attention owing to their relevance to our lives. Naturally, my first reaction was to find out if I’m a deal meant for some random man browsing through my blithely smiling pictures. And then it dawned on me why talking about identity in our society is seemingly benign but actually extremely dangerous. We have been taught to not bring our identity to the playground, to not wear it on our sleeve. But what alternative does one have when we are so easily, and quite often, pigeonholed in the name of identity that is both facile and demeaning? The difference between the two statements is one of volition. I may choose not to wear my identity (stemming from my caste, class, gender, religion, race) but this intersectional label (of religion and gender) attached to me without my consent and diametrically opposed to my self-interest is bigger than an ethical transgression. Pared down and put simply, consider this: one minute you are an urban Indian woman worthy of a voice and the next you’re a commodity on sale. In her groundbreaking work, “The Fetishism of the Woman’s Image”, Mariana Meloni talks about how the female body has been used to excite sexual desire for an exclusively male audience while also allowing for passive voyeurism. Putting the word, ‘sulli’, into perspective, Zehra Kazmi, a PhD scholar and researcher on South Asian Muslim writing at University of St Andrews, Scotland, is of the opinion that “The use of language has always been gendered, for example property (zameen) is feminine and anger (ghussa) is masculine which is why Sulli Deals is an instance of sexualised bullying.” Kazmi goes on to elaborate that this reduces Muslim women to pieces of meat which ties into how we consume language and images of women. Having said that, how does one put into words this feeling of being reduced to one’s biological orientation and the cardinal direction of their prostration? After trying and failing to do so, I instead decided to trace the ontology of ‘Sulli Deals’ to argue why it is less jarring than it ought to be. On the one hand, we are on the precipice of change for the global feminist movement and, on the other, women are targets of systemic sexualized hatred. At this juncture, a host of questions arise — is this incident a euphemism for another radicalized rape threat? Is it a simplistic, malevolent form of intimidation or a toxic stew of organized misogyny? To me, it seems ‘Sulli Deals’ is not mutually exclusive of any of the above. Perhaps because at its very core, ‘Sulli Deals’ is actually an ineffective deterrent rooted in perverse animosity. Law of Crimes teaches every law student the importance of a jurisprudential tool called deterrence. A deterrent is a sub-bracket of threat that follows an imposition of punishment. It is the system’s way of repressing unacceptable behaviour by creating an inhibition in the mind of the individual practising this behaviour and also of other silent subscribers to such impermissible conduct. The operative principle here is to prohibit the potential pursuit of this behaviour but by using one individual as an example for others. In psychology, aversive conditioning is a tool to modify the subject’s response to any given situation by exposing it to an unpleasant stimulus. The goal here is to create a painful response that elicits avoidance of the behaviour by the subject. A form of associated learning, aversive conditioning is simply an apparatus to stop unwanted behaviour. Let me also point out that in this context there is a conjunctive that weaves together the threads of sexualized hatred and communal perversity — shaming the Other. But this isn’t the first time a deterrent of shame and ‘Othering’ has been used. In her work, the author and literary historian, Rakhshanda Jalil, shows how bodies of women and girls have historically been the site of violence. The Partition of 1947 witnessed an overwhelming need for revenge, retribution, reprisal against women of the ‘Other’ community. Explaining this link between gender and religion in the current socio-political set-up, Rohini Sen, assistant professor at the O.P. Jindal Global University and a PhD candidate at Warwick Law School, says, “This is a concept of saving ‘our’ women and violating ‘their’ women because a woman’s body has been viewed as the site of honour or male virility.” Here, we must understand that the exoticization of women, especially of ‘Other’ kind of women from a different class and religion, is indicative of asserting ownership over their body. Lastly, is this incident not symptomatic of the larger societal mentality? For the average Indian woman, to exist in a world of space-age technology is to acknowledge the forces of patriarchal hostility without conceding to them. One may argue that by aiming to instil a degree of apprehension and fear in the minds of young Muslim women, what this incident intended to do is take away all prerogative, agency, and capacity they have built over a long time. But speaking to Maliha Khan, a marketing consultant based out of Delhi, has given my analysis a new shade of grey. “All it does is show me the hatred at play against Muslim women, the kind especially palpable against working Muslim women. My name is Khan (literally) and that is enough for the people who made that app.” Stoic and unperturbed, she ends by saying, “they can never really touch me no matter what app they make.” The moral of the story? Women ceding digital space, given its inherently unequal and unsafe nature, is to give power to this scaremongering. What we truly need to develop is a specific legislation that allows for prompt action and redressal of abusive content and criminal intimidation. Merging the complex issue of cyber-bullying with the wider periphery of existing laws on obscenity, hacking, impersonation, sextortion, and malicious distribution will permit an inclusive approach towards tackling this menace. Aaliya Waziri is a lawyer, presently working as a Consultant with UN Women India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Police beat Army jawan in Chatra for not wearing a mask||Policemen beating an army jawan during a mask checking drive in Mayurhund block in Chatra district on Wednesday, has sparked anger among residents who demanded action against the culprits. Eyewitnesses said the army jawan was coming on his bike and was not wearing a mask when policemen stopped him. They said instead of telling the jawan to wear a mask, policemen started misbehaving with him. When the jawan objected, six uniformed policemen started beating him with lathis and not only punched him but kicked him too. During this entire incident, BDO Saket Sinha who was incharge of the drive kept standing at one side and remained a mute spectator. Later villagers intervened and protested making police take the jawaan to Mayurhund police station. Sources said deputy commissioner Anjali Yadav had instructed officials to launch a massive mask checking drive in the district because of the possibility of a third wave. Due to this, in each and every block, a drive was launched which was also going on Wednesday afternoon at Karma chowk in Mayurhund block. Soon, a video of the beating went viral which made everyone criticise men-in-khakhi. Talking to The Telegraph Online, superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan said he came to know of the beating through a viral video. He confirmed that at the time of beating, BDO was present there. “I had asked DSP(headquarter) to probe this matter and to give a report immediately. Anyone found guilty will not be spared,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Four of family run over by Duronto Express at Chakradharpur||Four members of a family, including three women, were run over by Howrah-bound Duronto Express near Chakradharpur railway station while trying to save an elderly woman on Wednesday afternoon. The accident took place when four members of the family _ the three women and a youth _ came under the wheels of the Mumbai-Howrah Duronto Express (Dn) while trying to save an elderly women  who was crossing a railway track over river Binjai. "All four  got run over by the Dn 02095  Howrah-bound Duronto Express near the home signal of Chakradharpur station, " said chief public relations officer (CPRO) of South Eastern Railway Neeraj Kumar. He said the accident occurred at 3.25 pm. The bodies of the victims could not be immediately identified.  Railway police have cordoned off the area. "The deceased belonged to Badabambo village. The police recovered an Aadhaar card and a wallet from the spot.They were going to attend a local function when they met with the unfortunate fate, " said a railway official of Chakradharpur division which falls under South Eastern Railway zone. He said this was the first such railway mushap involving Duronto Express in that division. The accident led to disruption of train services in the section for about one hour. But, the railway police did not allow a crowd to gather at the mishap spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||August disappoints Jharkhand with 4% rain deficit||Jharkhand had a disappointing August monsoon month after surplus rain in June and July. Rain statistics revealed that August, the third monsoon month, ended with a four per cent rain deficit. Against normal rainfall of 820mm, Jharkhand actually recorded 787.3 mm of rain till August end, a deficit of four per cent August, the third month of the monsoon season, did see frequent downpours, but the rainfall was not enough to make up the deficit. Data revealed that last year in 2020 too, August ended with a deficit rain of 8 per cent. As many as 10 districts including Chatra, Garhwa, Simdega, Khunti and West Singhbhum figured in the rain loss list till August 31 while the rest 14 districts including Ranchi, Hazaribagh and East Singhbhum figured in rain gainers list. According to statistics, Daltonganj received the third highest rainfall of this decade (2012-2021) in the month of August. On August 1, the Palamau headquarters experienced the highest rainfall of 116.5 mm. Weathermen explained that the absence of a strong system over Bay of Bengal had resulted in less rainfall through August this year. "Shifting of the monsoon trough towards the foothills of Himalayas in frequent intervals is also another reason for less rainfall activity over the state in the month of August," explained Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Data suggests that several districts of Jharkhand had received below normal showers in August after a very good spell in June and July. The Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore, Calcutta, has held out hope for Jharkhand. "The deficit was not worrying. The rainfall in September, the last monsoon month, would help the state recover the deficit, "said a duty officer. Satellite pictures indicated that the monsoon trough line had descended to lower layers of the atmosphere and this is expected to trigger widespread rain in the second week of September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city special athletes mentor to coach northeast states||The Special Olympics Bharat has appointed Avtar Singh, steel city's veteran mentor of intellectually impaired athletes, as regional co-ordinator for the north eastern states. Singh, who, along with his wife Sukhdeep Kaur, runs a special school Jeevika in Sonari locality in Jamshedpur, will be responsible for channelising SOB's activities and train special athletes in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. The SOB is a national organisation which promotes intellectually-impaired individuals through sports. The 72-year-old will visit the northeastern states once the Covid-19 situation improves. "I am thankful to the SOB for appointing me as a regional co-ordinator for seven northeastern states. I will try to give my best," Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion who captained the Indian team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi said. According to him, he would connect with the special athletes of northeast virtually and would visit the seven states once the pandemic-related situatiion improves. Even the SOB has issued the same instructions. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life to the cause of special athletes. He has been training and channelising the lives of the special athletes for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes who have won medals in international competitions organised under the banner of Special Olympics International (SOI). The septuagenarian is the only trainer from Asia invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015) and Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympic Games organising committee. Singh has progressed from community, state, national and a regional trainer of Asia Pacific countries. A fitness enthusiast, Singh maintains his body by daily cycling routine along the Marine Drive in Jamshedpur. "I need to keep myself fit for the sake of my wards. I can only train my wards if I am fit," Singh said. Singh, who has coaching diplomas from National Institute of Sports (Patiala), Germany and Malaysia said he feels immensely satisfied when his wards win medals in national and international competitions. "Their (special athletes) smile makes me very happy," he added. “We use Jeevika to bring our students to the social mainstream. Some of our students have got married and are leading a happy life. Besides sports and fitness drills, we train them on how to make Diwali diyas, paper bags and rakhis. We have also taught them the importance of social distance, greet people with namaste and to regularly wash their hands,” he informed. The list of international medal winners trained by Singh include Achal Gaurav (cycling and  floor hockey), Jehangir Gandhy (cycling), Sanjeev Sharma (floor hockey), Raju Pati (football), Harpal Singh (handball), Rajesh Kumar Singh (handball), Alpana Kumari (floor hockey), Nandita (badminton), Tejinder Singh (athletics) and N Sai Krishna (athletics).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi march to reopen temples across Jharkhand   ||Rrepresentatives of various temple trusts, backed by right-wing outfits, conducted a 4km padyatra in capital Ranchi on Wednesday evening, demanding opening of all temples in Jharkhand days after priests in Deoghar observed a bandh in the temple town seeking reopening of the Baba Baidhyanathdham. Close to 70 people comprising priests, members of temple trusts, florists and shopkeepers selleing puja paraphernalia marched from Ranchi Pahari Mandir via Upper Bazar with placards and posters voicing their demands and congregated at Albert Ekka Chowk.  Representatives from Maa Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh, Pahari Mandir (Ranchi), Shani Mandir, among others, took part in the march. Right wing groups such as Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Jagran Manch also joined them. Talking to reporters at Albert Ekka Chowk, Munchun Rai of Ranchi Jan Sewa Sangh said that temples be opened to devotees immediately. “Although the state government has about a month back allowed temples to function, devotees aren’t allowed because of Covid-19. But why did government open schools, universities, bars, offices in that case? Will Covid spread only through temples?,” he asked, demanding the constitution of proper protocols by the state government. A member of Ranchi Pahari Mandir Trust said that around 5,000 people were  directly or indirectly dependent on temples for their livelihood. “They include priests, shop keepers, florists, eateries etc as their earnings are directly linked with devotees. But since last year, since the outbreak of Covid-19, everyone is struggling to survive,” he rued. Agreed Rajiv Jaiswal of Maa Chinnamastika Mandir Trust stating that their temple in Ramgarh is a "shaktipeeth". "But people dependent on it are forced to arrange their bread and butter. In the past, we appealed to the government and the administration to provide some fiscal assistance but to no avail,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 22-year-old drug-peddler found murdered near Telco||Jamshedpur: A 22-year-old youth was found murdered at suburban Birsanagar near Telco about 10km away from the heart of the steel city on Wednesday morning. The murder victim was identified as Aniket Tiwari also known as Nanhu, a resident of Birsanagar zone No 3. Nanhu was wanted by the Sidhgora police in connection with a case of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act after his involvement was established in selling ‘brown sugar’ in Sidhgora locality a week ago.The body was found on a road a little distance away from his house near Kua Maidan at about 4.30 am following a brawl broke up between the victim and five other youths near the spot past midnight. The city SP confirmed that the murder victim was wanted in a case of drug peddling by the Sidhgora thana a week ago, but whether the murder was committed due to any dispute related to drug-peddling activity or due to love affair or due to old enmity is subject to investigation only. (Kumud Jenamani) Bokaro: A Memorandum of Understanding was signed through a virtual meet between SAIL-Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and IIT Roorkee to identify and pursue joint research projects. The premier engineering institution will now conduct research projects apart from enhancing knowledge in the areas of coke and sinter production, raw material handling and processing, iron and steel production and troubleshoot technical problems and digital transformation relevant to SAIL-BSL. The executive director (Works) of BSL Atanu Bhowmik signed the MOU with Professor Vimal Srivastava (HOD chemical engineering department) of IIT Roorkee. Others, Professor Manoranjan Parida (Dy. Director, IIT Roorkee), Professor G. P Chowdhary, (Head of Metallurgical & Materials, IIT Roorkee) and Professor Sanjeev Manhas were present during the ceremony. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A team from the anti-corruption bureau laid a trap arresting a police officer from Tandwa police station in Chatra district accepting a bribe of Rs.3000 from a local youth. Bureau officials got a complaint from one Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Mishraul village, following which a trap ASI Keshav Kumar Sharma was nabbed from the police station campus. Bureau sources said 25-year-old Rajesh Kumar's father Lukan Ram was made an accused in a beating case. FIR was lodged by Lukan's brother Ghuran Ram. Sharma was investigating officer of the case and he called Rajesh telling him that he would give case diary in his father's favour if Rs.5000 given to him. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Even at the time of pandemic there are many takers for talents of IIT(ISM) Dhanbad students. Around 190 students of the institute including 119 B Tech pre-final year (3rd year) as well as 23 students of M Tech, two MBA, 35 Integrated M Tech and 11 Dual degree programme students have received summer internship offers from top recruiters from across the globe, including Dassault, Walmart, American Express, Google and Disney+Hotstar at high packages. The highest package of Rs 2 lakh per month stipend has been offered by Sprinklr, an American software company based in New York to four students including one student each of B Tech and Dual degree programme and two students of Integrate M. Tech. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Kumar on Wednesday conducted a comprehensive review of Jharia Rehabilitation plan implementation during which he expressed reservation over the lack of coordination between coal company, BCCL and Jharia Rehabilitation and Developement Authority and instructed to put things in order and carry out fortnightly review of rehabilitation work. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad no-entry for trucks and buses to ease local traffic ||The Dhanbad district administration, to improve the road traffic situation, has banned the entry of around 250 inter-district and interstate buses from September 3, 9am to 9pm and a complete ban over the entry of heavy goods transport vehicles will also come into force from the same day. The series of steps have been taken in the district to overcome the perpetual traffic jam situation, as per which the illegally operated bus stand lying near the entrance gate of the concourse area of Dhanbad Railway station  has also been withdrawn and relocated 800 meter away at Interstate Bus Terminus of Bartand. Sandeep Kumar, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner who shared the information about the new traffic arrangement through his official twitter handle, further posted the new route chart for the new buses and heavy goods transport vehicles to be made effective from September 3. Rajesh Kumar, traffic DSP of Dhanbad, who is also the nodal officer of Road Safety Cell of the district said, “The new traffic arrangement and route allocation has been finalised as part of a comprehensive plan after several rounds of discussion according to which the modalities for the implementation of new traffic arrangement, including the deputation of policemen at strategic points have also been prepared.” This apart, steps are in progress for placing and positioning signboards, signages at different no entry points and no parking zones as per the new route chart. “All stakeholders, including the bus owners have already been informed and apprised about the decision in advance,” said Kumar and added that not only the buses but the finalisation of the route chart for auto rickshaw is also in progress after holding several rounds of meetings and would be given final shape after the last round of meeting on September with the Auto rickshaw operators association. As per the new route chart for Dhanbad buses heading towards Bokaro, Ranchi will follow the route Karkend More, Raja Yadav Smarak (Loyabad), Sijua Mor, Pandeydih, Tetulmari, Shahid Shaktinath Chowk, Binod, Bihari Chowk, Birsa Munda Park, Memco More, Bus Stand. Inter-district buses heading towards Purulia and Jamshedpur from the Bartand based bus stand will follow the route of Nagina Bazar, Jamadoba Mor, Putki Mor, karkend Mor etc. As per existing arrangement, all the buses after starting journey from Interstate Bus Terminus at Bartand used to follow the route of Bartand to Dhanbad station road where they stop at illegally operated bus stands for picking up passengers for long hours adding to the traffic at the station road. Regarding the plans to regulate around 15 thousand auto rickshaw, Traffic DSP said, “Our effort is to prevent the entry of all auto rickshaw towards the railway station which adds to chaos and for that we have decided to implement break journey like Auto Rickshaw running from Patherdih to Dhanbad will stop at Jharia and return back and from there passengers will reach Dhanbad in other auto rickshaw operating between Jharia and Dhanbad.” “We are also coordinating with government departments responsible for road construction to carry out repair of roads at strategic locations like near the Gaya underpass near Dhanbad Railway station which also adds to the Chaos,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's premiere college introduces foreign language courses||Dhanbad based premiere college Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University in its effort to diversify in new areas of education is gearing up to launch certificate and diploma courses in different foreign languages, including, French, Japanese, Spanish and German. The university launched the Geological Museum and Microscopic laboratory on August 6. To begin with, the college has decided to launch the one year certificate course in Japanese and French in the upcoming session as all necessary preparation including the liaisoning   with the faculty members for conducting classes has already been completed. Gradually the certificate course in other two foreign languages including Spanish and German will also be launched. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, B.K. Sinha, Principal of P.K. Roy Memorial College Dhanbad said, “The aim of launching the foreign language course is to provide the opportunity to the students to secure the high paid jobs in MNS, BPO, KPO, IT and call centres besides in embassies, travel and tourism industry and also in international organizations like, UNESCO, EU etc.” “The decision to launch the foreign language course is part of the our comprehensive plan to diversify in different areas of professional and vocational education besides the traditional areas of academics as per which we have also decided to launch the five year integrated B Ed course, Fashion designing course, BCA, BBA, B Sc Honours in Computer Science etc,” said Sinha. The launching of new courses will add to vibrancy to the college academic scenario that will ultimately help to improve the college ranking during the upcoming visit of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), scheduled next month as the College at present has B grade and is vying for A grade which will ultimately help to increase its funding from institutions like UGC, MHRD etc. Divulging more details, Mantosh Pandey, Head of Department of English of College who is also coordinator of the course said, “While the certificate course will be of one year duration the Diploma and Degree courses will be of two and three years duration respectively.” “Anyone who has secured at least 45% marks in aggregate at Plus two level with English as one of the subjects is eligible for admission in course and total fee for the course is Rs 7200 including Rs 5500 as admission fee, Rs 500 each for College admission fee and University Examination fee and Rs 700 as University registration fee,” said Pandey who is also the Head of the Department of Mass Communication of BBMKU. “We have decided to begin the certificate course with one European i.e French and One Asian language, i e Japanese  both of  which have tremendous job potentials,” said Pandey and added that mission behind launching of the course is to help students become proficient, listeners, speakers, readers and writers in target languages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dengue, malaria cases drop to half amid Covid-19 in Jharkhand||Cases of vector-borne diseases have dropped significantly in Jharkhand since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state in March 2020, officials from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) said on Wednesday, indicating that the aggressive sanitization work done to tackle the SARS-CoV-2 virus coupled with added measures taken to prevent an outbreak of vector-borne diseases during the ongoing crisis might be the reason for the drop in cases of dengue, malaria. As per data compiled by the Jharkhand unit of the NVBDCP, cases of malaria dropped by more than 50 per cent from 2019 to 2020 and hardly 3 per cent from 2020 to 2021, indicating that Jharkhand witnessed the highest drop in malaria cases in the period when Covid protocols were first introduced. Dengue cases also witnessed a significant drop since Covid-induced restrictions were imposed. As per the data, the state reported 37,133 malaria cases in 2019 compared to 16,655 cases in 2020. In 2021, the state reported 6,467 cases of malaria from January to July against 6,692 cases reported from January to July in 2020. As per government data, dengue cases dropped from 825 in 2019 to hardly 79 in 2020. From January to July this year, the state has reported 53 dengue cases. “It is hard to say if the cases of dengue and malaria dropped because of the measures taken to check Covid cases, but one cannot deny that sanitization works do kill insects and viruses that may cause vector-borne diseases,” said an NVBDCP official. Besides, NVBDCP had also intensified measures to check the spread of vector-borne diseases during this period following a heads up from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) that spread of vector-borne diseases may increase the gravity of the Covid-19 situation in the country, officials said. State Malaria Officer Dr Shesh Narayan Jha said that intensified campaigns against vector-borne diseases had a greater role to play in checking dengue and malaria cases than Covid-induced precautionary measures. “I agree that sanitization does kill germs and viruses, but the credit of curtailing dengue and malaria cases should mostly go to the dedicated campaigns run for checking the spread of vector-borne diseases in 2020 as well as in 2021,” said Dr Jha, adding that sanitization works done due to Covid-19 had their limitations. The pandemic, according to Jha, made control of vector-borne disease even more challenging for the teams in Jharkhand as they had to follow Covid protocols and take precautionary measures during the campaign. “The Indoor Residual Spray done to protect households from vector-borne diseases played a key role in checking the cases,” added Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates a record 1.80 lakh residents in a day ||Jharkhand on Tuesday logged its highest- ever single-day anti-Covid vaccination figure by administering doses to over 1.80 lakh residents as almost 1,500 session sites remained operational across the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,39,310 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 41,922 beneficiaries on Tuesday. More than 1.25 lakh beneficiaries were between 18 and 44 years. The state has so far administered the first dose to almost 1.02 crore residents and around 26 lakh of them have also received the second booster dose. Data available on the Co-Win portal reflected that about 25,000 residents were vaccinated in Ranchi alone on Tuesday as more than 80 session sites remained operational on Tuesday. More than 25,000 beneficiaries were inoculated in East Singhbhum, where at least 116 session sites opened their doors, while Dhanbad vaccinated at least 16,000 residents at 81 session sites. As per details shared by NHM, the state had at least 6.85 lakh doses of vaccines in stock before the session sites opened their doors on Tuesday morning. Over 4.47 lakh Covishield doses and 2.38 lakh Covaxin doses were available in stock in the state. While the vaccination numbers in Jharkhand continued to rise, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 130 on Tuesday as the state reported at least 20 Covid recoveries against a dozen fresh cases of coronavirus infection, a separate NHM bulletin said. As per this bulletin, at least 10 recoveries against two fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 72, while the count of active cases dropped to 13 in Dhanbad as the district reported two recoveries against one fresh case of infection. East Singhbhum and 15 other districts in the state did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, NHM data highlighted. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of at least 69,856 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. The state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh Covid cases and 98.48 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Public action against closure of anganwadi centres in Jharkhand||The first public action against closure of anganbari centres — a crucial tool in fight against malnutrition among infant and lactating mother — took place on Tuesday in Jharkhand, which ranks among top Indian states for malnourished children. Nearly 70 villagers from across 116 revenue villages of Khuntpani block in rebel-hit West Singhbhum district, some 170km from capital Ranchi, staged a demonstration against closure of anganbari centres which are run under Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and provide infants, pregnant and lactating women with supplementary nutrition, pre-school non-formal education, health education, immunisation and health check-up. Asarfi Nand Prasad of the Right to Food campaign Jharkhand unit admitted that closure of the ICDS centres had increased malnutrition levels among mothers and infants across Jharkhand. “The centres have been closed due to Covid restrictions for the last 17 months and our recent survey found that even take-home rations are not being distributed properly and more than 50 per cent of beneficiaries had claimed that they had not received rations. The hot cooked meals, immunisation and monthly health check-ups which were crucial components of the anganbari centres for infants and mothers have been severely affected leading to an increase in the malnutrition level of the state. The government should immediately take a call on starting of the centres albeit with Covid protocols,” said Prasad. Jharkhand is among top five Indian states with malnourished — including stunted, wasted and underweight — children according to National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4), 2015-16. “Almost half (45.3%) of Jharkhand’s children below the age of five are stunted, compared to the national average of 38.4%. Again, almost half (47.8%) of Jharkhand’s children are underweight, placing Jharkhand behind only Bihar and Madhya Pradesh in child malnutrition levels as per NFHS-4. The infant mortality rate in Jharkhand is 44 deaths per 1,000 live births and the under-five mortality rate is 54 deaths per 1,000 live births, compared to national averages of 41 and 50, respectively,” added Prasad. Meanwhile, the villagers of Khuntpani submitted a memorandum addressed to the chief minister Hemant Soren, through Khuntpani block development officer, Ravi Jain, demanding immediate opening of anganbari centres. The copies of the memorandum were also sent to state’s social welfare minister Joba Manjhi. “In West Singhbhum district more than 50 per cent of the infant below five years of age are malnourished and in such a situation anganbari centres were the only source of proper food for the children and mother. “However, the centres have been closed for more 17 months depriving children of nutritious foods and also education. The malnutrition among children and mothers has increased. We demand that anganbari centres and primary schools should also be opened at the earliest with Covid protocols like masks, social distance etc,” said Ashok Mundri, a village of Khuntpani and a member of Denga Depenga Group (a youth group raising social causes of Kolhan).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
