02-09-2021||Business||Finance ministry notifies rules for calculating taxable interest in PF account||The finance ministry has notified rules for calculation of taxable interest on employee contributions to provident fund of over Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. In her Budget for 2021-22, Sitharaman had capped the tax-free interest earned on provident fund contribution by employees and employers together to a maximum of Rs 2.5 lakh in a year in an attempt to dissuade high earners from parking their surplus in what is supposed to be the common man's retirement fund. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Wednesday notified rules for calculating taxable interest in provident fund. It said for the sake of calculation, separate accounts within the provident fund account shall be maintained beginning 2021-22 for taxable and non-taxable contributions made by a person. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said the notification issued by CBDT has finally put to end the ambiguity which arose with the introduction of taxation of interest on provident funds with contribution above the specified threshold. Rule 9D inserted in the Income-tax Rules, 1962 has specified that separate accounts within the PF accounts shall be maintained clearing segregating the taxable and non-taxable contributions to PF along with interest thereon. "This shall provide a convenience of calculation to the taxpayers for segregation of interest to be offered to tax. The threshold for PF accounts with employer contribution is Rs 2.5 lakhs whereas accounts with no employer contribution enjoy an increased threshold of Rs 5 lakhs," Kumar added. Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has over six crore subscribers. The Rs 2.5 lakh limit covers around 93 per cent of the people who are EPFO subscribers and they will continue to get assured tax-free interest. Hence, small and medium taxpayers will not be impacted by the step.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 514 points to new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 514 points to end at a fresh all-time high on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors TCS, Reliance Industries and HUL amid a positive trend in global markets. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty finished above 17,200 at its new closing record. The 30-share Sensex closed 514.33 points or 0.90 per cent higher at 57,852.54, and Nifty surged 157.90 points or 0.92 per cent to 17,234.15. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by HUL, UltraTech Cement, Nestle India, Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's and Titan. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Domestic equities recovered sharply with benchmark Nifty recording fresh all-time high mainly aided by sharp recovery in IT, pharma and consumer spaces," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavyweight financials have also extended gains and supported rally. Barring PSU banks and automobile, most key sectoral indices traded in green. Strong buying momentum remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks, he noted. He added that high-frequency economic indicators for August in the form of GST collection, railway freight, auto sales volume despite semiconductor issues and fuel volumes indicate a sustained economic recovery. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.43 per cent to USD 71.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Investopedia: Hotelier Sanjeev Nanda on what makes Dubai a lucrative investment destination for Indians||Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, Dubai has been gradually becoming the apple of Indian investors’ eye. Indians are now purchasing more real estate in Dubai than ever, emerging as one of the top 3 nationalities investing in the emirate. We asked prominent hotelier Sanjeev Nanda about the sudden boom in investment from Indians that Dubai has been witnessing of late. According to Nanda, one of the many reasons why Indians invest in Dubai is that the rental yields in the emirate are higher than several mature markets. “Dubai is an investors’ paradise. You can easily get a rental yield of 6 to 10 percent, which is something unheard of even in many older markets. Also, you can buy significantly more space with $1 million in Dubai than in popular cities like London, Mumbai, and Shanghai,” he said. Sanjeev Nanda added, “What makes the Dubai real estate market even more lucrative is its level of regulation. Investors enjoy great protection since a real estate regulation authority is in place. This makes property transactions in the emirate far more compliance-oriented and transparent than the Indian counterparts. When value for money gets combined with transparency, the result is an attractive market.” Recent reports show that while Dubai has experienced a sudden surge in investments from Indians during the pandemic, Indian nationals have been making major contributions to the emirate’s real estate sales since way before. In 2019, about 16 per cent of housing sales by volume in Dubai happened due to Indian buyers. The volume increased during the pandemic, with the first quarter of 2020 experiencing 15 per cent more realty sales than the first quarter of 2019, a large part of which was driven by Indian nationals. So, where do Indians invest in Dubai? According to hotelier Sanjeev Nanda, an Indian himself, budget is not a deterrent for Indian investors as long as all the accoutrements and trappings are in place. “Investors coming from India have differing predilections. Some value grandeur and exclusivity, while the others are looking for a better ROI with attractive entry prices,” said Sanjeev Nanda. He continued, “For residential properties, family structure also plays an important role – larger families prefer independent villas, while nuclear families prefer investing in apartments. Since residence in Dubai also opens the gates to UAE citizenship, many people from India come to see the emirate as a second home. The city offers a truly global lifestyle not too far from their first home, making it a practically perfect choice for residence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Amazon plans to hire 8,000 direct workforce in India this year||Amazon is planning to hire more than 8,000 direct workforce across 35 cities in the country this year across corporate, technology, customer service and operations roles, according to a top company official. "We have more than 8,000 direct job openings across 35 cities in the country, including cities like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Kolkata, Noida, Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Coimbatore, Jaipur, Kanpur, Ludhiana, Pune, Surat. "These job opportunities are spread across corporate, technology, customer service, and operations roles," Amazon HR Leader - Corporate, APAC, and MENA Deepti Varma told PTI. She further noted that "we're also hiring for machine learning applied sciences. We are hiring in support functions like HR, finance, legal... quite a lot of them, which are there," she added. She said the company aims for 20 lakh job openings, both direct and indirect, by 2025, and has already created 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs in India. Even during the pandemic, Amazon gave jobs to 3 lakh people, both direct and indirect, and made the entire hiring process virtual, she stated. Meanwhile, as Amazon is growing in India and has plans to hire in big numbers, the company plans to showcase itself as an exciting place to work through its first-ever Career Day in India on September 16. This virtual and interactive event will bring together Amazon leadership and employees to share what makes Amazon an exciting workplace, what it is like to work here and how the company is steadfast in its commitment to help India unleash its true potential in the 21st century, Varma said. Besides, she said, the multiple global and India-focused sessions in the event, 140 Amazon recruiters will conduct 2,000 free, one-on-one career coaching sessions with job seekers across the country. The recruiters will offer advice on how to approach the job search process effectively, resume-building skills, and interview tips that will help candidates in their search for right jobs, she said. Currently, Amazon employs over 1 lakh professionals across diverse areas like engineering, applied sciences, business management, supply chain, operations, finance, HR to analytics, content creation and acquisition, marketing, real estate, corporate security, video, music and many more, Varma said. India is the second-largest technology hub for Amazon with Indian talent innovating for not just India, but also globally, noted Varma. "We are just getting started, and we are seeking passionate builders out there to join us in this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to digitally transform India. "This Career Day, we look forward to sharing our long-term commitment to tapping into India's potential in the 21st century, and career opportunities to empower and enable this legacy," Amazon India Global Senior Vice President and Country Head Amit Agarwal added in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors TCS, HUL and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. The 30-share index was trading 152.30 points or 0.27 per cent up at 57,490.51. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 46.85 points or 0.27 per cent to 17,123.10 in the opening session. Dr Reddy's was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Titan, UltraTech Cement, HUL, L&T and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto, HCL Tech, Maruti and PowerGrid were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE index ended 214.18 points or 0.37 per cent lower at 57,338.21, and Nifty snapped its seven-day record-setting spree, settling 55.95 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 17,076.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 666.66 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Both Wall Street and Dalal Street have been one-way streets for quite long now, with only minor dips. And, the exuberant retail investors have been buying on every dips, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "This ' buy on dips' strategy has been rewarding retail investors and, therefore, they can be expected to continue with that strategy until there is a sharp correction and negative signals in the market. "The scepticism of 'smart money' is evident in the 'off and on' response of FIIs who have again turned buyers for three days in a row after turning sellers on a sustained basis for many days," he added. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. US equities also ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.39 per cent to USD 71.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Vedanta Resources keen to open dialogue with Zambia’s ZCCM||Vedanta Resources on Wednesday said it is keen to open dialogue with Zambia’s ZCCM and reiterated it commitment to invest $1.5 billion into operations, communities and local economies around Konkola Copper Mines in the African nation. This comes after the mining group had said an arbitral tribunal in a partial final award ruled that ZCCM has breached dispute resolution provisions provided in Vedanta Resources’ Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) shareholder agreements. “As Zambia embarks on an exciting new chapter in its history under the leadership of His Excellency Hakainde Hichilema, President of Zambia, Vedanta is keen to open a dialogue with ZCCM as we today re-iterate our commitment to invest $1.5 billion into the operations, communities and local economies around KCM,” Sunil Duggal, Group CEO, Vedanta, said in a statement. “Vedanta is committed to making KCM and Zambia world leaders in copper production once again and we look forward to working with the community in the copper belt and collaborating with the new government in any way necessary to ensure that a stable and beneficial future is achieved for all stakeholders at KCM,” he added. KCM remains a very important asset to Vedanta and Zambia and the company is committed to ensuring the success of its operations for the benefit of its employees and surrounding communities, as well as contributing to delivering better lives for all Zambians, he said. The investment of $1.5 billion in the operations at KCM “will include $200m to pay the local suppliers of the mine in addition to the significant sums of $400m to bring in best-in-class ESG practices to improve health, safety and working conditions for employees as well as the allocation of $100m for community projects,” it added. Vedanta, the world’s sixth largest globally diversified natural resources company, has operated for over a decade in Zambia. Vedanta Resources holds 79.4 per cent stake in KCM, while the Zambian government through its state mining investment firm ZCCMIH holds the remaining 20.6 per cent. Interim dividend cleared Vedanta Ltd on Wednesday said its board has approved an interim dividend of Rs 18.50 per equity share for FY2021-22, amounting to Rs 6,877 crore. The record date for the purpose of payment of dividend is September 9. The interim dividend will be paid within stipulated timelines as prescribed under law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Shoppers Stop sells controlling stake in Crossword Bookstores||Retail chain Shoppers Stop of the Rahejas has closed the sale of a controlling stake in its wholly-owned subsidiary Crossword Bookstores at a gross business valuation of Rs 41.62 crore. The stake in Crossword Bookstores is being sold to the owners of Agarwal Business House (ABH), Pune — Dinesh Gupta, Aakash Gupta and family, Shoppers Stop said in a regulatory filing. Subject to receipt of necessary consents, Shoppers Stop shall divest a 51 per cent stake, that is expected to be completed within 15 days, and another 39 per cent stake will be divested in the next 12 months. “The business of Crossword Bookstores is valued at Rs 41.6 crore. Under the agreement, ABH will take over all the assets and the brand. Any liabilities will be adjusted for arriving at the final consideration,” Shoppers Stop said. The sale of the Crossword Bookstores is consistent with the company’s strategic plans, which is to focus on its core business and expand its strategic pillars of First Citizen, Private Labels, Beauty and, most importantly, its omnichannel business, it added. “We are pleased to continue the business transformation we set out to accomplish from last March and selling the books’ business is an important part of that strategy,” Shoppers Stop managing director and CEO Venu Nair said. On the development, Aakash Gupta on behalf of the acquiring family said, “Crossword 2.0 is about focusing on readers and improving the overall customer experience. We are planning to infuse a significant amount for renovation, expansion, and the new Omni Journey.” Shares of Shoppers Stop on Wednesday erased their early gains and closed nearly 1 per cent lower due to profit-taking. The stock, which climbed 5.71 per cent to Rs 254.55 during the day on the BSE, failed to hold on to the gains and closed at Rs 239.20, lower by 0.66 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki posts decline in domestic sales||Passenger vehicle majors such as Hyundai, Tata Motors, M&M, Toyota Kirloskar and Honda on Wednesday reported growth in domestic sales in August riding on festive sentiments, although market leader Maruti Suzuki posted a decline amid a semiconductor shortage affecting the industry. Maruti Suzuki India reported domestic sales of 110,080 units compared with 1,16,704 units in the same month last year, down 6 per cent, it added. “Sales volume of the company in August 2021 was affected because of electronic components shortage. The company took all possible measures to limit the adverse impact,” it said. On the other hand, Hyundai Motor India Ltd said its domestic sales were up 2 per cent to 46,866 units against 45,809 units in August 2020. Tata Motors’ passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 28,018 units in August, up 51 per cent from 18,583 units in the same month last year. This included 1,022 units of electric vehicles. “Semiconductor shortage continues to impact the auto industry globally. The recent lockdowns in East Asia have worsened the supply situation and, hence, Tata Motors is forced to moderate production and offtake volumes in the coming months,” Tata Motors said. Kia India said its sales increased 55 per cent to 16,750 units last month against 10,845 units in August 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Factory activity slows down in August||India’s manufacturing sector activities moderated in August  as business orders and production rose at softer rates because of the pandemic and rising input costs, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) stood at 52.3 in August, down from 55.3 in July, indicating a softer rate of growth that was subdued and below its long-run average. The government is crowing about the 49.6 per cent growth in manufacturing in the first quarter of this year but that is over a post-Covid recession-racked low base. The manufacturing sector is underperforming the pre-Covid normal —  the first quarter of 2019-20 — by 4.18 per cent. Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said “The drop in manufacturing PMI in August is just a sign of activity normalising following the strong pace of recovery in recent months. But the threat of further virus waves remains a significant downside risk to the outlook.” He said the manufacturing sector was not too badly hit during the Delta outbreak. “Based on the national accounts data for Q1 released on Tuesday, we estimate that manufacturing output contracted by just 0.5 per cent quarter-on-quarter in seasonally-adjusted terms, much smaller than the 30 per cent quarter-on-quarter collapse during the national lockdown last year. Stating that the bigger worry is the threat of further virus outbreaks, Aw said “the experience in Kerala illustrates how quickly the virus situation can change… recorded infections have jumped sharply again as testing has been ramped up once more. Even if the outbreak in Kerala soon comes under control, the experience there underlines the risk of future virus waves occurring elsewhere”. “August saw a continuation of the manufacturing sector recovery, but growth lost momentum as demand showed some signs of weakness due to the pandemic,” Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Bengal govt announces policy to promote ethanol production||The Bengal government has announced a policy to promote ethanol production and promotion in the state. The government will encourage industry to procure broken rice kernels from farmers and produce ethanol, which is gaining popularity as clean bio fuel. Chief minister Banerjee said an investment of Rs 1,500 crore may come up in the next one year, creating employment opportunities for 48,000 people. These units are likely to come up in rural areas. Oil companies blend 10 per cent ethanol with petrol and there are plans to increase the share of ethanol to 20 per cent in petrol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Dhunseri Group lines up Rs 1,250cr investment in Panagarh||Dhunseri Group has lined up a Rs 1,250-crore investment in Panagarh to set up a packaging material unit, making it the largest private sector proposal on industry to come up after Mamata Banerjee came back to power for the third time in May. The first phase of the unit will be ready by 2023, calling for an investment of Rs 450 crore. The next two phases will come up subsequently by 2026. Put together, these plants will make about 160,000 tonnes of plastic-based packaging material that goes into the making of packets for tea and wafers. The foundation stone for the first unit was laid by chief minister Banerjee on Wednesday at Panagarh on a 38.1-acre land provided by the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation at its industrial park. The unit will be the first to make plastic packaging material in the eastern region, Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, executive chairman and promoter of the Dhunseri group, said. After completion, this project will generate around 500 direct and 1,000 indirect employment. “It will initially serve the demand of the eastern region. But when fully functional, we will send material to other parts of India as well as export,” Dhanuka said. The project will be executed by Dhunseri Poly Films Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dhunseri Ventures Ltd, which will bring in Rs 170 crore as equity for the first phase. The company is taking a Rs 280-crore loan from a German bank and the rest from HDFC Bank. Order for the plant and the machinery has been placed with a German firm as well. Once fully functional, the business can generate Rs 1,500 crore revenue. Apart from tea gardens in Assam, Dhunseri has three PET resin plants with Indo-Rama in Haldia, Panipat and Egypt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||NCLT orders freeze on assets of Videocon group owners||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has ordered a freeze on the assets of the Dhoot family — owners of the Videocon group — on a petition filed by the ministry of corporate affairs. The interim order for the attachment of all movable and immovable properties covers the promoters, directors and  key management personnel of eight Videocon group companies. The directive was passed against 30 individuals, including five members of the Dhoot family, after the MCA accused them of mismanaging the affairs of the eight companies. The NCLT Mumbai bench has directed the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL) and National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) that securities owned or held by the Videocon promoters “in any company or society be frozen, and be prohibited from being transferred or alienated” and the details be shared with the ministry. It directed the Central Board of Direct Taxes to disclose information about all the assets of the Videocon promoters in their knowledge or possession, for the purpose of freezing and restraining such assets. The NCLT order, late on August 31, directed the Indian Banks’ Association to facilitate the disclosure of the details of the bank accounts, lockers owned by the Videocon promoters and ordered that such bank accounts and lockers also be frozen with immediate effect. The tribunal also gave its permission to the MCA to write to the state governments and the Union Territories to identify and disclose all details of immovable properties owned or held by the promoters. The order issued by the NCLT, Mumbai, directed that all movable and immovable properties of Videocon promoters, including bank accounts, lockers, demat accounts jointly held properties be attached during the insolvency process. This order came following a fresh petition filed by MCA seeking permission to attach the assets of Videocon promoters to increase recovery . The ministry had approached the NCLT against Dhoot and other former directors and senior officials of Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) under Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act that deals with oppression and mismanagement in the company. The tribunal noted that the reserves and surpluses of the flagship company VIL, as declared in the financial statements in 2014, stood at Rs 10,028.09 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||GST collections touch Rs 1.12 lakh crore in August||GST collections touched Rs 1.12 lakh crore in August, 30 per cent more than Rs 86,449 crore collected in August 2020. Sequentially, however, there was a 3.76 per cent dip in August 2021 collection vis-a-vis Rs 1.16 lakh crore mopped up in July 2021. The collections, after posting above Rs 1 lakh crore for nine months in a row, dropped below Rs 1 lakh crore in June. “Gross GST revenue collected in August is Rs 112,020 crore of which central GST is Rs 20,522 crore, state GST is Rs 26,605 crore, integrated GST is Rs 56,247 crore (including Rs 26,884 crore from import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,646 crore (including Rs 646 crore collected on import of goods),” the finance ministry said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA, said: “The sequential dip in the GST collections, lower-than-expected core sector growth, and moderation in the August manufacturing PMI suggest that some caution is warranted regarding the strength of the recovery in the ongoing quarter.” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “Most of the key manufacturing states have shown an increase of 25-35 per cent in collections compared with a year ago.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY India, said, “With increasing rates of vaccination and business supplies picking up, the uptrend is expected to continue in coming months.” The GST Council will meet on September 17 in Lucknow to review, among other things,  concessional rates on Covid essentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||McLeod Russel: Khaitans and P.P. Gupta close to reaching settlement||The Khaitans of McLeod Russel India Ltd and P.P. Gupta of Techno Electric & Engineering Company Ltd are close to reaching a settlement, raising the hope that India’s largest bulk tea producer may emerge unscathed from a bankruptcy resolution process. Under the broad terms of the deal which has yet to be nailed down after intense discussions over the past week, the Khaitans will stump up the principal amount of Rs 100 crore in cash to Gupta. The 4, Sunny Park property, which houses the upmarket gym and spa Solace, is unlikely to be part of the settlement. The property was mortgaged to Gupta, who doggedly pursued an insolvency case after the Khaitans failed to pay the borrowed sum by March 31, 2019 and also could not hand over the title deeds of four tea gardens that were promised under the loan agreement. It is learnt that the Khaitans are  arranging funds to pay Gupta and ensure that McLeod isn’t dragged into an insolvency process. An application has been filed before the NCLT, Delhi to withdraw the case from corporate insolvency resolution proceedings under Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The matter may come up for hearing in the next few days. “The discussions are ongoing and could take one more week to conclude. The Khaitans have offered to pay Rs 100 crore,” said a source with direct knowledge of the negotiations. The move follows hectic parleys that began on Sunday morning and went on till the wee hours of Monday. The Khaitans and Gupta, armed with lawyers, sat down to thrash out a deal, at the behest of owners of McLeod Russel. In the nick of time If the deal goes through and the NCLT accepts the application to halt the insolvency process against McLeod, the Khaitans will achieve the rare feat of steering a company out of the jaws of an insolvency process. On August 6, NCLT Delhi passed an order directing the start of an insolvency resolution process against McLeod Russel and appointed Kanchan Dutta as an interim resolution professional. The resolution professional was required to call for claims from financial and operational creditors, workmen and statutory authorities, verify their claims, and form a committee of creditors (CoC) by this week. Under the IBC rules, the CoC principally comprises financial creditors. Once the CoC is formed, a company can emerge from an insolvency process only if 90 per cent of the creditors agree to it under section 12A of IBC. The Khaitans moved the National Company Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) last month challenging the NCLT order. They only received an assurance that the NCLAT would examine the plea for a stay of the NCLT order but it wasn’t automatically given. Thereafter, the two sides scrambled to hammer out an out-of-court settlement in an effort to head off the appointment of a CoC which would further complicated the possibility of an amicable resolution of their dispute. Sources say the IRP, a court-appointed officer, has received claims from the creditors and has determined who are eligible to be part of the committee. Focus on lenders Corporate observers believe that the withdrawal of the CIRP could pave the way for secured financial lenders to thrash out a loan restructuring at McLeod outside the purview of the insolvency process. There was a growing realisation among secured financial creditors that there may not be much interest for such a large company, especially at a time the tea plantation business is undergoing stress. At least one of the major lenders, Yes Bank Ltd, was also simultaneously pursuing an insolvency case against the tea producer which has over 33 gardens in Assam and Bengal. The case at NCLT, Calcutta, was dismissed by the bench when it came up for hearing. The tribunal ruled that the petition had become infructuous as McLeod had since been admitted into CIRP by NCLT. “The case by Techno Electric was a stumbling block before the lenders to restructure the outstanding loan of the company outside the framework of IBC. If it goes out of the equation, a debt resolution could be achieved over the next two to three months,” said a source who was aware of the negotiations. McLeod has a debt of close to Rs 2,000 crore. The stock, which slumped by 42 per cent to Rs 18 from an earlier level of Rs 33, has started climbing once again. Sense of relief The whiff of a possible settlement at McLeod has sparked a sense of relief within the tea fraternity of Calcutta. “It is a good thing for the tea industry in general. With over 70,000 workers and many small tea growers whose fortunes depend on selling their crop to the company, a semblance of stability at McLeod  is positive for the entire tea industry and especially to the socio-political condition in the state of Assam,” said a tea planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||India||SC to consider transfer of all cases linked to new IT rules for digital media||The Supreme Court will consider transferring to itself all cases linked to the new Information and Technology rules for digital media and giving it a combined hearing, sources familiar with the development said. The plea came from the Centre, which filed a transfer petition days after the Bombay High Court put on hold a part of new rules that seeks to regulate content on digital news websites, reported NDTV. The court ordered that the petition be listed along with a case against media reports on the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi last year, which was blamed for a spike in Covid cases. The hearing will be held after six weeks. On August 16, the Bombay High Court put on hold the implementation of rules which required digital news media to compulsorily follow the code of conduct laid down by the Press Council of India, a self-regulating press watchdog, and the country's cable TV code. Various petitions have been pending in different high courts across the country - many of them challenging the new laws. Several courts have already said that no coercive action can be taken against publishers who have not implemented the rules. The relief to the publications remain in place for now. In response to a challenge, the Delhi High Court has refused to put a freeze on the rules. In its order, the Bombay High Court said some of the requirements under the amendment violate freedom of speech, following petitions filed by legal news portal The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle, challenging parts of the new rules. Other parts of the rules have been challenged in other courts. Even social media platform WhatsApp has filed a petition against a requirement that it break end-to end encryption under certain circumstances. The government, which went to the Supreme Court asking for a stop to the challenges, suffered a setback after the top court declined. The centre has said the new rules seek to "prevent the misuse of the freedom of press" and protect people from fake news in digital media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Senior Indian and US officials discuss South Asia, Indo Pacific||Senior officials of India and the US took stock of progress in bilateral cooperation in areas of defence, public health and economy, besides reviewing preparations for the next edition of 2+2 ministerial dialogue. The officials held the deliberations under the framework of 2+2 inter-sessional meeting in Washington DC on Wednesday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides exchanged assessments about recent developments in South Asia, the Indo-Pacific region and the Western Indian Ocean. It said the meeting reviewed the progress made since the last 2+2 ministerial dialogue in October 2020 and preparations for it later this year. The third edition of 2+2 foreign and defence ministerial dialogue had taken place in India last year and the fourth one is slated to be held in Washington. "Both sides took stock of the progress and developments in the bilateral agenda under the India-US strategic partnership, including defence, global public health, economic and commercial cooperation, science and technology, clean energy and climate finance, and people to people ties," the MEA said in a statement. "They explored opportunities for enhancing ongoing cooperation in these fields based on mutual interests. Cooperation in contemporary areas such as space, cyber security and emerging technologies was also discussed," it added. "The officials had an opportunity to exchange assessments about recent developments in South Asia, the Indo-Pacific region and Western Indian Ocean, given their shared vision for peace, stability and prosperity and for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," the MEA said. The Indian delegation at the meeting was led jointly by Vani Rao, Joint Secretary (Americas) in the MEA and Somnath Ghosh, Joint Secretary (International Cooperation) in the Ministry of Defence. The US delegation was led by Assistant Secretary of Defence for Indo-Pacific Affairs Ely Ratner alongside Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs in the Department of State Ervin Massinga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||India makes RT-PCR test compulsory for 7 more nations amid fear of new Covid strains||Amid fear of new COVID-19 strains, RT-PCR test is compulsory for passengers arriving from seven more countries, including South Africa, Bangladesh and China, the Centre said on Thursday.  In a letter to all states and Union territories (UTs), the government said considering reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2 and rising number of Variants of Concern (VOCs) and Variants of Interest (Vols) globally, seven countries have been added in the list of countries whose travellers will have to get another RT-PCR test done upon landing at Indian airports apart from the one they need to get before embarking on the flight.  These seven countries are South Africa, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe.  In earlier guidelines issued in February, passengers from only the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East had to get the RT-PCR test done again upon landing at Indian airports.  The Centre also asked states/UTs to ensure strict compliance to these guidelines so that the import of Vols and VoCs to India from other countries may be prevented.  "The states/UTs must also strengthen their Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) activities being coordinated through the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) network of laboratories, by sending a fixed percentage of samples of positive cases among international travellers for genome sequencing to the respective INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories tagged with them," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the letter.  Speaking at a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul noted that although the risk of mutants will exist, tools of testing, tracking, vaccination, clinical preparedness and COVID appropriate behaviour have to be strongly used.  "The impact of mutants, whether it is about severity of disease or about transmissibility, is something that we understand systematically and INSACOG has huge capacity and it has been strengthened over time and using it we will look after it. The screening of international travellers from a genetic sequencing point of view is one of the most critical protocols and pillars," he said.  ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said a mutant found in Columbia is presently classified as a mutant of interest.  "We are closely observing it and serious disease or rapid spread of it has not been seen, but with time we will be able to tell more about it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Nitish puppet in hands of PM, BJP: Digvijay Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh on Thursday accused Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of being a "puppet" in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP. He also claimed that the saffron party-led government at the Centre is selling assets created by the Congress in the name of National Monetisation Pipeline. "Nitish Kumar has transformed himself into the RSS-BJP mould. He is just a puppet CM in the hands of the PM and the BJP. He cannot be a PM material at all, Singh told reporters here. Kumar's party, the Janata Dal (United) which is an ally of the BJP at the Centre as well as in the state, recently said he is not in the race for the post of the prime minister though he has all the qualities required to become one. The CM, however, disapproved of the statement. Singh claimed that Kumar is working under tremendous pressure of the BJP and that is why chapters on freedom fighter and socialist leader Jai Prakash Narayan have been omitted from the post-graduate syllabus of a university named after him in the state. Chapters on another socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia has also been removed from the political science syllabus in Jai Prakash University at Chhapra in Saran district, he said. Kumar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad were followers of Narayan. Prasad has slammed the Nitish Kumar government for removing the two leaders from the PG syllabus of JP University. Thirty years back I had established JP University in the name of Jayaprakash Narayan in my karmbhoomi. Now, in the same university, this sanghi government and officials toeing its agenda are removing the ideology of JP-Lohia from the syllabus. This cannot be tolerated. Government should immediately take note, Prasad tweeted on Wednesday. The students of the university have also protested the change in the syllabus. Criticising the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) of the Centre, Singh said, It's a dangerous bid by the bankrupt Narendra Modi government to raise money by gradually handing over sectors like rail, road, airport and mining to corporates. It's an anti-people move. Why Nitish Kumar is maintaining a stoic silence over the issue? He said the BJP often claims that nothing has happened in the country in the last 70 years, the majority period of which was ruled by the Congress. If nothing has happened in the last 70 years, what the central government is selling? That is the difference between worthy and unworthy sons, between the Congress and the BJP, Singh said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month announced the Rs 6 lakh crore NMP that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. To a question on Nitish Kumar's demand for caste-based census in the country, Singh said the Congress is in favour of it. "But, I am sure the PM and the BJP will not accept the demand for it. Both the PM and Nitish Kumar are misleading people over the issue, he said. Statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population, the Bihar CM has said. The BJP leadership has so far not taken a categorical stand on the issue which has been lapped up by a number of regional parties, many of them its rivals in different states. There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron party to make inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Pakistan behind Al Qaeda’s ‘Jihad’ statement naming Kashmir: Government sources||After the last American soldier left Afghanistan on August 31 midnight, the terror outfit Al Qaeda released a statement in which it called for “global jihad” to liberate “Islamic lands”, and mentioned Kashmir. The inclusion of Kashmir and omission of Chechnya and Xinjiang exposes the hand of Pakistan in Qaeda’s ominous statement, government sources told NDTV on Thursday. “The Qaeda statement talking about transnational jihad is a cause for concern. It is intriguing that Kashmir was included in the statement as it was never on the agenda of the Taliban earlier. The Pakistan ISI is behind this statement of Qaeda,” officials told NDTV. The statement will embolden Pakistan-based terror outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad in attacks in India, government sources said. A senior government official said the Qaeda statement is still being analysed, but it is a serious cause for concern for India. “Al Qaeda is trying to radicalise Muslims in the world - it is dangerous for humanity. Pakistan is pushing ahead its agenda,” he said. Pakistan, said the official, had shown its hand in hosting and controlling Ayman Al Zawahiri as the head of Al Qaeda. Interestingly, even Taliban's Supreme Commander Haibatullah Akhundzada is reportedly in the custody of Pakistan's intelligence ISI. The omission of Chechnya in Russia and China's Xinjiang among targets of "liberation" through jihad is significant and telling. The Qaeda statement said: "Liberate the Levant, Somalia, Yemen, Kashmir and the rest of the Islamic lands from the clutches of the enemies of Islam. O' Allah! Grant freedom to Muslim prisoners across the world." Another aspect being studied by the government is the presence of the families of most Al Qaeda sympathisers and terrorists in Iran. There are indications that many of them will return to Afghanistan now. "Though it's a Shia-dominated country, history has shown that as far as tactical advantages are concerned, both Shia and Sunni can work, if not together, then at least not against each other," an officer explained. With the Taliban claiming to the world that it will be different this time round, India is watching how the assurances play out. In meetings in Delhi and Kashmir, the fallout of the Afghanistan developments on the Valley has been discussed threadbare. Special attention is on growing instances of infiltration and launch pads being reactivated along the Line of Control. Sources say chatter being intercepted by agencies indicates that abandoned launch pads across the LoC have been reactivated. Even though the Taliban never showed clear interest in Kashmir and has been reassuring the world that it has changed its tactics, the fact is that it has allowed many terror groups, including the Harkat-ul Ansar - an amalgamation of Harkat-ul-Mujahideen and Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami - to use Afghan soil for pushing terrorists into Kashmir. Intelligence agencies say Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Maulana Masood Azhar used to run a terror camp in Khost in Afghanistan before he used the Harkat-ul-Ansar to launch jihad in Kashmir after the Soviet-Afghan war. The Taliban, ousted from power in its first stint by the US after the 9/11 attacks, insists it will not let Afghanistan fall into the hands of terrorists. Sources said it is worrying that in their second stint, the Taliban has armed itself with better weapons, mostly captured after the exit of US troops. The Al Qaeda in the Indian subcontinent has been operating under the radar of security agencies. The AQIS or Qaeda's “Indian Subcontinent” unit has reportedly consolidated its presence in Afghanistan by embedding fighters in the Taliban. “Pakistan has been using Afghan soil to launch and train terrorists, so we have to be aware of new dynamics unfolding each passing minute,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Covid: Centre adds 7 more nations to list of RT-PCR test mandate||Amid fear of new Covid-19 strains, RT-PCR test is compulsory for passengers arriving from seven more countries, including South Africa, Bangladesh and China, the Centre said on Thursday. In a letter to all states and Union territories (UTs), the government said considering reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2 and rising number of Variants of Concern (VOCs) and Variants of Interest (Vols) globally, seven countries have been added in the list of countries whose travellers will have to get another RT-PCR test done upon landing at Indian airports apart from the one they need to get before embarking on the flight. These seven countries are South Africa, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe. In earlier guidelines issued in February, passengers from only the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East had to get the RT-PCR test done again upon landing at Indian airports. The Centre also asked states/UTs to ensure strict compliance to these guidelines so that the import of Vols and VoCs to India from other countries may be prevented. "The states/UTs must also strengthen their Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) activities being coordinated through the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) network of laboratories, by sending a fixed percentage of samples of positive cases among international travellers for genome sequencing to the respective INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories tagged with them," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the letter. Speaking at a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul noted that although the risk of mutants will exist, tools of testing, tracking, vaccination, clinical preparedness and COVID appropriate behaviour have to be strongly used. "The impact of mutants, whether it is about severity of disease or about transmissibility, is something that we understand systematically and INSACOG has huge capacity and it has been strengthened over time and using it we will look after it. The screening of international travellers from a genetic sequencing point of view is one of the most critical protocols and pillars," he said. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said a mutant found in Columbia is presently classified as a mutant of interest. "We are closely observing it and serious disease or rapid spread of it has not been seen, but with time we will be able to tell more about it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||India's primary worry: Afghanistan as terror haven ||India's immediate focus is to ensure that Afghan soil is not used for terrorist activities directed against it, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday, two days after the Indian envoy to Qatar held talks with a top Taliban leader in Doha. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India used the meeting in Doha to convey its concerns over the possible use of the Afghan territory for anti-India activities and to bring back the remaining Indians from Afghanistan. "We received a positive response," he said referring to the meeting between Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai. To a volley of questions on whether India would recognise a Taliban regime in the backdrop of the meeting between the two sides, Bagchi said: " It was just a meeting. I think these are very early days." Asked whether India will have more meetings with the Taliban, the MEA spokesperson said he does not want to speculate. "I would not like to speculate on the future. I have no update to share on that," he said. On bringing back the remaining Indians from Afghanistan, Bagchi said India will be able to revisit the matter once the Kabul airport resumes operation. The United Nations' food stockpiles in Afghanistan could run out this month and there is a critical need for USD 200 million to provide food to the most vulnerable, a senior UN official had warned earlier in the day, Deputy Special Representative and Humanitarian Coordinator in Afghanistan Ramiz Alakbarov said that at least one-third of the conflict-torn country's population currently is not sure that they will have a meal every day or not. This is what is going on. "By the end of September, the stocks which the World Food Programme has in the country will be out. We will be out of stock. We will not be able to provide those essential food items because we'll be out of stock," Alakbarov told reporters during a virtual press briefing from Kabul on Wednesday. "For us to keep the current demand, we need at least USD 200 million only for the food sector to be able to provide food to the most vulnerable, he said. He noted with concern that most of those vulnerable are children and more than half of the children in the country under the age of five are suffering from extreme malnutrition and "those children will not get food. Taliban rulers were preparing on Thursday to unveil their new government as the economy teetered on the edge of collapse more than two weeks after the Islamist militia captured Kabul and brought a chaotic end to 20 years of war. Taliban official Ahmadullah Muttaqi said on social media a ceremony was being prepared at the presidential palace in Kabul, while private broadcaster Tolo said an announcement on a new government was imminent. The Islamist movement's supreme leader, Haibatullah Akhundzada, is expected to have ultimate power over a governing council, with a president below him, a senior Taliban official told Reuters last month. The legitimacy of the new government in the eyes of international donors and investors will be crucial for Afghanistan's economy, which is likely to collapse following the Taliban's return to power, analysts said. The supreme Taliban leader has three deputies: Mawlavi Yaqoob, son of the movement's late founder Mullah Omar; Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the powerful Haqqani network; and Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the founding members of the group. An unelected leadership council is how the Taliban ran their first government which brutally enforced a radical form of Sharia law from 1996 until its ouster by U.S.-led forces in 2001. The Taliban have tried to present a more moderate face to the world since they swept aside the U.S.-backed government and returned to power last month, promising to protect human rights and refrain from reprisals against old enemies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||No major terror attack in India since Modi became PM, says Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said not a single major terror attack has taken place in the country ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office in 2014, and asserted that terrorists were scared of the BJP government at the Centre. Addressing the Gujarat BJP leaders on the second day of the party's three-day state executive meeting at Kevadia in Narmada district, Singh also slammed the Congress saying the party was not sensitive enough towards the Army jawans as it kept the issue of One Rank-One Pension (OROP) unresolved for 40 years. "No matter what it takes, we will not let terrorists succeed. Forget about Jammu and Kashmir, no major terrorist attack took place in any part of the country after the arrival of Modiji. This is our major achievement. It seems that terrorists are now scared of the BJP government. This is not a small thing," he said. "Terrorists now realise that they are not secure even in their safe havens. What we did (surgical strike in PoK) after the Uri attack gave a clear message to the world that we can kill terrorists on this side as well as by crossing the border if need arises," Singh added. If the previous Congress governments were sensitive towards Army jawans, the issue of OROP, which the jawans had been demanding for 40 years, would have been resolved. But Congress did not accept the demand, the minister said. "But, Modiji implemented it immediately. This shows the difference between a Congress government and a BJP government," he said. Singh attacked the Congress and its leaders saying that they only used Mahatma Gandhi's name, but failed to follow in his footsteps. Referring to Ram temple at Ayodhya, he said such issues are not mere slogans, but BJP's commitment, for which, the party had sacrificed three of its state governments after the Babri mosque structure was demolished. "We always fulfil what we promise. These are not mere election slogans...it's our cultural commitment. Now, no force can stop the construction of a grand Ram temple. We had sacrificed three of our state governments after the structure (mosque) was razed. Though the Centre had dismissed three of our governments, we never diluted our commitment and movement," Singh added. After his address, the Ministry of Defence and the Gujarat Government signed an MoU for the upcoming Defence Expo-2022. It was signed in the presence of Singh and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Rupani announced that the Defence Expo-2022 will be held for four days between March 10 and 13 in Gandhinagar next year. While the seminars will be held at Mahatma Mandir, the helipad exhibition centre will serve as the exhibition site for the expo, a media statement said. A meeting of Gujarat BJP's state executive began at Kevadia on Wednesday with the party's state unit chief C R Paatil presiding over it. Key leaders who are attending the meet include Singh, Rupani, Deputy CM Nitin Patel and in-charge of Gujarat BJP Bhupender Yadav, among others, a party release said, adding that others who have joined the meeting include all the MLAs, MPs, members of executive committee, party's state office-bearers and presidents of district and city units. This is for the first time the Gujarat BJP has organised a "paperless state executive" meeting, wherein invitees are given tablets with all the required information and links related to the event, the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi attacks BJP, calls for increasing sugarcane price to benefit farmers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the ruling BJP on Thursday over the rising prices of cooking gas, petrol and diesel, and also alleged that there has been no increase in the price of sugarcane procurement from farmers in the last three years. While she did not clarify whether her attack was aimed at the Uttar Pradesh government or the Centre, the Narendra Modi dispensation last week increased the minimum price that the sugar mills pay to sugarcane growers by Rs 5 to Rs 290 per quintal for the next marketing year starting October 2021. The Congress general secretary said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is increasing the price of LPG cylinders every month, and petrol and diesel prices have been hiked 60 to 70 times in three-four months. "But the sugarcane price for farmers has not increased for three years?" she tweeted in Hindi with the hashtags "mehnge din" (expensive days) and "ganne ke daam badhao" (increase the prices of sugarcane). Priyanka Gandhi had raised the issue last week also, stating that despite a regular increase in the prices of diesel and electricity for farmers in Uttar Pradesh, the price of sugarcane in the state has not seen any rise for three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Modi government mishandled economy, alleges Rahul||Accusing the Centre of mishandling the country's economy, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the nation was at a "critical crossroad" and the Congress, as a major opposition party, has a moral duty to fight the forces that threaten the very idea of India. "Modi Government has clearly mishandled the economy. And, what this country has built over the last 70 years, is being given away to select few friends of Modi-ji", Gandhi said, joining a function organised virtually on the occasion of inauguration of the District Congress Committee office in this north Kerala district. He said Congress was not against privatisation but its privatisation plan had a logic. "We didn't privatise strategic industries: for example, Railways which is the backbone of India. Congress party must oppose this fire sale of our crown jewels at every level," Gandhi said, slamming the Centre's Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. Attacking the Centre over rising prices of fuel, Gandhi said the government has come up with a new concept of GDP, wherein a rise in GDP means a rise in prices of Gas, Diesel and Petrol. "While international prices for crude and gas has gone down since 2014, there has been huge increase in prices in GDP in last 7 years. Rs 23 lakh crore has been earned by increasing prices of GDP in the last seven years. Where has this money gone?" he asked. The Congress leader alleged that while farmers, labourers, small traders and informal sector, MSMEs, contract workers, salaried class and honest industrialists are being demonetised, four-five friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are being monetised. "We have to fight these forces...," he said at the function attended by AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, KPCC president K Sudhakaran and Leader of opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan. Senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala also joined Gandhi in the virtual function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Gautam Navlakha moves HC||Activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case and currently lodged in Taloja prison, moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday seeking that he be placed under house arrest as part of his judicial custody, owing to his advanced age and medical ailments. In his plea, Navlakha, 69, also sought that the HC direct authorities of the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to get him medically examined for a lump developed in his chest. His counsels, Yug Chaudhry and Payoshi Roy, told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Navlakha wished to be examined medically to rule out "cancer". In his plea, Navlakha cited the Supreme Court's order issued in May this year, whereby the apex court had dismissed his default bail plea, but found merit in treating house arrests as an alternative form of detention, especially for such undertrials who are aged or suffering from serious medical ailments. Navlakha's counsels also told the HC that they had already written to the Taloja prison authorities, seeking a medical check-up for the lump in his chest, but they were yet to hear anything from the authorities. They further told the HC that Navlakha also suffered from hypertension that he developed while in prison, and several other ailments. Navlakha was arrested by Pune police from Delhi on August 28, 2018 in connection the Elgaar Parishad case. He was initially kept under house arrest but subsequently sent in judicial custody. As per Navlakha's plea, he has spent one year and three months in prison. The HC will hear the plea further later in the day. The case relates to the Elgaar Parishad conclave held in Maharashtra's Pune district on December 31, 2017. The Pune police had claimed that the event was backed by Maoists, and provocative speeches made there led to caste violence near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial in the district the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||SC expresses concern over fake, communal news on social media||A section of media gives communal colour to news bringing bad name to the country, the Supreme Court rued on Thursday, expressing serious concern over fake news on social media including web portals and YouTube which listen only to the powerful voices and not judges and institutions. The strong observations of the bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana came while hearing a batch of petitions, including the one filed by Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind, seeking directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" related to last year's religious gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz and take strict action against those responsible for it. "The problem is, everything in this country is shown with a communal angle by a section of media. The country is going to get a bad name ultimately," said the bench, adding, "Did you (the Centre) ever attempt to regulate these private channels". The bench also agreed to hear after six weeks the Centre's plea seeking transfer of petitions to the apex court that are pending in high courts against the validity of new Information Technology Rules which aims to regulate online content. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said, "Not only communal but also planted news" is there and the IT Rules have been framed to regulate content online, including web portals. "The social media only listens to the powerful voices and several things are written against judges, institutions without any accountability," said the bench which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna. Speaking for the bench, CJI Ramana said, "I have not come across where these social media, Twitter and Facebook, respond to common people. They never respond. There is no accountability. About the institutions, they have written badly and they do not respond and say that this is their right." "They only worry about powerful men and not judges, institutions or common man. That is what we have seen. This is our experience." It further said: "There is no control over fake news and slandering in web portals and YouTube channels. If you go to YouTube, you will find how fake news is freely circulated and anyone can start a channel on YouTube." The top court permitted Jamiat to amend its petition and serve it within four weeks to the Centre through the Solicitor General who may file the response in two weeks thereafter. At the outset, Mehta sought an adjournment of hearing on the pleas by two weeks. Referring to a few last orders, the bench asked the Centre whether it has appointed any regulatory commission for such news contents on social media. Mehta referred to the affidavits of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting filed on November 13 last year and said that the real concern has been to strike a balance between freedom of press and the right of citizens to have access to unadulterated news. The bench said there seemed no control on web portals and sought to know about if any mechanism has been put in place. "For newspapers and television channels you have a regulatory mechanism. Are you suggesting that there is no such mechanism for web portals," the bench asked. Mehta said new IT Rules have been framed to regulate such online mediums including web portals. "There is some mechanism for newspapers and so far as the TVs are concerned, you have some self-regulatory mechanism and one retired Supreme Court judge is also there," the CJI said. The centre has framed the statutory mechanism under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 and for the online contents, the new IT rules have been framed, the law officer said. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for one of the Muslim bodies, concurred with the submissions of the law officer on new regimes put to regulate the online social media. The bench took note of Mehta's plea that some high courts are seized of petitions challenging the new IT Rules and for a holistic determination of the issues, they be transferred to the top court itself. The top court said it would hear the transfer plea with the present batch of petitions. Earlier, the Centre had told the apex court the petitioner Muslim body's attempt to obtain a blanket "gag order" on the entire media to prevent them from reporting the Markaz Nizamuddin issue will effectively destroy the freedom of the citizenry to know and the right of journalists to ensure an informed society. The government had said that in the absence of any specific information about any objectionable news published or aired by a specific news channel/agency, the Constitution and the applicable statutes do not give it any authority to unilaterally pass any censure order under the Cable Television Networks Rules. The Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind had filed the plea seeking directions to the Centre to stop the dissemination of "fake news" related to a religious gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin. The Jamiat has alleged that the unfortunate incident of Tablighi Jamaat was being used to "demonise" and blame the entire Muslim community and sought to restrain the media from publishing/airing such reports. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz Nizamuddin in central Delhi in March last year was accused of accelerating the spread of the novel coronavirus, with its attendees carrying the infection to different parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh moves Bombay HC against ED summons||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh approached the Bombay High Court on Thursday, seeking to quash the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case registered against him. Deshmukh's application came up for hearing before a single bench of Justice Revati Mohite Dere. However, Justice Dere recused herself from hearing the application without assigning any reason and said, Not before me. The application will be heard by another bench in due course of time. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) lodged an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The ED's case is that while serving as the state home minister, Deshmukh allegedly misused his position and through dismissed police officer Sachin Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to the Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. The ED has till now issued five summons to Deshmukh, asking him to appear before it for questioning. However, Deshmukh skipped all the five summons, claiming that he would be seeking appropriate remedy available under law. Deshmukh last month approached the Supreme Court against the summons and sought protection from arrest. The apex court had, however, refused to grant any relief and said Deshmukh had alternate remedies. The NCP leader then approached the HC, challenging the summons. The ED has so far arrested two persons - Sanjeev Palande (additional collector-rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant) - in the case. The agency last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court in Mumbai. The CBI had lodged the FIR against Deshmukh after it conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister the same day, but has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||To cross boundaries, you need to think beyond the usual, states Nishant Piyush, a top digitalpreneur||He is under-25 years of age and still has managed to make his mark with his firm Prike Media, Dubai. Youngsters of today coming from different backgrounds and parts of the world are creating a lot of buzz with all that they do in their careers and respective industries. It is definitely a spectacular sight to notice how young talented beings, without having a fear of failure, go ahead in climbing their ladder of success and even cross boundaries to ace the game of business. Though all of this sounds easier than actually doing it, still young entrepreneurs like Nishant Piyush have done it and how. The kind of success stories they have created has been motivating more and more youngsters to have faith in their talents and work rigorously towards their goals. "Prike Media", based in Dubai, the UAE, was created by Nishant Piyush after realizing his dreams and going all-in into the digital space, leaving no stone unturned to make a difference in the industry. Many youngsters constantly work around their visions and dreams, but not all go ahead in attaining the same. Nishant Piyush was aware of how tough the digital space could get due to the increasing competition and saturation in the industry. However, working with a strong self-belief and true love for all that he did, worked his way, eventually leading him to the path of success, not just in India but also in Dubai. Talking about his growing presence and his digital marketing company Prike Media's prominence in Dubai, Nishant Piyush says that at the very start of his career, he had no inch of an idea that someday life would present him with so many incredible opportunities, but he also along his way created newer ones for him, for him wished to shine bright on foreign land as well. Hence, he founded Prike Media in Dubai, and today his cutting-edge digital marketing services and solutions have become the talk of the town in Dubai. They do it all from website creations, Ads, SEO, and PR to social media marketing, pay-per-click advertising, email marketing, and mobile application development. Lastly, he highlights that he could make a name for himself across the UAE with Prike Media because he chose to cross boundaries and do the unusual by constantly learning new things and honing his skills as a digitalpreneur. Do connect with him through Instagram @nishant.piyush or visit the website, https://prikemedia.com/, to know more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over deaths due to fever||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the deaths in the state, including of children, due to fever and alleged that concrete steps had not been taken to strengthen the health system. She said that the news of the "death of 100 people including children" due to fever in Firozabad, Mathura, Agra and many other places in Uttar Pradesh is very worrying. The state government has still not taken any concrete steps to strengthen the health system, the Congress general secretary alleged. "Look at the condition of hospitals. Is this your 'Number 1' facility for treatment?" Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi and tagged a media report claiming that fever had gripped several districts in the state and in Firozabad the situation was grim with treatment being given on brick benches. The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred the chief medical officer of Firozabad, where about 41 people, mostly children, died of suspected dengue and viral fever. Health officials said along with Firozabad, the spread of dengue is also suspected in Mathura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||India logs over 47,000 fresh Covid cases, 509 casualties in a day||With 47,092 people testing positive for COVID-19, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,28,57,937, while active cases have increased to 3,89,583, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll has climbed to 4,39,529 with 509 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,89,583 and comprise 1.19 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.48 per cent, ministry said. It said that active cases increased by 11,402 in a span of 24 hours. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.62 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 69 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,20,28,825, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. With 81.09 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses being administered on Wednesday, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has reached 66.30 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 509 new fatalities include 173 from Kerala and 183 from Maharashtra, the ministry said. It said that 4,39,529 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,496 from Maharashtra, 37,339 from Karnataka, 34,941 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,825 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,961 from Kerala and 18,459 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Rain drenches Delhi for third day on the trot||Another spell of rain pounded Delhi on Thursday morning, worsening the waterlogging problem in some areas and plunging road traffic into chaos. The capital has recorded 229.8 mm rainfall since Tuesday morning, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Usually, it gauges only 16.7 mm rainfall on the first two days of the month. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Thursday, the highest on a day in September in 19 years. This is the second day on the trot that the capital recorded more than 100 mm rainfall in a day. The city had gauged 112.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Wednesday which submerged several areas, including the diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri and commercial hub of Connaught Place, in knee-deep water and disrupted rain and road traffic. The capital had recorded 126.8 mm rainfall on September 13, 2002.The all-time record is 172.6 mm rainfall on September 16, 1963. The incessant rains submerged roads, residential areas, schools, hospitals, and markets in knee-deep water and affected the movement of around 25 trains on Wednesday. Municipal corporations in Delhi reported 21 incidents of uprooting of trees. On Thursday morning, the situation worsened at some places due to standing water. IMD officials said the intensity is likely to reduce and another spell of rain is expected from September 7. "The next spell may see Delhi breaking records for monthly (September) rainfall," an official said. Asked if the India Meteorological Department (IMD) expected such heavy rainfall, an official said it is difficult to make "precise predictions" for a small area like Delhi two to three days in advance. "The predictions are for larger areas, such as Haryana and Punjab. This applies across the world," he said. IMD officials said the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, gauged 117.7 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Thursday, the highest on a day in September in 19 years. The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ridge, Palam and Ayanagar recorded 133.6 mm, 68.4 mm, 108.2 mm and 56.2 mm rainfall, respectively, in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is heavy, between 115.6 and 204.4 is very heavy. Anything above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall. In its forecast for the month of September, the IMD said, "Normal to below normal rainfall is most likely over many areas of northwest." Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon pattern is changing due to climate change. "The number of rainy days has reduced over the last four to five years, and there has been an increase in extreme weather events," he said. "We have been recording short and intense bouts of rain, sometimes around 100 mm rainfall in just 24 hours. In the past, this much precipitation would occur over a period of 10 to 15 days," he said. Weather experts said such spells of rain do not help recharge groundwater and lead to flooding in low-lying areas. The water percolates in the ground if it rains slowly over four to five days. In case of heavy falls, the rainwater runs off quickly, Palawat said. "The rain washes away pollutants, but since the number of rainy days has reduced, the average annual air quality is also getting affected," he said. Overall, Delhi has recorded 986.2mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, which is 82 percent more than normal. The city recorded just 10 rainy days in August, the lowest in seven years, and a cumulative rainfall of 214.5 mm, lower than the average of 247 mm. In July, the national capital gauged 507.1 mm rainfall, which was nearly 141 per cent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years. It received 34.8 mm rainfall against the normal of 65.5 mm in June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra passes away at 65||Veteran journalist and former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra died late Wednesday at his south Delhi residence after a long ailment. He was 65. Mitra, who did a stint in various newspapers, including the Times of India and the Hindustan Times, in his long career as a journalist before he became editor of The Pioneer, is survived by his wife Shobori Ganguly and two sons Kushan and Shakya. The death of the columnist and raconteur, known for his sharp views on politics and also his abiding love for old Hindi film music, was condoled by a host of political leaders across the spectrum as well as President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Shri Chandan Mitra Ji will be remembered for his intellect and insights. He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," the prime minister said in a tweet. The president described him as an outstanding journalist whose stint as a parliamentarian added to his reputation. His understanding of Hindi heartland and its history was profound. His demise leaves a void in Indian journalism. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," Kovind tweeted. Mitra's son Kushan said his father had been suffering for a while. "Since it is already out there; Dad passed away late last night. He had been suffering for a while," he said in a tweet on Thursday. Elected to the Rajya Sabha as a BJP member twice, Chandan Mitra was considered close to BJP patriarch L K Advani. In 2018, he resigned from the party and joined the Trinamool Congress but stayed away from active politics. Mitra, who passed away in his Sainik Farms residence, had resigned as publisher of The Pioneer. He continued to be its editor even though poor health kept him away from active politics. Expressing his anguish, BJP president J P Nadda said Mitra would be remembered for his distinguished career in the field of media and service for people. TMC president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also condoled his death and said he would always be remembered for his contribution to the world of journalism and politics. BJP MP and lifetime friend Swapan Dasgupta posted a picture of Mitra and himself from a school trip in 1972 and wished for his friend to be happy wherever he was. "I lost my closest friend-editor of Pioneer & former MP Chandan Mitra-this morning. We were together as students of La Martiniere & went on to St Stephen's & Oxford. We joined journalism at the same time & shared the excitement of Ayodhya & the saffron wave," he said in a tweet. "I am posting a photograph of Chandan Mitra and me together during a school trip in 1972. Be happy my dear friend wherever you are. Om Shanti," Dasgupta said. Going down memory lane, other old friends recalled impassioned arguments with him on a range of issues and also his love for film music, particularly songs composed by Laxmikant Pyarelal. "Dr. Chandan Mitra had friends across the political spectrum and made very learned speeches in the Rajya Sabha. Apart from his professional qualifications, his knowledge of Hindi film music was awesome, which he used with great effect in his interventions and writings, said Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. His party colleague Shashi Tharoor had some memories to share too. Stephanians both, Mitra was Tharoor's campaign manager in the election for the St Stephen's College Union Society. "Deeply saddened by this news. Chandan was my campaign manager in my successful race to be President of the St Stephen's College Union Society, served in my Cabinet and succeeded me. We remained in touch over the years, ironically till I returned to Delhi& politics separated us. RIP," Tharoor tweeted. The Press Club of India issued a statement condoling Mitra's demise. "Chandan Mitra was a stalwart editor who also had fruitful innings in The Statesman and as editor of Hindustan Times. Mitra mentored young reporters, and relaunched The Pioneer. "His passing is a great loss. The Press Club of India stands with his family in this hour of loss," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Adityanath orders  inquiry into Supertech twin towers case||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered an inquiry and strict action against the guilty officials in the Noida Supertech twin towers case.  The directives came after the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered demolition of the 40-storey twin towers that had come up in violation of building byelaws in Supertech's Emerald Court housing project in Noida's Sector 93.  The top court ordered that the towers be razed within three months for the violation of building norms in "collusion" with district officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law.  The chief minister also directed officials to register criminal cases against the guilty persons, if need be, as he reviewed the matter in Lucknow, an official spokesperson said.  "In the case of Noida's Supertech Emerald court case, the orders of the Supreme Court should be ensured in letter and spirit. Irregularities in this case have been going on continuously since 2004," the CM said, according to the spokesperson.  "A special inquiry committee should be constituted at the government level and a thorough investigation be done," Adityanath said.  The chief minister's directives came during the meeting with his special 'Team-9' that includes ministers, bureaucrats and the police chief of the state, according to officials.  In the wake of the Supreme Court order, Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari had on Tuesday said that the top court's directives will be fully complied with, even as the society residents rejoiced at the top court verdict that came after a decade-long legal battle.  The realty firm had constructed two 40-storey towers illegally in its Emerald Court housing project premises with over 900 flats and 21 shops.  Residents of the housing project claimed their consent was not taken for the twin towers, which were being built in violation of norms and moved the court.  The Allahabad High Court had in 2014 ordered the demolition of the twin towers with the Supreme Court upholding the verdict in 2021.  However, buyers who have invested their money in these towers hoped their interest would be protected, even as the Supertech Group said it would be filing a review petition in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi warns of impending 1991-like economic crisis||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday warned that a 1991-like economic crisis was looming over the country and termed the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the economy a “catastrophic failure”. “This is not a cyclical problem; this is a structural problem. We cannot get out of it without changing direction,” the former Congress president told a news conference in the capital. Rahul said the Congress had the ability to pull India back from the brink the way it had in 1991. “There is a structural failure and the government is in panic. The government and Narendra Modi are fearing… as he is unable to fulfil the promises made to people. He is seeing this and he is in panic. Both Prime Minister and finance minister are in panic and they do not know what to do. This is the reality,” he said. He added that the government was living off the fuel prices, which were being increased frequently. A few hours after Rahul spoke, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was seen at the launch of a book on V.D. Savarkar. Earlier in the day, the prices of cooking gas across all categories, including subsidised gas, were hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder — the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. The Congress MP provided another expansion for GDP — “gas, diesel, petrol” — in a swipe at the government, which had claimed the country’s gross domestic product was on the rise. “When they say the GDP is rising, they mean gas-diesel-petrol price,” he said. Rahul urged the youth to ask the government what it had done with the Rs 23 lakh crore earned from fuel prices. “I want the young people of this country to think about this. This is about your future, you have to ask the question, who is this money going to?” he said. “Rs 23 lakh crore has been taken out of your pockets, out of the pockets of farmers, labourers, poor people.... The question is, where is it going?” Rahul said the rise in fuel prices could have been justified had it resulted from an increase in the price of crude and gas in the international market. “Crude oil prices were $105 per barrel when we were in power; today it is $71. That is a decrease of 32 per cent. International gas prices were $880 per tonne, today it is $653 per tonne — a 26 per cent drop,” he said. Holding up a handwritten chart, Rahul said that when the UPA left office in 2014, the price of LPG was Rs 410 a cylinder. Today, it is Rs 885 a cylinder — an increase of 116 per cent. “On one side, there is demonetisation taking place with farmers, labourers, small traders, MSMEs, contract workers, salaried class, honest industrialists being hit. On the other side, there is dramatic monetisation taking place,” Rahul said. “Three to five big industrialist friends of the Prime Minister are being benefited. There is a transfer of wealth taking place from the poor, from the weak, to the Prime Minister’s friends.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Haryana: SDM who ordered to break farmers' heads transferred||Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, caught on camera ordering police to break the heads of protesting farmers, was on Wednesday transferred as an additional secretary to Chandigarh at a time the Samyukta Kisan Morcha is demanding his dismissal. Sinha’s transfer to the Haryana citizen resource information department, ordered two days after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had defended him, is unlikely to pacify the protesting farmers. The farmers want Sinha not only dismissed but also booked on murder charges over the death of farmer Sushil Kajal, who had suffered injuries in Saturday’s lathi-charge. While the Morcha is yet to comment on the transfer, it has firmed up plans on its response if the state government fails to accept its demand for action against Sinha by September 6. As of now, the Morcha plans to lay siege to the mini-secretariat in Karnal if its demands are not met within the deadline. Apart from action against Sinha and other officials involved in the lathi-charge, the Morcha is also pressing for the withdrawal of the cases filed against Haryana’s farmers. Given the links they have with other segments of society in agrarian Haryana, the farmers have been receiving support from lawyers and people in other professions. Protest meetings are being organised elsewhere in the country, too, against the “high-handed behaviour” of the Haryana government. A delegation of the All India Kisan Sabha on Tuesday visited the family of Kajal and handed his wife a cheque for Rs 1 lakh. On Wednesday, AIKS general secretary Hannan Mollah told reporters that Kajal’s mother had alleged he had died of internal injuries suffered during the lathi-charge. Told about the police claim that the family had failed to have a post-mortem done, AIKS finance secretary P. Krishnaprasad shot back: “If that is so, why did the police not insist on a post-mortem?” He added: “The Kisan Sabha has demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge as the family of the deceased believes he succumbed to his injuries, for which he did not get proper treatment.” According to the AIKS, farmer leaders have alleged that Kajal was severely beaten up by a group of policemen, who did not allow him to be taken to hospital. Also, severely injured farmers were allegedly forced to leave hospital after first aid. “The body was cremated in the village without post-mortem on 29th August 2021,” an AIKS report says. “The superintendent of police, Ganga Ram Puniya, has claimed the death was due to heart attack. How the police can state the cause of death without a post-mortem? This is a purposeful act to hide the truth and protect the culprits.” The report adds: “The BJP-led state government and the chief minister are shamelessly trying to protect the culprits by not ensuring a post-mortem after they received the report of the death of the farmer activist.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Kerala HC's message of harmony in ‘no criminal kidney’ ruling||There’s no “criminal kidney or criminal liver or criminal heart”, Kerala High Court has ruled while chastising an organ-transplant authorisation committee that had rejected a kidney donor because he was accused of “multiple criminal offences”. “Human blood is passing through all of us,” Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan observed while setting aside the committee’s order. He linked the matter to the “idea of secularism”. The law for human organ donation should act as a “path-breaker for communal harmony and the idea of secularism”, the single-judge bench said. “Let the Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Sikhs and even persons with criminal backgrounds donate their organs to needy people irrespective of their caste or creed or religion, or criminal background. That will be a day that was dreamed (of) by the founding fathers of our Constitution,” the August 27 judgment said. Petitioner Radhakrishna Pillai, 54, from Kollam had approached the court on August 10 after the “district-level authorisation committee for transplantation of human organs” rejected his application for permission to accept a kidney from 38-year-old Sajeev R., his driver. Pillai and Sajeev had furnished all the necessary permissions and documents. Sajeev had declared he was donating a kidney since he had a close relationship with Pillai, who had suffered complete renal failure. But the committee refused permission, saying: “The donor is involved in multiple criminal offences.” The high court said the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules, 2014, contained no provision for rejecting the organs of a donor accused or convicted of crime. “The only embargo... is that the donor should not be a drug addict,” the court said. “There is no organ in the human body like a criminal kidney or criminal liver or criminal heart! There is no difference between the organ of a person with criminal antecedents and the organ of a person who has no criminal antecedents. Human blood is passing through all of us.” It slammed the authorisation committee: “If these types of reasons are taken for rejecting the applications by the authorisation committee, a murderer, a thief or a person who is involved in some minor criminal offences cannot donate organs voluntarily.” The only conclusion to be drawn from the committee’s position is that it believes “the criminal behaviour of the donor will percolate to the person who accepts the organs”, the court said. “What sort of reasoning is this? No person with common sense can agree with (it),” the court noted, adding that the committee had gone “beyond their jurisdiction” in rejecting the application. The court directed the Kerala chief secretary to order the authorities concerned to speed up organ-donation applications. It stressed that the purpose of having organ-donation rules was to check commercial interest in donations. It urged the authorities to spread awareness to encourage organ donation in India. “Some statistics say that organ donation in India is very poor, around 0.3/million population, as compared to some western countries where it is as high as 36/million,” the judgment said. C.M. Mohammed Iquabal, the petitioner’s counsel, told The Telegraph the “criminal antecedents” of the would-be donor were limited to a case relating to a physical fight with a neighbour. He said the objective of the organ-donation law was to protect poor and less educated people from being cheated by agents or others into donating organs. “The law in no way stops someone volunteering to donate an organ,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||CJI assures Election Commission of priority hearing of EVM plea  ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Wednesday assured the Election Commission of early hearing next Tuesday of its plea for the immediate release of 4.48 lakh EVMs and 3.96 lakh VVPAT machines used in Bengal and other states in the recent Assembly elections. The EC has told the Supreme Court that if these equipment are not allowed to be used, it would lead “to serious logistical challenges” for next year’s elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand. On April 21, the Supreme Court had indefinitely extended the period for filing petitions and suits challenging electoral outcomes in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu in view of the pandemic. The usual permissible period is 45 days under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The EC has urged the Supreme Court to fix a timeframe for filing of petitions or vacate its order so that the machines could be freed up for use in the upcoming elections. The EVMs and VVPAT machines used in the five states earlier this year are technically in the possession of the EC but they cannot be used. In Bengal alone, 31 electoral petitions have been filed so far. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing before the bench of CJI Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna on behalf of the EC on Wednesday, pleaded for an urgent hearing. CJI Ramana assured the EC that the matter would be heard on priority on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Allahabad High Court judge call for declaring cow as national animal ||An Allahabad High Court judge has called for the declaration of the cow as a national animal and said “cow protection should be the fundamental right of Hindus”. Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav made the observation while denying bail to the accused, Javed, in a cow slaughter case. Javed’s counsel had pleaded that his client had been implicated in a false case and that no cow meat had been found in his possession. Justice Yadav wrote in his order: “Samast paristhitiyon ko dhyan mein rakhne ki awashyakta hai ki gai ko ek rashtriya pashu ghoshit kiya jaye aur go suraksha ko Hinduon ke maulik adhikar mein rakha jae.” A translation: “All circumstances must be considered and the cow should be declared as a national animal and cow protection should be the fundamental right of Hindus.” Justice Yadav wrote: “…We know that when there is an assault on a country’s culture and faith, it becomes weak….” He continued: “The cow has an important place in Indian culture. The cow is known as mother in the country and is worshipped as a goddess…. The people of India are known for their generosity. It is because of this that they consider as gods those animals that are beneficial to them.” “…Cows give milk, which is needed for a strong and health constitution. It gives cow dung for fertiliser and urine that kills germs. It produces calf and oxen, which help in agriculture when they grow up,” Justice Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Works of JP axed from Jai Prakash University course||Socialist leader and freedom fighter Jayaprakash Narayan has been omitted from the political science syllabus of the university established in his name in his native Saran district of Bihar. The thoughts and works of other prominent socio-political leaders like Ram Manohar Lohia, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, M.N. Roy and others have also been omitted from the postgraduate political science syllabus of Jai Prakash University in Chapra. The omission of Narayan’s name has shocked politicians, academics and students across the state. RJD chief and former chief minister Lalu Prasad, who was instrumental in setting up the university, saw the hand of the RSS in the syllabus cuts. “I established JP University in the name of Jayaprakashji in my karmabhoomi Chapra 30 years ago. Now officials sharing the sanghi mentality of the sanghi Bihar government are removing great socialist leaders like JP and Lohia from the syllabus of the university. This is intolerable. The government should immediately take cognisance,” Lalu tweeted. Top leaders of Bihar such as chief minister Nitish Kumar, Lalu and BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi are followers of Narayan. Student organisations protested the omission of the prominent leaders from the political science syllabus and demanded that they be given their due place in the course. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary expressed displeasure when the matter came to light and asked senior officials of his department to look into the issue. Sources said the change in syllabus could not have been done without the knowledge and permission of the governor, who is the chancellor of the state universities. The additions to the syllabus include Deendayal Upadhyaya, Subhas Chandra Bose and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. A senior professor of the university told this newspaper that “adding any political leader or freedom fighter to the syllabus can never justify dropping JP, Lohia or Ram Mohan Roy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Weather forecast: India to receive above normal rainfall in Sept ||India is likely to receive above normal rainfall this month that will make up for the current 9 per cent monsoon deficit accumulated over two months of lower than normal rainfall, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. The IMD said India’s September rainfall would be 110 per cent of the long period average, which is “very likely” to reduce the deficit that has resulted from interconnected weather phenomena over the Bay of Bengal and the Indian and Pacific oceans. Rainfall across the country during July was 6 per cent below average, but dropped to a whopping 24 per cent below average in August. Both months are critical for the kharif season crops — rice, maize, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, cotton among others — sown during the monsoon months. The Union agriculture ministry’s crop weather watch bulletin in mid-August had recorded 997 lakh hectares sown with crops this year compared with 1,015 lakh hectares in 2020, or a dip of about 18 per cent. The area under cereals was 6 per cent and food grains 4 per cent lower than in 2020. August’s rainfall deficit in many states was a surprise, a senior weather scientist said. The IMD had anticipated below average rainfall in parts of northwest and central India, but failed to predict the rainfall deficit in Gujarat, Odisha and India’s western coastline. The IMD has attributed the August deficit to multiple factors, primarily the so-called Indian Ocean Dipole, a temperature anomaly stretching from western equatorial Indian Ocean to the Indonesian region that can negatively impact the Indian monsoon. Typically in August, two depressions and four low-pressure systems form over the Bay of Bengal, but this year there was no depression and only two low-pressure systems formed, said IMD director-general Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra. Fewer typhoons over the western Pacific may also have contributed to the August deficit, Mohapatra said. Remnants of westward moving Pacific typhoons help generate low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal that serve as engines for the monsoon rainfall. The Indian Ocean Dipole is expected to remain unfavourable for rains over India during the remainder of the monsoon season but Mohapatra said changes already occurring in the Pacific Ocean and over the Bay of Bengal could enhance rainfall activity during September. “We see a cooling trend in the Pacific Ocean and we expect low-pressure systems to emerge over the Bay of Bengal in the coming weeks,” Mohapatra said. Above normal rainfall for even 10 days in September could make up for the current deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani passes away at 92||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Kashmir’s oldest and most unwavering pro-Pakistan secessionist, passed away on Wednesday. He was 92. Geelani spearheaded to his very end the hardline faction of the Hurriyat Conference. With him gone, an epochal chapter in Kashmir’s contemporary history of uncompromising  political separatism may have closed. One of the few secessionists who also contested elections, Geelani was thrice elected to the Assembly of the former Jammu and Kashmir state between 1972 and 1987. Some reports had said that he formally quit the leadership of the Hurriyat in mid-2020, but Geelani never gave up his call for secession from India and merger with Pakistan. Geelani had been ailing for years and post the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019, had fallen remarkably quiet. Last week, the Geelani family reportedly pulled down a board that marked out his Hyderpora residence on the outskirts of Kashmir as headquarters of the Hurriyat. Restrictions on movement have been imposed in the Valley and Internet suspended after his death. His two sons, a university teacher and a medical doctor who spent many years in Pakistan, have stayed away from overt participation in the Hurriyat or espousing their father’s cause. Rumours of Geelani’s death have often circulated in the past, each time triggering panicked security arrangements for fear of widespread civic outpouring and disruption. Now that he has been announced dead, reports from the Valley suggest an upping of preventive security measures. Geelani wanted to be buried at the “martyrs’ graveyard” abutting the Idgah in downtown Srinagar, but it is likely that his final resting place will have to be close to his residence in Hyderpora.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Modi govt critics support India’s decision to contact Taliban||India’s decision to establish contact with the Taliban has drawn support from some of the Narendra Modi government’s staunchest critics, such as former foreign minister Yashwant Sinha, Congress politician Mani Shankar Aiyar and retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro. They and others on Wednesday put their signatures to an appeal to the government to stay the course and ensure that no political party exploited the situation in Afghanistan to polarise Indian society. Written in the form of an appeal from Indian friends of Afghanistan, the open letter said: “India should continue to engage with the Taliban to achieve the objectives set out in this appeal. We welcome the government’s first official acknowledgement of its engagement with the Taliban in Doha and the positive assurances given by the latter.” It urged the government to ensure there was no discrimination on grounds of religion while providing shelter to Afghans who have been forced to leave their country. “No political party should be allowed to use the developments in Afghanistan to communally polarise Indian society for electoral gains and any such attempts should be dealt with sternly,” the letter said. India had on Tuesday officially acknowledged its first contact with the Taliban after the Afghanistan takeover, saying a senior leader of the group had met the Indian envoy to Qatar at the Doha embassy. In an appeal to the international community, the open letter said: “No country in the region should be excluded from, nor isolate itself from, collaborative efforts to bring peace in Afghanistan and promote national reconciliation and national reconstruction.” It added: “This requires India, Pakistan, China, Russia, Iran and other countries to evolve and implement a common strategy, in cooperation with the United Nations, USA, EU and other members of the international community.” While asking the international community to jointly shoulder the responsibility for rebuilding Afghanistan’s war-damaged economy, the letter urged the Taliban to ensure that no terrorist organisation was given sanctuary. The other signatories to the letter are former foreign minister Natwar Singh, former Delhi lieutenant governor Najeeb Jung, writers Vaidpratak Vaidik and Saeed Naqvi, retired diplomat K.C. Singh, Gandhian activist Sandeep Pandey, former Rajya Sabha member Majeed Memon, and the former aide to Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Sudheendra Kulkarni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Agencies brace for Taliban effect in Jammu and Kashmir||The resurgence of the Taliban has serious security implications for India, especially in Jammu and Kashmir, and there is apprehension that Afghanistan will soon become a terror hub to be used by anti-India elements, sources in the security establishment have said. Government sources said India’s internal and external secret agencies had been keeping a close eye on the growing influence of the Taliban, which have links with Pakistan-based terror outfits Lashkar-e-Toiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Haqqani network, a Taliban faction. “The resurgence of the Taliban has become a serious security concern for India and the threat cannot be downplayed. There is genuine fear that we could now witness the resurgence of cross-border terrorism in Kashmir in a big way,” an Intelligence Bureau official told The Telegraph. India, he said, is already facing two hostile neighbours — Pakistan and China — on its western and northern borders. “We are already dealing with plenty of problems on our borders and the Taliban could act as a force multiplier,” he said. A former official of RAW, India’s external spy agency, said it was a precarious situation and nobody knew what would happen in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the US forces. “But one thing is undeniable that the resurgence of the Taliban will make it easier for the Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) and other terror groups from Pakistan to establish sanctuaries on Afghan soil,” he said. A retired IB director said the Pakistan-China axis would use the Taliban against India. “India is now facing a big challenge to safeguard its interests in the wake of the Taliban resurgence,” he said. The Haqqani group continues to be the best armed and trained Taliban faction. In the past, it had carried out attacks against Indian assets, including the embassy in Kabul. “The nexus between Pakistan’s ISI and the Haqqani group is very strong and this is alarming for India and poses a real security risk,” the former IB director said. There is fear that the ISI can use the Haqqani network to train terror recruits in Afghanistan and send them to India to conduct militant attacks. In the past, Pakistan had used Afghanistan soil to train jihadis for terrorism in Kashmir, he said. The IS-K is the Afghanistan and Pakistan arm of the Islamic State and was founded in 2015 in Nangarhar province in the eastern part of Afghanistan bordering Pakistan. It is the most violent of all the jihadist militant groups in Afghanistan and is not affiliated to the Taliban leaders who have seized control of Afghanistan’s government. “Among its ranks, the group has both Afghan Talibanis and Pakistani militants. Many of the disgruntled Taliban fighters had joined the group as they considered their own organisation too moderate,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. The IS-K has taken responsibility for the terror attack at Kabul airport on August 26 that killed at least 170 civilians, including 13 US troops. In March last year, the terror group had attacked a gurdwara in Kabul that killed 25 people. Sources in the security establishment said the IS-K’s core group had nearly 5,000 militants but smaller cells were active across Afghanistan. Qaida message Al Qaida has congratulated the Taliban for the Afghanistan takeover and called for the “liberation” of Kashmir. “…Liberate the Levant, Somalia, Yemen, Kashmir and the rest of the Islamic lands from the clutches of the enemies of Islam…. Grant freedom to Muslim prisoners across the world,” al Qaida prayed in a statement. Additional reporting by Muzaffar Raina||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India|| First woman to read news bulletin in Hindi on BBC passes away||Rajni Kaul, a distinguished broadcaster who became the first woman to read a news bulletin in Hindi on BBC nearly 60 years ago, passed away in Faridabad on Tuesday. She was 93.  She was cremated on Wednesday, family sources said.  Born in Peshawar, now in Pakistan, Kaul worked with All India Radio (AIR) in New Delhi before joining the Voice of America (VOA) in Washington and then BBC in London.  She was the first woman to join BBC Hindi as a staffer and became the first woman to read a news bulletin in Hindi on the network in 1961.  She was married to eminent broadcast journalist late Mahendra Kaul who also worked with the VOA and the BBC. They had settled down in London.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Australian envoy meets Nalco brass||Barry O’Farrell, high commissioner of Australia to India, has appreciated the business operations of Odisha-based National Aluminium Company Ltd and expressed optimism on strengthening bilateral ties, particularly in the mining, energy and minerals sector, with thrust on aluminium. A high-level Australian delegation led by O’Farrell visited Nalco’s corporate office at Bhubaneswar on Tuesday and interacted with chairman-cum-managing director Sridhar Patra and members of the company’s management team. Officials of Nalco, a leading manufacturer and exporter of alumina and aluminium under the ministry of mines, apprised the Australian team about the various business activities of the company, spanning the entire value chain of aluminium manufacturing, starting from bauxite mining to production of world-class aluminium end products. Nalco, a Navaratna company, is one of the highest net foreign exchange earning central public sector enterprises in the country and is recognised globally for its quality products. Other members of the Australian delegation included consul general Rowan Ainsworth, Amy Keough, first secretary, Australian High Commission, and Partha Sen, business development manager, Australian Trade and Investment Commission, Calcutta. Radhashyam Mahapatro, director (HR), and M.P. Mishra, director (projects and technical) and other senior officials of Nalco were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||BJD protests against Centre’s apathetic attitude towards Odisha||The ruling Biju Janata Dal in Odisha on Wednesday hit the streets against the Centre’s failure to ensure adequate supply of fertilisers to the state that has hit farming activities badly. A delegation of BJD leaders later met governor Prof Ganeshi Lal to lodge their protest against the Centre’s apathetic attitude towards the state. The BJD’s protest coincided with the beginning of Odisha Assembly’s monsoon session with focus on a possibility of a drought in the state. The House witnessed hullabaloo on the issue forcing the Speaker to adjourn proceedings frequently in the morning session. However, normal business resumed later with MLAs discussing the drought issue. The monsoon session will continue till September 9. The House witnessed uproar when Speaker S.N. Patro had refused to cancel the Question Hour and instead took up the drought issue through a special discussion. This forced the Speaker to adjourn the House. Agriculture minister Arun Kumar Sahoo has assured the House that a contingent crop action plan has been prepared to face the possible drought in Odisha. He described in detail how the state has been hit by scanty rainfall Farmer-related issues took the centrestage both inside and outside the Assembly. While it was the prospects of a drought that generated heat in the House outside the temperature rose on the issue of the Centre’s failure to supply the required quantity of fertilisers to the state. “Following repeated requests from Odisha, the Centre had agreed to provide adequate urea and DAP to farmers. But it has failed to keep its commitment. Now lakhs of farmers are suffering,” said BJD’s senior leader Sanjay Kumar Das Burma while protesting on the farmers’ issue near the Raj Bhavan. He said the farmers have cultivated paddy and non-paddy crops on 61.96 hectares of land. “An agreed action plan was finalised between the state government and the Centre on the issue of providing fertilisers to farmers within a stipulated time. But the Centre failed miserably,” he said. However, BJP termed it as a blatant lie. “The ruling BJD has failed on all fronts. In order to hide their failure, they have taken up the issue of farmers. As per the Odisha government’s figure, a .364 lakh metric tonne of urea, 1.85 lakh metric tonne of DAP and other fertilisers have been provided to the state by the Centre. But the state has failed to distribute it to farmers. Now they are shifting the blame on the BJP,” said BJP’s state general secretary Golak Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani dies after prolonged illness||Pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani died here on Wednesday after a prolonged illness, officials said. Geelani, who was a member of banned Jamaat-e-Islami and chairman of hardline Hurriyat Conference, had been suffering from various ailments for nearly last two decades. He was a former MLA from the Sopore constituency of Jammu and Kashmir in 1972, 1977 and in 1987. Former chief minister and People's Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti informed about his death on Twitter. "Saddened by the news of Geelani sahab's passing away. We may not have agreed on most things but I respect him for his steadfastness & standing by his beliefs. May Allah Ta'aala grant him jannat & condolences to his family & well wishers," Mehbooba Mufti has tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt appoints 10 IPS officers to assist SIT probe on post-poll violence||Bengal government has appointed ten IPS officers to assist a special investigating team (SIT) formed by the Calcutta High Court to probe cases of post-poll violence in the state, a senior official said on Thursday. The officers have been deployed for north, west and south zones of the state as well as for the Kolkata Police areas, he said. "The services of the IPS officers are hereby spared, in addition to their normal duties, to assist the SIT constituted by the Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta (sic)," an order issued by the state home department stated. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court had on August 19 ordered the constitution of the SIT comprising IPS officers Soumen Mitra, Suman Bala Sahoo and Ranbir Kumar to look into the incidents of post-poll violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Sharad Kumar Yadav: Not visiting school before winning gold||A leap of 1.83m won Patna boy Sharad Kumar Yadav the high jump bronze at the Tokyo Paralympics on Tuesday. But for the champion with a polio-affected left leg, a visit to his old school in Darjeeling, set 7,500 feet above the sea level, is still a mountain too high to climb. Sharad, 30, is willing to visit any place on earth but not his alma mater until he has won gold in a Paralympic Games. St Paul’s School must therefore wait at least three more years — till the Paris Paralympic Games — before it can hope to welcome back a former student whose career it has been following with pride for years and who has now earned national fame. Sharad, back in Delhi from Japan where he participated in the T42 category high jump, told The Telegraph in a short WhatsApp message on Wednesday that a bronze was not good enough to warrant a visit to St Paul’s. “Not good yet. (No) Gold yet,” he wrote. It’s a position the high jumper had articulated as far back as 2016, months before the Rio Paralympics, when St Paul’s invited him as chief guest to its annual sports day. Sharad, who had won the Asian Games gold in 2014 with a record jump, told one of his teachers, Arnold Mukhia, that he would visit St Paul’s only after bagging a Paralympics gold. When a podium finish eluded him at Rio, Sharad stuck to his word. Sharad has not visited his old school, where he had enrolled in 2001 as a Class IV student and studied till Class X, since leaving after his boards in 2008. Struck by polio in the left leg when he was just two years old, Sharad would clear heights at St Paul’s that his able-bodied peers could not. He set the school record in the high jump. While most of the others would try the western roll (with the belly down) or scissors (upright jump) technique, Sharad perfected the Fosbury Flop (with the belly up), followed by all the top high jumpers in the world. “We would never have encouraged the Fosbury Flop as it’s dangerous and there was no provision for mats. They had to land on mud and that could be risky,” Angelo Alva, a teacher at St Paul’s, had earlier told this newspaper. Sharad played football, cricket, basketball and badminton too. “He was the school team goalkeeper and wicketkeeper, and represented the school in athletics,” Alva had said. Before Sharad, St Paul’s had produced two Olympians — Paul Raschid, a boxer who participated in the 1948 London Games, and Peter Hildreth, who competed in the 110-metre hurdles in the 1952, 1956 and 1960 Olympics. From St Paul’s, Sharad went to Modern School in Delhi, graduated from Kirori Mal College and earned his postgraduate degree from JNU. On Wednesday, he said he was willing to visit all these institutions but not St Paul’s without the ultimate prize.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Mobile vans to boost vaccination in north Bengal||The Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) will soon launch 10 mobile vans to expedite Covid19 vaccination in different parts of north Bengal. Sourav Chakraborty, the SJDA chairman, said: her on Wednesday that Chandrima Bhattacharya, the junior health minister of state, in her recent visit to north Bengal, had instructed the SJDA to take the task of augmenting the vaccination process in the region.  “We have decided to introduce 10 airconditioned mobile vans from the second week of this month which will roam across north Bengal, including the hills, Terai and Dooars. People who are yet to get first or second dose can reach out to these vans and get themselves jabbed.” According to Chakraborty, the vans will be stationed in 10 different towns of north Bengal. Every day, the vehicles, along with trained staff, will move into different areas, especially rural belts, where majority of the people are yet to be vaccinated. “Each vehicle will have a doctor and two nurses on board. All necessary health protocols would be followed during the drive,” said a source. Initially, the vans will move in places like Siliguri, Jalpaiguri, Nagrakata, Malbazar, Maynaguri, Dhupguri, Falakata, Birpara, Banarhat and Alipurduar. “Gradually, the vehicles will also ascend to the hills and move in places like Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Mirik,” the source added. The SJDA officials said the facility will ease vaccination of senior citizens and physically challenged people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Three in net with fake notes in Malda||Acting on a tipoff, a team of the Golapganj investigation centre under Kaliachak police station in Malda district on Tuesday nabbed three persons, including two residents of Maharashtra, with fake Indian currency notes (FICN) of around Rs 5 lakh on them. The fake currency was in denominations of Rs 500, police sources said. The team, led by Sukumar Roy, a subinspector of Golapganj investigation centre, conducted the raid at 10pm at Baburbona in Kaliachak and arrested Iftikar Muktar Ahmed Ansari, Mohammad Wasim Khan and Mohammad Asmaul Haque. After the trio's arrest, the police found out that Ansari was from Chunabhatti police station area under Mumbai suburban district while Khan is from Kamothe police station area in Raigarh district of Maharashtra. Haque, on the other hand, is from Uttar Laxmipur under Mothabari police station of Malda district. “During preliminary probe, it was found that the duo from Maharashtra had come to Malda to buy the fake currency notes,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda superintendent of police. “All three would be interrogated to obtain more information. They are suspected to be associated with a racket that deals in fake currency and has its tentacles spread from Bengal to Maharashtra,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda cops lend a hand at Duare Sarkar camps||Police officers and civic volunteers in Malda went to at least nine Duare Sarkar camps and helped aspiring beneficiaries of the state’s social welfare schemes fill up application forms to mark Police Day on Wednesday. At the camps, police personnel also arranged chairs and tables, set up assistance counters. “We just wanted to help,” said Ashis Das, the inspector–in–charge of Englishbazar police station, who sat under the scorching sun to fill up 150 application forms at a camp in Kotwali on the outskirts of Malda town. The police initiative earned smiles from aspiring beneficiaries, especially women who applied for Lakshmir Bhandar, a monthly cash aid scheme. “They are educated people and made no mistake in filling up the forms. This apart, their very presence at the camp ensured discipline. Everybody stood properly in the queue, waiting for her turn,” said Rakhi Choudhury, a domestic help. The initiative, police sources said, was also taken to prevent unscrupulous people from charging money in exchange for filling up the forms at the camps. In north Bengal, a number of such cases and even arrests have been reported last week. “We have heard about such people who charge money. But today (Wednesday), it was altogether a different experience. We did not face any inconvenience in submitting our applications because the police officers were there to help us,” Kiran Mondal, a homemaker, said. Police also distributed masks and clothes among the poor and held friendly volleyball matches in association with local clubs. “Such initiatives help strengthen the relationship between the police and people,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria. “We will take up similar activities in future too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal govt plea in SC to recall 2006 DGP verdict||Bengal on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to recall its 2006 judgment which had ordered the appointment of director general of police in states through UPSC empanelment. The Mamata Banerjee government’s contention is that such a role for a central agency would erode the country’s federal structure under which states alone are entitled to deal with the law enforcement machinery. The Bengal government had on Tuesday appointed Manoj Malaviya as the DGP on a temporary basis. Sources said Malaviya had to be given the charge temporarily as the UPSC failed to send a list of three IPS officers from whom the state was to choose the DGP. The state government has moved the application in the case of Amicus Curiae Vs UoI, in which senior advocate Harish Salve had approached the court in 2018 alleging violations of the judgment by a large number of states. Salve had been appointed the amicus curiae in the case by the Supreme Court. According to the Bengal government, the impugned order passed in 2006 and subsequently reiterated in 2018 with certain modifications ought to be recalled as the Constitution neither vest the UPSC with the task of appointing the DGP nor does it have the expertise to empanel such officers for the crucial posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Training for staff at blood banks across north Bengal||The state health department has decided to open a zonal level training centre for the staff serving in the blood banks across north Bengal at the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre (RBTC) at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Mridumay Das, the RBTC director, said: “A zonal training centre for blood banks will be opened at the RBTC. We have the infrastructure ready and once it is functional, technicians, medical officers, and the nursing staff who are associated with government-run blood banks in north Bengal, can be trained here. Altogether, there are 19 state-run blood banks in the region. Now, the staff at these centres need to go to Calcutta for annual training sessions. Sources said the RBTC had sent a proposal to State Blood Transfusion Council for opening such a facility earlier. The decision was made but the process of setting up the training centre got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Das also mentioned that even a few years back, there was only one medical college, NBMCH, in north Bengal. “But now that there are five medical colleges in the region along with a number of hospitals, such a training centre was necessary. We hope it will start functioning soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||New Dakshin Dinajpur University camp office opens||A camp office of the new Dakshin Dinajpur University (DDU) announced by the state government was formally opened at a rented building in Chawkbhabani area of Balurghat town, South Dinajpur district, on Wednesday. This is the sixth university to come up in north Bengal region. Its classes — postgraduate courses in English, political science and mathematics — are set to start from this October. The state government has already appointed Sanchari Roy Mukherjee, a senior faculty member of North Bengal University, as the vice-chancellor, and Panjar Kundu, the principal of Balurghat College, as the additional registrar in charge of the new varsity. On Wednesday, the camp office was opened by South Dinajpur district magistrate Ayesha Rani A., along with superintendent of police Rahul Dey in presence of the vice-chancellor and other varsity  officials. “The camp office of the varsity has been opened today (Wednesday). Under the earlier announcement, we intend to start classes for postgraduate courses in English, political science and mathematics from October this year. The official website of the varsity has also been opened and students intending to pursue postgraduate courses in these subjects can apply till September 15,” the vice-chancellor said. In South Dinajpur, a separate varsity set up in the district had been a longstanding demand of residents. “This camp office will function on a temporary basis. For the permanent building of DDU, the administration has already identified land at Mahinagar area of Balurghat town. Till the building comes up, classes of the new university would be held at Balurghat College,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Narada: ED files chargesheet on Bengal ministers||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and suspended IPS officer S.M.H. Mirza in the Narada sting case. In the chargesheet submitted to a special court, the ED has said “further investigation” is required in respect of Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee, Iqbal Ahmed, Aparupa Poddar and “some unknown persons”. The court ordered issuance of summons to the five accused and their appearance on November 16. The court has directed that the summons to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the Assembly speaker as the trio are legislators. Summons to the other two would be served directly at their addresses, the court said. “Four leaders and an IPS officer have been charged under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA),” said Abhijit Bhadra, a lawyer who appeared on behalf of the central investigating agency. “We sought permission for further questioning of these four leaders as a part of the probe and the court has granted it.” ED officials said Wednesday’s chargesheet followed a criminal case drawn up by the CBI in the Narada sting case. Trinamul Congress leader Abhisek Banerjee’s wife Rujira has sent a letter to the ED, expressing her inability to turn up in New Delhi for questioning in connection with a money laundering case. The ED had asked Rujira and Abhishek to appear for questioning in Delhi on September 1 and 6, respectively. Instead, Rujira requested the agency to question her at her Calcutta residence, ED sources said. In the letter addressed to an assistant director of the ED, Rujira wrote: “This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021 asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk.” ED officials declined comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll violence: Bengal moves SC for stay on HC-ordered CBI probe||The Bengal government on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay on a Calcutta High Court verdict that had asked the CBI to probe alleged murders and rapes during violence following counting of Assembly poll votes in Bengal on May 2. The state said the high court order on August 19 had been based on a  report filed by a committee appointed by the National Human Rights Commission. The government said the NHRC committee had members who were linked to the BJP. The high court had also ordered that immediate action be taken by the state to pay compensation to the victims of the violence. The special leave petition by the Mamata Banerjee government is yet to be listed formally for a hearing by the Supreme Court. According to the appeal, the impugned order cannot be sustained as it was contrary to several judgments by the Supreme Court in various cases earlier. Referring to the earlier verdicts of the Supreme Court, the petition said transfer of probes to the CBI could be “in rare or exceptional cases only and not merely because some unsubstantiated allegations have been levelled against the local police”. “The impugned order (High Court) fails to explain as to how the investigations done thus far by the State police were tainted or biased or did not inspire any confidence, which are necessary prerequisite for transfer of cases to the CBI as held in the said decisions,” read the appeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Five BJP MLAs in north Bengal skip first party meeting ||Five BJP MLAs from north Bengal skipped the first post-poll party conference of MLAs convened here on Wednesday, fuelling speculations on whether this region’s saffron camp would also see defections similar to two back-to-back ones in south Bengal that have reduced the party’s legislative count to 72. Twenty-four of 29 MLAs from north Bengal took part in the event that mulled on strategic ways to consolidate the party base in the region. MLAs Ashok Lahiri (Balurghat), Satyen Roy (Gangarampur), Manoj Oraon (Kumargram), Joyel Murmu (Habibpur) and Gopal Saha (Maldaha) were absent. “One or two may be ill or have problems. But it is surprising that five didn’t come. We believe senior party leaders will talk to them,” a senior party member said. Manoj Tigga, the BJP MLA of Madarihat and party’s chief whip in the Assembly, put up a brave face. “We can vouch for the fact that none of our MLAs in north Bengal will walk out of the party,” he said. However, the absence of the five also raised questions on whether the demand for statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal, flagged by the party’s Alipurduar MP John Barla, who is also a Union minister now, has created a rift among BJP legislators of the region. While state unit chief Dilip Ghosh appeared to back Barla, many others in the BJP haven’t. “Prominent state leaders like Rahul Sinha and Locket Chatterjee have spoken against it. There is a similar undertone of disgruntlement among some elected leaders of north Bengal too,” said an insider. On Wednesday, Tigga told newspersons the demand was the “personal opinion of those who have said it” and that the “party has not taken any stand on the issue.” A few minutes later, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, also a national spokesperson of the party, defended the demand. “If people of north Bengal want a separate state under the Constitution, we will stand with them and raise the issue at appropriate quarters, be it the Parliament or in the Assembly,” he said. On Tuesday evening, state unit chief Ghosh had expressed discontent at being kept in the dark about the meeting. Tigga apologised for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Four crore Covid jabs given in West Bengal: Mamata Banerjee ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday placed the responsibility of Covid-19 vaccine shortage on the Centre while asserting that despite constraints, Bengal had been meeting its vaccination targets. On Wednesday, Bengal administered over 4.47 lakh doses from 2,112 vaccination centres, 1,809 of them run by the government, taking the total number of jabs to around 4.16 crore or around 41.6 per cent of the population. Of them, over 1.17 crore are second doses, taking the total of fully vaccinated people to around 11.7 per cent of its population. The corresponding figures for India stand at 37.8 per cent of the population with at least one dose and 11.3 per cent with both doses. “We don’t make promises that we turn our backs on. We make promises that we are serious about, promises we can deliver on. It is important to maintain that transparency, for credibility,” said Mamata at Panagarh, in an apparent jibe at the BJP-led Centre. “The Centre has been procuring vaccines, and the state government is responsible for them being administered. There has been hardly any wastage in Bengal (about 7 per cent)…. We crossed the 4 crore target yesterday, but need around 14 crore doses,” she added. Calcutta leads with over 58 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas with nearly 43 lakh doses and Hooghly with more than 25 lakh doses so far. Bengal on Wednesday recorded 679 new Covid cases, 681 recoveries and 12 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 14 to reach 8,801 now. Calcutta logged 106 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 116 new cases. These were the only two districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. North 24-Parganas reported three. Regarding vaccination, nearly 98 lakh doses have been administered to the 60-plus age group, while around 1.39 crore doses have been administered to those between 45 and 60 years and close to 1.8 crore doses to the 18-44 age group. Adverse events following immunisation were reported in 0.009 per cent of the cases in Bengal. “We have the third wave in mind. We are now considering whether children need to be vaccinated. If necessary, the government will initiate a mass immunisation programme (for children), similar to the drive against polio,” she said. Mamata once again assured people of Bengal that her government was in the process of distributing all vaccine doses made available to the state, urging against rush that might lead to chaos. “Whatever is available (vaccine doses) with us, we are distributing it promptly. I request everyone not to rush…. The government will let everyone know when and where vaccines will be given, and there is no reason to overcrowd vaccination centres,” she said, apparently referring to commotion at a vaccination centre in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday, which left several injured. “Please do not heed rumours and contribute to baseless panic.” Currently, the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 98.24 per cent, its highest in this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. The state's daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.22 lakh recoveries and 18,459 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Blow to Visva-Bharati VC, Centre stops varsity closure||The purported decision of Visva-Bharati executive council headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to close the varsity sine die was kept on hold following a directive from the Union education ministry on Wednesday as the Centre did not consider the situation grave enough for such a move. In an emergency meeting held online on Tuesday evening, the executive council had purportedly decided to shut the university sine die — with no date set for resumption — in view of ongoing protests by students against the rustication of three student leaders. Sources at the varsity said senior officials from New Delhi had called up officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and asked him to keep the work as usual and immediately disburse the salaries and pensions, which had been withheld purportedly at the directive of the VC. “The ministry clearly directed us, verbally, not to close the varsity sine die, immediately. A top official of the education ministry asked the vice-chancellor to keep the decision on hold and not to implement it till a grave situation emerges. Such a decision, following only a students’ movement, would tarnish the image of not only the central varsity but also the education ministry,” said a senior official. A varsity official said the salaries and pensions would be credited to the employees’ accounts soon. He said the directives from Delhi were a setback for Chakrabarty. “However, the ministry did not ask for the revocation of the executive council’s decision. The VC can implement it anytime if it’s green-lit by Delhi,” he added. The ministry, said another official, is also “unhappy” over discontinuing the processes of conducting admissions and publishing results. A petition was moved before Calcutta High Court by Visva-Bharati authorities, seeking judicial intervention in the ongoing stalemate over the agitation by a section of students and teachers, allegedly with the active support of “outsiders”. The petition also demanded action against the agitators by the state. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha fixed the hearing of the case on Thursday. “We were surprised when we found that the notification of closure of the varsity sine die did not come even late on Wednesday although the decision had been taken unanimously at the council. Later, I came to know that the education ministry had ordered that it be put on hold,” said a member of the council. “It is grave injustice to Chakrabarty, for students to gherao him for days…,” he added. The RSS’s student arm ABVP issued a press release on Wednesday afternoon, asking the administration to engage in dialogue with the protesting students so that the admissions and the declaration of results were not hampered. “The demand of the ABVP proves the saffron camp is also against such a decision of Chakrabarty, who whimsically rusticated the students and then tried to close the varsity, to serve his own interests,” said a senior professor of the varsity. A group of the Congress’s leaders and workers, headed by party’s Birbhum district chief Miltan Rashid, agitated in front of Chakrabarty’s residence, demanding his resignation and rescinding of the rustication of the three students. On Wednesday, a police team was deployed in front of Chakrabarty’s residence to avoid untoward incidents. Somnath Sow, a rusticated and protesting student, said: “We did not stop any services to the vice-chancellor so far. We even offered to bring him his essentials. He is trying to stage a drama.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata Banerjee outlines her focus on industrialisation||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday outlined her focus on industrialisation after highlighting that her government has done a lot in terms of social welfare, her announcement indicating that she would make job creation in Bengal a priority in her third term in office. “We are already in the number one position in implementing social welfare schemes. Now my focus will be on industry and generating employment. We have already announced a number of big industrial projects at a cost of several hundreds crores and a series of industrial infrastructure in the state,” Mamata said at the Panagarh Industrial Park in West Burdwan. Mamata was in Panagarh to lay the foundation stone of a Rs 1,250-crore polyester film manufacturing factory of the Calcutta-based Dhunseri Group on around 30 acres at the industrial park. This project will also create direct and indirect employment of around 15,000, sources said. Since Mamata’s government came to power for the third consecutive time and she took oath in May this year, the state government has launched Lakshmir Bhandar, a direct cash transfer scheme, for nearly 2 crore women. The state government has also launched an enhanced financial assistance scheme, Krishak Bandhu, for 62 lakh farmers. Apart from these, the state has been running several welfare schemes such as pension for aged SC/ST people and widow pension. “Now, the chief minister has decided to focus on industry, primarily for two reasons. First, she had promised 1.5 crore jobs for the youths in the state, and second, the state needs to generate more revenue to run welfare schemes,” said a senior government official, adding that if industries come up, the state would earn more revenue through GST. The chief minister rolled out a broad outline to make her plan a successful one. “We have set up an empowered group of which I am the chairperson. We have also adopted a single-window formula to help and address the issues of industrialists. We have decided to hold at least one meeting in a month in this regard,” she said. Mamata then pointed out some projects on which she was relying heavily to change the scenario in the state. She first mentioned the Rs 15,000-crore coal mining project of Deocha-Panchami, which according to her will change the industrial landscape of Birbhum, Burdwan, and several districts in the western parts of the state. “There will be no scarcity of electricity in Bengal in the next 100 years once the coal mine project comes up. The cost of electricity will also be cheaper. The required land for the first phase of the project is ready from the government’s land bank,” she said while adding that the rehabilitation package for the next phase is also being prepared. Sources said that the state is banking on the project as it has the potential of creating 1 lakh direct and indirect jobs. Mamata is also banking on the proposed deep sea port in East Midnapore’s Tajpur. “Work for the new sea port at Tajpur will start soon. The work was delayed because of the Centre. Presently we have only two ports in the state,” she said. She added that an industrial corridor named Jungle Mahal Sundari is also coming up between Hooghly’s Dankuni to Raghunathpur in Purulia via Panagarh, Durgapur in West Burdwan and Borjora in Bankura districts. “The industrial corridor will fetch an investment of Rs 72,000 crore and work is on. A dedicated freight corridor is also coming up between Dankuni and Amritsar. I had initiated the freight corridor when I was the railway minister. Lakhs of jobs will be generated from these initiatives,” she said. The chief minister also announced an ethanol production promotion policy of her government to give emphasis on biofuel. “The importance of ethanol as a biofuel is growing as it is cheaper and environment-friendly. The raw material of biofuel is rice which is cheap and easily available in Bengal. This new policy will encourage growing industries as well as help the farmers to increase their income,” she said, adding around 50,000 jobs will be created from this initiative which will bring an investment of around Rs 1,500 crore. “We will set up a data centre industry in the state. Our aim is also to set up a data handling and storage hub here that can cater to the demand of not only the eastern zone but also Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The state government will help industrialists to set up the hub,” she added. She asked officials to take initiatives to hold the Bengal Global Business Summit this year after a gap of two years to focus on drawing investment in the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed pain over the BJP government’s “apathy” towards rising petrol prices and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene. “I would request the Hon’ble Prime Minister to kindly act upon the concerns of our people and withdraw such hikes, immediately,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea wage revision eyes January 2022 deadline||The Mamata Banerjee government has taken up the task to expedite the process of fixing minimum wages for tea workers of Bengal and finalise it by January 2022. On Tuesday, a meeting of the minimum wage advisory committee, formed in 2015, was held in Calcutta in the presence of state labour minister Becharam Manna. “At the meeting, it was decided to form a smaller, six-member committee, comprising two representatives each from trade unions and tea planters, along with two senior officials of the department. The committee will prepare a draft proposal on minimum wage rate in consultation with industry stakeholders,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general of the Tea Association of India. Though six years have gone by since the advisory committee was formed, the minimum wage is yet to be fixed. Tea workers and non-managerial employees (staff and sub-staff) have, however, received interim hikes. “But this time, the state appears to be serious. During the meeting, the state labour minister had said the state wants the wage rate to be finalised within the next quarter so that it can be put into effect in January 2022. The smaller committee will ready the draft proposal so that a meeting can be held in the first week of next month,” said a source. This comes at a time the BJP government of Himanta Biswa Sarma in Assam, which produces the most tea in the country, decided to form seven sub-committees for recommendations to develop the tribal population in its tea belt. The committees have been asked to submit recommendations by December so that the state can come up with a package in the next fiscal budget. “Now that the BJP government there is taking this initiative, it seems the Trinamul government here wants to fix the minimum wage earlier,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Ghosh and Suvendu differ on reasons for defection||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari spoke in contradictory tones as they tried to cite reasons at a press meet in Calcutta on Wednesday for the recent defection of two party MLAs to the Trinamul Congress. While Adhikari said MLAs Tanmoy Ghosh and Biswajit Das had not taken part in the BJP’s activities in the past four months, Ghosh alleged that the duo had been coerced into switching sides by the state administration. The differences in the stances taken by Ghosh and Adhikari came out at the news conference, which the two leaders attended along with party spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. “How can two leaders contradict themselves, sitting right beside each other at the same news conference?” asked a BJP state-level functionary. “If the defectors had not been keeping in touch with our party for the past four months, the administration didn’t have to do much to make them go back to Trinamul. They were already on their way out,” said the functionary. Adhikari spoke about the distance that Tanmoy, an MLA from Bishnupur, and Biswajit, an MLA from Bagda, had developed with the BJP since May this year. “Even after winning 213 seats, they (Trinamul) need more MLAs.…In the past two days, they have inducted two MLAs who had no connection with the party (BJP),” Adhikari said. After the Nandigram MLA finished his briefing, Ghosh took a contradictory position vis-à-vis Adhikari while explaining the reason for the defections. “Our MLAs are being targeted. Those from backward classes are being threatened by police...Shyamababu has been arrested and other MLAs have been tagged to it,” he said. Ghosh had previously said Tanmoy had been forced to switch over to Trinamul because he had been tagged in the case of monetary misappropriation that led to the arrest of former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee. To demonstrate the legislative party’s strength, the BJP presented 10 of its MLAs from Bankura, Bishnupur and Bongaon at the news conference. Joyel Murmu, the MLA from Habibpur Assembly segment of Malda, was also present at the press meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Curbs on banking hours withdrawn in Bengal ||The state government has allowed banks to operate according to their normal working hours even though other restrictions will continue till September 15 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The relaxations for the banks would come into effect from Thursday. Earlier, the banks were allowed to function till 3pm on working days. The working hours for most banks vary between 9.30am and 5.30pm. Senior government officials said the banks were allowed to work normally as many of the beneficiaries of welfare schemes of the government were facing trouble opening accounts. The Duare Sarkar programme is on and more than one crore footfall has already been recorded at the camps. “Many of the beneficiaries who are applying for the schemes need to open bank accounts. The restricted working hours in the banks were creating trouble for them,” said a senior official. Sources also said the state government was trying to increase vaccination in rural areas to ensure that the novel coronavirus didn’t create havoc even if the third wave of the pandemic hit the state. “Moreover, the chief minister has announced that once 50 per cent of the eligible rural population are vaccinated, suburban local trains would be allowed to operate,” said a source. So far, more than 4 crore doses have been administered in Bengal, while the state requires 14 crore vaccines to cover seven crore eligible people. The Election Commission of India held a video conference with Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Wednesday to take note of the Covid-19 situation in the state amid questions over when bypolls to seven Assembly segments would be held in the state. “The ECI wanted to know about issues like the Covid-19 situation and vaccination progress. But the poll panel did not say when the bypolls could be held,” said a source. The bypolls are significant as Mamata Banerjee has to get elected by November 5 to continue as the chief minister. She had lost the Assembly polls in Nandigram to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. The Trinamul Congress had submitted several memoranda to the poll panel for the immediate byelections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
02-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Eyes wide open||Big Brother is watching. Digital technology has been used in India in a limited way for some time now. But the evolution of the tools of surveillance and their gradual incursion into public space are leading to growing concern about privacy. Consider the employment of facial recognition technology. A number of State-owned agencies are now integrating FRT with closed-circuit cameras to identify citizens on a real-time basis, purportedly to track criminals, aid law enforcement and facilitate business. These range from the Airports Authority of India — at present it is testing this technology in Varanasi — to educational institutions — at least a dozen government schools in Delhi were reported to have been using FRT. The profusion of FRT in a country like India that is yet to have adequate data protection laws in spite of a threefold increase in cybercrime in 2020 merits introspection. While the personal data protection bill is yet to be passed by Parliament, the Information Technology Act, 2000 is no longer adequate to address the newer challenges that have arisen on account of state-of-the-art technology. The lack of proper regulation to control the collection, storage and utilization of FRT data is problematic for several reasons. First, consent is not respected in many cases — a State-owned agency, the National Thermal Power Corporation, reportedly adopted the policy of disregarding employee consent while implementing FRT to record attendance. Second, given the poor state of digital literacy in India, the idea of ‘informed consent’ is itself doubtful: most people are not even aware of the ramifications of having their personal and biometric data recorded or when their right to privacy is violated. Ethical concerns regarding the use of FRT persist even when it is used by law enforcement agencies. Last year, the Delhi police, which is directly under the control of the Union home ministry, used facial recognition to profile 1,100 ‘rioters’ — incidentally, the Delhi High Court has expressed concern with the nature of the investigation. Furthermore, in the age of increasing spyware attacks and data harvesting, there is the additional concern of collated personal data falling into the wrong hands, threatening individual and even national security. There is, then, an urgent need for a comprehensive law defining the fair use of FRT so that transgressors can be held accountable. Given the technical nature of the problem, this can only be realized through a collaboration between policymakers and experts in the field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Congress plagued by internal strife ||Problems within Sir — The Congress has for long been plagued by internal strife which has led to its decimation in national politics (“House trouble”, Aug 27). With the party holding power in just three states — Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh — many had hoped that the Congress high command would introspect and focus on internal governance. On the contrary, infighting within the Congress state units seems to be escalating by the day. Just last year, Sachin Pilot — he was the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan at the time — and his supporters rebelled against the chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, pushing the state government to the brink of collapse. Although the feud was finally brought under control, the differences between the two have remained. Similarly the problems between the chief minister of Punjab, Amarinder Singh, and his former cabinet colleague, Navjot Singh Sidhu, have been simmering for a while. It was thus surprising that the Congress leadership thought it wise to elevate Sidhu to the post of the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Unsurprisingly, the Punjab Congress is now facing a massive internal problem just six months before the assembly elections. The Congress has announced that the party would fight the upcoming polls under Singh. This is bound to complicate matters further. Sidhu has been vocal about his displeasure with both the chief minister and the Congress high command, declaring that he ‘won’t spare anyone’ unless he is allowed to take decisions. This misstep will cost the Congress dearly in the 2022 Punjab polls. More trouble is brewing in Chhattisgarh between the health minister, T.S. Singh Deo, and the chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel. The situation is only getting worse for the Grand Old Party. The leadership vacuum at the top has emboldened warring factions to ignore directives from above. It is time the Gandhis — especially Rahul Gandhi — took concrete measures about electing a new full-time party president. Unless there is a strong leadership at the helm nationally, state units will continue to witness such internal problems. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — It is shocking that even after taking charge as the PCC president, Navjot Singh Sidhu continues to speak without considering the repercussions. He has a propensity to take a dig at those he does not agree with, even within his own party. Recently, Sidhu issued a veiled threat to the Congress after one of his key advisors, Malwinder Singh Mali, was compelled to quit his post when his controversial comments on Kashmir and several Congress members came to light. Sidhu warned that if he is not allowed to take independent decisions, he would certainly fight back. The heightened infighting has many worried that the Congress may not emerge victorious in the upcoming Punjab assembly polls. Unless the Congress high command finds a way to mitigate such internal problems, the party will continue to lose relevance nationally.N. Mahadevan, Chennai Sir — Punjab is facing immense political instability. But it is not simply because of the new PCC chief. Although Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh have their own tiffs, many in the growing list of dissidents insist that their displeasure stems from the chief minister’s over-dependence on bureaucrats at the expense of ministers and legislators. Singh must try to placate his party members if he hopes to win the next elections. No amount of intervention from Delhi will improve matters unless he makes concerted efforts to build bridges. M.R. Jayanthi, Coimbatore Sir — Recently, the National Records of Scotland issued guidelines allowing people to answer the question identifying sex in Scotland’s 2022 census based on how they identify themselves rather than according to their legal status. Transgender persons can, thus, provide an answer different from what is on the birth certificate even if they do not possess a gender recognition certificate. This is a huge step forward for LGBTQIA+ people who are often invisibilized by the State machinery. Unless governments have concrete data on different constituencies — especially the marginalized — it will be impossible to legislate appropriately. Mohana Sengupta,Calcutta  Valuable lesson Sir — In a welcome move, Nike has given its head office employees in the United States of America a week off to de-stress from the pressures of the Covid-19 pandemic. An increasing number of companies, such as Bumble and Citigroup, have taken similar steps. In contrast, most Indian companies are working their employees to the bone. Worse, many people have reportedly felt that unless they put in extra hours, they might lose their jobs. Indian companies must treat employees with empathy and implement similar initiatives. After all, stress is not conducive to productivity. Rishab Mehta,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Showtime||The edifice of history is built on facts. Yet, history can be rendered malleable — hence vulnerable. The transformation of history — from fact to fiction — can be achieved in numerous ways. The most common is through revisionism, something that authoritarian, right-wing dispensations, such as the one in power in India, have been accused of many times. Another, equally insidious, way is desecration. Desecration need not be understood as a wilful show of disrespect. It can take place, ironically, through projects that seek to ‘preserve’ sacred relics. One such instance of insensitive ‘conservation’, historians allege, has taken place with the renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh complex, the site that witnessed an unprecedented act of colonial barbarity on Indian citizens. The prime minister recently inaugurated the ‘restored’ complex, unveiling unacceptable changes to the venue. The constricted alley, through which General Reginald Dyer’s soldiers had marched before unleashing terror, has been embellished with tacky murals as well as a gleaming floor. The Martyrs’ Well, too, has not been left unscathed: it is now enclosed within a glass wall. These refurbishments — Punjab’s Congress chief minister finds them tasteful — have been conducted under the benign gaze of the Archaeological Survey of India with the Union cultural ministry pulling the strings. The garish transformation of Jallianwala Bagh — Rabindranath Tagore had renounced his knighthood in protest of the massacre — has, understandably, led to accusations of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government being complicit in a disquieting initiative to engineer a break with the past. There is, however, a deeper crisis that has gone unnoticed. The aesthetics of memorials are integral to commemoration enterprises. Around the world — be it in Hiroshima in Japan or Auschwitz in Germany — conservators have been mindful to protect, or recreate, a sense of solemnity to force visitors to contemplate on the sufferings inflicted by oppressors. A planned assault on such aesthetics, the fount of reflection, is now leading to the metamorphosis of heritage into recreation. This ‘Disneyfication’ of history and heritage, and perhaps a nation’s destiny, warrants immediate public attention. This is especially so because other sacrosanct precincts in India — M.K. Gandhi’s Sabarmati ashram in Ahmedabad is an example — may meet a similar, grisly fate soon. A parallel need is to grant autonomy to institutions skilled in conservation, such as the ASI, so that they can go about their work without meddling from the powers that be. History and its spaces must be protected from the ravages of time and spectacle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Where the mind does not matter||Another Bollywood production, another setback for issues related to mental health. Srijit Mukherji has come out with his take on Satyajit Ray’s work. He begins the anthology on a wrong-footing. The first episode of the series, “Forget me not”, is a retelling of Ray’s short story, “Bipin Choudhury’r Smritibhrom”. The protagonist loses his touch with reality after a lifetime of waywardness and arrogance, ending up in a modern psychiatric facility which is still “dark, prohibiting and dehumanizing”, just as it was in Ray’s own time. Mental health services have progressed beyond what is shown in the short film. Yet, the plot clings to age-old stereotypes such as mental breakdowns being the result of bad karma that leads one to inhospitable facilities. This is a painful reminder of contemporary storytellers being out of touch with the realities of mental health. Another recent television series, The Family Man (Season 2), makes light work of couples therapy and counselling. Here, a couple confronts interpersonal issues in their marriage and the wife wishes to avail of a counsellor’s guidance. Her husband, like most people, is hesitant to bring another person into the matter. Nonetheless, he signs up for it. But the whole therapy plot descends into a comedic cesspool thereafter and, ultimately, ends up being a ridiculous affair. The counsellor/couple therapist is caricatured: he tries to be smart, with his funny quotes and aphorisms, but is shown to be money-minded, forcing patients to buy his books. In a country battling monumental ignorance concerning therapy and counselling, the plot is unlikely to encourage Indians to seek help from mental healthcare professionals. Seeking help for mental health, something that is hard to achieve, takes quite a few steps backwards with such portrayals even if the latter are merely for comic relief. Little wonder then that citizens prefer visiting a faith healer or even a quack instead of seeking help from a psychiatrist or a counsellor. The portrayal of mental health issues requires thought and empathy. However, the show business has been averse to addressing mental health and has even mocked mental healthcare workers. Sadma and Dilwale portrayed the sufferers as clown and conniver; in Damini and Kyon Ki..., the mental health provider is incompetent, and apathetic; My Name is Khan and Black had reductionist depictions of developmental disorders; Dear Zindagi provided a rather unrealistic view of psychotherapy. This triviality is mirrored by society and successive governments. Cinema has the ability to influence collective thought and beliefs as much as social media. It is worth mentioning that the film, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, single-handedly brought the practice of electroconvulsive therapy to a complete halt in most asylums in the United States of America with its negative, punitive and inhumane portrayal of the practice. However, ECT is a potent, life-saving tool in the treatment of patients with suicidal tendencies and acute depression and it has made a comeback of sorts in the past couple of decades as a mode of treatment. Of late, Hindi film-makers have tried to be empathetic in their depiction of mental illness. But movies like Taare Zameen Par, Hichki or Karthik Calling Karthik, to cite a few examples, are few and far between. Reel and real lives are reflections of each other. The far-reaching effects of the silver screen are well-known; it has the ability to cut through cultural, social and federal boundaries. Therefore, films as well as the messages they send out are weapons of subliminal thought dissemination. To some, the message can be heresy, for others, it could be epiphanic. We must make scrupulous efforts to not reduce matters of the mind to a rhetoric of mockery and spectacle. The onus is upon the avant garde to lay the foundations of a society that not only believes in integration across the lines of race, caste and economy but also humanizes physical and mental illnesses. Mayank Rai is a psychiatrist at AIIMS, Rishikesh. Debanjan Banerjee is a psychiatrist at NIMHANS, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Troubling times||Last Tuesday, The Times (London) published a revealing report on the present state of the erstwhile military base of the United States of America, built at a cost of $68 billion, in Bagram on the outskirts of Kabul. The base — more akin to a self-sufficient township — has a 3,600-metre runway and, according to the report, is “capable of landing the Lockheed C-5 Galaxy transporters and Boeing C-17 Globemasters”. In addition, there are staff quarters, a fully-equipped field hospital, and even a prison that, at its peak in 2011, housed some 3,000 Taliban prisoners. At the dead of night on August 15, the US forces abruptly evacuated Bagram, leaving behind sophisticated arms and ammunition, hundreds of vehicles, combat helicopters and much more. Today, this military facility is in the control of Taliban forces that took pride in organizing conducted tours for the handful of Western journalists that remained till the last evacuation flight home. Speaking to The Times, Maulawi Hafiz Mohibullah Muktaz, a 35-year-old religious preacher and fighter from Kandahar, couldn’t conceal his glee. “Never in our wildest dreams,” he confessed, “could we have believed we could beat a superpower like America with just our Kalashnikovs…When you do jihad all doors open. Our lesson is that we defeated America with our faith and our guns and we hope now that Bagram can be a base for jihad for all Muslims.” The triumphalism of this mid-level Taliban functionary who was once incarcerated by the US forces in Bagram was warranted on two counts. First, the speed and the scale of the Taliban victory were dramatic. The regime of President Mohammad Najibullah had held out for nearly three years after the last of the Soviet troops departed from Afghanistan; the Ashraf Ghani regime collapsed barely two weeks after the evacuation of Bagram by the US. The remaining US and Nato forces that left by August 31, along with those lucky Afghans who managed to board the evacuation flights, did so after being guaranteed safe passage by the Taliban. The humiliation of the Western powers, but particularly the US that had poured an estimated $2 trillion into the Afghanistan project — more than what had been spent on the rebuilding of Europe after World War II — was total. Secondly, the humiliation in Afghanistan has, predictably, been accompanied by a wave of political recriminations against those believed to be responsible for the debacle. The ire has naturally been directed at President Joe Biden, who has been charged with imbecility, cowardice, selfishness and worse by his critics at home and abroad. The anger is particularly marked in the United Kingdom and France, with influential voices in both countries expressing the view that the special relationship with the US that had endured since 1941 was nearing its end. The feeling that the non-aggression pact negotiated by the Donald Trump administration — and endorsed by his successor — with the Taliban at Doha in February 2020 has left Europe vulnerable to jihadi attacks hasn’t helped matters either. Additionally, there is concern that a sizeable chunk of the five lakh or so Afghans intent on fleeing Taliban-controlled Afghanistan will make their way into Europe, adding to the existing social tensions over immigration. As the German defence minister, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, expressed it: “Afghanistan is also about our identity as a nation, a nation that wants to stand up for and do what is right.” The clear implication was that what the US had done was indefensible. Despite what the Taliban functionary told The Times about Afghanistan resuming its role as the epicentre of a global jihad, there may not be any immediate security threat to the West. The new rulers in Kabul are likely to devote their immediate attention to bringing about a measure of internal coherence, putting in place a structured leadership, putting down pockets of resistance, and imposing its vision of social control. There are indications that the Taliban will be loath to engage in bouts of adventurism before they have time to consolidate their rule. Of course, this does not preclude a chunk of the weaponry abandoned by the US from finding its way into Kashmir through Pakistan. It also does not rule out the establishment of terrorist training camps run by groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, targeting India. The return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan has been a big victory for Pakistan and Islamabad will leave no stone unturned to use this ‘strategic depth’ to target its historic enemy—India. For India, the challenges are formidable. Although New Delhi’s capacity to influence the situation on the ground in Afghanistan was very limited, it was perhaps the only power in the region that was uncompromising in its opposition to the restoration of Taliban rule. All other regional powers — particularly China, Iran and Russia — had either assisted the Taliban militarily or encouraged them in other ways. They were united in using the traditional Afghan antipathy to the presence of foreign troops to undermine the US. As of now, the exercise has been a resounding success as America stands diminished before the world, with even its allies questioning its ability to shoulder global responsibilities. The next few years may witness a churning in the US as it tries to discover a new role for itself that doesn’t involve either playing the world’s policeman or imposing its version of nation-building on countries that have other political traditions. Such an existential dilemma may also confront the European Union, which, too, has its own version of universality that it seeks to implant all over the world. The puncturing of both American and European certitudes doesn’t, however, imply that all grandiose empire-building projects have been rebuffed. The undermining of the US’s political and military influence globally, not to mention the signs of the breakdown of the mould of America’s domestic politics, has come at a time China is on the ascendant. Its ambitious Belt and Road project is certain to get a big fillip with the presence of a friendly regime in Afghanistan. The gains will be all the more if economic inroads, including lucrative mining concessions in Afghanistan, are matched by the Taliban’s ability to rein in the Uighur insurgents in Xinjiang province. Like the US once did, China has its own hegemonic strategy for Asia. For the moment, Beijing’s ambitions are not directly in conflict with Russia which, under President Vladimir Putin, is intent on pursuing two goals: undermining the influence of the US in Europe and recovering the influence of the erstwhile Soviet Union. Neither objective has been undermined by the turmoil in Afghanistan. There is, however, one big imponderable. The turbulence in Afghanistan was also, in many ways, a civil war involving doctrinaire mullahs, tribal society and modernist Muslims. The decimation of the modernists at the hands of those who flaunt their rejection of all contemporary notions of social progress is bound to cause tremors in different parts of the Islamic world in the same way as the Islamic revolution in Iran did in the 1980s. It is impossible at present to predict how this will play out, but it will not be surprising if the Taliban 2.0’s notions of Statecraft draw more from Pakistan’s Jamaat-e-Islami and Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood than from the ideals of Mullah Omar and the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. The sectarian suspicion of Shias rules out Iran having more than a marginal influence on players in Afghanistan. The so-called liberal version of universality has received a severe blow, but alternative projects based on either theological certitudes or Middle Kingdom fantasies are also filling in the void. This is certain to make India and its neighbourhood very troubled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Lady Tarzan & team to take on timber mafia operating in Dalma sanctuary||Environmentalist and Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu and her team from Van Suraksha Samity (VSS) have shifted their focus to Dalma wildlife sanctuary which is witnessing incidents of tree felling and running of illegal liquor producing units. Jamuna, who heads the VSS, will shortly hold a meeting with members of the eco development committee of Haludbani (in East Singhbhum) to discuss the issues of tree felling and illegal liquor producing units. Women members of VSS (Haludbani) will also attend the meeting. “I have spoken to eco development committee members of Haludbani about felling of trees and illegal liquor producing units inside Dalma sanctuary. It’s a serious issue which will affect the ecological balance of the sanctuary. I have decided to visit Haludbani to hold a meeting with members of eco development committee as well as VSS,” said Jamuna over phone from her village Maturkham in Chakulia block of East Singhbhum. Villagers of Haludbani had recently razed a liquor producing unit within the sanctuary. The villagers had been alerted by a guard of the sanctuary. They also recovered timber which was stored near the unit and was being used as firewood. “We will discuss the incident and also chart out plans to patrol the sanctuary for preventing tree felling. Separate team will patrol the Dalma sanctuary on rotation basis. The logistics will be worked out and a team will be formed during the meeting,” she said. According to the green crusader, there may be more liquor units operating inside the sanctuary. Members of VSS and eco development committee have been asked to keep a vigil. “I also tour the jungles on periodical intervals,” she said, while adding that there were 12 women members in the VSS Haludbani unit. I love Dalma sanctuary from the core of my heart. It is important to protect it from timber and liquor mafia. I would also like to motivate villagers living inside the sanctuary to fight them,” she added. VSS, formed in 1998, has been actively protecting the forests from timber mafia. It also has committees in Dumka, Giridih, Pakur and Godda. Lady Tarzan is known for the ferocity with which she fights the timber mafia. She had launched an awareness campaign against the futility of killing innocent animals in the name of Bishu Shikar, the annual hunting festival of tribals inside Dalma sanctuary as well as forests of Chakulia earlier this year. Thanks to her efforts, incidents of tree felling have come down in Chakulia jungles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi to resume service from September 12||Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express which goes via Tatanagar will resume services from September 12, 2021. South Eastern Railway's Calcutta-based headquarters on Thursday issued a circular announcing the time-table of the most popular train plying between the two destinations, which will run daily as Howrah-Barbil Special. The train (No. 02021), will leave Howrah daily at 6.20 am and reach Barbil at 12.55 pm. On its return journey, the train, 02022 Barbil-Howrah Special will leave Barbil daily at 1.45 pm and arrive at Howrah at 8.55 pm. The Up train will reach Tatanagar at 10 am while the return train will come to Tatanagar railway station at 4.42 pm. The train will have four AC chair cars and 14 non -AC chair car coaches. The train will stop at Kharagpur, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Chaibasa, Dongaposi, Noamundi and Barajamda stations between Howrah and Barbil. The return train will also stop at Santragachi. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Neeraj Kumar said, “Keeping in view the demand of passengers, it has been decided to resume the train service.” The train which serves the states of West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha was withdrawn on May 6 this year due to a drastic fall in seat occupancy. With Covid cases rising during the second wave, people had restricted their travel plans. Another popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, the 02829/02830 Howrah-Tata Steel Express, which was also withdrawn at the same time is yet to resume its service. The South Eastern Railway headquarters on Thursday also notified resumption of several other trains of various destinations including Jhargram-Dhanbad MEMU Special from September 7. The Jhargram-Dhanbad MEMU Special (08019) will leave Jhargram daily at 6 am and will reach Dhanbad at 1.45 pm on the same day. In the return direction, Dhanbad-Jhargram MEMU Special (08020) will depart from Dhanbad at 2.15 pm daily and will arrive Jhargram at 9.15 pm the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||State digest: Passenger train plying between Gomoh and Chopan derails near Gomoh Railway station||Dhanbad: Gomoh Chopan Passenger train plying between Gomoh and Chopan (53343) was derailed near Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Gomoh Railway station of Dhanbad division around 2.15 am today. However, the train movement, remained unaffected due to the incident as the incident took place a little away from the main line. No passenger of the affected train sustained any injury due to derailment as only one bogey of train was affected in the incident, which took place before the onset of the journey, however, 100 sleepers were damaged and the water supply pipeline of platform number 4/5 of the station was ruptured. The incident took place near the office of Chalak Niyantra Kaksha of Gomoh Railway station while the train was being brought from Yard of the station to platform number 4. Senior railway officers led by BC Mandal, Chief Yard Master and others including Rana Chankraborty and S Pal-inspector of works besides Shailendra Kumar, Permanent Way Inspector, rushed to site immediately after getting information about the incident. They supervised the rescue work during which the affected bogey was detached from train, before sending of the train to Chopan. PK Mishra, Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad Division said, “As the incident took place quite away from the railway main line so the movement of other trains remained completely unaffected due to incident.” Praduman Choubey Daltonganj: A 7-month-old make cub of a sloth bear was successfully transported to Ormanjhi- based Bhagwan Birsa Biological park in Ranchi from Gumla district today. DFO Gumla Srikant Verma told TT Online today that the cub was doing fine despite some minor scratches it suffered near one of his eyes. He said, “The cub was found alone at Bharno block’s Asro village, two days ago.” The cub appeared to have got separated from his mother opined Verma. According to him the cub is learning to lead a life without his mother. “Bharno and Sisai are two locations where sloth bears have a presence,” said the DFO Gumla. Renowned wild life campaigner Raza Kazmi said, “The villagers were the first to spot the cub and took all care of it.” He said the cub looked haggard and confused and this could be due to his separation. It has been put on a diet of fruits and milk, which he is relishing. Our Correspondent Dhanbad: Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway will be organizing camps to provide smart medical cards (UMID Card) to retired employees and family of pensioners, who have not registered for the same. These camps will be hosted at different railway stations which falls under its jurisdiction, beginning with camps at Dhanbad and Chandrapura Railway stations tomorrow. The series of camps are being organized by the personnel department with the aim of covering up the registration as well as uploading of documents of leftover retired railway employees’/family pensioners who have yet not registered/uploaded their documents for the Unique Medical Identification (UMID) card will conclude with the Hazaribagh Railway station camp, which will be organised on September 16. The employees or family pensioners are needed to bring required documents during the camp including photograph of pensioners and all the dependents, pension payment order (revised under 7th pay commission), death certificate of pensioner (in case of family pension), old medical card or Retired Employees Liberalized Health Scheme (RELHS) card, Aadhar Card of all eligible family members, latest pension slip (issued by concerned bank where pension is drawn) and Mobile number for OTP. While the camp of September 3 at Dhanbad Railway station will be held at Suvidha Kendra, camp at Chandrapura Railway station will be organized on the same day at Station Superintendent’s office of Chandrapura. The UMID registration camp at Gomoh is scheduled to be held at the Traction Rolling Stock shed of Gomoh Railway Station on September 6, while the camp at Barkakana will be held at the office of Station Superintendent (SS) of Barkakana on September 7. In Patratu the smart medical card camp will be held at the office of the Chief Yard Master on September 8 while the camp at Parasnath Railway Station will be held at the office of station master on Parasnath on September 9. The camp at Tankupa station situated in Icchoi area of Bihar will be held in the office it’s station master on September 10. The UMID registration camp for the remaining railway employees and family pensioners will be held at the officer of Station Superintendent of Daltonganj station on September 13 while the camp at Koderma Railway station will be held at its station superintendent office of Koderma on September 14. The camp at Barwadih Railway station will be held at its station superintendent’s on September 15 while the concluding day camp at Hazaribagh railway station will be held at its station superintendent office on September 16. PK Mishra, Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway said, “The concerned welfare inspectors of the area, besides a personal officer and another officer will be present at each of camp during which all issues pertaining to the registration for UMID Card will be resolved on spot.” Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s ISBT devoid of all passenger amenities, say bus operators||Dhanbad district administration’s move to ban the illegal bus stand near Dhanbad Railway station, has highlighted the messy state of affairs of Bartand Interstate Bus Terminus (ISBT). The sudden closure of the illegal bus stand now makes it mandatory for around 250 inter district and interstate buses to be parked at ISBT Bartand from tomorrow as per the new traffic rule, which will be implemented from tomorrow. Located about 800 kilometres away from the railway station, ISBT has over 18 acres of land near Bartand employment exchange, Dhanbad. But despite having a huge expanse of land, it is devoid of several key infrastructure facilities and passenger amenities like lack of seating arrangement and sheds for passengers, non-availability of drinking water facility, acute shortage of toilets and urinals, poor state and poor sanitation. This apart, lack of adequate space to accommodate around 250 inter-district and inter-state buses, narrow entrance and exit passage are turning out to be a major concern for the bus operators. The district administration as per its plan to regulate traffic in a better manner has declared closure of the bus stand operating from railway station road to avoid traffic snarls. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sanjay Singh, Vice President of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, “We are bound to abide by the new traffic rules but at the same time we would like to draw the attention of the concerned authorities regarding acute shortage of facilities at Bartand ISBT, like lack of seating arrangement and sheds for passengers.” He added, “If a new passenger comes at ISBT half an hour ahead of the scheduled departure he has no option other than to wait in one or the other shop. Also, the depot has only four toilets and two urinals and is ill equipped to handle a footfall of 5000 visitors.” “Due to lack of toilets and urinals many passengers relieve themselves in the open space, which leads to a nauseating stench,” said another bus owner, Sunil Singh. “Due to lack of availability of safe drinking water, the passengers visiting at the depot have no option other than to purchase the packaged water or queue up at the lone hand pump, which is often used by eateries to wash their wares,” said Singh. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, when contacted about the developmental work of ISBT, Anup Samanta, Executive Engineer, DMC, said “I am not aware about any new development concerning ISBT Bartand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee to set up smart parking lot at Sakchi||The shoppers visiting Sakchi market can heave a sigh of relief as a smart parking lot will be set up soon to take care of their car parking problem. The decision to have the parking lot in place was taken by Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) on Thursday. The proposed smart parking lot will be developed at the existing parking lot situated along Kalimati Road near Basant cinema. Revealing the details, JNAC city manager, Sandeep Kumar Singh said, “The smart parking lot will be a multi-layer parking facility, which will have charging points for electric vehicles.” “To make the multi-layer parking lot functional, car-lifts will be installed to ensure swift parking of the four-wheelers,” added Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also pointed out there will be adequate parking space for four-wheelers and two-wheelers in the proposed area. The JNAC city manager also mentioned about having taken a decision for bringing about a smart parking lot near the Basant Cinema, but details like the number of parking floors and capacity are yet to be worked out. “We will assign a consultant firm to make a detailed project report (DPR) for the proposed smart parking lot shortly. The details regarding the number of parking floors and vehicles-parking capacity beside other nitty gritty could be known only after the DPR is prepared,” he added. Parking while shopping has become a big issue near Sakchi market. During the festive seasons parking problems get aggravated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand mulls scrapping RTPCR tests for vaccinated, asymptomatic travellers||The state health department is thinking of considering scrapping mandatory RTPCR tests for fully-vaccinated interstate air travellers and asymptomatic passengers given that Covid cases are on the decline in Jharkhand. a letter from the health department stated. In a letter to the Disaster Management Division, additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh has cited an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory that recommends mandatory RTPCR tests for healthy individuals undertaking interstate travel be completely removed to reduce the load on Covid-19 laboratories. “To ease the pressure of testing at Ranchi Airport, it is proposed to take a decision that those who have been vaccinated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and 15 days have lapsed since the administration of the second dose of the vaccine and are in possession of the final vaccination certificate issued through the Co-Win portal be exempted from any additional tests for Covid-19 on their entry into the state,” the letter read. Besides, passengers who have either been partially vaccinated or not vaccinated at all may undergo Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) at the airport if they fail thermal scanning even if they do not suffer from any visible symptoms of the viral infection, the letter further stated. However, as per the letter, it is proposed that those passengers who have existing symptoms of the disease and also fail thermal scanning shall mandatorily undergo RTPCR test upon their arrival at Ranchi airport. At present, it is compulsory for interstate passengers to carry a negative report of an RTPCR test conducted not more than 72 hours prior to the time of departure from other states to Ranchi. Airport officials on Thursday said that passengers failing to produce a negative RTPCR test were made to undergo Covid tests upon their arrival at Ranchi airport. “Fully-vaccinated passengers with no symptoms of Covid-19 need not produce negative RTPCR test reports upon their arrival in Ranchi. But unvaccinated and partially-vaccinated passengers have to carry a negative RTPCR test report or undergo tests here after landing,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. The letter from the additional chief secretary (health), written in the wake of a communique from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, mentioned that the matter of changing the current mandates for air travellers needed “expeditious consideration.” However, a highly-placed official from the Department of Home, Jail and Disaster Management said that the department was yet to issue any official notification regarding any changes on the protocol for interstate travellers. “A decision will be taken after thoroughly studying the current situation and the risks involved in providing any relaxation,” he said, requesting not to be named. Covid cases in Jharkhand have dropped significantly in the past one month or so. As per government data, there were hardly 137 active cases of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday morning and the positivity rate in the state has been lower than 0.1 per cent throughout the month of August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||3 policemen suspended for beating army man in Chatra for not wearing a mask ||The merciless beating of an army man in Mayurhund block of Chatra for not wearing a mask made superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan act within few hours of the incident and suspending three policemen and other two were line closed. The incident took place on Wednesday afternoon in Karma Bazar area with Pawan Kumar Yadav, a general duty soldier at army's camp in Jodhpur. Ranjan took action on Wednesday midnight after getting a report in this regard from DSP(headquarter) Kedar Ram. To probe the matter, Ram reached the Karma Bazar and talked to local people and eyewitnesses. Ram also pacified villagers who had blocked the road soon after the incident. Later Ram handed over his report to Ranjan on Wednesday night which questioned the conduct of five policemen. Ranjan said three policemen were suspended with immediate effect and other two were line closed. He The Telegraph Online, "On the basis of report from DSP(headquarter), three policemen(1 Head Constable and 2 constables)  have been suspended. Two sahayak constables have been line closed." Pawan said as he reached Karma on his bike, when police jawan Sanjay Bahadur Ram stopped him and took away the keys of his vehicle. “I told them my identity but policemen there kept repeating as why I was not wearing the mask. When I showed them my helmet with face covered with visor, they started misbehaving with me followed by beating with lathis as well as punches and kicks too,” added he. Mayurhund block development officer Saket Sinha who was present on the spot and leading the mask checking drive was not held responsible for this incident. But local residents demanded action against him as he remained a mute spectator during the incident. To justify his action, Sinha issued a statement that Pawan started quarrelling first with one of the policemen which led to this incident. But DSP’s report punched a hole into this theory of Sinha. Pawan is a resident of Arabhusai village of Katkamsandi block in Hazaribagh district. Local residents, political leaders and representatives of army association has decided to meet senior officers to demand stern action against erring policemen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates record 2.05 lakh residents in a day ||Jharkhand on Wednesday achieved the highest ever single-day vaccination numbers since the launch of the immunisation drive in January with the daily figure crossing the 2-lakh-mark for the first time in the state, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,56,672 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 48,820 beneficiaries. In all, the state administered vaccines to 2,05,492 residents, the highest ever in a day. More than 1.50 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. NHM data reflected that at least 1956 session sites remained operational across Jharkhand on Wednesday. As many as 88 session sites opened their doors in Ranchi and 17,482 residents were vaccinated here. On the other hand, 26,491 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum, where 116 session sites were operational. At least 14,960 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Dhanbad on the day as 84 session sites remained operational there. As per figures shared by the health department on Wednesday evening, the state had 9,79,910 vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on the day. As per this data, at least 7.42 lakh Covishield doses and 2.36 lakh Covaxin doses were available in stock. The state has so far administered the first dose of vaccine to over 1 crore residents and at least 26 lakh of them have also received their second jab. Meanwhile, the state reported a marginal rise in the active caseload of Covid-19 as at least 27 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Wednesday while only 20 Covid patients recovered, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. The count of active cases jumped to 82 in Ranchi as the district reported at least 15 Covid cases against five recoveries. The active caseload also rose to eight in East Singhbhum as at least eight people were found infected by coronavirus there and only two patients recovered from the infection on the day. Dhanbad, Chatra and Bokaro reported two cases each, while none of the remaining 19 districts reported fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, as per the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Ranchi Municipal Corporation push for bio-gas plant construction||The Ranchi Municipal Corporation has decided to take up regular monitoring of the under-construction compressed bio-gas plant coming up in the Jharkhand capital to ensure the project is completed on time and dumping of waste at Jhiri is stopped. The trigger for the decision seems to be a video which was widely shared on social media a few days ago showing a model walking in a red dress at the garbage dump yard at Jhiri, around 15km from Ranchi. Surbhi, who said she was 2019 Miss Jharkhand, claimed that the video was intended to highlight the harmful effects of unsafe garbage dumping before the civic authorities and state government. A meeting was convened by RMC deputy municipal commissioner Sheetal Kumari on Wednesday to review the status of the waste processing project at Jhiri. “We had signed a concession agreement in March this year with GAIL (India), an integrated energy PSU in the hydrocarbon sector, for setting up a compressed bio-gas (CBG) plant in Ranchi to process the organic municipal solid waste and recycle it into compressed biogas and fermented bio-manure on a daily basis. The work began last month and we have decided to regularly monitor its progress so that the project is completed in time and waste dumping at Jhiri is stopped,” said Kumari. According to the agreement between GAIL (India) and the corporation, the plant would process 300 tonnes of organic municipal solid waste daily and will produce five tonnes of compressed biogas and approximately 25 tonnes of fermented bio-manure daily. “In the first phase, we would set up a plant with a capacity of processing 150 tonnes per day which would be completed by November-December 2022. The cost of setting up the plant would be approximately Rs 28.19 crore which would be borne by GAIL (India). We will also be setting up another plant. The RMC has given us eight acres of land near Jhiri on the outskirts of Ranchi to set up the plants. The RMC will be saving in 20 years around Rs 81 crore expenses incurred at present for waste disposal. It would also claim 100 per cent carbon credit in terms of waste disposal after the plants start functioning,” said a GAIL (India) officer on the condition of anonymity. GAIL (India) executive director (project), K.B. Singh, said that there were issues regarding construction of access roads to the plant at Jhiri which has been resolved. “The issues of the access roads to the under-construction CBG plant at Jhiri has been resolved and construction work began in August. The project is being monitored and would be completed before December 2022 after which the issue of waste dumping at Jhiri would come to an end,” said Singh. The maker of the video, Ranchi-based photographer Pranjal Kumar, claimed that the shoot was done in July for an international photography competition and uploaded on social media in the first week of August. “We know garbage dumping is an issue across all major cities of the country, not only in Ranchi. Our aim was to highlight the issue so that the government finds a solution,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||All India Football Federation to form a pact with Jharkhand govt ||The All India Football Federation will soon ink a formal agreement with the Jharkhand government to aid in the skill enhancement of players in the state, an AIFF official said on Wednesday. Former international footballer Abhishek Yadav, who is the deputy general secretary of AIFF, announced that talks with the government are in the final phase. Yadav was in Jamshedpur to oversee the conduct of the senior women’s national camp for the AFC Women’s Asia Cup scheduled to be held in India early next year. “We are happy at the proactive support shown by chief minister Hemant Soren in hosting the women’s national camp in Jharkhand during the Covid pandemic. He has sought the federation’s help in improving football standards in Jharkhand and soon a formal agreement would be inked with the government in this regard,” said Yadav, who is said to be the first international player to be appointed to a high post in the AIFF. Yadav, who had also been the national football director, further said: “The MoU with the state government would touch the verticals of providing AIFF expertise in domestic leagues, improving standards of domestic players and also the conduct national and international matches in Jharkhand, apart from hosting national camps.” Sumati Kumari, a 17-year-old forward, who hails from the extremism-affected and backward Bharno block of Gumla district, is among the 30 probables taking part in the national camp. The AFC Women’s Asia Cup is scheduled to be held from January 20 to February 6, 2022. Sumati is also part of the Indian squad for the Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup also scheduled to be held in India in October 2022. Jharkhand sports director Zeeshan Qamar outlined the objective behind hosting the six-month-long national camp in Jamshedpur. “We aim to improve standards of domestic women footballers through the camp. There will be practice matches between the national football teams and local players. It would be an ideal opportunity for Jharkhand players to learn the nuances of international standards from some of the best women’s players of the country. We would also aspire to host some of the international matches next year as we have a good sports infrastructure at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur,” said Qamar. Jharkhand sports minister Hafizul Hassan who was also in the city to encourage the women’s team said that the state government would soon launch its new sports policy. “The sports policy would be released soon in which we aim to provide jobs to 50 meritorious players every year and create sports infrastructure in each of the blocks (264) in Jharkhand to tap the talent at the grassroots level and hone their skills at the state-level training centres,” Hassan said. The national camp which began on August 17 at Jamshedpur is being supervised by Swedish coach Thomas Dennerby. Dennerby, who has over three decades of experience, previously guided the Swedish national team to a third-place finish in the 2011 Fifa Women’s World Cup, and to a quarter-final spot in the 2012 London Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key Durga Puja in Jharkhand this year too||The Jharkhand government was yet to issue guidelines for Durga Puja till Tuesday but puja organisers were getting prepared for organising a low-key puja this year too. “We already met last Sunday and took certain decisions,” informed Kundan Singh, general secretary of Ranchi Zilla Durga Puja Committee, adding they decided to organise Durga Puja this year “keeping the Covid situation in mind”. The puja is approaching fast and the state government is expected to issue the guidelines any day but orders have to be placed with idol-makers well in advance, he said, adding organisers have been advised not to go for too tall idols. “We have asked our member organisations not to erect any welcome gates or hold any mela or carnival near puja pandals,” Singh further said, adding all member organisations were expected to be careful while maintaining the tradition. “We have already approached the state government for allowing more relaxation this time,” he said, reminding that the last year’s guidelines had certain tough instructions. The guidelines issued by the Jharkhand government last year had evoked mixed response. While the organisers were happy that the pujas were allowed, they were also disheartened that some restrictions were too harsh. While issuing the guidelines last year, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh had informed that the state government “considered it was important to strike a balance between conducting rituals traditionally related to the Pujas and ensuring that there were no congregations which could lead to spread of Covid-19 infection”. The government had allowed the organisers to erect small pandals last year but asked to restrict entry to seven persons only, including priests and not to distribute bhog or prasad or organise any mela or cultural programme. Though the government had asked to limit the height of idols to four feet only, some resented it, saying it would be difficult as the goddess is seen astride on a lion and there is also a frame to be fitted to the idol. “We are still waiting for government guidelines and will decide in a meeting next Sunday,” informed Partha Sarathi Sengupta of Hirapur Hari Mandir Sharadiya Sammelini of Dhanbad when asked about their plan. “We are also waiting for government guidelines but have already started making idols with six to eight feet height,” informed Ram Chandra Pal who has a workshop at Tharpakna in Ranchi, adding they were also making four 12-foot-idols, expecting buyers would choose those following relaxation. “We will strictly follow the government instructions if Covid situation deteriorates,” Singh assured when reminded about the possibility of a third wave of coronavirus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
