03-09-2021||Business||Supreme Court refuses to hear plea against RBI Governor, says economy booming after 2nd wave||Economy is booming in the country after the second Covid wave, said the Supreme Court on Friday as it refused to entertain a batch of pleas seeking contempt action against Governor of Reserve Bank of India and senior officials of other banks for declaring the loan accounts as Non-Performing Assets (NPA). The top court said that contempt is between court and contemnor and it is not inclined to initiate contempt action against senior officials of banks. "In our considered view, we are not inclined to exercise our contempt jurisdiction, since it is not in the interest of justice," said a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli. The bench said that petitioners are at liberty to seek remedy under the e Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act (SARFAESI Act), 2002. Advocate Vishal Tiwari, appearing in a batch of petitions said that despite the top court's order of September 3, 2020 that the accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020 shall not be declared NPA till further orders, banks unilaterally declared the accounts as NPA under the SARFAESI Act. "At the outset, the bench said, Economy is booming in the country after the second COCovid VID wave. That's what we have read in newspapers. Since the second wave, when these orders were passed, a lot of development has taken place. We are not going to haul up the RBI for this. Contempt is between court and the contemnor." Tiwari said that RBI has itself issued a notice in March, last year after the nationwide lockdown granting moratorium from paying the instalment for loan. Several traders have moved the top court against declaration of their account as NPA by the banks and seeking contempt action against the senior officials of the banks. One of the pleas filed by Ajay Hotel and Restaurants through its proprietor has contended that it was availing various credit facilities by way of financial assistance against various assets creating security interest in favour of the State Bank of India and timely payment of the instalments of the loan were made and its Account was not turned NPA till August 31, 2020. "That on May 18, 2021 the State Bank of India (R-3) issued a demand notice under section 13 (2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 to the petitioner demanding the Amount as on May 18, 2021 inclusive of interest," the plea said. It added that the bank had unilaterally classified the petitioner as NPA on November 30, 2020 under provisions of the SARFAESI Act and no show cause notice was given. The plea said that despite the express order of the top court on September 3, 2020, the banks continued to proceed under provisions of the SARFAESI Act. "The respondents (bank) deliberately flouted the order dated September 3, 2020 which has caused a big damage and loss to the petitioner. The stay order was passed in the pandemic COVID19 in the benefit of stressed borrowers so that they shall not suffer in present financial crises during the pandemic," the plea said. The plea sought issuance of contempt notice to the alleged contemnors for having wilfully violated the order/directions dated September 3, 2020 and action against contemnors for having committed contempt of this Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Maruti recalls 1.82 lakh units of petrol cars to replace faulty electrical part||he country's largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Friday said it is recalling 1,81,754 units of petrol trims of various models, including Ciaz, Vitara Brezza and XL6, to replace faulty motor generator unit. As a responsible corporate, keeping in mind customer safety, the company has announced to proactively undertake a recall of some petrol variants of Ciaz, Ertiga, Vitara Brezza, S-Cross and XL6, MSI said in a regulatory filing. "This is to inspect for a possible defect in 1,81,754 units of these models manufactured between May 4, 2018 to October 27, 2020," it added. Recall campaigns are undertaken globally to rectify faults that may be potential safety defects, MSI noted. "In the interest of customers, Maruti Suzuki has decided to voluntarily recall the affected vehicles for inspection/replacement of Motor Generator Unit, free of cost," it added. Affected vehicle owners would be receiving a communication from the company's authorised workshops, the auto major said. The replacement of the affected part shall start from the first week of November 2021, it added. Till then, customers are requested to avoid driving in water logged areas and direct water spray on electrical/electronic parts in vehicles, the automaker advised its customers. The motor generator unit helps in giving more power to the engine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 277 points to end above 58K||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 277 points to close above the 58,000-mark for the first time on Friday, driven by gains in index major Reliance Industries amid a largely positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. The 30-share Sensex settled 277.41 points or 0.48 per cent up at its lifetime closing high of 58,129.95. It touched an intra-day record of 58,194.79. Similarly, Nifty advanced 89.45 points or 0.52 per cent to its all-time closing peak of 17,323.60. During the session, it touched a record of 17,340.10. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring over 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Tata Steel, Bajaj Auto, Maruti and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, HUL, Bharti Airtel, HDFC twins and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities extended gains mainly led by rebound in metal and automobile stocks. A sharp rise in RIL supported benchmarks, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, barring financials and FMCG, most key sectoral indices ended in the green. Buying remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks, while volatility index inched up 2 per cent. "Nifty gained around 3.5 per cent this week mainly led by revival in FIIs flow following dovish commentary from Fed chairman Jerome Powell in Jackson Hole Symposium last week and sustained domestic flows, while around Rs 10 lakh crore was accumulated in investors' wealth during the week," he said. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul and Tokyo were positive. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.51 per cent to USD 73.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Future Retail seeks early hearing of case pertaining to Reliance merger deal||Future Retail Ltd Friday sought an early hearing in the Supreme Court on its fresh appeal against a recent Delhi High Court order which said it will implement an earlier direction restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,731 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. "Let me look into the file and I will give a date, Chief Justice N V Ramana, heading a three-judge bench," told the FRL counsel. While hearing the plea of US-based e-commerce giant Amazon, seeking enforcement of the award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal, the high court on August 17 said that it would implement the earlier order of the single judge bench restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal. The high court had said that in the absence of any stay from the apex court, it has no option but to enforce the order passed by its single judge on March 18. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, was requested by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for FRL, for early hearing of the appeal in view of the fact that the high court would go ahead with the enforcement of EA's award in case stay is not granted in its favour by the top court. The high court order will have far-reaching consequences, Salve said, adding that the FRL's appeal be heard on September 9 as the matter before the high court is listed on September 16. Rohatgi, referring to another appeal, said that the entire property has been ordered to be attached by the high court and the contempt proceedings would be initiated if the Future group and others do not get a favourable order from the apex court. The high court had said that simply filing of the appeal will not help the FRL. "You get the order to stay. I have only one option i.e to get the order implemented," the high court judge had said. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and FCPL have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. On March 18, besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, a single judge bench of Justice J R Midha had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. The high court had asked the parties to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month and show cause as to why they not be detained under civil prison for 3 months for violating the Singapore EA's order. It had also asked the Future Group to place on record the details of action taken by it in connection with the Reliance deal after the EA order. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the US e-commerce giant dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court gave the verdict in favour of Amazon and held that Singapore EA's award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore FRL-Reliance Retail merger deal, is valid and enforceable under Indian arbitration laws. The apex court had also set aside the two orders of February 8 and March 22 of the division bench of Delhi High Court order which had lifted the single-judge's orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman, since retired, had dealt with the larger question and held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 250 points to cross 58K in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade to scale the 58,000-level for the first time on Friday, led by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty too crossed the 17,300-mark in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 250.75 points or 0.43 per cent up at its lifetime high of 58,103.29, and Nifty advanced 67.65 points or 0.39 per cent to record 17,301.80 in initial deals. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, SBI, NTPC and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, HUL, M&M, Tech Mahindra and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE index rallied 514.33 points or 0.90 per cent to finish at its fresh all-time high of 57,852.54, and surged 157.90 points or 0.92 per cent to record 17,234.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 348.52 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, a sharp recovery in the market in the last couple of days is mainly attributed to revival in FIIs flows following dovish commentary from the Fed chairman in Jackson Hole Symposium last week and sustained domestic flows. "High-frequency key economic indicators for August 2021, in the form of GST collection, railway freight, auto sales volume despite semiconductor issues, power consumption, import-export data and fuel volumes indicate a sustained economic recovery on YoY comparison," he noted. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were positive. US equities also ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.03 per cent to USD 73.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Mahindra and Mahindra to have 7 'no production days' in September||Utility vehicle maker Mahindra and Mahindra on Thursday said it would have “no production days” of around seven days across all its plants in September because of a severe semiconductor shortage. The closure will reduce output at its automotive facilities by 25 per cent this month, the company said. In a regulatory filing, the company said, “The automotive division continues to face supply shortages of semiconductors which has got accentuated due to Covid lockdowns in some parts of the world.  The revenue and profitability will be impacted in line with the fall in production volumes. The company is taking various cost optimising measures to limit the impact.” M&M’s automotive division has manufacturing units at Chakan, Nashik, Kandivali, Zaheerabad (Telengana) and Haridwar. The company, however, said there will be no impact on the production ramp-up and launch plans of its new SUV XUV700. “The date of commencement of bookings will be announced soon,” it added. Operations of the company’s tractors, trucks, buses and three-wheeler businesses and exports will not be affected by the shortage. Earlier on Tuesday, the country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) had said it expected its total vehicle production in September across its plants in Haryana and parent Suzuki’s unit in Gujarat to be just 40 per cent of the normal output because of the semiconductor shortage. “Owing to a supply constraint of electronic components, the company is expecting an adverse impact on vehicle production,” it said. Maruti is expecting the global semiconductor crunch to last for about a year and is adjusting production to match the chip supply, Shashank Srivastava, executive director for marketing and sales, said. Hyundai is in talks with its parent company Hyundai Motor Company to manage the chip shortage. “As of now our production is not impacted at the plants,” said a company spokesperson who added that the ongoing crisis had been exacerbated with the closure of semiconductor plants in China and Malaysia due to Covid-19. Tata Motors is trying to manage supplies by procuring chip sets from the open market, managing model/trim mix and using alternative chips, said a company spokesman. “Certain disruptions in other parts of the world, like the recent lockdown in Malaysia, continues to keep the supply environment uncertain. We are taking all appropriate measures to mitigate the impact on production of vehicles through better planning and closer coordination with our suppliers,” said the Tata Motors spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Google partners with Equitas Small Finance Bank to offer time deposits||US tech behemoths are eyeing a bigger slice of the financial services pie in India. Close on the heels of Facebook offering loans to small businesses, rival Google has partnered Equitas Small Finance Bank to offer time deposits. Google Pay users can book fixed deposits with Equitas Small Finance Bank without the need to open a savings bank account with the lender. Equitas on Thursday said that being an RBI recognised scheduled commercial bank, customers can get returns of up to 6.35 per cent for one year fixed deposits. Besides, there is a guarantee of up to Rs 5 lakh per depositor. On maturity, the proceeds will automatically go to the Google Pay user’s existing linked bank account. Equitas said it has used APIs (application programming interface) built by fintech infrastructure provider Setu to integrate with Google Pay’s Spot platform. Setu provides developers with modular tools that allows them to build financial products for the specific needs of their users. Google Pay users already have access to the capital market and instant loans among its financial services offering. Rapid growth Google Pay has seen a considerable growth in volume of transaction on its platform, driven largely by the digital payments requirement during the pandemic. According to data from NPCI, a total of 1119.16 million UPI transactions happened through Google Pay in July 2021 against 640.95 million transactions in the corresponding previous period. In June 2021, the total transaction volume was 972.26 million. Google Pay competes with Walmart backed PhonePe and Softbank backed Paytm in India. “We firmly believe that as more people gain access to formal tools to manage their money, their ability to build assets not only improves the welfare of their households, but also sets in motion a  virtuous cycle of societal  progress,” said Murali Vaidyanathan, senior president and country head, Equitas Small Finance Bank. “By providing FDs through Google Pay, we remain committed more than ever to being a catalyst in the convergence of increasing income, evolving access, and affordability of financial services,” Vaidyanathan, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Coal India to offer coal to power plants on ‘as is where is’ basis||Coal India on Thursday said that it has started offering coal to thermal power plants on an ‘as is where is’ basis from sources where high stock is available. The move from the public sector miner comes at a time the power plants are scrambling for adequate fuel reserves to meet demand. The public sector miner has identified 23 mines carrying a stock of 40.3 million tonnes (mt) to cater to the immediate demand of the power plants with critical fuel inventory and supply through the rail-cum-road mode. Power plants have fuel supply agreements with the miner for annual contracted supply of a declared grade of coal. Coal India officials said they were giving priority to  plants with stocks of zero to six days. If there are availability problems at the linked mines, the PSU is allocating alternative sources of supply. Coal stocks at power plants fell sharply in August, prompting the government to regulate the stocks at plants with an inventory of more than 15 days. This freed up around 1.77 lakh tonnes from 26 power stations for diversion to plants having supercritical and critical stocks. Coal India said that the average per day supply during the last week of August has been around 1.36mt against 1.31mt given by the Central Electricity Authority. “With plans to ramp up production, strengthen evacuation infrastructure and adequate coal stock at our pitheads we are prepared to meet any surge in coal demand from the power sector,” said a senior executive of the company. In the last three days, the average loading for supply to the power sector was 1.4mt. With the monsoon receding Coal India is aiming to increase the despatches to around 1.8mt per day in September. According to Coal India officials, the average August production has never been higher than 1.25 MT per day during the last four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Trade deficit rises to four-month high||The country’s exports rose 45.17 per cent to $33.14 billion in August  against $22.83 billion in the same month last year even as trade deficit rose to a four-month high, according to the commerce ministry’s provisional data. Imports in August rose 51.47 per cent to $47.01 billion against $31.03 billion in the corresponding month of 2020. The trade deficit in August 2021 was $13.87 billion compared with $8.2 billion in the year-ago period. “We are confident that we can reach the export target of $400 billion set for this fiscal,” commerce secretary B.V.R. Subhramanyam told reporters. The government was working on finding short-term and long-term solutions to the container crunch, he added. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said, “The trade deficit widened to a higher than anticipated $13.9 billion in August 2021. We expect the current account to record a modest deficit of $4-6 billion in the ongoing quarter. Despite rising mobility, net oil imports were largely stable, benefitting from a moderation in crude oil prices.” Outbound shipments were dominated by higher demand for items such as engineering products, petroleum products, gems and jewellery. The 45 per cent growth can also be partially attributed to a low base in August 2020, due to the disruption caused by Covid-19. However, the base effect is gradually declining. “Gold imports surged further to a five month high of $6.7 in August 2021, and were responsible for 88% of the rise in the merchandise trade deficit relative to July 2021. Unless a weaker agri outlook restrains demand, gold imports may well touch $40 billion in FY2022. With growing apprehensions related to the spread of the Delta variant, as well as logistical challenges, both oil and non oil exports eased in August 2021 relative to the previous month,” she said. The value of non-petroleum and non-gems and jewellery exports in August was $25.15 billion, up 31.66 per cent YoY and witnessed a 28.53 per cent jump in August 2019. In case of imports of non-oil, non-gold, silver and precious metals, the growth was 34 per cent YoY at $26.36 billion, but had a marginal positive growth of 2.6 per cent over August 2019. Continuous growth in exports for 6 months not only augurs well for the economy but goes to show the resilience of exports, FIEO President A Sakthivel said. He urged the government in “augmenting the flow of empty containers and establishing a regulatory authority to seek justification of freight hike and imposition of various charges by the shipping lines need urgent intervention of the government. The government needs to provide freight support to all exports till 31st March 2022 as freight rates have skyrocketed and are likely to sombre by March 2022.” The exports during April-August 2021 stood at $163.67 billion, an increase of 66.92 per cent over $98.05 billion in the same period a year ago, the data showed. Imports during April-August this fiscal rose by 81.75 per cent to $219.54 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Fuel taxes swell excise duty kitty to Rs 1,00,387 crore in April-July||The excise duty kitty of the Narendra Modi government swelled to Rs 1,00,387 crore during April to July of the current fiscal even as consumption of petrol and diesel  showed patchy recovery. The government had collected Rs 67,895 crore in the corresponding period last year. It could be argued that 2020-21 was an unusual year with the government imposing a lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. However, even if we compare it with the duty collection in the first four months of the pre-Covid year of 2019-20, data showed that the government got Rs 54,844 crore from excise duty. Meanwhile, state-owned fuel retailers sold 2.43 million tonnes of petrol in August, up 13.6 per cent from the year-ago period. It was 4.1 per cent higher than pre-Covid petrol sales of 2.33 million tonnes in August 2019. Sales of diesel — the most used fuel in the country — rose 15.9 per cent to 4.94 million tonnes during August 2021 over the previous year, but was down 9.8 per cent from August 2019.The relief in petrol and diesel prices continues to elude motorist as fuel prices hover around triple digit mark. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has virtually ruled out any cut in duties by stating that the oil bonds of the UPA government has burdened them and there was little space to cut the duties. Global crude oil prices fell sharply as major oil-producing nations decided to maintain its policy of gradually returning supply to the market. Benchmark Brent crude oil futures fell to $71.47 per barrel, indicating weakness in the global crude oil trade. Although volatility remains high, the decision taken by OPEC+ could help state-run oil companies lower domestic fuel prices. The swelling excise duty kitty comes at a time when the petrol and diesel consumption were showing patchy recovery. The consumption data showed that fuel demand recovery remained patchy in August as petrol consumption continued to rise but diesel sales fell, preliminary data from state fuel retailers showed. While petrol sales are already above pre-COVID levels, diesel continues to lag. State-owned fuel retailers sold 2.43 million tonne of petrol in August, up 13.6 per cent from the year-ago period. It was 4.1 per cent higher than pre-COVID petrol sales of 2.33 million tonne in August 2019. Sales of diesel - the most used fuel in the country - rose 15.9 per cent to 4.94 million tonne during August 2021 over the previous year, but was down 9.8 per cent from August 2019. August diesel sale was also 9.3 per cent lower than the previous month, mostly because of lower mobility due to monsoon. Diesel consumption was 8 per cent lower than pre-COVID levels in first half of August. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March before the onset of the second wave of COVID-19 infections led to the reimposition of lockdown in different states, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August last year amid lockdowns and restrictions in several states. Fuel demand showed signs of resurgence in June after restrictions began to be eased and the economy gathered pace. S M Vaidya, Chairman of India's largest oil firm IOC, had stated that petrol consumption has risen over pre-Covidlevels as people prefer personal transport over public transport. Diesel sales, he said, were likely to return to pre-pandemic levels by Diwali in November if a third wave of Covid infections does not lead to the reimposition of lockdown. As pandemic spread last year and the global crude dropped, the Modi government hiked the duties to shore up its revenues. The Centre levies Rs 32.90 a litre as a combination of duties (basic excise duty Rs 1.40 and special additional excise duty Rs 11) and cess (road and infrastructure cess Rs 18 and agriculture infrastructure and development cess Rs 2.50) on unbranded petrol and Rs 31.80 on unbranded diesel (with basic excise duty Rs 1.80 and special additional excise duty Rs 8) and cess (road and infrastructure cess Rs 18 and agriculture infrastructure and development cess Rs 4). Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 percent of diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||PNB urges NCLT to quash Jet Airways rescue plan||Punjab National Bank on Thursday urged a tribunal to quash the rescue plan for defunct debt-laden Jet Airways, alleging irregularities in it, a move that risks delaying the return of the airline grounded two years ago. A consortium of London-based Kalrock Capital and a UAE-based businessman last year agreed to pump in Rs 1,000 crore as working capital and give funds to creditors of Jet, which was hit hard because of  piling up debt in 2019. PNB, the court-appointed official in charge of Jet’s revival, Ashish Chhawchharia, and a spokesperson for the consortium investing funds into the collapsed airline did not respond to requests for comment. PNB, the country’s second-largest state lender, argues that Jet’s court-appointed rescue official had initially accepted its claim of nearly Rs 1,000 crore ($137 million) from the airline’s backers, but then reduced it by Rs 200 crore, according to its tribunal filing seen by Reuters. At the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, PNB argued that a reduction of the amount was arbitrary and illegal. On Thursday, the tribunal agreed to hear PNB’s case, Additional Solicitor General of India, Aman Lekhi, who argued for the bank, told Reuters. The case will be heard on September 21. “How PNB has been treated is wrong — both substantively and procedurally," Lekhi said. PNB Housing PNB Housing Finance on Thursday said capital markets regulator Sebi has approached the Supreme Court against the Securities Appellate Tribunal’s order in the matter related to the company’s Rs 4,000 crore equity capital raise plan. Pronouncing its order on August 9, the two-member bench of the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) gave a split verdict, saying there was difference of opinion between the members of the bench. SAT directed that its interim order of June 21, 2021 will continue till further orders, restraining PNB Housing Finance from disclosing the voting results by the shareholders on the fund raise plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Reliance Retail acquires sole control of Just Dial||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Retail on Thursday said it has acquired the sole control of 25-year-old search and discovery firm Just Dial. The firm’s subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures had in July announced a deal to buy a controlling stake in Just Dial for Rs 3,497 crore. “RRVL has now taken sole control of Just Dial Ltd in accordance with the Sebi Takeover Regulations with effect from September 1, 2021,” a statement said. On July 20, 2021, RRVL acquired 1.31 crore equity shares of Rs 10 each of Just Dial at a price of Rs 1,020 per equity share from V.S.S. Mani, founder and chief executive of Just Dial, in a block deal. “The acquisition represents 15.63 per cent of the post-preferential issue paid-up equity share capital of Just Dial,” the statement said. On September 1, 2021, Just Dial, pursuant to the preferential issue, allotted 2.12 crore equity shares of Rs 10 each at a price of Rs 1,022.25 per equity share, representing 25.35 per cent of share capital, to RRVL. Together, RRVL now holds 40.90 per cent in Just Dial.  Just Dial offers local search and e-commerce services through its website, mobile apps and telephone line. RRVL will now make an open offer to buy a 26 per cent stake from other shareholders of Just Dial. Just Dial’s acquisition is one of many that RIL or its subsidiaries, including Jio Platforms and Reliance Retail, have done in recent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Shares of cash-strapped Vodafone Idea surge over 17 per cent||The shares of cash-strapped Vodafone Idea surged over 17 per cent to close at Rs 7.14 on Thursday on news of the meeting of Aditya Birla Group (ABG) chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and Vodafone global head Nick Read with telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnav on Wednesday. Sources said any reliefs will be for the entire industry and not company specific. Birla and Read have reportedly discussed the Vodafone’s plans with Sitharaman even as they pointed out the industry's weak health. However, it is still unclear whether they have given out any details of capital infusion by Vodafone Idea. There is a proposal to relax the payment terms of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues. Other measures include a reduction in licence fees and increasing the duration of the payment moratorium for spectrum bought in auctions by a further two years. The implementation of even some of these measures could help the company bring  fresh investors. The telco, which had cash and cash equivalents of only Rs 920 crore as of June end, is facing a debt burden of Rs 1.9 lakh crore. It is staring at Rs 58,254 crore in AGR dues, of which it has paid Rs 7,854 crore. Vodafone Idea  needs to pay around Rs 9,000 crore as part of its next AGR instalment, which is due in March. Kumar Mangalam Birla had written a letter to the cabinet secretary recently in which he had pressed for a pricing floor, moratorium on spectrum dues and takeover of the operations by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Trai asks telecom service providers to only offer reported tariffs||Regulator Trai on Thursday directed all telecom service providers to immediately ensure that only tariffs that are reported to it are offered through their channels, distributors or retailers as it cracked the whip on discounts allegedly being doled out by some channel partners to lure customers from other networks. Trai firmly reminded the operators that mobile number portability (MNP)-specific tariff offerings are “violative” of Telecom Tariff Offer and other regulations that have been issued from time to time, in the context  of non-discrimination in tariffs. Issuing a direction to all players, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) has affixed the responsibility of ensuring compliance of regulatory provisions and guidelines squarely with the operators, for such cases. The direction came after Trai received complaints by telecom service providers against each other, where allegations were levelled about MNP-specific tariff offering being made by rival firms. “The offering of differential tariff to the subscribers porting from the network of other service provider is not a valid and reasonable classification as the motive behind such classification is apparently to induce churn from the competitors’ network and which is discriminatory and contravenes the provisions of clause 10 of TTO, 1999,” Trai said . Monthly data released by Trai recently showed that troubled Vodafone Idea continued to lose mobile subscribers in June, ceding fresh ground to rivals Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Apple Inc faces antitrust challenge in India||Apple Inc is facing an antitrust challenge in India for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the apps market by forcing developers to use its proprietary in-app purchase system, according to a source and documents seen by Reuters. The allegations are similar to a case Apple faces in the European Union, where regulators last year started an investigation into Apple’s imposition of an in-app fee of 30 per cent for distribution of paid digital content and other restrictions. The Indian case was filed by a little-known, non-profit group which argues Apple’s fee of up to 30 per cent hurts competition by raising costs for app developers and customers, while also acting as a barrier to market entry. “The existence of the 30 per cent commission means that some app developers will never make it to the market ... This could also result in consumer harm,” said the filing, which has been seen by Reuters. Unlike Indian court cases, filings and details of cases reviewed by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) are not made public. Apple and the CCI did not respond to a request for comment. In the coming weeks, the CCI will review the case and could order its investigations arm to conduct a wider probe, or dismiss it altogether if it finds no merit in it, said a source familiar with the matter. “There are high chances that an investigation can be ordered, also because the EU has been probing this,” said the person, who declined to be identified as the case details are not public. The complainant, non-profit “Together We Fight Society” which is based in India’s western state of Rajasthan, told Reuters in a statement it filed the case in the interest of protecting Indian consumers and startups. In India, though Apple’s iOS powered just about 2 per cent of 520 million smartphones by end-2020 — with the rest using Android — Counterpoint Research says the US firm’s smartphone base in the country has more than doubled in the last five years. The Apple case in India comes just as South Korea’s parliament this week approved a bill that bans major app store operators such as Alphabet Inc’s Google and Apple from forcing software developers to use their payment systems. ‘Middleman in deals’ Companies like Apple and Google say their fee covers the security and marketing benefits their app stores provide, but many companies disagree. Last year, after Indian startups publicly voiced concern over a similar in-app payments fee charged by Google, the CCI ordered an investigation into it as part of a broader antitrust probe into the company. That investigation is ongoing. The India antitrust case against Apple also alleges that its restrictions on how developers communicate with users to offer payment solutions are anti-competitive, and also hurt the country’s payment processors who offer services at lower charges in the range of 1-5 per cent. Apple has hurt competitors by restricting developers from informing users of alternative purchasing possibilities, thereby harming “app developers’ relationship with their customers by inserting itself as middleman in every in-app transaction,” the filing added. In recent weeks, Apple has loosened some of the restrictions for developers globally, like allowing them to use communications — such as email — to share information about payment alternatives outside of their iOS app. And on Wednesday, it said it would allow some apps to provide customers an in-app link to bypass Apple's purchase system, though the US firm retained a ban on allowing other forms of payment options inside apps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court slams Amrapali buyers over dues||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the homebuyers who want their flats completed in stalled projects of the troubled Amrapali Group projects in Noida and Greater Noida must pay their dues, or else their allotment could be cancelled. The court's observation came as a warning to homebuyers who had bought the flats several years ago, but have not been paying deposits for completion of the projects, after the government construction firm NBCC took over the projects from Amrapali Group, which could not deliver them despite taking huge sums from the homebuyers. “They (homebuyers) want lassi also and malai also,” Justice UU Lalit said on Friday. “Homebuyers want the flats, but don't want to pay money. They just want NBCC to construct the flats and give to them,” Justice Lalit said, and ordered the homebuyers to ensure they deposit their dues according to the payment plan that they agreed at the time of purchase. The Supreme Court warned not depositing the dues could lead to cancellation of flat allotment, after observing that several homebuyers have not been paying. Justice Lalit’s observations came on a petition by homebuyers, represented by lawyer ML Lahoty, who said they bought the flats in the Amrapali projects several years ago and delivery has taken so long that they don't have much money left on them to pay. The Supreme Court was then told by the Amrapali court receiver R Venkataramani - a lawyer appointed by the court to coordinate with the authorities - that a consortium of six banks has been formed and it will be able to start lending to these homebuyers after a month from now. The next hearing in the case is on September 13. In the last hearing, the Supreme Court had told the over 9,500 homebuyers to pay up in 15 days or their allotment could be cancelled. In July 2019, the Supreme Court had cancelled the registration of Amrapali Group and removed all the land leases of the group in the National Capital Region (NCR) for breach of homebuyers' trust. NBCC was later tasked to finish and deliver 38,159 flats by 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||100 districts in country most vulnerable to climate change: Study||All 612 districts in India are vulnerable to climate change, but 100 districts, mostly in the eastern part of the country, are most vulnerable, a study said. The study was carried out by the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore along with IIT Mandi and IIT Guwahati and supported by the Department of Science and Technology. Eight states in the country, Jharkhand, Mizoram, Odisha, Chattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, and West Bengal, all in eastern India, are found to have higher vulnerability, Akhilesh Gupta, Senior Adviser and Head, Policy Coordination and Programme Management (PCPM) Division, and a climate change expert at the Department of Science and Technology (DST), underlined at a policy dialogue. "All 612 districts in India studied are vulnerable to climate change, but there are 100 districts mostly on eastern parts of the country which are most vulnerable as per a vulnerability assessment study carried out by IISc, Bangalore along with IIT Mandi and IIT Guwahati and supported by the Department of Science and Technology," a statement by the DST said. Pointing out to an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Gupta said the global temperature which has already increased to 1.1 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial era level is likely to further increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius in next two decades. India too is expected to experience greater impact of global warming in the time to come and there may be an increase in frequency, severity and duration of heat waves. Monsoon may become more erratic, Gupta said. There may be more frequent droughts and floods. The Indian seas may witness more sea-level rise. There has already been increase in sea level in last two decades, he added. Tropical cyclones may also increase in number. With the increase of carbon dioxide content in the oceans, the sea water may become more acidic, Gupta pointed out at the programme organised by National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), Ministry of Home Affairs and DST in collaboration with Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. "Next two decades are going to be very crucial. IPCC's working group report gives stark warnings for global climate impacts. The two-degree rise in global temperatures may come earlier than expected. It may have a huge impact on India, especially on agriculture, health and water security. India is confronted with a challenge of addressing such impacts," he added. Maj Gen M K Bindal, Executive Director, NIDM, MHA warned that the danger mark has been reached, rapid access to information is needed to protect lives and livelihood and the use of science, technologu and innovation (STI) is key to fight climate change problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||Education minister asks central universities' VCs to fill up over 6,000 vacant posts by October||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday asked vice chancellors of central universities to fill up over 6,000 vacant posts in mission mode by October. The minister also set a deadline of September 10 for the universities for advertising the vacancies. During his interaction with vice chancellors, Pradhan said 6,229 posts are vacant in universities, out of which 1,012 are in SC category, 592 in ST category, 1,767 posts in OBC category, 805 in EWS category and 355 in divyang category. "Let us work on a mission mode to fill up the posts by October. There can be a few anomalies, but by September 10 all the universities should have advertised," he said . Apart from representatives from 46 central universities, Minister of State for Education Subhash Sarkar, Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare, UGC Chairman D P Singh and senior officials of the ministry and UGC attended the meeting. The minister said that there will be student rebellion and in a democracy there has to flexibility to accommodate. "The onus of ensuring that teaching and learning is not compromised lies with the VCs. Universities should focus on bringing back on schedule the academic routine which had been disrupted by the pandemic in last two years," he said. On reforms like four-year degree courses, Pradhan said that the universities have the autonomy to decide the roll-out strategy and as these reforms take time, universities should start consultations with teachers and students while preparing the framework for implementation from 2022. Talking about creation of a collective framework by various agencies to fulfil the NEP''s vision of enhancing skill and vocational education, Pradhan noted that Japanese language should be an additional skill. "Suppose a postgraduate in English literature has also studied Japanese language, that person''s employability gets enhanced multifold in India itself." "The amount of investment that is coming to India in the near future in the field of infrastructure and automobile will open up opportunities for our students with knowledge of Japanese. I hope the central universities will be pioneers in implementing the Academic Bank of Credit and schemes like multiple entry and exit," said the minister. Addressing the participants, Pradhan said that Indian universities are cradles of creativity, innovation and opportunities. "The New Education Policy, 2020 will play a crucial role in placing India at the top of the emerging new world order and as custodians of India’s destiny our universities should fulfil their responsibilities outlined in the NEP," he said. "The minister said that our higher education institutions are key catalysts for promoting socio-economic development and for realising aspirations and national goals," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||Delhi riots chargesheet reads like web series, says Umar Khalid in court||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, told the court on Friday that the charge sheet against him reads like a web-series or TV news script and referred to Harry Potter villain Voldemort while attacking it. Khalid and several other are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 riots which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case. Senior Advocate Trideep Pais, representing Khalid, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the charge sheet makes hyperbolic allegations against his client without any factual basis and is a result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it. The lawyer also gave reference of Voldemort, a villain in the Harry Potter series of books/movies, to draw parallels between the statements in the charge sheet, among other examples to show that the final report filed by the police was rubbish . Pais argued, "The charge sheet is a result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it and the witnesses are procured... He is not writing the script of Family Man [a web-series]. This is a charge sheet. Referring to a line in the charge sheet which stated that Umar kept a safe distance from Delhi as he knew that it would be thrown into the fire, he said that the only way the police officer could have known this was if he was inside Khalid's mind . The last person who travelled with someone and got into this officer's head was Voldemort from Harry Potter, the lawyer said. The counsel further called the allegation that Umar was maintaining a facade of secular politics a figment of the police imagination, and said that it reads like a 9 pm TV news channel script. Pais said that several statements carried in the chargesheet cannot be relied upon while considering his bail. There is no way these statements are consistent with each other and meet the test under UAPA," he added. He further said that there was nothing in Umar's speeches that led to lawless action, sedition, hatred, or any illegality of any sort. In the last hearing, Pais had argued that the police's case was based on truncated clips of Khalid's speech given at Amaravati telecasted by two TV channels, which were in turn based on an edited video tweeted by BJP leader Amit Malviya. The matter will be heard again on September 6, 2021. Delhi Police had recently said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the chargesheet filed in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||No signs of unnatural death as per Siddharth Shukla's autopsy report, say police||The autopsy report of actor Sidharth Shukla, who died at the age of 40, does not mention the exact cause of death, police sources said on Friday. The cause of the death will be known after reports of chemical analysis of the viscera and histopathology tests, a police official said. "On the face of it, there were no signs of unnatural death (as per the autopsy report)," the official said, referring to reports that a heart attack led to Shukla's demise. There were no external injuries on the actor's body, another police official said. The actor's viscera has been sent to the Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Mumbai and some organs were sent to the pathology laboratory of a medical college for examination, a source at the civic-run R N Cooper Hospital said. A forensic expert from the hospital said they sent the viscera to the FSL to rule out the possibility of foul play. "The FSL will investigate for the presence of toxicity in the organs and other details," he said, adding the pathology lab will examine the organs and submit a report within two days. Shukla was rushed to the hospital on Thursday morning after he took ill at home. The doctors declared him brought dead. He was cremated at the Oshiwara crematorium here on Friday afternoon in the presence of family members, friends and colleagues from the entertainment industry. Shukla became a household name with his role in the long-running TV show Balika Vadhu and as the winner of Bigg Boss 13 . In 2014, he made his Bollywood debut with "Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||NIA not to take coercive action against Varavara Rao till September 6||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday told the Bombay High Court in an oral statement that it will not take any coercive action against poet-activist Varavara Rao till September 6 when his plea for medical bail extension will be heard. Rao, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case and currently on interim medical bail granted by HC in February this year, is supposed to surrender before the Taloja prison authorities on September 5. Rao's counsel, senior advocate Anand Grover, sought an extension of bail before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar on Friday. However, due to paucity of time, the matter could not be heard. HC said it will hear Rao's plea on September 6. Grover then urged HC to ensure no coercive action was taken against Rao until then. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA, in an oral statement said,"We will not take any coercive action until the next hearing." On February 22 this year, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale had granted Rao (82) interim medical bail on "humanitarian grounds." At the time, Rao, suffering from multiple ailments, was undergoing treatment at Nanavati hospital in Mumbai after being shifted out of Taloja jail following the court's intervention. At the time, the HC had said if it did not grant Rao medical bail, it would be abdicating its duty to protect the principles of human rights, and a citizen's fundamental rights to life and health. The bench had imposed stringent bail conditions, including a direction to Rao to stay within the jurisdiction of the Mumbai NIA court for the period he was out on bail, as well as forbidding him from establishing any contact with his co-accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Kerala govt's decision to hold offline exams for Class XI||The Supreme Court Friday stayed for a week Kerala government's decision to conduct offline exams for Class XI commencing from September 6 amid the rising cases of Covid. "There is an alarming" situation in the state owing to Covid-19, observed the apex court adding that "cases in Kerala are about 70 per cent cases of the country. Children of this age cannot be exposed to this risk." "Prima facie we find force in submission made by petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before having a physical exam proposed to be conducted in September this year. As we couldn't get a satisfactory response from counsel for the state in this regard, we grant interim relief staying the offline exam for till next date of hearing," said a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar. The apex court posted the matter for next hearing on September 13. The Kerala High Court had earlier observed that conducting examination was a matter of government policy and no interference was warranted. The apex court bench passed the order on an appeal filed by advocate Rasoolshan A challenging a decision of the High Court refusing to interfere with the decision to hold offline exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||India nod to Biological E for Phase 2/3 Covid-19 vaccine trial on kids||Biological E has received approval for conducting phase II/III human clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine candidate Corbevax on children above five years and adolescents, the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) said on Friday. Corbevax, an RBD protein sub-unit vaccine, has been developed with supported from the Department of Biotechnology and its PSU Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), it said. PTI had first reported the grant of approval to Biological E for trial of its vaccine candidate on Wednesday. The approval of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting phase III comparator safety and immunogenicity trial in adults came after the Subject Expert Committee's (SEC) review of Phase I and II clinical trials data. "Additionally, Biological E also received approval on 01.09.2021 to initiate Phase II/III study to evaluate safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of Corbevax vaccine in children and adolescents," the DBT said. Mahima Datla, Managing Director, Biological E. Limited, said these approvals would help support its subsequent filings with the World Health Organization (WHO) as well. So far indigenously developed Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator, making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. The DCGI in July had granted permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions. The development of Corbevax was supported by the Department of Biotechnology and its PSU Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) from preclinical stage to phase III clinical studies, the DBT said. "We look forward to the clinical development of candidate Corbevax for paediatric and adults, DBT Secretary Renu Swarup said. Datla said, "We are delighted to receive these significant approvals from the DCGI. These approvals encourage our organisation to move forward and successfully produce our Covid-19 vaccine to meet the vaccination needs." "We are grateful to BIRAC for their support and we are enthused that these approvals would help support our subsequent filings with WHO as well. We appreciate and acknowledge the contribution of all our collaborators for their continued support in this endeavour," Datla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||JD(U) MLA in underwear scandalises fellow passengers, clarifies later||The Opposition in Bihar on Friday found fresh ammunition against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) after a video of a party MLA travelling by a New Delhi-bound train in undergarments went viral. Gopal Mandal, who represents Gopalpur constituency of Bhagalpur district, had boarded the Tejas Express here the previous evening. The video, beamed by news channels and portals, shows Mandal engaged in a spat with some fellow passengers who were objecting to his "roaming around" in his vest and underpants. "The matter was sorted out as the melee led to the RPF being called and record the statements of myself and the hostile co-passenger," Mandal told reporters. He, however, insisted that the co-passenger had "over-reacted", claiming "I was suffering from dysentery. No sooner did the train chug off that I felt the need to urgently move my bowels. So I ripped off my kurta and pyjama and made a dash to the toilet". "On the way, I was accosted by this self-righteous man. I shoved him away and after relieving myself I confronted him. I admonished him saying he should have looked at my age. I am 60. He spoke of female passengers feeling uncomfortable though no woman or girl was inside the compartment," the MLA said. The legislator also claimed that he suspected that the co-passenger was "drunk", which has not been confirmed by railway and police sources here. Sale and consumption of alcohol is banned in Bihar. "The man finally realised his mistake when he learnt that I was an MLA. I also pointed out to him that I was wearing knee-length shorts and not mini-sized briefs, which could leave people scandalised," said Mandal who is now in Delhi. Back home, baiters of the JD(U) were quick to blame his conduct for "bringing a bad name to Bihar". "I am not aware of the full episode. But I must say it is incidents like these that are responsible for Bihar's poor reputation. I wish the chief minister, who is now left with just a handful of MLAs, could spend some time tutoring the public representatives on public conduct," said LJP MP Chirag Paswan. RJD MLA and chief spokesman Bhai Virendra concurred. "The so-called sushasan babu (a sobriquet given mockingly to Nitish Kumar by party supremo Lalu Prasad) should take note of such foul behaviour. The state keeps getting a bad name for myriad reasons".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court unhappy with Centre over delay in framing guidelines for Covid-19 death certificate||The Supreme Court Friday expressed displeasure over delay in framing guidelines for issuance of death certificates to the families of those who died of Covid-19 and directed the Centre to file compliance report by September 11. "We passed the order a long time back. We have already extended the time once. By the time you frame the guidelines, the third phase will also be over", a bench comprising Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose observed. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, assured the court that everything is under consideration. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who has filed the petition, submitted that under the pretext of consideration things should not be delayed as the top court has already granted a four-week extension to the Centre on August 16 to frame guidelines for ex-gratia compensation and now it is seeking more time. Advocate Sumeer Sodhi, who appeared for some of the applicants, said the extended time for the first direction passed on June 30 is getting over on September 8. The bench said it is for the Centre to take a decision on compensation within that period of time and today it was adjourning the matter only for the purpose of compliance with other directions. "Put up on September 13 as Solicitor General seeks time to enable Union Of India to comply with earlier order and place on record compliance report of other directions issued by this court on June 30, 2021. Compliance report to be filed with the registry on or before September 11," the bench said. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to Covid-19. The Centre had moved an application seeking some more time to frame the guidelines on the ground that the exercise which was in active consideration of the NDMA was at an advanced stage and requires a little more in-depth examination. In its June 30 verdict, the top court had also ordered steps to simplify guidelines for issuance and correction of death certificates/official documents, stating the exact cause of death, that is, 'Death due to Covid-19' for enabling dependents to get benefits of welfare schemes. The top court's verdict had come on two separate pleas filed by lawyers Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation to the families of coronavirus victims as provisioned under the Act. Four intervenors, who had lost their family members due to Covid have also moved the top court contending that there cannot be any discrimination in the amounts being paid by different states to family members of those, who had succumbed to the deadly infection. The apex court in its verdict, however, had noted the peculiarity and the impact and effect of the pandemic and said that it cannot order payment of Rs four lakh as ex-gratia compensation which should be decided by the NDMA as there was a need to focus simultaneously on prevention, preparedness, mitigation and recovery, which calls for a different order of mobilization of both financial and technical resources. "We direct the NDMA to recommend guidelines for ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of the persons who died due to Covid-19, as mandated under Section 12(iii) of Disaster Management Act (DMA) 2005 for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to the persons affected by disaster - Covid 19 Pandemic, over and above the guidelines already recommended for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by Covid-19," it had said. It had also directed the Centre to take appropriate steps on recommendations of the Finance Commission on providing insurance cover for deaths caused by Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Despite the fast pace, India will miss year-end goal of vaccinating entire population against Covid||The government has picked up its vaccination pace but it still won’t reach its goal of fully immunising the country’s entire adult population against the coronavirus by December 31. It could get closer than expected to its more modest target of giving all Indians one Covid-19 jab before 2022 rolls around. But it won’t reach that objective completely either because some states are far behind on their vaccination schedules and also, say experts, there's the issue of vaccine hesitancy. There are just 120 days left to the end of the year. West Bengal, going by the last seven-day average, should take 155 days to complete giving residents their first jab and Andhra Pradesh could take 164 days. At the other end of the scale, Kerala should finish giving the first doses in just 24 days and Karnataka in 42 days. Rajasthan, moving at the current pace, should be done with the first doses in 44 days. Tiny Goa expects the first jabs to be completed in 15 days while Himachal Pradesh is already done. Says health economist Rijo M John: “Full vaccination of all adults is out of the question (by year end). As for a single dose, the government might be able to do it if it can maintain the current momentum.” However, he adds: “I believe there will still be states that are not able to reach that level, mainly due to hesitancy.” After India’s slow vaccine rollout, a large chunk of the credit for making possible the greater number of doses that are being administered probably should go to the Serum Institute of India. The company has stepped up production in a bigger way than anyone expected. That enabled the government to accelerate its vaccination programme in August and even hit a peak of 10.14 million jabs on one day during the month. In total, 180 million vaccinations were given in August across India and that’s a steep jump from 130 million in July. In the beginning of August, Serum Institute had estimated it could produce about 120 million doses during the month but it was actually able to turn out 150 million, though the company is keeping quiet about its precise figures. Earlier this year, it was producing around 65 million vaccines each month. Serum Institute may up production to 200 million monthly doses from this month. India has to vaccinate 940 million over the age of 18. So far it has managed to give first jabs to 473 million, or slightly over half the target population. Around 15 per cent is double-jabbed. The country’s vaccination programme has moved in fits and starts throughout the year and the government has offered different figures at different times -- even to the Supreme Court -- about the number of doses that would be available. In May, it said 2.15 billion doses of vaccines would be available by December end. That was modified sharply to 1.35 billion in an affidavit to the Supreme Court. Going by the current production levels, though, even that figure is a tough ask. India’s vaccination drive has stayed centred around Serum Institute even though other vaccines are almost ready for delivery to the public. Zydus Cadila has just received regulatory clearance for its ZyCoV-D three-dose DNA vaccine. Cadila says it expects to launch on the market by end-September and aims to produce 120 million doses annually. More than 28,000 people in different parts of the country have received the vaccine and it’s also been tested on 1,000 children between the ages of 12 and 18. ZyCoV-D is delivered using a disposable needle-free injector. The company is looking at whether three doses can be reduced to two. One advantage of DNA vaccines is that they don’t need to be stored at very low temperatures and they are less expensive to produce. Bharat Biotech, the second Covid-19 vaccine producer which has been in the market for several months, is keeping tight-lipped about its production numbers though it has just opened a new plant for manufacturing the vaccine at Ankleshwar in Gujarat. Other vaccines like the Russian Sputnik V have also run into trouble with an insufficient number of second dose vaccines to match the first dose vaccines that were available in the country. Johnson & Johnson has been given emergency use approval for its Janssen vaccine. Similarly, Moderna has been granted emergency use approval but its entry has been held up by the company’s demands for immunity from legal liability that the government is reluctant to give. India will need around 1.86 billion doses of vaccines to ensure that the entire adult population is fully vaccinated and that still looks like a distant goal. In addition, it looks as if youngsters from 12-18 will also have to be vaccinated. About 41 per cent of India’s population is below the age of 18. Currently, places like Delhi have high seropositivity levels. But they will decline over time. Vaccinations must move at a faster pace to avoid the risk of a fresh wave of infections or, even worse, a new more virulent variant than Delta and one which we may not have protection against.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Congress never monetised core, strategic assets: Chidambaram on NMP||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday slammed the Centre's National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), saying his Congress party monetised non-core, loss-making assets when in power, in stark contrast to what the Narendra Modi-led government proposes to do. Addressing a press conference here, Chidambaram said the Congress never sold off strategic assets. We always ensured that there is no monopoly in monetisation as we chose assets based on criteria," he said. Chidambaram asked the government if provisions will be included in the invitation to bid (ITB) to ensure the monetisation process doesn't create monopolies or duopolies in the sector. "What provisions will be included to prevent monopolies emerging in ports, airports, telecom and power sectors," he asked. What the Modi government plans is a day-light robbery of assets which took years to build," he said. Issuing a list of 20 questions to the Modi government, Chidambaram demanded that the Centre reveal the current revenue from the assets it plans to sell. Konkan Railway and Delhi Mumbai freight corridor will also be sold," he said, adding the announcement was made without discussions and consultations and to avoid parliamentary debate. Chidambaram asked the government to reveal the value of assets that will come back to the government after a period. What are the objectives of the National Monetisation Pipeline? Is the sole objective raising revenue over a four-year period, he asked The finance minister must be surely owning a house somewhere in India. She should give it to me on lease for 99 years and she can hang on with the paper that calls her as the owner of the house. What will I give back to her after 99 years? Will I maintain, repair and upgrade it if I am not the owner, he said, referring to the government's stand that it will continue to be the owner of the assets. :What will be the interest of the party in maintaining the assets if it is not the owner," he asked. Chidambaram said in listing the assets to be monetised, the government has acknowledged the work done in the last 70 years. A big lie has been exposed by its own list, he added. He said people should raise their voices against the danger of selling assets. Asked if Congress plans to challenge the government legally, he said so far only a policy announcement has been made. After the invitation to bid (ITB) process starts, someone will surely challenge it. Congress prefers the people's court and we will raise awareness about the dangers, he said. Chidambaram asked if the government will stipulate in the contract that the amount of depreciation should be put in a depreciation reserve account used only to maintain, upgrade or add to the assets so that at the end of the lease period, a valuable asset is returned to the government. He also asked if there will be asset stripping by the lessee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court junks Bengal govt's plea to appoint DGP without UPSC consultation||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain the Bengal government's plea seeking to appoint the Director General of Police (DGP) without consulting the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), saying it would be "abuse of law". A bench comprising Justices Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna, however, allowed the state's impleadment application in the main matter on police reforms and said it will start hearing matter which "hasn't seen the light of day for many years". The apex court told the state government that the points it was raising were exactly the same which it had raised earlier that UPSC should not have a role in appointment of the DGP. "We have seen your application. The points you are raising are exactly the same which you have raised earlier that UPSC should not have a role. When the main matter is taken you can argue this matter. We cannot permit this. This is abuse of process. We will dismiss your application. We cannot have petitions like this. Why are we wasting so much time on these applications," the bench observed. The top court said if states also start filing matters like this it will be difficult for it to find time to hear other matters. "You yourself come and tell us all bail applications are not being heard, criminal appeals are not being heard," the top court told senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for West Bengal. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Prakash Singh (main petitioner), requested the bench for an early hearing of the main petition on police reforms saying "unfortunately in most states implementation of directions of the top court remains unimplemented." The court has now posted the matter for hearing in October and said, "We will start hearing the matter. It hasn't seen the light of day for many years." The apex court was hearing an application filed by Bengal stating that UPSC does not have expertise to consider and appoint DGP of a state as also that it is not in line with the federal System of governance. The state government, in its plea, requested the top court to modify its 2018 order in the Prakash Singh case on police reforms which made it mandatory for the state governments to appoint the DGP from a panel of three most senior police officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||SC refuses to grant bail to 1944 Sikh riots-accused Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the plea of former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life imprisonment in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, seeking interim bail on health grounds. The apex court perused the medical records of Kumar and observed that he has been examined by doctors at a government hospital here and his condition is stated to be stable and improving. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said it is not inclined to grant him bail on medical grounds. The 75-year-old Kumar is serving life imprisonment after the Delhi High Court had convicted him and others in the case on December 17, 2018. The high court had reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013 in the case related to killings of five Sikhs in Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II. The riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Delhi riots: Failure to conduct proper probe will torment sentinels of democracy, says court||A court here on Thursday came down heavily on the Delhi Police for its probe into a 2020 riots case, saying that its failure to conduct a proper investigation will "torment" the sentinels of democracy when history will look back at the worst communal riots in the national capital since partition. The court, which discharged former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain's brother Shah Alam and two others in a case related to alleged loot and vandalization of a shop during the riots in February 2020 at Delhi's Chand Bagh area, also called the probe callous and indolent" which gives an impression that a constable was planted as a witness. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav called the case a colossal wastage of the hard-earned money of taxpayers in which the police merely tried to pull the wool over the court's eyes and nothing else. The court noted that there was no CCTV footage of the incident to confirm the presence of the accused at the spot, no independent eye witness, and no evidence regarding the criminal conspiracy. "I am not able to restrain myself from observing that when history will look back at the worst communal riots since partition in Delhi, it is failure of investigating agency to conduct proper investigation by using latest scientific methods will surely torment the sentinels of democracy," the judge said. He further pointed out that the case seemed to have been solved merely by filing the charge sheet without any real effort to trace out the eyewitnesses, real accused persons, and technical evidence. Furthermore, the court said that the probe lacked sensitivity and skillfulness. This court cannot permit such cases to meander mindlessly in the corridors of judicial system, sweeping away precious judicial time of this court when the same is open and shut case, the judge observed. The court said that after investigating this matter for so long, the police presented only five witnesses -- the victim, Duty Officer, formal witness, investigating officer (IO), and a constable, who had identified the three accused. The judge said that the delay on the part of the constable to report the incident gives an impression that he has been planted in the case. He said that no real or effective investigation has been carried out and the police have just tried to show the case as solved merely by recording the statement of the constable, that too at a belated stage. The evidence brought on record by the investigating agency in the case in hand miserably falls short for framing charges against the accused persons. Accordingly, all the three accused persons are discharged from the case, the court added. Alam's brother Tahir Hussain was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case and is currently in judicial custody. He is also an accused in several other cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Modi government harmful for employment, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre on Friday over the reported rise in the unemployment rate in the country in August, alleging that the Narendra Modi government is "harmful for employment". Taking to Twitter, Gandhi posted the screenshot of a media report that cited data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) to claim that over 15 lakh people in the country lost their jobs in August. "The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them," the former Congress chief alleged. A pretense of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country, he said in his tweet in Hindi, adding, "issued in public interest". Congress has been attacking the government over its handling of the country's economy and flagging concerns over job losses, demanding corrective measures to boost employment. The government has dismissed the opposition party's criticism and rebutted all allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||India logs over 45,000 fresh Covid cases, 366 casualties in a day||With 45,352 people testing positive for coronavirus, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,29,03,289, while active cases registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,39,895 with 366 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases increased to 3,99,778 comprising 1.22 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.45 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 10,195 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,66,334 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 52,65,35,068. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.72 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 70 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,20,63,616, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. A total of 67.09 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 366 new fatalities include 188 from Kerala, and 55 from Maharashtra.A total of 4,39,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,551 from Maharashtra, 37,361 from Karnataka, 34,961 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,841 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,149 from Kerala and 18,472 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Army foils infiltration bid along LoC in JK's Poonch||The Army has foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, defence officials said on Friday. This is the second infiltration bid foiled by the Army in the last five days. "There was an infiltration attempt (by terrorists) along LoC in Poonch sector last night," said the PRO defence. The infiltration bid has been foiled with effective fire by the troops on our side of the LoC, he said. Further details are awaited, the PRO added. He, however, denied any ceasefire violation along the LoC. Earlier in the week on Monday, two terrorists were killed as Army troops foiled a similar infiltration attempt along the LoC in Poonch district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Delhi University: Gag on diverse voices and writers||Dalit writers Bama and Sukirtharani have described as “partisan” the removal of their writings from Delhi University’s syllabus, contending that the varsity wants to deny “the representation of diverse voices” by axing work that portrays caste and gender oppression. At a virtual interaction with Delhi University teachers on Wednesday, both Tamil writers said that people’s sufferings on account of their caste or gender were a social reality that students needed to engage with. Last week, the university approved changes to its BA English honours syllabus, dropping Mahasweta Devi’s short story Draupadi, Bama’s autobiographical work and Sukirtharani’s poems Kaimaru (Debt) and En Udal (My Body). B. Mangalam, a professor from Aryabhatta College, read out a brief statement from Bama at the discussion on “Censorship in education: Denying representation, diversity and plurality”. “If we cannot discuss caste and oppression in our classrooms, are we expected to tell the students that caste does not exist in our society?” the statement said. “Do we tell real-life stories and talk about social realities with our students, or give them only sanitised and fictional texts?” Sukirtharani said the removal of the Dalit authors’ works marked a dangerous trend. “This also reflects how a partisan perspective would prevail over an alternative perspective. The alternative standpoint is not being allowed,” she said. “This is another form of denying representation of diverse voices. In my writing, I have raised the sufferings and aspirations of Dalit women.” Sukirtharani said Kaimaru dealt with manual scavenging while En Udal explored the affinity between a woman’s body and nature and depicted how both are exploited. Mahasweta Devi’s Draupadi is about a tribal woman’s struggle against State oppression. The Dalit Intellectual Collective, an organisation of Ambedkarite scholars, has begun a signature campaign demanding the restoration of the dropped texts. C. Lakshmanan, convener of the Collective and associate professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies, said more than 200 Dalit writers and scholars had signed the letter, which would be submitted to Delhi University and the Union education ministry. He said the various social science and humanities courses should include literary text on the problems, politics and cultures of Dalits and tribal populations. Lakshmanan added that it had taken a prolonged struggle by the United Dalit Students’ Forum for JNU to include in its various syllabuses content relating to marginalised people in the 1990s. A few other universities such as the English and Foreign Language University and the Tata Institute of Social Sciences have included such texts, he said, but more effort would be needed to get the state-run universities to do so. Beena J. Pallical, secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights, said Delhi University’s move reflected a Brahminical mindset that wanted to perpetuate its hegemony at academic institutions. “There is discrimination against the marginalised sections in faculty selection. Some Dalits and tribals have struggled to reach faculty positions. But the trend is to reverse such inclusion,” she said. Delhi University had dropped the texts from its syllabus on the recommendation of an oversight committee that had no subject expert from the English department. Following widespread criticism, the university had defended itself saying the syllabus “should contain materials which do not hurt the sentiments of any individual and is inclusive in nature”. The Collective’s letter describes this argument as a reflection of the “casteist and circumscribed mentality of the DU academic council”. “Whose sentiments were hurt by these texts? Surely not the sentiments of those whose oppression was portrayed here!” the letter says. “Must the sentiments of the privileged always shape academic programmes?” A university source had told this newspaper that Draupadi was dropped because of its description of a rape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Some media outlets take communal angle on everything: SC||Some media outlets in India show “everything with a communal angle” and the country gets a bad name, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said on Thursday. The court also expressed concern that social media platforms faced no accountability and listened “only to the powerful”, while spouting “fake news” and “slander” against judges, institutions and ordinary people. The bench was hearing a year-old petition from the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind that sought an injunction on the media against blaming the spread of Covid on a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in mid-March last year and against demonising the Muslim community. Jamiat had stated that some media outlets had used terms such as “corona jihad”, “corona terrorism” and “Islamic resurrection” to accuse the Tablighi Jamaat of deliberately spreading Covid and slander the entire Muslim community. “The problem is, everything in this country is shown with a communal angle by a section of the media and it is the country that is going to get a bad name ultimately,” the bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna, said. Justice Ramana asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Union government, whether any attempt had been made “to regulate these private Web channels”. The Chief Justice said: “There is no control over fake news and slandering in Web portals and YouTube. If you go to YouTube, you can see how fake news is circulated. Anyone can start a channel on YouTube and circulate fake news.” “Social media only listens to the powerful voices, and several things are written against judges and institutions without any form of accountability.... This is the condition of institutions, forget about the common man.” He continued: “I have not come across (instances) so far (of) these social media (platforms) — Twitter, Facebook and YouTube — responding to common people. They never respond. There is no accountability for them. They say this is their right.” Mehta said the print media and TV channels were already governed by statutory provisions, and the government had framed new IT rules to regulate Web portals. These new rules have, however, been challenged by various media houses in several high courts on the ground that they infringe on the media’s and citizens’ right to free speech. Mehta said the Centre had moved an application for all the high court cases against the new IT rules to be transferred to the apex court. The bench said it would tag the Jamiat petition to the Centre’s transfer plea. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for one of the parties that has challenged the new IT rules, agreed with the Chief Justice about the social media platforms’ unbridled powers, saying Twitter had blocked his account without notice. Justice Ramana regretted that the only remedy in such cases was to move a civil suit in a court. “What is the use of powerful (media) debates if only people who are powerful are allowed to get their matters redressed and the common man’s grievance is not redressed?” he said. The new IT rules prohibit the digital dissemination of news or views that, among other things, insult or harass on the basis of gender, harm children, communicate false or misleading information, are libellous, or are racially or ethnically objectionable. The apex court had issued notices to the News Broadcasters Association and the Press Council of India on the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Kerala panchayat drops salutations like 'Sir' and 'Madam'||Members and officials of a Kerala panchayat will have to be addressed only by their names or designations with the local body unanimously resolving to drop salutations like “Sir” and “Madam”. The resolution passed by the Mathur village panchayat in Palakkad district on Tuesday also urges residents to “demand” and not “humbly request” — an example of archaic and sometimes obsequious wording from the Raj era that still widely passes for “proper” English in India. These changes are a way of underlining that the panchayat office is subservient to the people and not the other way round, panchayat president and Congress politician Pravitha Muralidharan told The Telegraph on Thursday. “Salutations such as ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’ are remnants of British colonial rule. The mere suggestion of dropping them found immediate acceptance from everyone, especially the officials,” Pravitha said. Anyone who feels uncomfortable addressing members or officials older than them by their names can use the traditional “chettan” (elder brother) or “chechi” (elder sister). “So, it’s not that we don’t have more friendly and informal alternatives to ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’. These (English salutations) actually create a distance between us and the people,” Pravitha said. The resolution is displayed outside the office of the panchayat, which is governed by the Congress-led United Democratic Front that has eight members against seven from the Left Democratic Front and one from the BJP. The panchayat has also asked the state official language department to suggest Malayalam alternatives to the English designations for its officials, such as lower and upper divisional clerks. “We need their help since there are designations without Malayalam equivalents,” Pravitha said. She added: “We realise that people may take some time to adjust to the new way of addressing us. Yet we have the satisfaction of making a beginning in Kerala.” The resolution has attracted interest from several local bodies in Kerala as well as the Chennai city corporation. “We have received a lot of enquiries from other local bodies in Kerala and Chennai about how we went about this resolution and how we plan to implement it,” Pravitha said. R. Nandakumar, convener of the Aikya Malayala Prasthanam, an NGO that works for the promotion of the Malayalam language, welcomed the move and urged all local bodies and the state government to adopt the model. “We have been campaigning for a very long time to have these salutations dropped and Malayalam given its rightful place in Kerala, where even the state public service commission tests are conducted largely in English,” Nandakumar told this newspaper. He, however, stressed that implementation was key. “The state government had in 2017 decided to make Malayalam the administrative language from May 1 that year for all departments,” he said. “But the order is yet to be implemented, which is why it is important for the Mathur panchayat to make the resolution work right away.” The Kerala administrative reforms (official language) department had instructed all state government bodies to use only Malayalam within the state and limit English to communications with the Centre, other states and countries. But the order isn’t being followed fully. Kerala Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh had recently said that lawmakers need not address the Chair as “Sir”. “Addressing as ‘Sir’ is not something democratic and hence they can address (the Chair) as ‘Respected Speaker’. But this cannot be changed with a ruling since it’s an old practice,” Rajesh had told reporters. “Apart from those speaking in English, no one addresses the Chair as ‘Sir’ in Parliament. We can follow that practice,” he suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Media Research Users Council India elects Shashi Sinha as chairman||The Media Research Users Council India (MRUCI) has elected Shashi Sinha, chief executive officer-India, IPG Mediabrands, as its chairman at its board meeting on Thursday. Shailesh Gupta, director of Jagran Prakashan Ltd, will be the vice-chairman of the council. Sinha takes over the mantle from Pratap Pawar, chairman, Sakal Media Group, who served as MRUCI’s chairman for two consecutive terms, from 2019-20 to 2020-21. Pawar, Mammen Mathew MM Publications, and Dhruba Mukherjee, CEO, ABP Pvt. Ltd, have been appointed new members to the board of governors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Former bureaucrats write to EC for inclusive and error-free voter lists ||A hundred senior retired officers of the All India Services and Central Civil Services have made an appeal to the Election Commission to update the electoral rolls accurately to include vulnerable sections of the society. Under the aegis of the Constitutional Conduct Group which published two volumes of a public audit of elections earlier this year, 100 former bureaucrats signed the petition to chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra. The letter calls for greater scrutiny to ensure that religious and caste minority communities, women, Dalits, Adivasis, trans people, urban homeless, persons with disabilities, persons with mental health issues and migrant labourers are included in voter rolls. The signatories include former foreign secretary Sujatha Singh, retired IAS officers Wajahat Habibullah, Najeeb Jung, G.K. Pillai, K. Sujatha Rao, and Ardhendu Sen, ex-IPS officers Julio Ribeiro, Maxwell Pereira¸ F.T.R. Colaso, Vappala Balachandran and Amitabh Mathur and Punjab’s former principal chief conservator of forests H. S. Gujral. It also includes top former Research and Analysis Service officers Anand Arni and Rana Banerji, Chennai’s former chief commissioner of income tax, A. Selvaraj, and G. Sankaran, former president of the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal. The letter lists five points of action — ensuring registration of all eligible voters, foolproof mechanism for verification by voter of inclusion of name in relevant part of electoral rolls, deletion of duplicate names and names of voters who have moved or died, using Aadhaar number to validate voter IDs constitutes a gross violation of the citizens’ right to privacy and ensuring error-free, verifiable electoral rolls. The signatories said: “In particular, we wish to stress the need for the ECI to make special rules for the urban homeless and put in place special measures for differently-abled persons. The normal procedures for registration and verification that apply before a name is included in the electoral lists create virtually unsurpassable barriers for the urban homeless. Typically, homeless women and men have no documents that prove their identity or address. For these groups (members of which have no homes), special rules that permit either self-verification, or verification by any individual whose name exists in the electoral lists, are needed. Since they have no fixed address, we propose that the address of the nearest homeless shelter where they sleep at night, or the address of an NGO that works with homeless populations in the city, should suffice for purposes of the electoral list.” In addition to the existing online system, they recommended that the latest official master roll should be displayed on a public online bulletin board, as well as another bulletin board of transaction records, which enables every voter given a receipt for application for enrolment, update or deletion to search for the application process status. They said: “There is need to improve the data entry software, with built-in warnings when duplicate entries are being made and verification by the Electoral Registration Officer where such warnings are ignored by lower staff.” The letter adds: “The Telangana CEO (chief electoral officer) reported in September 2018 that 2.2 million people were excluded from the electoral rolls after Aadhaar-based ‘verification’ was carried out in 2015, thus depriving them of the right to vote in the general elections to the Telangana Legislative Assembly….” Although allegations have often arisen in recent polls of names missing from voter lists, no former election commissioner signed the memo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||MEA seeks to downplay first official contact with Taliban||The external affairs ministry on Thursday sought to downplay the first official contact with the Taliban when asked if it was a step closer to recognising the group, which India had always considered a terrorist outfit and refused to engage with diplomatically when it controlled Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. Asked whether Tuesday’s meeting between India’s ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Stanekzai signified that India had taken a step towards recognising the group, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “Let’s treat the Doha meeting for what it is. It’s just a meeting. These are still very early days.” According to Bagchi, India used the meeting sought by the Taliban to convey New Delhi’s concerns. “Our primary immediate concern is that the Afghan soil should not be used for anti-India activities and terrorism. Our focus is on that,” he said, adding that he has no information on whether there will be more meetings with the Taliban. On whether India has a road map for talks or will talk to the Taliban whenever it approaches New Delhi, Bagchi was non-committal. Asked if India still considers Taliban a terrorist organisation, Bagchi sidestepped attempts to elicit a categorical response. The Taliban is yet to comment on the meeting though the group has in the past announced its meetings with representatives of other governments. Neither side has issued a photograph of the meeting. Asked about this, Bagchi said: “It just didn’t happen. It’s just a meeting. It wasn’t that sort of a meeting where photos are taken. Don’t think there was any thought to it.” On why the Taliban wanted the meeting, he said: “I presume they would like to reach out to all countries that have an interest and are relevant in this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani buried in the dark ||Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani had been long dead politically but the Jammu and Kashmir administration found his lifeless body too hot to handle on Wednesday night. The administration virtually stole the body from his home, amid protests from his family, to prevent a mass funeral that would almost certainly have triggered anti-India protests. The 92-year-old separatist, who died at 10.30pm, was quietly buried before dawn at a graveyard near his home. Even his immediate family was not allowed at the funeral, Geelani’s son Naseem said. Geelani had wanted a burial at the “martyrs’ graveyard” in Srinagar where scores of people, killed largely in security force action, are buried. The government imposed a near total communication blockade and stringent restrictions on movement to prevent people joining his funeral. There were no reports of violence. Naseem said the authorities forcibly took the body away at 3am. The administration had begun barricading the localities leading to Geelani’s Hyderpora home as soon as the news of his death arrived. By 4.30am, the funeral was done. A family source said Geelani’s nephew Abdul Rasheed Shah, whom security forces prevented from entering the Geelani home on Wednesday night, was the only relative to witness the last rites. “Since he was outside the house, he was allowed to join the funeral,” the source said. “While Geelani’s body was being forcibly taken away, the women resisted and argued but they (police) did not relent.” Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar denied the allegations and claimed the police had helped bring the “body from the house to the graveyard as there was apprehension that miscreants might take advantage”. He claimed Geelani’s relatives had participated in the funeral. The family was allowed to visit Geelani’s grave at 10am on Thursday. While supporters widely mourned the charismatic but controversial leader’s death, the situation remained largely peaceful, as has been normal in post-2019 Kashmir. Many lauded Geelani for his purportedly unwavering stand on Kashmiri independence. “He didn’t give up, he didn’t give in,” wrote Ashwaq Masoodi, a Kashmiri and a Harvard fellow. But Geelani’s publicly anti-India stand masked contradictions. He contested five Assembly and three parliamentary elections, getting elected to the state legislature in 1972, 1977 and 1987. He is believed to have initially opposed the militancy but did an about-turn after sensing the public mood. His critics accuse him of preaching violence to others and peace to his family. None from his extended family joined the militancy. Geelani had chosen silence on the dilution of Article 370, apparently for fear of his family being hounded. He began mellowing his anti-India rhetoric after the NIA summoned his sons for questioning in a “terror funding” case. Staunchly pro-Pakistan, Geelani had multiple run-ins with Islamabad, sometimes because he found it too moderate on Kashmir. Pakistan declared a day of mourning for Geelani. Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted a homage and said the Pakistani flag would fly at half-mast on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||All India Lawyers’ Union Delhi unit speaks up for farmers||The Delhi unit of the All India Lawyers’ Union on Thursday urged the Haryana government to order a judicial probe and take stern action against police and government officials, including the Karnal sub-divisional magistrate, for the lathicharge on protesting farmers. Strongly condemning the brutal lathicharge on peacefully demonstrating farmers at Bastara Toll in Karnal, Haryana, on August 28, the lawyers’ forum, citing eyewitness reports and video clippings, said that the police action “was a calculated and well orchestrated action by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Karnal and the police to oppress and suppress the peaceful agitation of farmers…” According to the forum, eyewitnesses have clearly testified that SDM Ayush Sinha, who was on Wednesday transferred as an additional secretary to the Haryana citizen resource information department, was exhorting the police to hit and break the heads of farmers, which itself amounted to a grave criminal offence. “The police brutally and literally followed the exhortation. A farmer namely Sushil Kajal succumbed to his severe head injuries inflicted by the police. He was not even given adequate medical aid by the police and a large number of farmers were severely injured in the brutal police lathicharge,” the organisation said in a statement. According to the forum, the police resorted to lathicharge without any warning to the demonstrating farmers and without any provocation. “This is per se criminal offence, illegal, unjustifiable and violation of human rights and constitutional rights. The SDM and the police are liable for the death of Sushil Kajal and injuries caused to the farmers. “The cause of the farmers’ agitation is not the cause of the farmers alone. It is the cause of the entire nation, democracy, federalism and the very sovereignty of India,” the organisation stated. The forum said farmers have been peacefully agitating for the last nine months demanding repeal of the three anti-farmer and anti-people farm laws undemocratically passed in violation of the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy. “The agitation has been going on with solidarity from every section of the society and the people across the country. People from various walks of life — activists, intellectuals, youth, students and women — have been illegally slapped with sedition charges and other provisions of draconian laws only because they expressed dissent against the government and showed solidarity with the farmers,” it said. The organisation made the following demands:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Covid: RT-PCR test must for India arrivals from some countries||Travellers from seven additional countries, including Bangladesh and China, would need to undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid-19 on arrival in India, the Union health ministry announced on Thursday amid concerns about new coronavirus variants. The ministry has added Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, South Africa and Zimbabwe to a list of countries that currently cover Europe, West Asia and the UK from where incoming passengers would need to take RT-PCR tests after landing. Travellers from other countries are currently expected to show RT-PCR negative test certificates taken 72 hours prior to their departure. “States must ensure strict compliance with these guidelines so that the import of VOIs (variants of interest) or VOCs (variants of concern) to India from other countries may be prevented,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter sent to chief secretaries of all states on Wednesday. A VOI is a virus that displays genetic changes or mutations that are predicted or known to impact some property of the virus such as transmissibility, disease severity, or its capacity to evade immune responses. A VOC is a virus that has been observed to alter the epidemiology of the infection through such properties. While passengers from this list of countries are awaiting the results of the RT-PCR tests, they would be expected to wait at airports for which the airport authorities would need to make special arrangements. All such travellers who test negative would be allowed to leave the airport and advised to self-monitor their health for 14 days. The guidelines require any passengers from these countries found positive at the airport or after they reach home or any of their contacts who test positive to be isolated and their samples sent for viral genome sequencing. If the sequencing reveals a new variant, the patient would be isolated in a hospital until recovery. The ministry said it has added the seven countries considering reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and the rising number of VOIs and VOCs worldwide. The World Health Organisation has so far labelled four viruses as VOCs — Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. Alpha was first detected in the UK, Beta in South Africa, Gamma in Brazil and Delta in India. The WHO has also labelled five other viruses — Eta, Iota, Kappa, Lambda and Mu — as VOIs. “A VOI becomes a VOC if we actually see the mutations translate into public health consequences,” a government epidemiologist said. India’s second Covid-19 wave was primarily driven by the Delta variant which was first detected in India in October 2020 and has since spread to over 80 countries. A senior researcher who requested anonymity said that while mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival for international travellers from select countries could help curb the spread of new variants if they are brought in, there is no certainty new variants would emerge only from those nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Congress: Centre squandering wealth built in 60 years||The Congress on Thursday condemned the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline policy through which assets valued at Rs 6 lakh crore and created over 67 years were sought to be “squandered away”. Congress veteran Ashwani Kumar said at a news conference held in Chennai that the Centre sought to alienate the assets, including those of critical value to the nation. “The Centre’s announcement seeks to legitimise favours to the favourite few at the cost of public interest and in breach of the government’s fiduciary obligations,” he said. Terming the policy as “tailor-made for rent seeking”, he said: “It reeks of crony capitalism, and the fire sale of the nation’s assets through the mechanisms indicated is manifestly against national interest.” The Congress said these agreements would lead to increase in prices in key public sectors. It will lead to a rising concentration of economic power in crucial sectors at the cost of price stabilisation and result in loss of public revenues for 30-50 years, Kumar said. Terming it as “a transfer of taxpayer-funded assets to a handful of business groups”, he said it would lead to job insecurity as well. The justification of collecting Rs 6 lakh crore for facilitating Rs 100 lakh crore investments in the infrastructure sector is an obvious absurdity, the Congress veteran added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||JNU executive council clears course on 'jihadi terrorism'||Jawaharlal Nehru University’s highest decision-making body — the executive council — on Thursday approved a course that links Islamist and communist terror and describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”. The move came a day after vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar defended the course, prompting a senior retired diplomat and a renowned academic to speak out. Two executive council members said only one teacher could express her dissent. “When she demanded that the course be sent back for review, a professor of international studies accused a section of teachers of defaming the varsity by speaking to the media against curriculum framed by colleagues,” an executive council member told The Telegraph. On August 17, the JNU’s academic council had approved the course. The optional course — Counter-terrorism, asymmetric conflicts and strategies for cooperation among major powers — will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at the School of Engineering. The minutes of Thursday’s executive council meeting are yet to be circulated among the members. A statement from the JNU administration on Thursday made no mention of the course and its spokesperson is yet to respond to queries on the issue. On Wednesday, vice-chancellor Kumar had in a statement said: “How India has witnessed the rise of religious fundamentalism and radicalisation through perverse ideologies in its neighbourhood is an area where a lot of knowledge is needed to deal with the emerging situations….” India’s former ambassador to Holland Venu Rajamony, currently professor of diplomatic practice at O.P. Jindal Global University in neighbouring Sonipat, expressed disappointment. He told this newspaper: “I am surprised and sad that such a course was passed without discussion. Terrorism is a complex subject that is best addressed in an objective and non-partisan manner without separating out one kind of terrorism while neglecting other kinds of terrorism to do justice in any good university. “JNU as an outstanding university must address this academic topic with certain academic rigour and discipline and it should not have a casual approach to such a complex, difficult and sensitive issue.” Rajamony did his masters in international relations at JNU from 1981 to 1983. Widely published author and former professor of international relations at Delhi University Achin Vanaik said: “The course focuses on terrorism as something done by non-state groups whereas all states, including democratic states, carry out terrorism domestically and/or externally. The course links terrorism to one religion, and is being portrayed as an ideology. That is not correct….” “There is no real mention of domestic terrorism. There is religiously motivated terrorism carried out against minority groups in India. The discourse around terrorism is hypocritical. The only way to respond to terrorism is to be impartial and universal in condemning it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India|| Modi birthday: Call to observe September 17 as 'Jumla Unemployment Day'||An illusory sum of Rs 15 lakh for every Indian. A call to bang on plates. Worsening joblessness. All these legacies of Narendra Modi will be highlighted on the Prime Minister’s birthday by a nationwide youth movement against unemployment, Yuva Halla Bol, which has decided to observe September 17 as “Jumla Unemployment Day”. Anupam, national convener of the Yuva Halla Bol, said in a statement: “The Prime Minister’s birthday will be dedicated to the issues of unemployment and jumla.” Rishav Ranjan, spokesperson for the movement, told The Telegraph from Delhi: “We have planned a few things for the day, including the beating of utensils and clapping —a method Modi had invented to keep the people upbeat.” He said he didn’t want to reveal too much about the plans for obvious reasons. Modi had during his 2014 election campaign pledged to repatriate black money stashed in foreign banks and suggested the amount was so big that every Indian “will get Rs 15-20 lakh”. This was seen as a promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh with every Indian’s bank account. But a few months after Modi’s election victory, then BJP president Amit Shah had said the statement was a “jumla” — an idiomatic way of speaking — not to be taken literally. When Covid first broke out, Modi had appealed to people to beat utensils and clap for five minutes from 7pm on March 22 last year to boost the morale of health workers fighting the pandemic. Even before Covid struck, unemployment figures in India had been the worst in four decades. The situation has only worsened during the pandemic, with Modi’s government accused of mismanaging both the economy and healthcare. “We had observed Modi’s 70th birthday (last year) as Jumla Day. This time, many other organisations and unions too have decided to participate in our movement,” Ranjan said. “Youngsters across the nation are eager to voice their issues through this campaign. They want to highlight the unemployment and express anguish against the Modi government.” He added: “We want to turn unemployment and privatisation into big political issues so that the Prime Minister, his government, Opposition parties and the media address these real issues.” Alankrit Shukla, a banker, extended his support to the Yuva Halla Bol decision on Thursday, tweeting: “I was appearing in examinations a few years ago and can understand the pain of unemployment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India||Nine fresh deaths in Bihar floods||At least nine persons perished in the floods in Bihar on Thursday, taking the deluge toll to 53 since Wednesday as the situation worsened due to heavy rain in the state and neighbouring Nepal. At present 17 Bihar districts — Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Samastipur, Khagaria, Saharsa, Madhepura, Araria, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Munger, East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran, Vaishali and Patna — are affected by severe floods. Around 30 lakh people have been affected by the deluge of whom 2.2 lakh have been displaced from their homes and many have been forced to eat at community kitchens being run by the state government. A large number of people have taken refuge on national highways crisscrossing the flood-affected areas. They are spending their days and nights under temporary shelters built with the help of bamboo poles and polythene sheets. There is no respite in sight for the flood-hit areas due to the continuous rainfall that has led to the major rivers flowing above the danger level. Heavy discharge of water flowing down from Nepal into the Gandak and Kosi rivers has further deteriorated the situation. The Ganga has also risen above the danger level again in Patna, posing a fresh threat to areas along the river. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the Gandak is currently flowing at its highest flood level of 51.75 metres at Lalganj in Vaishali district. The state government has deployed 17 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in the affected areas to conduct rescue and relief operations. It has also kept two NDRF teams and three SDRF teams on standby in flood-prone districts. “We are using 1,865 boats for rescue and relief operations as well as to facilitate the movement of people from one place to another. More boats will be deployed, if needed. Polythene sheets and dry ration packets are being distributed. The government has also provided Rs 477 crore as gratuitous relief to 7.96 lakh families. Damage to crops is also being assessed to provide relief to the farmers,” disaster management minister Renu Devi said. Other departments connected to roads and electricity are also assessing the damage to infrastructure due to floods. With floodwaters touching the upper parts of a bridge on the Samastipur–Darbhanga route, the railways had to cancel 14 trains and divert 14 others. Eight trains are either being terminated before their destination or being started from stations beyond their normal origin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India||Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology betters world ranking ||Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology  Deemed University, Bhubaneswar, jumped up 200 positions globally to be placed in the cohort of 801-1000 in the  Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2022 announced on Thursday. It is a significant improvement from last year when it had achieved a rank of 1001+. KIIT’s performance makes it the No. 1 ranked varsity in Odisha and eastern India, said a KIIT press release. While KIIT, NIT Rourkela, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham and Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) share the same rank in this coveted and most-referred annual ranking of the global higher education institutions, IIT Bhubaneswar and Manipal Academy of Higher Education have been ranked 1000+. As a young university of only 17 years, KIIT’s performance is better than any other varsity in the country. It has also been achieving impressive positions in the rankings conducted by various government bodies. Expressing happiness over the development, Prof. Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT & KISS credited combined efforts by students and staff for the achievement. “KIIT’s performance in the rankings is significant as it is a multi-disciplinary university with as many as 28 faculties. Had it been an institution offering only Engineering courses, it would have achieved much higher ranking,” he said. The Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings is an annual publication of university rankings by Times Higher Education (THE).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India||Odisha govt to set up new health university||The Odisha government will set up a new health university to regulate and administer all the medical and paramedical institutions in the state. In order to set up the university, the Odisha government on Thursday passed a bill titled Odisha University of Health Sciences Act, 2021 in the Assembly. The objective of the bill is to deal with issues of affiliations, admission, proper and systematic instruction, mental health education, dental education, homeopathy and ayurveda and nursing education, pharmacy education, paramedical education, physiotherapy, allied medical sciences, other medical pharmaceutical courses and training and research in modern medicine. “The objective of the bill is also to see how the students get quality education, their examination is conducted at the right time,” officials said. The move is aimed at ensuring uniformity in various academic programmes in medical and allied subjects in the state. Officials said nearly 500 medical institutions starting from nursing to pharmacy allied medical science, physiotherapy will come under the ambit of the proposed Odisha Health University. The state government will also appoint a vice chancellor, registrar and other officials for the functioning of the university. The state government also passed a bill to amend the Odisha Land Rights to Slum Dwellers Act, 2017. Under this act if a slum dweller is in possession of land to the extent of 30 square metres, the land will be settled in his name subject to the availability of the land. Political observers feel that the move is aimed at winning the support of slum dwellers ahead of the upcoming municipal and panchayat elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC asks police to lift demonstration within 50 metres of Visva Bharati||The Calcutta High Court, in an interim order on Friday, directed that normal functioning be restored at Visva-Bharati with no demonstration anywhere within 50 metres of the institution, as protest outside the vice chancellor's residence over rustication of three students entered the seventh day. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha directed the police to forthwith remove all demonstrations, banners and barricades near the official residence of Vice-Chancellor (VC) Bidyut Chakraborty. "No demonstration shall be conducted by any student or any person within a distance of 50 metres of any portion or part of the university, particularly the schools, classrooms, the residence of vice chancellor, teachers, professors, officials, staff library, the administrative buildings, laboratories, etc," the court directed. The central university and its VC Bidyut Chakrabarty had on Wednesday moved the high court seeking orders for the Bengal police to lift the gherao. Maintaining that the VC's residence has been under siege since August 27 evening, with him inside, the petitioners stated that the three students were expelled for three years for alleged misconduct. The university and its VC prayed for appropriate orders directing the West Bengal Police to ensure free ingress and egress at the official residence of Chakrabarty and other administrative offices gheraoed or illegally locked by the agitators. Justice Mantha said that the court will hear the grievances of the three students on September 8. The court further instructed the police to make sure that no outsider is allowed to enter the university, while also stating that compliance of its order in the matter will have to be ensured by the superintendent of police, Birbhum district. It asked the Shantiniketan police station to depute three constables for the security of the VC. The bench said that locks on the administrative building and any other part of the university hung by the students will be broken open by the officer in-charge of Shantiniketan police station and the premises be handed over to the persons concerned. It directed that loudspeakers cannot be used on the campus of the prestigious central university, founded by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore. Claiming that the agitation was politically motivated, the petitioners have said that the plea was moved challenging the alleged inaction by the authorities in ensuring free movement of the VC. A section of university students had been protesting outside the VC's residence seeking imemdiate revocation of the expulsion order. A medical team that was called to check on Chakraborty on Thursday was turned away by the agitators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI makes third arrest in Bengal post-poll violence case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested a person in Bengal's North 24 Parganas district in connection with its probe into a case of post-poll violence in the state, an agency source said on Friday. Ratan Halder, an accused in the murder of a BJP worker's mother following the declaration of Assembly election results on May 2, was apprehended from Jagaddal area, the source said. The central agency had on August 28 arrested two more persons -Bijoy Ghosh and Asima Ghosh -- in Nadia district for allegedly being involved in the murder of a saffron party worker after the announcement of the poll results. The CBI had on Thursday filed a chargesheet in another case of post-poll violence in Birbhum district -- its first since being handed over the probe into "heinous crimes". The chargesheet, submitted before the Rampurhat court, contains names of two accused allegedly involved in the murder of a BJP worker. The Calcutta High Court had, on August 19, ordered that probe into cases of alleged murder and rape be carried out by the CBI. So far, the agency has filed a total of 34 FIRs against those allegedly involved in murder or other heinous atrocities on BJP workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Calcutta HC chief justice to monitor SIT formed to probe post-poll violence||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on Friday said former Chief Justice of this court Manjula Chellur will oversee the functioning of an SIT formed by it to probe alleged post-poll violence cases other than rape and murder. The bench had, in its judgement on August 19 on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe into incidents of violence after the Assembly elections in Bengal, directed the CBI to investigate all alleged cases of heinous crimes like rape and murder. The bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, said Justice (retd) Chellur will oversee the functioning of the SIT formed by it to probe into other post-poll violence cases in the state. The Special Investigation Team included Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the Bengal cadre. The bench had directed that the SIT would be entitled to take the assistance of any other police officer or any institution or agency for carrying out a fair investigation into the cases. The bench, also comprising justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had said that both the investigations would be monitored by the high court and ordered the CBI and the SIT to submit their status report before it within six weeks from August 19. The Bengal government has appointed ten IPS officers to assist the SIT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 695 new cases, 749 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 74 straight days of a fall in its total active Covid-19 cases, with 695 new infections, 749 recoveries and 13 deaths. The state has 8,734 active cases now, with a drop of 67 on Thursday. It has 2.22 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 122 new infections and North 24-Parganas 102, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas three deaths. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.24 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.42. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Thursday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta reported one, while North 24-Parganas reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.23 lakh recoveries and 18,472 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet nod for two policies to boost industrialisation||The state cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to frame two policies, one on ethanol and the other on data, in an apparent bid to boost industrialisation in Bengal. On Wednesday, at an event in Panagarh, West Burdwan, the chief minister had said these two policies would be framed to create job opportunities in Bengal “The state cabinet has given approval to frame ethanol and data policies. The policies will soon be framed and tabled in the cabinet for final approval,” said Partha Chatterjee, state industries minister, at Nabanna on Thursday. Chatterjee said both the policies would help the state in many ways. “The data policy would help the state draw investment in the IT sector. This will help create thousands of jobs here,” said Chatterjee. About the ethanol policy, the target of the state government is to connect farmers with industry, said a source. The chief minister had spoken about the potential of biofuel at Panagarh too. “Ethanol is produced from broken rice and used as an alternative fuel. It (production of ethanol in a state with abundant paddy production) will help the farmers connect with industries directly, which will help them earn more besides generating jobs in the state,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Citu to organise global essay competition for ‘unreached’||The Citu will organise an online, global essay competition as part of its upcoming 12th state conference with an aim to get inputs from across the world in drawing up an updated strategy for the trade union movement. Sources said the trade union of the CPM had chosen two subjects. The first is the future of industrial development and employment in India and the second is the problems and prospects of the Left trade union movement in the modern world. The Citu has asked participants to submit their essays, with a 1,000-word limit and in PDF format, between September 10 and 20. The reception committee of the Citu conference will specify an email address to which the essays have to be sent, along with a passport-size photograph and identity proof of the participant. The age limit for the first topic was fixed between 18 and 40 years whereas there is no age bar for the second topic. Those aged between 18 and 40 can send essays on both the subjects. The Citu will start a social media campaign on the competition from Friday. The Citu said the participants could submit their essays in English, Bengali or Hindi. The jury will consist of a group of professors of reputed universities in Bengal, but the institutions’ names will not be disclosed. The Citu state conference is scheduled to be held from September 30 till October 2 at Jamuria in West Burdwan. “Our catchline for the coming state conference is ‘reach the unreached’. We want to reach the educated working people of the society, who may not be directly linked to our trade union movements but are aware of what is happening in the industries and can lead us to a better future,” said Bansagopal Chowdhury, Citu general-secretary in West Burdwan and president of the reception committee of the state conference. Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a Citu secretary in West Burdwan, said: “It is obvious that labourers of the unorganised sectors will not take part in our initiative. We want to judge the mood of the educated people who work in both public and private sectors, or are involved in other professions in the country and abroad. We want to know what they are thinking about the Left trade union movement and about how they want to guide us. They are still unreached by us.” Sources in the Citu said the Left trade union movement had become seemingly “aimless” in Bengal after a series of poll debacles in the state since 2011. The Left Front was washed out in the recent Assembly polls with not even a single seat secured. “We could not secure at least one MLA from the industrial belt of Asansol and Durgapur, which was once a red bastion. The strength of the CPM in industrial belts mainly depends on that of the Citu. It is understood that we have lost faith among the working class,” said a Citu leader in West Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt announces names 10 cops for SIT to probe violence||The Bengal government on Thursday announced the names of 10 IPS officers, who will assist three senior state police officers in their probe into alleged political violence following publication of Assembly poll results on May 2. Earlier, a five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court had ruled that the alleged incidents of violence, other than murders and rapes, would have to be probed by a three-member special investigation team (SIT) of the state police. The court also declared that Calcutta police commissioner Somen Mitra, two other IPS officers, Suman Bala Sahoo and Ranvir Kumar, would lead the SIT and other members needed to be appointed by the state government. The court order on August 19 was based on a report filed by a committee of the National Human Rights Commission. To carry out the order of the court, the government on Thursday announced the names of 10 IPS officers for assisting the SIT. Dividing the state into five zones, the government said IPS officers Soma Das Mitra, Subhankar Bhattacharya, D.P. Singh, Praveen Kumar Tripathi, Sanjay Singh, B.L. Meena, Siddh Nath Gupta, Prasun Banerjee, Tanmay Roy Chowdhury and Nilanjan Biswas would assist the trio. The court had said a retired judge of the Supreme Court would monitor the probe and ordered the SIT to file a primary progress report on the investigation after six weeks. The probe into the alleged incidents of rape and murder would be conducted by the CBI, the larger bench had said. A couple of days ago, the counsels of the petitioners who had moved public interest litigations for the central probe, had alleged before the court that even after its directive, the state government did not take any step for the SIT probe. The larger bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Bindal had remarked that the court was well aware of the fact and would take action if its order was not carried out properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks DGP to be present on September 21 ||Calcutta High Court on Thursday ordered acting DGP Manoj Malaviya to appear before it on September 21 and state why officials of his department were not attending the court according to a directive issued earlier. While hearing a case moved against two fake money-laundering companies on Thursday, the court found that the police had not carried out its earlier order to produce two officials of the firms during the day. Soon after a division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal ordered the DGP’s appearance, a state government lawyer requested that the directive be withdrawn. The lawyer said the police would produce the fake companies’ officials in the court the next day. But the bench did not accept the plea and said Malaviya would have to be present in the court on September 21. On Thursday, no lawyer or official of the department concerned was present when the ponzi scheme-related cases came up for hearing. Acting Chief Justice Bindal criticised the role of state panel lawyers and the police, before issuing the order pertaining to the DGP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Ban Nepal tea import, Darjeeling planters urge Mamata Banerjee||The Darjeeling Tea Association has requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to start the process to “permanently ban the import of Nepal tea” into the country. To justify the request, B.K. Saria, a planter and the president of the DTA, in a letter to Mamata, has flagged the “severe financial crisis” in the industry with production of “made tea” down from 9.5 million kilos before the hill agitation in 2017 to 6 million in 2020, the impact of the pandemic and how the “deceptive sale” of Nepal tea as Darjeeling Tea in the domestic market has compounded the situation. He also pointed out that wages had gone up “by 50 per cent”. However, many have questioned the timing of the letter as negotiations on bonuses for tea workers will begin soon. Sandeep Mukherjee, principal adviser of the DTA, claimed 8.9 million kg of made tea from Nepal found its way into the Indian market last year. Planters claim many blend Nepal tea with Darjeeling tea, the former being cheaper, and sell it off as Darjeeling tea, hurting the market of the latter. Only the tea produced by the 87-odd tea gardens in Darjeeling can be sold off as Darjeeling Tea after being recognised as a Geographic Indicator product two decades ago. “Nepal tea industry does not have labour laws and statutory obligations, child labour is rampant hence their cost of production is low,” alleged Saria and added that tea from the neighbouring country was not tested according to Indian food safety norms. “Darjeeling tea industry is not getting the attention it deserves. Unless import of Nepal into India is banned, livelihood of many will be at risk,” said Mukherjee. Suraj Subba, president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), said while the issue raised by planters was “genuine”, he was sceptical about the timing of the letter. “This is an old issue but planters are probably raising it now to buttress their argument during bonus negotiations and pay less bonus,” Subba said. “The association should also look at taking action against their own members if they are found importing Nepal tea,” said Subba. The Bimal Gurung party has already started demanding that workers be paid a bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of their annual earnings. While 8.33 per cent is the minimum bonus rate the planters have to pay, the highest is 20 per cent. Last year, too, Binay Tamang sat on a fast to demand workers be paid 20 per cent bonus. The Darjeeling tea industry employs around 67,000 workers in 87 tea gardens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government takes over Kanchenjunga Stadium in Siliguri||The Bengal government has taken over the Kanchenjunga Stadium of Siliguri, the second largest football stadium of the state after the Yuva Bharati Krirangan in Calcutta, with all its assets and liabilities. On Wednesday, the additional chief secretary of state youth services and sports department notified that the Kanchenjunga Stadium Committee, comprising sports enthusiasts and others, which ran the sports arena, was dissolved and its members were absolved of their duties. Instead, the district youth officer has been tasked to look after the stadium. “It was once one of Bengal’s finest soccer stadiums. Unfortunately, it is dilapidated for years now. We are hopeful that the state government will take all necessary measures for its thorough renovation,” said Kuntal Goswami, the general secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad (SMKP), the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri. “The stadium is spread over 7 acres and can accommodate around 30,000 spectators. But owing to its poor infrastructure, we have not hosted many national level soccer matches in four years here,” an SMKP member said. Sources said the stadium lacks a modern changing room, a media centre and a proper VIP block. Also, the drinking water supply and drainage system are in bad shape. Concrete plasters have been peeling off from the structure. The foundation of this stadium was laid in the early 1980s. It was inaugurated with the Nehru Gold Cup, a prestigious football tournament where several international teams had participated in 1987. Former skipper of the Indian cricket team Sourav Ganguly had come to the ground with almost all his team mates for a charitable match in the early 2000s. The stadium also hosted Ranji Trophy cricket matches. Spectators here have also witnessed soccer matches of Germany’s Bayern Munich, India’s Federation Cup matches and the Derby matches played among famed football clubs of Calcutta. Sports buffs reacted to the takeover positively. Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of the local sports body, said: “This is definitely good news for sports enthusiasts of the city. We had appealed to the state government that like the Barasat and Kalyani stadiums, the Kanchenjunga Stadium should also get an overall facelift, so that we can host international and national level sports events here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista meets youth leaders on jobs and development in Darjeeling||Darjeeling's BJP MP Raju Bista held a meeting with north Bengal office bearers of the party’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) here on Thursday on issues like jobs and development. The meeting, party insiders said, was aimed to mobilise the youth front in north Bengal, a region where BJP is putting in efforts ahead of civic and rural elections. Bista, recently appointed as a national general secretary of the BJYM, said: “Over decades now, youths in north Bengal have been bereft of job opportunities. Thousands migrate to other states every year in search of jobs. The state and the central governments have an array of schemes to help them to stand on their own feet. That is why we convened the meeting to discuss how the BJYM can work to help the youths of this region.” The MP, speaking to the media, also tried to convince hill residents that the Narendra Modi government was serious about a permanent political solution in the hills. Last month, Bista, after a meeting Union home minister Amit Shah, claimed that the Centre would convene a tripartite meeting on the issue at the start of this month. “The meeting got delayed because of a number of reasons, which include the recent developments in Afghanistan. Independence Day celebrations were there. But let me assure you that the meeting will be held soon,” he said. Next week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit north Bengal, her first after assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time. Bista, referring to her visit, said he would write to the chief minister soon on the needs and expectations of north Bengal residents in detail. A Trinamul leader in Siliguri said the CM knows north Bengal well and does not need briefings from an MP "who has not done anything for his constituency yet".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans: Fisherman injured in tiger attack on Kapur river ||A fisherman was injured by a royal Bengal tiger on the Kapur river in the Sunderbans early on Thursday morning, marking the second tiger attack in the region in less than two weeks, but he survived as he and his friends on the boat hit the tiger with their oars. Sudarshan Sardar, 30, a fisherman from Sonagaon village in Gosaba, was rushed to the Gosaba block hospital and was then referred to the NRS Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta, where he is reportedly stable. Sources said details about the tiger, or how badly it was injured by the oars, remained unclear. Sardar was the part of a group of five fishermen who managed to fend off the big cat with their oars reportedly for over 30 minutes. Sources said they had ventured into the deeper part of the river to fish for crabs with a permit. “This is different from other cases of man-and-animal conflict, where fishermen venture into these areas without proper permits,” said a forest official, adding Sardar’s medical costs would be borne by the state government. On August 24, this newspaper reported a similar incident, in which a group of fishermen had been ambushed near Gosaba’s Satjelia by a tiger, which dragged one person off the boat. That incident had taken place on the heels of another incident that occurred in Jhila, where a lone fisherman had been killed. Fisherman Uttam Ray, who was on the boat with Sardar on Thursday morning, said they screamed for help and fought the tiger with oars. “Fortunately, people nearby told forest officials, who responded fast. We were able to hold off the tiger with our oars,” he said. “Very few of these encounters with tigers end this way (with no human casualty). We have seen too many of these encounters. The group today (Thursday) were lucky,” a resident of the area said. Forest officials later said that Sardar was likely to make a full recovery in the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Covid jab rider for Anit Thapa's new party launch||A new party will be launched by hill leader Anit Thapa here on September 9 in an event where only leaders and supporters who have received both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine will be let in. Thapa’s close aide Keshav Raj Pokhrel said the party will be launched at the Rink Skating Hall at Darjeeling Gymkhana Club. “We were waiting to see if Covid protocols were changed by the state government but that didn’t happen. If we held  a public meeting, we’d have got more than 50,000 people at the meeting. Hence we  changed our plans,” said Pokhrel. The Hall can accommodate around 600 people. “Only people who have received both doses of the vaccine will be permitted to enter the hall. Volunteers will check the vaccination certificate,” said Pokhrel. To reach out to more people, Thapa’s colleagues will organise live shows of the event at each of the 45 Gorkhaland Territorial Administration constituencies across the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Ransack, roadblocks to protest Covid vaccine shortage  ||A rural hospital was ransacked and blockades were raised at two different locations in Alipurduar district on Thursday because of dearth of Covid-19 vaccines. Around 3am, over 200 people walked up to Bhatibari rural hospital in Alipurduar 2 block and stood in a queue to get the first dose of the vaccine. Sources said the people stood at the rural hospital for hours, braving the incessant rain. “We waited for almost seven hours. Around 10am, we were told that none would get the vaccines today (Thursday). On Wednesday, local health workers had informed the residents that first dose would be available for 200 people on a first come, first served basis,” said Tapash Dutta, a local resident. A section of people in the queue got agitated and ransacked furniture at the hospital. They also raised a blockade on the road connecting Bhatibari with Tufanganj. Later, block health officials and a team from Samuktala police station went to the spot and managed to clear the road after an hour. A similar protest was witnessed at Jateswar in Falakata block also. Around 300 people, mostly migrant workers who had returned home during the lockdown, went to a local vaccination camp on Thursday morning to get their first jab. “After standing in the queue for around three hours, we were told by the on-duty health staff that people whose second doses were due would be jabbed first. This is disappointing. Many migrant workers like me are planning to return to their workplace and have even booked train tickets. But because of the shortage of vaccines, we are getting delayed,” said Sukanta Barman, a local youth who used to work in Kerala. “On one hand, we don’t have enough money left to run the families, on the other hand, we cannot leave without getting vaccinated,” he added. Soon, a section of the migrant workers started a demonstration and raised a blockade on NH31 in Jateswar. After an hour, police could persuade them to disperse. District health officials admitted that there was a shortage of vaccines. “We have received instructions to concentrate more in administering the second dose with the available stock. But today, no vaccination camp was planned at the rural hospital in Bhatibari where people came and stood in queues. They should have verified with the hospital staff,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. The district health department has ordered an inquiry to find out who all were involved in ransacking the furniture at the hospital, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata expresses concern over Visva-Bharati impasse||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday rued Visva-Bharati’s transition from a “place of pride” to an institution saddled with problems as the stalemate over student protests against alleged high-handed approach of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty continued to persist at the varsity. “Birbhum has its own legacy with Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati. Visva-Bharati was once a place of pride for us. But now, I am witnessing several problems there,” said the chief minister during a virtual felicitation of students who excelled in secondary and higher secondary examinations conducted by state boards. Although Visva-Bharati is a central university, successive governments in Bengal have always extended support to the varsity set up by Rabindranath Tagore. Mamata, who had spent a lot of time at her maternal uncle’s home in Birbhum in her childhood, has a special connection with the varsity because of her interest in art and culture. Within hours of Mamata expressing her concerns about the state of affairs at Visva-Bharati, some protesting students and teachers said they wanted her intervention to resolve the impasse, for which they blamed VC Chakrabarty’s attempts at saffronising the institution that has been an abode of Tagore’s inclusive principles. “We know our chief minister has respect for Tagore and love for the students and her comments prove her concerns about what’s happening here…. We want her intervention to protect the institution and save us from the wrath of the VC, who has targeted us because of our protests against his saffronisation agenda,” said Falguni Pan, one of the three students whom the varsity had rusticated last week. Since August 27, a section of students has been staging a ghearo of the VC’s official residence, demanding revocation of rustication of Pan, Somnath Sow and Rupa Chakraborty. The protesters have put up a tent in front of the VC’s home. The varsity authorities had on Wednesday moved a petition before Calcutta High Court seeking judicial intervention in the ongoing stalemate over the agitation by a section of students and teachers. The petition which alleged that the agitators had the active support of “outsiders” demanded action against the protesters by the state government. The petition is likely to be heard by the court of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha on Friday. Several students on the campus said the chief minister’s comments a day ahead of the hearing was reassuring for them as it meant that the state government would stand by the agitators. Not just from the chief minister, the student community on Thursday got support from a group of elderly residents of Santiniketan also. The senior citizens met the protesters and promised their support in the battle against the “tyrannical rule” of VC Chakrabarty. “The students are protesting with proper demand. We can’t accept their rustication for three years,” said Subir Banerjee, an old-timer. Shanto Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Amartya Sen, also extended his support for the students before recalling how the VC had tried to insult the Nobel laureate economist. “The present VC and his administration even did not spare someone like Amartya Sen and accused him of illegally holding varsity land.… It is not only the students, but anyone protesting against the VC’s wrong-doings is coming under attack. This approach of the authorities is very sad,” said Shanto Bhanu Sen. On Thursday evening, tempers ran high outside the VC’s home when the students prevented two doctors (from the varsity’s Pearson Memorial Hospital) and a few staff from entering his residence. “We wanted to send our two representatives with the doctors to see whether the VC is actually ill. We can’t take any chance as there are attempts to show us in poor light.… We would write to police and the state government to conduct a health check up of the VC by doctors from government hospitals,” said Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students. The doctors returned without examining Chakrabarty. In the evening, a team of doctors with Bolpur subdivisional police officer Abhishek Ray reached the residence of the VC to know if he needed any medical support. The police said they had called the VC but a woman who identified herself as the daughter of Chakrabarty said he didn’t need any medical assistance right now. “We have informed her that the VC may call the police anytime if he needs medical support,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
03-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Signature scents||Melbourne is telling the world to stop and smell the Vegemite. This iconic Australian breakfast spread has for long been a bone of contention — some tear up at its harsh aroma while others choke up with emotion at the mention of this delicacy made with brewers’ yeast extract. The Melbourne city council has now recognized this distinctive fragrance as ‘intangible heritage’, something that is part of the identity of the Port Melbourne region where the factory manufacturing Vegemite is located. Indeed, any space is a dynamic identity shaped by a combination of cultural, economic, social, political, environmental, and geospatial factors of which intangible elements, such as festivals and rituals, languages and customs passed down generations, smells and sounds, are an intrinsic part. These elements have been identified in the Unesco’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, which has such diverse entries as Enkipaata, Eunoto and Olng’esherr (rites of passage for Maasai men), bobbin lace-making from Slovenia, Jamaican reggae, Turkey’s whistled language, Kumbh Mela, Chhau dance and so on. Interestingly, except the art of perfume-making in France, this list is devoid of signature smells that constitute the heart of a landscape — spatial or cultural. Yet, smells form an inherent part of any setting — can one imagine Mumbai without the stench of drying bombil, Kerala without the whiff of ripe jackfruit or even Calcutta without a myriad smells — those of the tanneries near Tangra, of flowers, incense and mildew in North Calcutta households or of the musty river near Prinsep Ghat? Significantly, intangible heritage can have real-life economic implications. The distinctive smell of the Vegemite factory — it is impossible to avoid a pungent whiff in that Melbourne neighbourhood — is likely to influence property prices in a region that is witnessing a boom in real estate. Yet cultures, especially urban sensibilities, can have a way of turning up the nose at scents and dins that are organic to specific neighbourhoods. Some time ago, vacationers in France had complained about the morning cry of a rooster and the clamour of church bells. This marginalization of sounds, sights and smells integral to natural settings may have something to do with the human propensity to imagine heritage as concrete. The intangible, therefore, remains peripheral, not just in the imagination but also to policy when it comes to the conservation of topographies. Is this not why conservators spend righteous energy on protecting ancient monuments and mansions but scarcely think of the fading call of hawkers and sparrows, or the scent of bel flowers — signature sounds and aromas that once constituted the identity of another Calcutta? The challenge, therefore, is to disseminate the tangible advantages of a wider, more supple comprehension of heritage. The preservation of intangible heritage — Unesco has recognized Singapore’s hawkers too — could, in turn, bolster local economies and tradition. This confluence of trade and tradition, the tangible and the abstract, can not only galvanize public demand to strengthen heritage but also make the latter truly inclusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
03-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Kohli needs to reflect on his identity as skipper & batsman||Do better Sir — On Thursday, during India’s fourth Test against England, Virat Kohli overtook Sachin Tendulkar to become the fastest cricketer to score 23,000 international runs, achieving the feat in just 490 innings. Making the milestone even sweeter was the fact that he hit the fateful runs off his arch-nemesis, the England pacer, James Anderson. However, these are just personal records; Kohli has, of late, been struggling to perform as a batsman. The upswing his career took in 2016-17 has not been replicated in recent years. Even though he is one of the greats of the game, Kohli needs to reflect on his identity as a captain and ace batsman, and live up to his reputation. Shekhar Kundu,Mumbai Huge waste Sir — It was shocking to read that even in a developed nation like the United States of America, at least 15.1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been wasted since March. Such huge wastages are attributed to factors such as damaged vials, errors in diluting the vaccines, problems related to freezing, hesitation among the public with regard to getting vaccinated and so on. The shock at the news stems from the fact that many nations around the world are finding it difficult to acquire enough doses to fully vaccinate their populations. As far as India is concerned, although there are reports of vaccines getting wasted, it is also a relief to hear that several states are attempting to make full use of their vaccine stocks. Public awareness, hassle-free distribution, good storing facilities and the administration of vaccine doses in the most meticulous way can certainly prevent such precious resources from being wasted. The Central and the state governments also have a vital role to play in ensuring that Covid vaccines — on which the global population as a whole is depending to eventually bring about an end to the pandemic — are not wasted. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — With the horrors of the second wave of Covid-19 in India — including the acute shortage of vaccines that many states complained of at that time — still fresh in our memory, it was deeply distressing to learn that the US has wasted more than 15 million doses of the Covid vaccine since March. While some vaccines, especially those that are produced in bulk, are bound to be destroyed — vials can break or the viability of the medicine can get affected during transportation — there is no good excuse for a nation like the US, with all its resources, for wasting such large quantities of a vaccine that is so highly coveted by less-privileged nations around the world. It was reported in March that the US bought enough coronavirus vaccines for three times its adult population, effectively creating shortages for poorer countries. To waste such a valuable drug is nothing short of criminal. Anindya Basu,Calcutta Hard to tell Sir — In the last 11 months, the collection of the goods and services tax has mostly been over Rs 1 lakh crore, with the federal government attributing the development to a speedy financial restoration and improved compliance ranges. Economists, however, are unable to analyse these tax numbers as a lot of important information is not being shared by the Centre. Till December 2020, when the month-to-month GST collections had started, the official assertion from the Union finance ministry often included particulars of the variety of the GSTR-3B returns filed by taxpayers as well as a state-wise break-up of revenues. Now, the state-wise income tendencies have been shared for less than four of the eight months since then. The final month for which the federal government shared the variety of the GSTR-3B returns — abstracts of an agency’s GST liabilities for every month — filed was January. A professor at a Delhi-based financial analysis institute said, “With the present particulars accessible for GST, there can’t be any type of evaluation besides to say the revenues went up or down”. How, then, are economists supposed to form an accurate picture of India’s financial recovery, or ascertain if there has, in fact, been any significant recovery at all? Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
03-09-2021||Opinion||Afghanistan now, Uganda then: there are parallels||Unequal fate Britain has committed to taking 20,000 refugees from Afghanistan. For a better understanding of the practical, psychological and emotional problems refugees experience when forced into permanent exile from the countries of their birth, I talked to Neema Shah about her novel, Kololo Hill. The novel recalls Idi Amin’s 1972 expulsion of 90,000 Asians from Uganda — of whom 30,000 settled in Britain — through the tale of one family: Motichand, his wife, Jaya, their sons, Pran and Vijay, and Pran’s wife, Asha. It was heart-wrenching to lose a country as stunningly beautiful as Uganda. Its lush vegetation, red earth and the smell after heavy rain when I went there reminded me of Assam. Neema, who was born in Britain to parents who lived in East Africa, reminds me that “the hot weather allows for a way of life that you don’t get certainly in places like the UK — being able to sit out in verandahs late at night.” In the novel, Motichand collapses and dies before the family can leave Uganda. On the way to the Entebbe airport, Asha is sexually molested by Amin’s thuggish soldiers, leaving her traumatized. In Britain, while she finds freedom in a new job, her marriage disintegrates. Pran hankers for a return to Uganda, however unsafe the country. For him, India, which has refused to accept Ugandan Indians with British passports, is a foreign land. The women appear to adjust better to life in Britain. Financial independence means they are less subservient to the men. It will be the same with the even more conservative Afghan refugees, since many of the women are educated. “Definitely there are parallels,” agrees Neema. A dream world It is my ignorance entirely that I hadn’t heard of Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain and the English short story, “Sultana’s Dream”, that she had written in 1905 until I was told about the author from what is now Bangladesh last week by Piers Masterson, a freelance journalist with ArtAsiaPacific. Masterson revealed to me that he had come across Begum Rokeya, a “Bengali feminist thinker, writer, educator and political activist”, while researching on science fiction written by Indians. In “Sultana’s Dream”, which I would recommend to everyone, Begum Rokeya imagined a ‘Ladyland’ in which roles are reversed and women rule while men are confined to purdah in “mardanas”. After reading “Sultana’s Dream”, I am not at all surprised that Masterson compared Begum Rokeya to Jules Verne. In her story, cooking is done by trapping the sun’s heat, water runs down pipes connected to clouds and travel is by air-cars fuelled by hydrogen. Boots on the ground Kim Sengupta has certainly had “a good war”, as foreign correspondents like to say. We were once colleagues who sat opposite each other at The Daily Mail and occasionally gossiped in Bengali. These days, my adventures are confined to local supermarket trips while Kim has been filing and tweeting daily from Kabul as the defence and security editor of The Independent. Earlier this week, Kim — “I have been covering the most recent Afghan war since its inception,” he said in The Independent — wrote a valedictory piece from Kabul: “Every single foreign journalist on the ground has received desperate pleas from those trying to get away; everyone has tried the best they could, getting out individuals and families with the help of sympathetic troops and officials... ” He added: “There is a deep concern for our Afghan colleagues in the media. They have been the real heroes in covering this conflict. We, the foreign media, have come here over the years, done our stint, and then gone back.” Kim recounted how Ahmed Wali Karzai, the former president’s brother who ran Kandahar, “was a Chelsea supporter and a great admirer of John Terry and wondered if I could get him a signed shirt of the then Chelsea captain. I managed to get one... A week later he was shot dead by one of his bodyguards.” Inside story The British are very good at writing biographies. But more often than not people get trashed when their biographies are written by those who know them best: their own children. The Daily Telegraph carried an obituary of the biographer, Lady Susan Chitty, who died on July 13, aged 91. She was good at discovering the “guilty secrets” of her subjects. Her most devastating biography, Now to My Mother, was of the novelist, Antonia White, which began: “Antonia White was not a good mother to me. She conceived me out of wedlock, put me in a home for the first year and a half of my life and handed me over to nannies and boarding schools for much of my childhood... a friend once referred to her as a rivet in a cream puff.” “Susan loathed her mother and lived in terror of her volcanic rages,” the obituary continued. “As young children Susan and her half-sister plotted to murder their mother and bury her body with a stake through the heart.” So engrossing was the obituary that I missed my train stop. Footnote The broadcaster, Rajni Kaul, who died this week, aged 93, was married for 63 years to Mahendra Kaul, who was once the face of Asian TV programming on the BBC. Rajni used to joke that her husband managed to get interviews with Margaret Thatcher by flirting with Britain’s first woman prime minister, “and she loved it”. As Thatcher came down the stairs on one occasion, he exclaimed, “Wow! You look beautiful.” Her delighted response was: “Do you think so?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
03-09-2021||Opinion||Shared trait||As Afghans who failed in the desperate stampede to flee the country are forced to come to terms with their lot, their new rulers face an even more excruciating challenge. But in reconciling their austere ideology of denial with promises of a less illiberal dispensation, they can find a disingenuous exponent of the art of quietly replacing hoary institutions with monuments to their own glory in India whose drift towards some form of Hindu Talibanism is spiced with the populist political tactics of Europe before the Second World War. Afghanistan’s pictorial history illumines the dizzy road to its present trauma. Elizabeth Butler’s poignant painting of reputedly the lone survivor of an invading force of 4,500 soldiers and 12,000 civilians Britain sent to the First Afghan War is a reminder that the American evacuation of August 15 with its echoes of Dunkirk (1940) and Saigon (1975) was by no means an isolated triumph. It was the first bloody nose Afghans gave to the world’s three mightiest military powers. The Soviets fled next, tail between their legs, in 1989; the Americans, who long ago distorted Tom Paine’s noble pledge “to begin the world all over again” into a formula for hegemony, brought up the rear. Even Afghans who abhor fanaticism and yearn for the constitutional democracy that the 1978 Saur Revolution devoured must thrill to the triple achievement. While Jawaharlal Nehru hoped to promote a scientific temper by advising newspapers not to publish astrological forecasts, photographs suggest Afghanistan’s instrument of change was sartorial. A 1918 portrait of King Amanullah’s three sisters shows them in European frocks. A decade later, his beautiful wife, Soraya, the first Muslim queen to appear in public with her husband, faced the camera in short skirt and high heels, a wispy veil fluttering from the brim of her cloche hat in token concession to Islamic orthodoxy. Amanullah not only encouraged European attire but made it compulsory in the fashionable parts of Kabul, thereby playing into the hands of mullahs, tribal chiefs and the British who were accused of morphing pictures of the queen in scanty attire. Their outspoken 92-year-old daughter, Princess India (she was born in Bombay), maintains the burqa  is “not an Afghan garment and is not even an Islamic garment” but that did not save Amanullah. Other pictures more tellingly recall the Afghan elite’s trek to a modernity that the Taliban despises and denounces and which must have played a major part in the series of tumultuous events culminating in Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada being anointed supreme leader. It began in 1923 when Emir (previously only Sardar) Amanullah had himself proclaimed “His Majesty the King”, and climaxed two years later with a costume ball where everyone pretended that Afghan dress was as exotic as kilt and kimono, somewhat like the Indian fad of referring to indigenous garments as ‘ethnic’. Cultural posturing provoked protests in 1928 and, eventually, the rebellion of 1929 that overthrew and exiled Amanullah. In the one photograph I have seen of the rising’s leader, a sandalled Tajik peasant, Habibullah Kalakani, he looks no different from any unkempt Taliban foot soldier even though he lived and died — executed actually — 65 years before the Taliban was born. Not much may have changed in the intervening years. When Amanullah’s great-nephew, King Zahir Shah, Afghanistan’s last monarch, and Queen Humaira visited India in the late Fifties, Her Majesty tiptoed (as if still in high heels) around Tipu Sultan’s palace at Seringapatam where shoes were not allowed. A friend in Mysore who acted as honorary lady-in-waiting said it was as if the queen had never laid a bare foot on Mother Earth and didn’t know how to. Despite Zahir Shah’s constitutional reforms, the ruling elite seems to have remained as estranged as ever from Asia’s arid reality. Dynastic feuds, tribal strife, superpower stratagems and the tidal wave of Muslim resurgence were additional complications. Laced into them were whispers of highly-placed members of Ashraf Ghani’s regime making secret deals with the relentlessly advancing Taliban and of the Taliban cutting through administrative structures and political alliances by appealing to the 14 tribes “and others” that the Constitution mentions. The former evoked Indian memories of 1857; the latter warns of the mischief ahead if the 25,000 sub-castes into which our four main castes are supposedly divided really get going. That is without counting Dalits whose ritual status outside the hierarchy doesn’t mean they are strangers to caste politics. The most significant picture is political. While Mahatma Gandhi’s loin cloth astutely identified the leader with the multitude, politicians in monarchical Afghanistan had to dress up, not down. Jackets, waistcoats and neckties were mandatory for those who attended the loya jirga or grand council in September 1928. My picture includes even a high-ranking courtier sporting the cutaway coat and striped trousers that dominated 19th-century European chancelleries but were last seen on Japanese dignitaries. Although a scattering of European felt hats can be glimpsed above the photograph’s bearded visages, there isn’t a single floppy turban in sight. Nor is there a woman in the group, save for Soraya herself enthroned with her husband. Times had changed by 2002 when another loya jirga chose Hamid Karzai in his tribal cloak and lambskin hat as interim president. Most of the men in that picture wear robes and turbans but a scattering of suits also testifies to the diversity of contemporary Afghan life. A number of female delegates confirmed how much Afghanistan had changed since 1996-2001 when the Taliban forbade girls to go to school and women to work. It claims to have changed but the first international leader to be granted the privilege of meeting Abdul Ghani Baradar, who will head the government under Akhundzada, was Ismail Haniyeh, whose Hamas controls the Gaza Strip. Predictably, Haniyeh drew a link between Baradar’s victory over “American occupation” and the continued “Israeli occupation of Palestine”. A Taliban seeking international respectability cannot afford terrorist activities. It cannot even follow the example of Zahir Shah’s military assistance to the short-lived Turkic Islamic Republic of East Turkestan that Chinese Muslim troops quickly liquidated in 1934 but which China has never forgotten or forgiven. Even vandalism, like the 2001 destruction of the sixth-century Bamiyan Buddhas, is bound to alienate donors. With food running out and money in short supply, a landlocked, poverty-stricken Afghanistan denied access to its own foreign exchange reserves is forced to be circumspect. That includes not openly reneging on promises of inclusive governance, amnesty for adversaries, women’s rights and not to promote jihad. All the more reason, therefore, for keeping the Taliban’s radical credentials shining through unobtrusive gestures like tampering with syllabi, discarding respected texts, promoting propaganda, adopting local equivalents of teaching astrology in universities, exalting sacred animals, and prescribing cow dung and urine for coronavirus. Parallels abound. Afghan warlords are medieval versions of the robber barons of modern industry. Afghan presidents are as fond of flamboyant apparel as democratically elected prime ministers. An overwhelming majority makes the minority inconsequential. Converting the India-built Parliament building into an Islamic council will avoid squandering millions of dollars on monstrous statues and the extravaganza of a Central Vista project or flogging the family silver through a monetization pipeline. The emirate of Afghanistan was abolished in 1923. Reviving it means drooling over a fabled past that elsewhere supposedly witnessed plastic surgery and genetic innovation while sophisticated radar, superior to anything modern man knows, operated space shuttles. The wellspring for such fancies is understandable. But the movement is into a dead-end future. The Taliban has something in common with its Hindu cousin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Jallianwala Bagh revamped||Poor decision Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, seems to be bent on leaving a mark by distorting history (“Showtime”, Sep 2). A lot of measures have been adopted to revamp the historical Jallianwala Bagh during the last 100 years. But the latest renovation of the memorial — kitsch murals now adorn both walls of the main entrance — that was unveiled by Modi, has effaced the all traces of the massacre. This has drawn sharp criticism from scholars across the world. The martyrs’ well, into which people had jumped to save their lives from the brutalities of the British — the then brigadier-general, Reginald Dyer, had ordered his troops to open fire on peaceful protesters — has now been encased in glass walls. A lotus pond around the memorial structure and a ‘light-and-sound’ show have also been added. In the name of a facelift, Modi has done a great disservice to an edifice that has thus far borne testimony to one of the most tragic episodes in the nation’s history. Jallianwala Bagh is a site of grief; the pompous look that the government has bestowed on it does not correspond with its solemn spirit. The venue should not have been tampered with. The renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh began in its centenary in 2019. But the project — it cost over Rs 20 crore — has ended up desecrating history. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — Sixty years after the Jallianwala Bagh memorial was inaugurated by the former president, Rajendra Prasad, to honour the martyrs of the 1919 massacre, the Narendra Modi government decided to turn them into protagonists of a sound-and-light show. Even the famous ‘shahidi khu’ or martyrs’ well is now enclosed in a glass shield, and the entrance has been covered by murals. Can this be called renovation? People are naturally angry about this development. They want to ask the prime minister if this is how he wishes to protect the country’s history. How can his government inspire the younger generation after erasing the last traces of such a historic event? This is an insult to freedom fighters like Udham Singh. But not much can be expected of the ruling dispensation in India. After all, it is common knowledge that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological antecedent of the Bharatiya Janata Party, contributed little to the country’s freedom struggle. The Centre must not forget that Jallianwala Bagh is not a place of celebration; but one of mourning and of deep, abiding grief. The attempt to turn it into a tourist site is shameful. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Lost star Sir — It was heart-breaking to learn that the author, Buddhadeb Guha, died of post-Covid complications at the age of 85. This has left a deep void in Bengali literature. Guha’s passion for forests was reflected in many of his works — Kojagar and Madhukari, for instance. His novels played a crucial role by presenting a true picture of the plight of tribal communities. His bold writing style will surely inspire future generations. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — The demise of Buddhadeb Guha, the eminent writer, is a colossal loss to the literary and cultural fraternity of Bengal. Guha’s early travels left a profound imprint on his mind, which found expression in many of his works. Guha donned many hats. Besides being a literary stalwart, he worked as a chartered accountant, and was also a noted classical singer, a proficient illustrator and painter. Like his fictional characters, Guha desired to lead life on his own terms. He wrote over 150 books, including novels, short stories, poems and travel literature. Guha also achieved fame as a writer for children. His characters — Rijuda, a hunter-turned-conservationist, and his side-kick, Rudra — are still popular among young readers. But Madhukari, a novel on honey-gathering, is arguably his best work. During his lifetime, he won a number of awards — including the Ananda Puraskar, Shiromani Puraskar and Sharat Puraskar. It will be difficult to fill the void he has left behind. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur Take a bow Sir — Cricket fans across the world are shocked to hear that the South African fast bowler, Dale Steyn — fondly called Steyn Gun by his fans — has announced his decision to retire from all forms of cricket (“Steyn ends his long & fine spell”, Sep 1). Steyn has a record of  439 wickets in Test cricket, 196 in one-day internationals and 64 in Twenty20 matches. His skills will be thoroughly missed on the field. Uddipta Sen,Calcutta Sir — It is saddening to think that we will now be deprived of watching Dale Steyn’s famous run-up live. However, one must thank him for his contributions to the game — after all, an economy-rate of 3.65 is no mean feat for a pacer. One hopes that he continues to inspire the youth, and enrich cricket as a coach, commentator or administrator. Anshuman Sinha,Howrah  Make a plan Sir — The demand for the reopening of educational institutions is on the rise. To this end, students from a premier university in Calcutta are holding classes out in the open. While, reopening classrooms without adequate planning would entail an enormous risk — especially with the recent spike in Covid cases — students cannot be indefinitely deprived of classroom teaching. The government, in collaboration with educationists, should come up with an alternative. Allotting safe, sanitized spaces for students, especially those who cannot afford online education, could be one way of dealing with the problem. Karabi Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Editiorial: Centre forward||Centralization, ironically, seems to be the flavour of the season in a country whose prime minister has, on several occasions, loftily claimed that his regime stands for ‘minimum government, maximum governance’. This has been evident in the growing instances of encroachment on the independence of India’s institutions, whether political, administrative or educational. The phenomenon appears to be contagious; in a new turn of events, a proposal to give the vice-chancellor of Delhi University the absolute authority to name new institutions — from a pre-approved list of names no less — has been accepted by the university’s academic council. The implications of this development are ominous on several counts. Until now, new institutions were named only after consultations with the university’s academic council and executive council. This is a robust practice, as debate and differences of opinion ought to be encouraged in honour of the democratic ethos. The approval of the proposal constitutes an infringement of the mechanism of autonomy within the administration of a university. Moreover, there are concerns that the ‘absolute’ power vested in the vice-chancellor might even lead to a reduction of the role of the office to that of a nominal head as well as encourage the culture of quid pro quo. Such fears are not unfounded: the conduct of vice-chancellors of several universities — Visva-Bharati is one example — has been distinctly partisan. The threat to another kind of representativeness is manifest in this measure. It would not be unreasonable to surmise that the list of approved names from which new institutions under the university can be named enjoys political approval — not only does it include the names of the right-wing’s patrons like V.D. Savarkar and other stalwarts of the Bharatiya Janata Party but, interestingly, it also excludes the name of Jawaharlal Nehru. That the name of India’s first prime minister — he is credited with setting up several institutes of higher education in independent India — does not merit a mention on a list of names for new colleges points overwhelmingly to a rise in ideological and political meddling in sovereign institutions. India’s universities have to deal with diverse adversities. The paucity of funds, periodic interventions in curriculum and the pandemic are some such examples. To this long list must now be added the vector of centralization that seeks to impose the unilateral views of the powers that be on an entire centre of learning through a pliant vice-chancellor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: For the nation||The debate on the line separating nationalism and patriotism is an old one. But it endures. No less than Rabindranath Tagore had scoffed at the scourge of narrow nationalism, calling it “carnivorous”. In recent times, the eminent social scientist, Ashis Nandy, has been equally critical of modern nationalism, emphasizing the need to hold the line. There is, indeed, a need to resist such a conflation at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party, India’s dominant political formation, has successfully fused the concept of patriotism with regressive nationalism. Love for the nation is natural and should never be hindered. What is unnatural is a nationalism that focuses on identifying — prejudicially — imaginary enemies of the nation. In the Indian context, minorities have borne the brunt of this toxic Othering. The need to revisit the debate has been occasioned by the Aam Aadmi Party’s decision to use patriotism as political fodder. The AAP’s objective is noteworthy. This is because India’s Opposition, including the Congress, has failed to challenge the BJP’s aggressive, but exclusive, nationalism with an effective counter-narrative. The AAP — it has eyes on political territory in the north and west of India — is attempting a different fusion, seeking to disseminate patriotism through populism. It has, for instance, planned to proceed with a ‘Tiranga Yatra’: it is expected to stop at Ayodhya and at the site of the Ram temple. Arvind Kejriwal’s government is also putting up the Tricolour all across the capital. But the AAP’s cocktail of populist nationalism is unlikely to gain traction for two reasons. First, the AAP’s tepid opposition to the saffron dispensation, ideologically and on matters of policy, has earned it the moniker, ‘BJP’s B team’. A more robust history of confrontation with the BJP may have helped the AAP’s cause. Second, and more important, fidelity to patriotism requires ideological clarity. The only template of patriotism that should receive political endorsement, whether it is from the BJP or its rivals, is one that recognizes the plural, accommodating character of the republic. Respect and equality for all is the true essence of not only patriotism but also nationalism. Until India’s Opposition learns to embrace and educate citizens about this expansive notion of deshbhakti, the BJP’s ploy of wedding love for the nation with hate for its ideological opponents would continue to break new ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Justice in health||The Supreme Court recently sought the Centre’s response to a plea seeking direction to operationalize the provisions of the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 in order to ensure affordable and quality healthcare for all. It covers public and private establishments in every stream of healthcare. Its objective is to streamline health services while ensuring that hospitals do not engage in unethical practices. Pursuant to this, the CEA prescribes for mandatory registration of all clinical establishments, standardized services, price caps on facilities being provided, and the requirement of making the billing process transparent by displaying the rates of OPD services, diagnosis and surgical procedures in a templatized format. The states were supposed to adopt the CEA under Article 252 (1) of the Constitution. Yet, it has not been notified in 18 states even after 11 years of its passage. This is because the bigger private hospitals have significant influence to coerce the government into not notifying the CEA or relaxing its rigours. A classic example of this was seen in Haryana where the government had to exempt hospitals having less than 50 beds from its rigours after the Indian Medical Association suspended the OPD services in all the private hospitals in opposition. Similar protests have also been witnessed in Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh. Many corporate owners are associated with organizations like the Federal Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry as well as the High Level Group for the Health Sector under the 15th Finance Commission that are also vested with the responsibility of framing regulations for the private sector. Stringent regulation of the medical industry becomes difficult owing to such conflicts of interest. Ironically, the government aims for universal healthcare, but not at the cost of antagonizing the private players. Although it has the power to withhold to force the corporates into complying with the CEA, it is still reluctant to exert pressure on them. This approach is also reflected in the National Health Policy of 2017, which is silent on such aspects as price fixation and the quality, rationality and strict enforcement of patients’ rights. However, the government must regulate the medical industry owing to differential market realities. The information gap between the doctors and patients is immense because of the hyper-technical nature of the medical industry. This becomes even starker in the Indian context owing to significant illiteracy among patients and the dearth of doctors. Patients, especially in cases of medical emergencies, are unable to look for medical service providers that fit their medical needs and budgets because time is of the essence. This is a particular problem in India where patients avoid hospitals till push comes to shove. Even when patients have the requisite time, resources and information, they are unlikely to prioritize affordability or quality when it comes to choosing doctors or treatment procedures. Instead, they prefer doctors with reputation. Although the government passed the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013 to regulate the prices of medicine, data from the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority show that 45 per cent of the patient’s expenditure goes towards treatment procedures that are covered under the CEA. The CEA is resisted by corporates. They argue that standard pricing will impact revenue detrimentally. Universal healthcare is a national goal. Given the immense potential of private hospitals, shunning them or letting them adopt a discriminatory approach towards the rich and the poor is impractical and unfair. Private hospitals ought to be made partners in the project of universalization of healthcare, especially since the medical industry is fraught with problems like overbilling by up to 1700 per cent which plunges 55 million people below the poverty line annually. The Supreme Court has taken a positive step towards realizing universal health. The ball is now in the government’s court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Ceaseless conflict||In an irony of sorts, the Taliban, which had sheltered the leadership of al Qaida and were in power when the United States of America was struck by terror attacks on September 11, 2001, came back to power in Afghanistan days before the twentieth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. President Joe Biden had opposed the military surge in 2009 in Afghanistan as the then vice-president and there was little doubt that  he would honour the agreement that was reached with the Taliban by the former president, Donald Trump, in February 2020. However, Biden is facing mounting criticism as thousands of Afghans are trying to flee that country desperately. At least 150 people, including several US troops, were killed after suicide bombers attacked Kabul airport even as people continued to try and leave the country. The New York Times reported that “[m]ore than a million Afghans who remain in the country... could be eligible for expedited immigration status.” It added that these are people “who worked with the U.S. government or American organizations over the past 20 years and their families are eligible for special visas” on account of possible “retribution from the Taliban”. Implicitly, this means more than 2.5 per cent of the country’s population belongs to this category. The failure in Afghanistan is multi-dimensional as there are non-military vectors that have contributed to the ongoing mess. First, the current domestic political polarization in the US can skew both the substance and the pace of foreign-policy decisions by the incumbent president in a particular direction even though this is the first year of the Biden presidency. Given that the memory of the Trump presidency has not faded completely, including his disregard for institutional checks and balances, the stakes are high for the Democratic Party not to concede any political space to the Republicans. In this context, foreign policy would not be immune to the ongoing existential battle between the two parties. Among swing voters in the American mid-West, where a large number of locals join the army, the appetite for foreign wars and risk is minimal. Trump’s decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was favoured in the mid-West and he did well in this belt in the presidential elections of 2016 and 2020. From an immediate standpoint, the ruling Democratic Party faces a challenge of retaining a narrow Congressional majority in the upcoming mid-term elections, which are just over a year away. In this environment, Biden rushed through the withdrawal of the American troops without calibrating the decision with the fast-changing adversarial conditions on the ground. The decision to withdraw by a specific date hints at domestic political calculations. Second, the assumption that the Taliban were prepared to reconcile with others, including Pashtun and non-Pashtun leaders of Afghanistan, proved to be wrong. The dialogue with the Taliban had started under the watch of the former president, Barack Obama, with Richard Holbrooke appointed as the first special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan (2009-2010). His tenure was nearly a non-starter as Obama never developed a liking for his style and approach, particularly his reported comparison of the situation in Afghanistan to the US campaign in Vietnam in the 1960s. After protracted negotiations, it was the Afghan-American and veteran of several Republican administrations, Zalmay M. Khalilzad, who facilitated a poorly negotiated agreement with the Taliban in Doha in February 2020, toeing Trump’s instructions to withdraw troops by a certain deadline. Meanwhile, in line with the Doha agreement, Taliban spokespersons have repeatedly said that Afghanistan’s soil will not be used against any country. The reality, however, is quite complicated. In an ecosystem of fragility, anarchy and religious extremism, Taliban-ruled Afghanistan can potentially act as a magnet for other terrorist outfits. A June report of the United Nations security council sanctions regime under Resolution 1988 — relating to the Taliban — as well as a July report of the sanctions regime under Resolution 1989 — pertaining to the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Daesh) and al Qaida — have, on the basis of inputs made by member states, underscored the same view in different words. The common objective of all non-State actors is to grab power. But the presence of al Qaida and Daesh provides an extra layer of complexity to the situation in Afghanistan. The Taliban are mostly Pashtuns. Their foot soldiers belong to the larger Ghilzai tribe present in the southern and the eastern parts of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. They are products of Deobandi seminaries in Pakistan and in Afghanistan. Founded in 1866, the Darul Uloom in Deoband, India, was one of the first seminaries to train in Deobandi Islam. Deobandi clerics had refused to seek funding from the upper echelons of society or even the State and, instead, sought funds from the lower classes. The class appeal of Deobandi Islam was one of the potent instruments that helped it to spread to various parts of the subcontinent. One such area was the Pashtun-inhabited territory on both sides of the Durand Line. (Deobandi scholars in India had emphasized to this author a few years ago the differences in the contemporary syllabi and orientation between those in India and the ones in Afghanistan and Pakistan.) De facto, some of the sub-groups of the Taliban, including the Haqqani group, have connections with al Qaida given the intersections in their ideologies, familial connections and shared struggles in the past. The regional affiliate of the ISIS, the Islamic State-Khorasan is relatively more takfiri in doctrinal terms — narrower in the interpretations of the sharia — and considers non-conformist Muslims to be apostates. Although the organization in the region is presently led by the Iraqi national, Shahab al-Muhajir, most of the cadre are from Afghanistan and Pakistan, with a few recruits from India and Bangladesh. The Taliban recently assassinated the imprisoned IS-K leader, Mawlawi Zia-ul-Haq, who hailed from the Kunar province near the border with Pakistan. The Kabul airport attack has been attributed to the ISIS’s regional affiliate, which surfaced in 2015 in Afghanistan. This opens up new possibilities of covert cooperation between the US and the Taliban to degrade their common enemy, the ISIS, in the region. The US exit leaves behind a far more complicated landscape in Afghanistan, with the country turning into a cesspool of numerous non-State actors cohabiting, and at war, with one another. As the recent developments bear out, the upcoming twentieth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks has not quite ended the US’s ‘war against terror’ in Afghanistan and in the region. Luv Puri is the author of Across the LoC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||On Day One of Dhanbad no-entry rule, traffic crawls for hours||Dhanbad's experiment with banning passenger buses and heavy vehicles from city limits to ensure snarl-free roads got off to a rocky start on Friday with several areas reporting traffic jams for reasons of flooding and poor road conditions. Traffic crawled, and at times was static for an hour, at Rangatand Chowk  due to water logging of the underpass beneath the railway over bridge called Gaya bridge. Residents claimed more than a thousand vehicles were caught in the traffic jam for more than two hours despite the best efforts of a large number of policemen who had been deployed through the day. A motorcyclist said, "Nothing is going to change with regard to the traffic situation in Dhanbad unless the narrow underpass beneath the the railway over bridge is broadened and comprehensive repairs of the existing stretch is carried out.” Bus owners,  who held a meeting at Rangatand, claimed that even though  buses did not ply in the town during  day time, there were snarls. They pinned the blame on auto rickshaws that occupied the space vacated by  the closure of the  station road  bus stand. Bus owners said they would request Dhanbad deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar to reconsider the decision to close the station road bus stand as livelihoods of hundreds of people working there as booking clerks and managers were at stake. Small traders and retailers also questioned the logic behind a new rule with regard to loading and unloading of goods in shops only during the night from 11pm to 8 am. They said the new rule violated  existing covid norms as per which all shops are to be closed after 8pm. Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said “Although we have no problem with the ban on  buses and heavy vehicles, meant to ease traffic congestion, we oppose the loading and unloading rules. "As the loading and unloading time for goods by small vehicles has been fixed from 11 pm to 8 am it will cause shortage of even essential goods as no trader will be able to open his shop for loading of goods during night." Residents of Jharia, however, welcomed the move to ban buses to ease traffic congestion. A delegation of  residents  met Kumar Tarachand,  ADM (law and Order),  to thank the district  administration for the new traffic rules that led to no entry of coal-laden tipper trucks that cause pollution in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur using drones to map city ||Jamshedpur civic authorities have launched a project to map the steel city with the help of drones, an initiative they hope will help in urban planning in future. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), which looks after the upkeep of steel city alongwith Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly Jusco), is pursuing the  project. Drone Mapping Control (DMC) System, explained officials,  is the process of surveying an area of land with an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). An operator flies the drone over an area of land, taking hundreds of pictures as it moves. Then, with the help of  drone mapping software, it helps in creating a model of the site with larger and more accurate composite images. Senior JNAC official Sandeep Kumar,  who is overseeing the project,  explained the many benefits of such an initiative. "It will help in planning the city for the future. Drone mapping will ensure proper and systematic development of various infrastructure facilities, apart from controlling the menace of encroachment and illegal buildings . It will also help in proper planning of other civic amenities, traffic and transportation systems," he said. Kumar said a highly detailed aerial map allows for insight into the property and civic  details without requiring a client to be there in person. "Such an initiative is a first for  the state of Jharkhand, " he added. Deputy commissioner  of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar is keen on the project and has been giving necessary inputs for the success of the new initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand Assembly: Day One of 5-day monsoon session over in half hour||On the first day of the week-long monsoon session on Friday, Jharkhand Assembly proceedings were held for barely half an hour during which customary condolence messages were read amid an uproar by the Opposition protesting against the Speaker for not recognising Babulal Marandi as leader of the BJP legislature party. The House was adjourned till Monday. Soon after the House commenced at 11am, MLAs condoled the death of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, Olympian Milkha Singh, legendary actor Dilip Kumar, among others. Thereafter, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto asked BJP chief whip Biranchi Narayan to read  out the condolence messages to which BJP MLA (Hazaribagh) Manish Jaiswal objected, stating that he shouldn’t do so when the party’s legislature  party leader, Babulal Marandi, was present. Later, BJP MLAs joined in protests against the delay in Marandi’s appointment as Opposition leader in the House. Amid the protest, the names of members of the House business advisory committee were declared. A list of presiding officers to run the House in the absence of the Speaker was also prepared. Chief minister Hemant Soren, after walking out of the Assembly, did not comment on the BJP’s protests, but said that the Opposition should ensure the House was run in a meaningful manner. The monsoon session will have five working days and will end on September 9 during which the state government is expected to introduce a Bill to mandate appointment of 75 per cent locals in the private sector. On September 6, the state is scheduled to table its first supplementary budget for the 2021-22 fiscal and is also likely to host a special session to debate and discuss caste- based census, which several Opposition parties across the country are demanding  ahead of this year’s nationwide census. Congress, which is part of the ruling coalition comprising JMM and RJD, has on the other hand  announced to pursue 27 per cent reservation to OBCs  in the state. The party's Jharkhand minder R. P. N. Singh said, “We will try to move a resolution for 27 per cent reservation to OBCs in the state government jobs. This was part of our election manifesto in the 2019 Assembly polls. We are also in touch with our coalition partners and are hopeful that all ruling and Opposition parties will be on board.” Singh, who arrived in the state on Wednesday for a two-day visit, also said that creation of jobs and streamlining a local employment policy were their priority areas. “We discussed it with the chief minister during a UPA meeting at his residence on Thursday night. The  CM has assured us that the state government will soon come out with a list of vacancies later this year. Also, a few Congress MLAs and workers have some reservations against the new employment policy which was passed by the cabinet recently. We will discuss these with our alliance partners,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||AIIMS-Deoghar OPD facilities doubled to 400 patients a day||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Deoghar decided to double the number of OPD patients it would attend to everyday in the wake of huge demand and also rolled out online registration facilities from Friday to enable people to schedule consultations. AIIMS- Deoghar director Saurabh Varshney said, "Earlier, we were only catering to 200 people at the OPD per day. But, people from far off places used to stand in queue since morning to register on a first-come first-serve basis. Many had to return disappointed. Hence, in order to cater to more people, we have decided to double visiting patients from today Friday.” Varshney told reporters that AIIMS-Deoghar had also operationalised an online appointment system through which 100 people could book appointment slots. “The online registration window is made available at our website www.aiimsdeoghar.edu.in. We have included a tab of online registration on the home page of our official website which has all the details,” he said. For better management of patients, the director said that among the 400 to be attended to at the OPD, 100 would be follow-up patients. “Of the 300, only 100 online slot bookings will be done per day and the rest will be through counter registration. It is because everyone may not have access to devices to book online services. Those booking online appointments will be attended to only between 8.30am and 9.30 am,” he said. Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated the OPD facilities at the new Ayush building at Deoghar-AIIMS on August 24. He also launched a night shelter facility. OPD services are available everyday except Sundays. One has to pay Rs 30 for registration. About 50 doctors are on duty across various departments to run the OPDs. Deoghar-AIIMS was approved by the Union government in its 2017-18 budget. The state government earmarked around 236.92 acre of land in Deoghar’s Devipur area for the project, and in May 2018, the Union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore. It began inducting MBBS students since 2019, admitting 50 students in the first batch. The number of students was increased to 62 last year. This year’s admissions are still to get over. The civil work of the hospital and academic buildings is in progress at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tit-for-tat jolts in Centre-Ranchi row over outstanding power dues||The ongoing tussle over outstanding power dues between the BJP-led Union government and the UPA-led Jharkhand dispensation has sucked public sector units into the controversy. The Union power ministry deducted Rs 714 crore from Jharkhand’s RBI account last week and issued a notice to the state energy department that Rs 2,100 crore will be deducted in two instalments, one in September and the other in December, in order to clear the dues owed by the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). In a quick response, the JBVNL (power distribution arm of Jharkhand government) snapped power supply to the Ranchi-based Heavy Engineering Corporation (a PSU not in the best of financial position) on Tuesday over outstanding electricity bills of Rs 129 crore bringing to a halt its foundry, forge and heavy machine-building plants. Power was restored only on Wednesday after the HEC promised a down payment of Rs 1 crore with an assurance that it would clear the remaining dues (Rs 128 crore) in suitable instalments. Principal secretary energy, Avinash Kumar, told The Telegraph on Thursday that JBVNL officials have sent notices to all PSUs under its power supply area to clear their outstanding dues. “Local JBVNL officials wrote letters on Wednesday to all PSUs in their respective power supply areas to clear their outstanding dues at the earliest,” said Kumar. He further said that chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has also written a letter to the Union energy secretary in this connection. “The chief secretary has written to the Union energy secretary to ensure that all PSUs operating in Jharkhand clear their outstanding electricity dues at the earliest,” said Kumar. The veiled threat by the Jharkhand government assumes significance with PSUs in the state owing over Rs 1,400 crore in power dues. “We had no option but to act tough with the PSUs with the central government adopting a step-motherly attitude towards us. There are several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka which owe hundreds of crores to the central power companies. But they have not been touched. The money was deducted from our account even after the state government informed the Centre about the cabinet’s decision to exit the tripartite agreement between the Union power ministry, Jharkhand and the DVC. The deductions were made though Jharkhand is paying Rs 125 crore each month to the DVC to settle its outstanding dues leaving us in a very bad financial position during the Covid pandemic,” said Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon. So far, the Centre has auto-debited approximately Rs 2,100 crore from Jharkhand’s RBI account to settle DVC’s dues of Rs 5,608 crore between 2015 and 2017. “The dues were of the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government but we are having to pay the price,” said Oraon, a senior Congress leader. According to sources in the state energy department, various central government offices like railways, BSNL, department of posts and telegraph, Central Paramilitary Forces, National Highways Authority of India, Airports Authority of India, SBI, coal companies, All India Radio, Doordarshan, etc, owe around Rs 1,379.38 crore in outstanding dues. Over Rs 400 crore is owed by PSUs like Uranium Corporation of India Limited, Garrison Engineer, Sports Authority of India (SAI) and SAIL units. This apart, the JBVNL owes more than Rs 2,733 crore to private companies. In the tripartite agreement signed between the power ministry, Jharkhand government and RBI in 2017, a condition was laid down that in the case of non-payment of dues, the balance amount would be deducted from the state’s account. After the first instalment was deducted, the Jharkhand government informed the Centre about the state cabinet’s decision to exit from the tripartite agreement in January this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata foundation initiative prize in maternal and newborn health||The Tata Steel Foundation, a subsidiary of Tata Steel with presence in Jharkhand and Odisha, has bagged the BRICS Solutions for SDGs Awards 2021 for its initiative on maternal and newborn health. The foundation bagged the award in the SDG-3 (good health and well-being) category for its project called MANSI (Maternal and Newborn Survival Initiative). The BRICS (stands for Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) Solutions for Sustainable Development Goals Awards, which is organised by the BRICS business council and Ficci, recognises initiatives aimed at achieving SDGs especially through innovative solutions across the BRICS countries. The winners were selected on the basis of evaluation criteria of compliance, efficiency, uniqueness, coverage, replicability and quality of description. The awards are given in the categories of SDG-2 (zero hunger), SDG-3 (good health and well-being), SDG-4 (quality education), SDG-5 (gender equality), SDG-6 (clean water and sanitation, SDG-7 (affordable and clean energy) and SDG-9 (innovative in industry and infrastructure). Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services), Chanakya Chaudhary, said: “We are honoured to receive this prestigious award. This award is dedicated to all the sahiyas (rural health workers) who have saved the lives of countless newborns and build a culture where the well-being of women and children is a priority, even during a pandemic. It is also a reaffirmation of the commitment of each member of our team towards better societal outcomes and motivates us to reach out to many more through the Tata Steel Foundation.” The MANSI initiative engages in enhancing the capacity of the village-based healthcare system (embedded in villages through government health volunteers called accredited social health activists or sahiyas in Jharkhand) by training them on parameters which would address the root causes and underlying reasons for neonatal and infant mortality. The initiative covers around 2.2 lakh households across Seraikela-Kharsawan (eight blocks) and West Singhbhum (two blocks) districts in Jharkhand and Keonjhar (two blocks) district in Odisha. To reduce the response time to address high-risk cases, MANSI introduced a technical innovation called Operation Sunshine in June 2018. This digital tracking system enables seamless monitoring of high-risk cases of mothers and newborns on a real-time basis. This digital solution and innovation has facilitated the continuation of sustainable development agenda even in the backdrop of the pandemic. MANSI is implemented by the foundation in a public-private partnership model with American India Foundation (AIF) and National Health Mission. The programme is designed to leverage government schemes, building the capacity of existing public health system and strengthening of its processes to enable a sustainable setup. Further, the continuous support from the programme partners, the gravity of the development challenges being addressed and involvement of the sahiyas have made this programme a successful model capable of being replicated and scaled up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
