04-09-2021||Business||Supertech to file review plea against SC order of demolition of towers||Realty firm Supertech Ltd on Saturday said it will file a review petition against the Supreme Court order to demolish the company's twin 40-storey towers in Noida while asserting that the buildings were constructed as per the bye-laws with approval of the competent authority. Last week, the apex court had ordered to demolish the twin 40-storey towers, which are part of the Supertech's Emerald Court project in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. "While we respect the Hon'ble Supreme Court order, we have decided to re-present the matter before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a review application as the towers were constructed as per the approval of the competent authority conforming to the Building bye-laws," Supertech Chairman R K Arora said. He said in a statement that the Apex and Ceyane towers are not linked to or part of any ongoing project of the company. Supertech group is developing 10 crore sq ft across its projects, while Apex and Ceyane towers only constitute a mere 6 lakh sq.ft which is 0.6 per cent of the total portfolio, he added. "While we have already refunded most of the customers in this project after the Hon'ble High Court, Allahabad decision passed in 2014 we will further comply with the Hon'ble Supreme Court directions as per the order passed," Arora said. Supertech's chairman exuded confidence that the order will not have any adverse impact on the company as every project has its own independent RERA Account and cost centre. "Supertech is a financially stable and strong group. Work is going on at all our project sites as scheduled. "We would like to reassure all our customers, bankers, vendors and other stake-holders that we will deliver all our projects in the scheduled time frame," Arora said. In its order, the Supreme Court directed that the entire amount of homebuyers be refunded with 12 per cent interest from the time of the booking. The Residents Welfare Association be paid Rs 2 crore for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had said that the April 11, 2014, verdict of the Allahabad High Court, which directed demolition of twin towers, does not deserve any interference. The bench had said the construction of Supertech's twin 40-storey towers having 915 flats and shops was done in collusion with NOIDA authority and the high court was correct in holding that view. The apex court ordered that demolition exercise of the twin towers be carried out within three months under the supervision of NOIDA authority and an expert agency, and the cost of the entire exercise has to be borne by Supertech Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Maruti to recall 1,81,754 units of petrol variants of various models||The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for technical textiles and man-made fibres is set to be approved by the Union cabinet. Under the scheme, the government will offer incentives of around Rs 7,000 crore to man-made fibres and around Rs 4,000 crore to technical textiles. The support to man-made fibres is expected to boost employment. Announcing the government’s plans for the incentives, textiles minister Piyush Goyal said the cabinet would also approve the mega textile parks project, under which seven such parks would be set up in the next three years. In the recent past, Indian textile exports have lost ground to Bangladesh and Vietnam. The PLI scheme is aimed at redressing the imbalance. The Union government had announced an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore for PLI schemes for 13 sectors in the budget. The scheme is expected to cover around 40 MMF (man-made fibres) apparel product categories and around 10 in the technical textile category. An incentive of 3 per cent to 11 per cent of the annual incremental revenues’ for five years will be provided to existing as well as proposed investments in the sector. Goyal said the government was open to discuss any anomalies in the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) scheme, especially if there are no refunds on levies that are not part of GST. We have requested the ministry of finance to set up a review committee or an anomaly committee to go into any inputs that we may like to put up for correcting any rates,” the minister said. However, the discrepancies would be  taken up at te time of the review of the scheme next year. On free trade pacts, he said India was interacting with many countries to expedite FTAs or PTAs (preferential trade agreements). This engagement has been ongoing with the UK, EU, UAE, Australia, among others. Goyal said the commerce ministry is working with the finance ministry on interest equalisation scheme and the enhancement of insurance cover. “Delighted at the way the textiles sector has engaged with the idea of achieving bigger targets. We must aim for a $100 billion export target in the next five years,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||PLI scheme for technical textiles and man-made fibres to be passed||The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for technical textiles and man-made fibres is set to be approved by the Union cabinet. Under the scheme, the government will offer incentives of around Rs 7,000 crore to man-made fibres and around Rs 4,000 crore to technical textiles. The support to man-made fibres is expected to boost employment. Announcing the government’s plans for the incentives, textiles minister Piyush Goyal said the cabinet would also approve the mega textile parks project, under which seven such parks would be set up in the next three years. In the recent past, Indian textile exports have lost ground to Bangladesh and Vietnam. The PLI scheme is aimed at redressing the imbalance. The Union government had announced an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore for PLI schemes for 13 sectors in the budget. The scheme is expected to cover around 40 MMF (man-made fibres) apparel product categories and around 10 in the technical textile category. An incentive of 3 per cent to 11 per cent of the annual incremental revenues’ for five years will be provided to existing as well as proposed investments in the sector. Goyal said the government was open to discuss any anomalies in the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) scheme, especially if there are no refunds on levies that are not part of GST. We have requested the ministry of finance to set up a review committee or an anomaly committee to go into any inputs that we may like to put up for correcting any rates,” the minister said. However, the discrepancies would be  taken up at te time of the review of the scheme next year. On free trade pacts, he said India was interacting with many countries to expedite FTAs or PTAs (preferential trade agreements). This engagement has been ongoing with the UK, EU, UAE, Australia, among others. Goyal said the commerce ministry is working with the finance ministry on interest equalisation scheme and the enhancement of insurance cover. “Delighted at the way the textiles sector has engaged with the idea of achieving bigger targets. We must aim for a $100 billion export target in the next five years,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Services sector expands at fastest pace in 18 months in August||The services sector expanded at its fastest pace in 18 months in August amid strong inflows of new work and improved demand conditions, a monthly survey said. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose from 45.4 in July to 56.7 in August, as the reopening of several establishments and increased consumer footfall provided a boost to sales. The services sector witnessed the first expansion in output in four months and a rebound in business confidence. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. “The sharp rise in India’s services and composite PMI readings in August support our view that the economy has staged a strong rebound in Q2. But downside risks remain as the threat of further virus waves continues to loom,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. “The Indian service sector bounced back in August, led by the reopening of several establishments and improved client confidence because of growing vaccine coverage,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics associate director at IHS Markit. New orders placed with service providers rose in August, ending a three-month sequence of reduction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Reliance Industries m-cap jump to record Rs 15 lakh crore||The market valuation of Reliance Industries jumped to a record Rs 15 lakh crore (trillion) on Friday, the first domestic company to attain this historic feat. The gain in Reliance Industries’ stock also helped the rally in the BSE Sensex which closed above the 58000-mark for the first time on Friday. The market heavyweight stock jumped 4.12 per cent to close at Rs 2,388.25 on the BSE. During the day, it zoomed 4.38 per cent to a record Rs 2,394.30. Reliance Industries, the most valued firm by market cap, was the biggest gainer in the Sensex pack. On June 3 this year, Reliance Industries’ market capitalisation (m-cap) crossed the Rs 14 lakh crore mark. Shares of Reliance Industries have gained over 20 per cent so far this year. Green energy push Reliance Industries will create or enable capacity by the year 2030 to generate at least 100 gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources, which can be converted into carbon-free green hydrogen, chairman Mukesh Ambani said on Friday. Speaking at the International Climate Summit 2021, Ambani said Reliance will pursue the target of bringing down the cost of making green hydrogen to under $2 per kg initially and ultimately to bring it down to under USD 1 per kg in a decade. Stake in Strand Life Sciences RIL on Friday said its subsidiary has acquired a majority stake in genomic testing firm Strand Life Sciences for Rs 393 crore. The acquisition by Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Ltd (RSBVL) is part of Reliance’s digital health initiatives, the firm said in a stock exchange filing. A further investment of up to Rs 160 crore is expected to be completed by March, 2023. “The total investment will translate into about 80.3 per cent of equity share capital in Strand on a fully diluted basis,” it said. Strand was incorporated in India on October 6, 2000. It is a pioneer in genomic testing in India with bioinformatics software and clinical research solutions to healthcare providers, including clinicians, hospitals, medical devices manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||SC to take up early hearing of FRL plea for stay on Delhi HC order||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to take up for early hearing the plea of Future Retail Limited (FRL) to stay a Delhi High Court order for the attachment of the company’s property. The order had also asked to show cause as to why the top executives of the company, including its executive chairman Kishore Biyani, should not be jailed for “willful” violation of an arbitration award in the Rs 24,713-crore aborted deal with  Reliance Industries. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, heading a bench, told senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi that he would go through the relevant files and ensure that the Special Leave Petition filed by the company is listed before September 16 for hearing. The bench also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna gave the assurance upon a request for urgent hearing made by the two senior counsel as otherwise the March 18 order of a single judge of the Delhi high court would become enforceable. On August 6, the apex court had upheld Amazon Inc’s appeal challenging the  Rs 24,713-crore amalgamation deal between Kishore Biyani’s Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries as “being illegal and liable to be struck down”. The apex court had allowed an appeal by Amazon against a Delhi  high court stay order on a single bench ruling of the court. The single bench on March 18 had ordered the  implementation of a Singapore Emergency Arbitrator Award directing that the FRL-Reliance deal cannot be permitted in view of an earlier agreement between FRL and Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||NCLT allows withdrawal of case against McLeod Russel India||India’s largest tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd has come out of the clutches of insolvency after a bench of the company law tribunal allowed an application for withdrawal of the case against the company. The court order followed a settlement reached between the creditor Techno Electric & Engineering Co Ltd and the promoters of debtor McLeod, the Khaitan family of Calcutta, over the course of the week. Apart from burying the two-and-a-half-year old dispute over a Rs 100 crore loan, the two parties also reached an understanding to work together in the future, in which the family office of Padam Prakash Gupta, the promoter of Techno, may come in as a strategic minority investor in McLeod, sources with knowledge of the development, said. “I am happy that the dispute has been resolved with the satisfaction of all stakeholders concerned. It is time to look forward,” P.P. Gupta, managing director of Techno, told The Telegraph. Aditya Khaitan, chairman of McLeod, was not available for comment. However, he is understood to have sent out text messages informing employees and well-wishers that the company had emerged from the bankruptcy resolution process ‘this afternoon’ and thanked them for their support during difficult times. The corporate insolvency resolution process, initiated by an order of a bench of the National Company Law Tribunal, Delhi on August 6, was seen as a major hindrance to debt restructuring efforts at the bulk tea producer that has 33 tea gardens in India, employing 70,000 workers. Banks and financial institutions have an exposure of Rs 1,800 crore to the company. The majority of the lenders have signed an inter creditor agreement to restructure the loan under RBI guidelines. Sources say Gupta may aid Khaitans to arrange funds which will be required as promoters’ contribution. A copy of the order was not uploaded till going to press, but lawyers present at the courtroom in Delhi confirmed that the application filed by the interim resolution was allowed. “An application was filed by the IRP which states that the financial creditor Techno seeks to withdraw the Section 7 application and the counsel for both the parties have consented to this withdrawal. The bench also took on record settlement deeds under sealed cover. He discharged the IRP from duties and responsibilities. “The prayers for withdrawal of the CIRP process have been allowed, under regulation 30(A),” Udit Gupta, counsel for Techno, said. While the contours of the agreement is under wraps, sources said a majority of the Rs 100 crore principal loan amount has been paid in cash and the rest will be discharged soon. Khaitans arranged funds from third parties to pay off Gupta. The tribunal made clear, at the insistence of Gupta’s counsels, that in case the parties failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement, they may take steps as per applicable in law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||HDFC Life Insurance to acquire 100% stake in Exide Life Insurance||HDFC Life Insurance on Friday said it would acquire a 100 per cent stake in Exide Life Insurance in a cash-and-stock deal that will consolidate its presence as the leading private player in life insurance. The total consideration of the buyout is Rs 6,687 crore: issue of 8.7 crore preference shares for Rs 685 apiece by HDFC Life to Exide and a cash payout of Rs 726 crore. In the first part of the deal, Exide will pick up a 4.1 per cent stake in HDFC Life. The second part involves the merger of the business of Exide Life with HDFC Life. Mortgage lender HDFC’s stake in HDFC Life will come down to 47.9 per cent from 49.9 per cent. The total investment of Exide into Exide Life Insurance is Rs 1,679.59 crore as per regulatory disclosures. The closure of the proposed transaction will be subject to regulatory approval as well as approvals by the shareholders of HDFC Life and Exide Industries. The combined entity will have an embedded value of Rs 30,042 crore with total assets under management of over Rs 2 lakh crore. The combined entity will also command a market share of 16.8 per cent on individual weighted received premium. Deal rationale HDFC Life said the acquisition significantly strengthens its agency business. HDFC Life will be able to add 36,710 agents of Exide Life taking its overall agent strength to 144,605. The other benefit lies in the genesis of Exide Life. Exide is a leading brand in the automotive and industrial battery segment. The company had invested in life insurance in 2005 acquiring a 50 per cent stake in ING Vysya Life Insurance. Following ING’s decision to exit the life insurance business in India, Exide had acquired the remaining stake and the company was renamed as Exide Life Insurance. While insurance was not the core business of Exide, it nevertheless had a significant presence in south India, especially in the smaller cities because of its ING Vysya roots. HDFC Life generated 21 per cent of its  business in the first quarter  from agency, brokerages and other channels. The remaining 79 per cent was from bancassurance and direct sales, with bancassurance constituting more than half of the business channel mix. The acquisition will help the insurer to diversify its channels and expand its presence in the southern markets. Vibha Padalkar, MD & CEO, HDFC Life, said, “We believe that this amalgamation can result in value creation for customers, employees, shareholders and distribution partners. It gives us an opportunity to realise synergies arising out of complementary business models, and further bolster our proprietary distribution network.” Rajan B. Raheja, vice-chairman, Exide Industries and chairman, Exide Life Insurance, said, “The focus of Exide Industries has always been to enhance the value for its stakeholders. The proposed transaction is another step taken by us to meet the above stated objective.” While HDFC Life tumbled 3.21 per cent on the BSE on Friday, Exide Industries was  up 6.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Incomet’s courses are a big step towards women’s financial literacy, says software programmer turned stock market expert Nagalaxmi Bhat||We are in the 21st century, technology and the human race have reached a very advanced stage. With the digital boom, the world is at your fingertip. Be it any product or service everything is just a click away. But the picture is not as bright as it seems to be. In the era which is called modern, a large percentage of women are still financially dependent and lack the knowledge of what’s and how’s of  right investment  to a large extent. We find a very minuscule percentage of informed women who talk about the share market or investment. Nagalaxmi Bhat ,a software programmer turned stock market expert is a lady who endorses the importance of financial literacy among women. She is completing an advanced course in the stock market trading and investment from Incomet, a leading firm providing courses and assistance in making a career in this field. We asked her about her journey and experiences so far after having shifted her career from programming to the stock market. Excerpts from her interview :  1. Naglaxmi, tell us about your background and how was your experience? The beginning of my professional journey had nothing to do anything with the stock market. I started as a Software Programmer but soon realized that I was not interested in that kind of profession. Flexibility in being able to decide where when and how to work is something I wanted, and I realized the stock market offers the kind of opportunity I was looking for, whereby giving few hours a day you can earn money. Here my earning was not connected with the number of hours I am putting in.  2.Why did you join Incomet and how was your experience? The stock market sounds exciting but there is always a risk attached to it. I didn’t want to start unprepared so scrolled videos on the internet which were mostly half-baked and misguiding. Then I came across an advertisement for Incomet on Instagram. I thought to give it a try. It proved to be a judicious decision. I must say their modules were very efficient in training a novice like me with no background in finance.  3.Did Incomet and the stock market bring any changes in your life? I can say choosing Incomet as my mentor to understand Stock Market and its functioning is the best decision I have ever made. I am more confident and independent now.  4.Tell us something about your learning and achievements through this program. Before joining the course, we have the perception that there is some definite technique or formula for success in the stock market, that is what we expect to learn. The truth is it doesn’t work that way. It is a matter of finding the right method. You have to have a good amount of risk-taking ability without being an egoistic investor. Psychological balance is a must if you are opting for this career. Incomet helps in doing that. It has prepared me for both Bear and the Bull Market.  5.What do financial literacy and success mean to you? For me or for any woman being financially independent and literate is very important. We must be able to understand and take an investment-related decision. The stock market is full of opportunities for everyone. Women are more in need of a flexible profession for all practical reasons. Liberty is found when you can take financial decisions for yourself.  6.Any message you would like to give to the aspirant who wants to choose Incomet as their mentor? The Stock Market is a good place to earn but one needs the knowledge and the right skills and guidance in this field. Incomet is the right platform for such aspirants. Their program quality is the best. It suits people from beginner to advanced level of knowledge. Their team is very professional and efficient. They put their heart and soul into teaching the most dynamic modules and strategies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||India||CJI hopes to get government support in  appointing judges||Terming the huge vacancies of judges as one of the "difficult challenges", Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday expressed hope that the government will ensure swift clearance of names recommended by the Collegium for appointment to high courts as it did for the apex court. He also said a comprehensive proposal for creating the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation and will be sent to the government soon. The judicial system is facing difficult challenges like that of deficient infrastructure, shortage of administrative staff and huge vacancies of judges," the CJI said at a function organised by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to felicitate him. On the appointments to the higher judiciary, the CJI thanked the prime minister and the Union Law Minister, who was present at the event, for the clearance to the nine names, recommended by the Collegium for appointment as judges to the apex court, at a jet speed . "I must thank the prime minister and law minister and the Government of India for clearing the names," he said. The CJI said that it has been his endeavour to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an "urgent basis" and noted that due to the collective efforts, the vacancy in the top court is now reduced to just one. Similarly, after I took over, the Collegium has recommended, if I am not wrong, 82 names to various high courts. "I hope the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court. It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41 percent vacancies existing in all the high courts," he said. The CJI said in another month, he expects that 90 percent of vacancies will be filled. He said he wanted to place on record his sincere thanks to his colleagues in the Collegium -- Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao -- for becoming active and constructive partners in this endeavour. The CJI also expressed concern over the low representation of women in the judicial system. Among those who attended the event were several sitting judges of the apex court, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, and office bearers and members of several bar bodies from across the country. On the issue of judicial infrastructure, Justice Ramana said he has prepared a report collecting information from every part of the country and he would send it to the law minister very soon. Highlighting the problems faced by litigants and lawyers, especially women advocates in the courts, he said if a national-level judicial infrastructure corporation is created, it can take care of these issues. He said earlier he had seen that there were no toilets for women lawyers in the courts. "I have been emphasising on augmenting the infrastructure for very long. I have a proposal to address this issue in a time-bound manner. A comprehensive proposal for the creation of the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation," he said, adding a proposal in this regard will reach the Law Minister very soon. "I expect full cooperation from the government," he said. The CJI said though access to justice has been strongly provided, still lakhs of people are unable to approach the courts to seek remedy and high expenditure and long delays, which are a part of our legal process, are the biggest challenge. Justice Ramana said another area that needs to be highlighted is that majority of women lawyers struggle within the profession and very few of them have found representation at the top. "After 75 years of independence, one would expect at least 50 percent representation for women at all levels but I must admit, with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11 percent of women representation on the bench of the Supreme Court," he said. The CJI said some states, because of reservation policy, may reveal higher representation but the reality remains that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold. He said bar council and bar associations are his weakness and he has enjoyed his life as a member of the bar more than as a judge. "Today, I feel that more than being felicitated, I am being reminded of my responsibilities as the Chief Justice of India," he said. The CJI highlighted a new trend in the profession similar to what has happened in foreign countries. "I am referring to corporatisation of the profession," he said, adding, Common people cannot afford quality legal advice at corporate prices which is an area of concern. Sending a message to young members of the bar, he said being at the frontline of the legal system, they must protect the institution from targeted, motivated and malafide attacks. The CJI said that during the function he was referred to as former cricketer Sachin Tendulkar but he must correct the perception. Like any game, it is a team effort. Unless all the members of the team perform well, it is difficult to win, he said. Apex court judge Justice Vineet Saran, who also addressed the gathering, said the CJI is a person with a golden heart. "Yesterday, somebody informed me that a young girl has written to the chief justice that when schools have opened, when colleges, all others businesses are going on, why are not the courts opening? I am told that the CJI has treated it as a PIL and it will be taken up," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
04-09-2021||India||Delhi University teachers want Mahashweta Devi's Draupadi back in syllabus||A section of English teachers of Delhi University has accused a varsity panel of making a mockery of the "democratic and the due process" in drafting the subject's syllabus and demanded reinstating of dropped works, including Mahashweta Devi's celebrated short story "Draupadi". In a statement issued on Friday, about 115 English teachers from across DU colleges slammed the dropping of works of Devi, Bama, and Sukirtharani by the Oversight Committee during redrafting the English syllabus for semester 5. According to the teachers, the "entire process was flagrantly violated and bypassed by the Oversight Committee". "It (the Oversight Committee) single-handedly seeks to destroy a syllabus that has been put together after years of careful discussion and debate, where democratically elected committees have chosen democratically diverse texts that seek to represent all sections of society," they said in the statement. "We demand the reinstatement of works by Mahasweta Devi, Bama, and Sukirtharani in the Core Women's Writing paper of semester V," they added. The varsity's Academic Council last month dropped Devi, and two Dalit authors from BA (Hons) English course, while approving changes in its syllabus on recommendations of the Oversight Committee. "The voices that have been throttled are those of Dalit and non-Dalit women writers writing about Dalit/tribal women. "What else could be less inclusive than excluding these powerful women narratives, Mahasweta Devi's 'Draupadi', Bama's Sangati (chapters 2-4) and Sukirtharani's two poems 'Debt' and 'My Body', that congeal caste and gender oppression with that of patriarchal state violence from the syllabus," they asked. Earlier while redrafting the syllabus, the DU had claimed it strives to bring out the "inclusive nature of the syllabus" through a "careful perusal". The teachers also alleged that the English department head was coerced into consenting on the refurbished syllabus. They said that the OC recommendation that "Draupadi" should be deleted came on July 19 -- less than 24 hours before classes were scheduled to begin. The English department wrote twice to the OC, they claimed, presenting all the "academic and pedagogic reasons" in favour of keeping the story, but the committee rejected their argument. The OC "held the Department of English to ransom by not notifying its BA (Hons) English Semester V syllabus on the website until the 1st of September 2021 (44th day of the Vth semester, a week after the registrar's press release)," they alleged. Recounting the sequence of events, the teachers said that the English department HOD received the notice from the assistant registrar to drop "Draupadi" by Devi on August 9. But when department dropped the story and suggested to replace it with "Hunt", a work by the same author, the OC in a letter on August 11, vetoed the move citing "ideological" differences, and offered to choose from six alternatives. Professor Raj Kumar, HOD of English department at the university, told PTI that he approved the course "only in the interest of teachers and students since it was being held for months". According to Kumar, the English department had put in "3000 hours of work" on the syllabus between 2017 and 2019. "Two international professors and professors from other central universities had also approved the syllabus," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
04-09-2021||India||Delhi records zero Covid deaths for fourth consecutive day||Delhi did not report any death due to COVID-19 for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday while the number of new infections was 55 with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is also the 23rd time since the start of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been reported in a day. On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of new infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May. On Saturday, 55 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate increased to 0.08 per cent, while there was no death due to COVID-19, according to the latest bulletin. The new cases took the national capital's infection tally to 14,37,929. A total of 70,303 tests -- 48,510 RT-PCR tests and 21,793 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. On Friday, 35 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate stood at 0.05 per cent, according to official figures. On Thursday, the daily case count stood at 39 with a positivity rate of 0.06 per cent. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stood at 25,082 on Tuesday. The national capital has not reported any death due to the coronavirus since then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
04-09-2021||India||Rains lash parts of Delhi, temperatures go down||Rains lashed parts of the national capital on Saturday afternoon bringing the mercury down. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a yellow alert for Delhi for Saturday, predicting light rain or thundershowers. Rains were witnessed in the northeast, north and central parts of Delhi. The city on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of 26.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the IMD said. The city recorded 0.7 mm of rain in the last 24 hours. The relative humidity was 88 per cent, it said. The weather department has predicted a generally cloudy sky with light rain during the day. The maximum temperature is expected to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. With an AQI of 67, the air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category, the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board at 9.05 am showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Jan Aashirwad Yatra left Opposition nervous, says Nadda||The highly successful Jan Aashirwad Yatra, a public outreach by 39 new Union ministers, has left the opposition disturbed and nervous , BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday and accused it of trying to hinder the programme. People continue to show "unflinching support and trust" in the Modi government, he said in a statement. "All ploys and disturbances have failed to shake the strong support and trust that the people have showered on the Narendra Modi government," Nadda said, hitting out at the Maharashtra government for targeting Union Minister Narayan Rane. Rane was arrested by the Maharashtra police for his comments against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray while on the Yatra. It is a direct attack on our democratic system but people's support forced all narrow-minded opposition parties and our political adversaries to retreat, Nadda said. The highly successful Jan Aashirwad Yatras across the country has left the Opposition parties disturbed and nervous and they unsuccessfully tried to disturb and create hindrances in our Yatra and programmes. The BJP president added that people have rejected the "negative political agenda" of opposition parties and have stood strongly with the politics of development and growth. The Yatra, which began on Independence Day and continued till August 28, covered more than 24,000 km in 14 days in which over 5,000 programmes were organised. "All these programmes were highly successful which also ensured enthusiastic participation of people from all walks of life," the BJP president claimed. People have lauded all-round development and progress under the Modi government whose "pro-people and pro-poor" policies and programmes have touched the lives of all sections of society, he said, adding that it has taken several initiatives to boost India's security and safety. "The last seven years of India under the dynamic, decisive and foresighted leadership of Modi has been that of people's participation, development, trust, security, prosperity and growth," he said. "The tremendous success of the Jan Aashirwad Yatras are also proof of the 'Vikas Yatra' that the country has seen under the dynamic and decisive leadership of the prime minister and the trust and support of all his Cabinet ministers," Nadda added. He said the BJP and Modi are committed and firm on providing benefits of all social welfare and economic welfare schemes to every section of society, particularly to those who have been left behind in the race of growth and development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh orders probe after surgeon serilises 101 women in 7 hours||The Chhattisgarh government has ordered a probe into irregularities at a recently-held government-run sterilisation camp in Surguja district, where a surgeon allegedly performed tubectomies on 101 women in seven hours, an official said on Saturday. The sterilisation camp was held on August 27 at Narmadapur community health centre in Mainpat development block of the district, located over 300 km away from the capital Raipur, the official said. Local newspapers had reported alleged irregularities in the camp, following which the department swung into action and issued show-cause notices to the surgeon and a local health official. Following complaints regarding the sterilisation camp, a probe has been ordered, based on which further action will be taken, said Dr Alok Shukla, Principal Secretary of the state's Health and Family Welfare department. A total of 101 surgeries were performed by a (government) surgeon in the camp. The women who underwent the procedure were reported to be in a normal condition. However, as per the government guidelines, a surgeon can perform a maximum of 30 surgeries in a day and hence, an enquiry has been ordered to ascertain why the guidelines had been violated, Shukla said. The surgeon has claimed that a large number of women had turned up for the procedure and urged him to perform the operations, citing that they had come from remote villages and cannot travel frequently, he said. Earlier, Surguja Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) P S Sisodiya had on August 29 issued a show-cause notice to surgical specialist Dr Jibnus Ekka, who performed operations in the camp, and Block Medical Officer (BMO) Dr R S Singh seeking their reply in this regard. The CMHO had also constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter. The surgeries were conducted from 12 pm to 7 pm on August 27. Once the enquiry committee submits its report, further action will be taken. Stern action will be taken against people who are found guilty, Dr Sisodiya said. In November 2014, at least 83 women had developed complications after undergoing a procedure at a government-held sterilisation camp in Bilaspur district, and 13 of them had died, triggering widespread criticism against the government-run programme offering free sterilisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh organises special camps Bastar residents for Aadhar, ration card grievance redressal ||After being deprived of facilities for years, people of Bastar in Chhattisgarh are now getting services of the government through camps. Special camps are being organized for redressal of grievances related to Aadhar card, Ration card, Ayushman card and pension cases. In the sensitive areas of Sukma district, villagers thronged similar camps in Silger, Minapa, Sarkeguda. The positive response by the villagers prompted the administration to increase the duration of the camp. To provide various facilities to the villagers of these sensitive areas of Sukma district, a facilitation camp was organized at village Sarkeguda. Vehicles were also arranged by the administration so that the villagers do not face any problem in commuting to the camp site. Villagers of Minpa and Silger had apprised the administration about their problems, for which facilitation camps are being set up in these areas for quick redressal. Similar camps will be organized in other villages in the coming days. The camp-strategy adopted by the Chhattisgarh government to provide basic facilities like education, health, employment, drinking water to the inner villages is proving to be very effective. There are seven districts in Bastar division. These seven districts are included in the list of aspirational districts of the country. In the tribal dominated districts of Sukma, Bijapur, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Bastar (Jagdalpur) and Kanker, access to facilities in the hinterland has always been a challenge due to geographical complexities and Naxal activities. The Chhattisgarh government led by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel decided to adopt a camp-strategy according to the local conditions for the development of the division by moving away from the traditional methods. This new strategy of governance is based on the principles of development, trust and security. To ensure an environment of security in the Naxal-affected interior areas, security-force camps were set up at various places. These safety-caps opened the way for other camps related to public conveniences. Through the mobile clinics of Mukhyamantri Haat-Bazaar Clinic Yojna, now medical-camps have started in the Haat-bazaars of the interior areas, where the villagers are getting the facility of free examination, treatment and medicines. Success has been achieved in restarting hundreds of schools which were closed due to Naxal riots in the interior areas.\ In these traditional schools of Hindi medium, English medium schools have also started at various places along with teaching in local dialects. These English medium schools are being operated under the Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme, in which free education is being provided to every student with facilities like private schools. During the Corona period, Chhattisgarh has collected the maximum number of minor forests produce in the country. Most of the minor forest produce in the state is collected in these seven districts of Bastar division. With better strategy, now the collection of minor forest produce is being done in a more systematic and organized manner. From their collection to purchase, the work is being done by the forest dwellers only. These forest produces are being procured by self-help groups by setting up purchase camps in Haat-bazaars. The enthusiasm of the villagers has increased due to the increase in the price of minor forest produce by the government and increasing the number of minor forest produce purchased on support price from 07 to 52. These minor forest produces being collected from the forests of Bastar are being processed locally, due to which people are getting employment and benefits on a large scale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Odisha sees rise in Covid-19 cases among children||Coronavirus infection among children continued to rise in Odisha even as the total number of new cases dropped to 681 on Saturday, a Health Department official said. The state had reported 849 new cases on Friday, he said. Among the new patients, diagnosed with Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, there were 118 children, which was 17.32 of the total fresh cases detected. It was 14.13 per cent on the previous day, the official said. Odisha has so far reported 10.1 lakh Covid-19 cases. Khurda district reported the highest number of new cases at 222. Four districts -- Bolangir, Gajapati, Kandhamal and Nuapada -- did not report any new case. Five more people died in the state, taking the toll to 8,040.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Mobile internet services snapped in Kashmir again as restrictions continue||Restrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of Kashmir Valley after the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani while mobile Internet services were suspended on Saturday morning after being restored the previous night, officials said. Geelani, 91, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. The pro-Pakistan separatist leader, who spearheaded separatist politics for over three decades in Jammu and Kashmir, was buried at a mosque near his residence. Following his death, restrictions were imposed in the Valley as a precautionary measure. Restrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of the valley but curbs on movement have been eased in some parts, the officials said, adding the curbs were in place in Srinagar's Downtown (old city) and Hyderpora, the native area of Geelani. Roads leading to Geelani's residence here remained sealed with barricades put up to stop the movement of people, the officials said. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, they added. Internet services and mobile telephony services across all operators were restored on Friday night after remaining suspended for two days. However, Internet services on mobile devices were suspended again on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||India, US to hold 2+2 dialogue in November, says foreign secretary||The 2+2 dialogue between India and the United States would be held in November this year, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. "We're looking at the 2+2 which will happen in November. The exact dates are not yet worked out," Shringla told a group of Indian reporters at the conclusion of his three-day visit to Washington DC, during which he held meetings with top officials of President Joe Biden's administration, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken. "We used this opportunity to have the 2+2 inter-sessional meeting at the joint secretary level," he said on Friday. The last meeting of the 2+2 was held in New Delhi and the next meeting is to be hosted by the US here. The 2+2 ministerial dialogue takes place between foreign and defence ministers of both the sides. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would be hosted by their American counterparts Secretary of State Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin for the maiden India-US 2+2 meeting of the Biden administration. In addition to being engaged on Afghanistan, the two countries during his visit had an extensive conversation on regional and multilateral issues including the United Nations and the upcoming Quadrilateral summit here later this year. US Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry is also scheduled to visit India soon, he said. On Friday, the foreign secretary also held meetings with industry representatives organised separately by the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum and US India Business Council. "We covered a very wide range of issues of interest to them," he said, adding that they were very interested in India's handling of the COVID-19 situation, the vaccine issue, economic recovery in India, economic opportunities and the investment situation in the country. Shringla arrived in Washington DC on Wednesday following his successful trip to New York, where he chaired meetings of the UN Security Council. India was the president of the 15-member body for August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||One dead, five injured in factory blast at Palghar||One person was charred to death and five others were injured, some of them seriously, in an explosion and fire at a textile factory in Tarapur industrial area of Maharashtra's Palghar district early on Saturday, an official said. Palghar district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said the incident occurred around 6 am. " The sound of the explosion was so loud that it was heard four to five kilometers away. The explosion triggered a major fire at the unit located in Tarapur MIDC," Boisar, he said. "One person was killed in the incident, while five others suffered injuries and have been admitted to a local hospital. The deceased is yet to be identified as the body is charred beyond recognition," he said, adding that two factory workers have reportedly gone missing after the incident and efforts were on to find them. The fire brigade personnel and police rushed to the spot on being alerted and launched a rescue operation, Kadam said. As per the information available so far, the explosion occurred in one of the units of the factory, the official added. "The blaze has been brought under control and the cooling operation is underway," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Active cases continue to rise as India records 42k new Covid infections||India's Covid-19 infection tally rose by 42,618 in a day to reach 3,29,45,907 while the number of active cases touched 4,05,681 following an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,40,225 with 330 more people succumbing to the viral disease, showed the data updated at 8 am. In a span of 24 hours, the active caseload rose by 5,903. The number of active cases now comprise 1.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.43 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.50 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was 2.63 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 71 days. As many as 17,04,970 tests were conducted on Friday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 52,82,40,038. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, a total of 67.72 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far. Of the 330 fatalities recorded in a day 131 are from Kerala and 92 from Maharashtra. Of the total deaths in the country, 1,37,643 are from Maharashtra, 37,380 from Karnataka, 34,980 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,854 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,280 from Kerala and 18,483 from West Bengal. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium clears 68 names as judges in HCs at one go||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday night sent as many as 68 names — the largest such recommendations at one go — to the Centre for appointment as judges in various high courts. The 68 recommendations are for 12 high courts, including that in Calcutta. The district judges recommended for elevation as judges of Calcutta High Court are Shampa Dutt Paul, Bibhas Ranjan De, Siddhartha Roy Chowdhury and Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee, sources said. Advocates Krishna Rao and Koyeli Bhat are also among those recommended, the sources added. Among the 68 names recommended for the high courts is judicial officer Marli Vankung for Gauhati High Court. If selected, Vankung, who belongs to a Scheduled Tribe, will be the first high court judge from Mizoram. The three-member collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, had considered the names of over 110 candidates (82 from the Bar and 31 from the judicial services) during meetings held on August 25 and September 1. The collegium, whose other members include Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar, cleared the shortlisted names on Friday night. Of them, 44 are from the Bar and 24 are district judges. Women total 10. Sources said the collegium’s recommendations usually did not cross single digits, adding that 68 names being suggested in one stroke underscored the urgency with which it was dealing with the vacancies in the high courts. Last month, the collegium had cleared an unprecedented nine names at one go for judge’s assignments at the Supreme Court, paving the way for their elevation and oath-taking on August 31. The 12 high courts for which the recommendations have been made are those of Calcutta, Allahabad, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Madras, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab and Haryana, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Debate follows Allahabad judge's erroneous cow claim||An observation in an Allahabad High Court judge’s order that “scientists believe the cow is the only animal that both inhales oxygen and exhales oxygen” has prompted a section of Indian scientists to wonder whether silence from within their community fosters erroneous claims among unsuspecting public. Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav of Allahabad High Court, while dismissing the plea of a man accused of cow slaughter, said in his order on Wednesday: “Vaigyanik yeh maante hain ki ek hi pashu gaay hi hai jo oxygen grahan karti hai, oxygen chhorti hai (Scientists believe that the cow is the only animal that both inhales oxygen and exhales oxygen).” BJP leaders Trivendra Singh Rawat, when he was Uttarakhand chief minister in 2019, and Vasudev Devnani, when he was education minister in Rajasthan in 2017, had also said that the cow was the only animal that exhaled oxygen. Scientists have pointed out that breathing isn’t 100 per cent efficient and all breathing creatures on earth inhale and exhale some oxygen. Human-exhaled breath itself contains around 16 per cent oxygen, among myriad other constituents. Human-exhaled breath typically contains 78 per cent nitrogen, 16 per cent oxygen and 4 per cent carbon dioxide, among other gases, water vapour, inorganic volatile organic compounds such as acetone and ethanol and other compounds, according to a 2020 review paper by scientists at the Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute, Calcutta. “It is unfortunate that the order cites this claim,” said Arunabha Mishra, professor of chemistry at Vidyasagar College, Kalyani, and a member of the All India People’s Science Network, a consortium of over 30 non-government groups nationwide involved in promoting science and scientific temper. “The order may be cited in future court proceedings,” Mishra added, explaining the context for his comments. Mishra and other scientists have said they are not familiar with the details of the specific case itself and their comments are restricted to elements of the order relating to cows and attributed to scientists. Some scientists feel that the claim on oxygen, now iterated in the court order and attributed to scientists, underlines the need for authoritative scientific voices to counter such assertions when they are first aired. “If scientists keep quiet about misleading claims, then unsuspecting non-experts might assume that scientists agree with them,” said Aniket Sule, associate professor of physics at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science and Education, Mumbai. One option, some scientists say, would be for the country’s three science academies to issue public statements countering erroneous claims. But fellows of the academies say there would always be a debate on what to say and when to say it and whether these organisations should respond at all. “Many of our colleagues tell us not to bother countering such claims,” Sule said, adding that they argue that the claims are so unscientific “that no one, not even non-experts, would believe them”. But, he pointed out, “in the absence of vocal opposition from scientists, non-experts, whether celebrities or legal minds, might begin to mistakenly assume scientists agree with the claims”. The All India People’s Science Network has counted nearly a dozen misleading claims made by central or state ministers since Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2014 cited Ganesha’s elephant nose as a signal of plastic surgery in ancient India. One government functionary had claimed that Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution was wrong, another claimed that the Vedas had a “theory” superior to Albert Einstein’s energy-mass equivalence equation, yet another had claimed that yoga could cure cancer. Claims about cows have proliferated. A Union government agency named the Rashtriya Kamadhenu Aayog, tasked with the conservation and protection of cows, had claimed last year that cow dung could shield people from radiation. “It is not surprising to see the claims on oxygen or Panchgavya — such claims have been made earlier, but not in a court order,” said Soumitro Banerjee, professor of physical sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Calcutta. “But it is surprising to see the claim on oxygen attributed to scientists,” said Banerjee, also the general secretary of the Breakthrough Science Society, an organisation created by scientists across the country to promote scientific thinking and to “foster consciousness against unscientific beliefs, superstitions, fanaticism, communalism and casteism”. The judge’s order mentions that Panchgavya, prepared from cow milk, ghee, curd, urine and dung, helps in the treatment of several hard-to-treat diseases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||19 lakh manufacturing jobs lost in August: CMIE||Nearly 19 lakh people lost jobs in August with the manufacturing sector the worst affected, according to the latest employment data released by a private research firm. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) figures show that the unemployment rate had climbed to 8.32 per cent in August after a brief spell of improvement. The latest unemployment rate is similar to the post-lockdown figure of 8.35 per cent recorded by the CMIE around this time last year. According to the CMIE data, the number of employed persons decreased from 39.97 crore in July to 39.78 crore in August, which indicates that 19 lakh people have lost their jobs over the past month. The CMIE statistics show that the monthly unemployment rate in May this year was 11.9 per cent, with over 1.5 crore jobs lost that month. This was the period when the second wave of the pandemic was wreaking havoc in the country. The unemployment rate had dipped in June and July but edged up again in August. According to the latest data, over one million people engaged in the manufacturing sector lost their jobs in August and another 8 lakh in July. The number of employed persons in this sector decreased from 2.96 crore in June to 2.88 crore in July and 2.79 crore in August. The job loss in the manufacturing sector was somewhat offset by gains in the service sector. Eight lakh jobs were added in retail, e-commerce, repair and technical support in August. Nearly 1.5 crore people were engaged in the service sector in August against 1.42 crore in July. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the unemployment situation was back to the level of the post-lockdown period in 2020. Mehrotra pointed out that the decline in the job situation in the manufacturing sector had coincided with a rise in employment in agriculture between 2017-18 and 2020-21, adding to the crowding there and leading to cuts in wages. “The unemployment crisis is the same as this time last year. According to the CMIE’s data, the share of agriculture in total employment was 35 per cent in 2017-18, which went up to 39.5 per cent in 2020-21. On the other hand, the share of the manufacturing sector in total employment dropped from 10 per cent to 7.5 per cent during this period. When more workers are joining agriculture, which is already crowded, it will depress the wage rate, which is what is happening,” Mehrotra said. He said the figures were incongruous with the government’s Make In India and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives. The government’s Periodic Labour Force Survey for 2019-20 also bore out the employment glut in the agriculture sector. The share of agriculture in total employment rose from 57.8 per cent in 2018-19 to 61.5 in 2019-20 in the rural sector. Mehrotra said a developing nation should aspire for a workforce shift from agriculture to manufacturing and services. “The reverse is happening in India. The government’s slogans of Make In India and Atmanirbhar Bharat do not match the situation on the ground,” he said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the biggest national issue was unemployment and alleged that the Modi government was “harmful for employment”, PTI reported. Posting on Twitter a screenshot of the CMIE report, Rahul tweeted: “The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them.” A pretence of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country, he said in his tweet in Hindi, adding: “Issued in public interest.” In another tweet, Rahul said the biggest national issue was unemployment for which there were “some direct solutions — Don’t sell PSU-PSB, give monetary help to MSME, think about the country, not friends”. But the central government doesn’t want solutions, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||India, US sign pact for air-launched unmanned aerial vehicle||India and the US have signed a project agreement (PA) for an air-launched unmanned aerial vehicle (ALUAV) under the ambit of the defence technology and trade initiative as part of the plan to expand bilateral military cooperation. The defence ministry said on Friday that the agreement was signed on July 30 under the ambit of the defence technology and trade initiative (DTTI). Government sources described the development as “very significant” at a time China has been increasingly flexing its muscle in the region. “Considering China’s aggressive posture, this agreement will pave the way for more cooperation in defence and security. It will convey an unambiguous message about the growing relationship between India and the US,” said a defence ministry official. The project agreement was signed between the ministry of defence and US department of defence by the co-chairs of the joint working group on air systems under the DTTI. “The PA outlines the collaboration between Air Force Research Laboratory, Indian Air Force, and Defence Research and Development Organisation towards design, development, demonstration, testing and evaluation of systems to co-develop an ALUAV prototype,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The main aim of the DTTI is to bring sustained leadership focus to promote collaborative technology exchange and create opportunities for co-production and co-development of future technologies for Indian and US military forces. Under the DTTI, joint working groups on land, naval, air and aircraft carrier technologies have been established for focus on mutually agreed projects in respective domains. The PA for ALUAV falls under the research, development, testing and evaluation (RDT&E) memorandum of agreement between the ministry of defence and US department of defence, which was first signed in January 2006 and renewed in January 2015. The agreement is a significant step towards deepening defence technology collaboration between the two nations through co-development of defence equipment, the statement said. The Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE) at DRDO and the Aerospace Systems Directorate at the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), along with the Indian and US air dorces, are the principal organisations for execution of the PA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Janata Dal United MLA from Bihar creates ruckus on train||An MLA of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United moved around in his undergarments in the Patna-New Delhi Tejas Rajdhani Express on Thursday evening and created a ruckus when other passengers objected to his behaviour. A fellow passenger, Prahlad Paswan of Jehanabad, who lost his gold chain and rings in the fracas, submitted a written complaint to the Government Railway Police (GRP) against MLA Gopal Mandal in New Delhi railway station on Friday. Paswan requested that an FIR be registered against the legislator and his associates for allegedly hurling abuses, forcing him to drink dirty water and for snatching a gold chain and two rings from him. Narendra Kumar Neeraj alias Gopal Mandal, a four-term MLA from Gopalpur constituency in Bhagalpur district, boarded the A-1 coach of the train from Patna Junction on Thursday evening. A couple of hours later as the train crossed Bihiya in Bhojpur district, fellow passengers were shocked to see Mandal roaming around in his vest and underpants. A purported photograph of Mandal walking around in this manner in the compartment has been widely shared on social media. The co-passengers strongly objected to Mandal’s actions since women and children were also travelling in the compartment. It resulted in an altercation in which the legislator allegedly showered expletives, manhandled and threatened to shoot them. “The legislator was not even willing to understand. He instead tried to cow us down by flaunting his position, all the while showering filthy gaalis (expletives) at us. He started misbehaving and forcibly poured dirty water in my mouth. He also abused me on caste lines in front of the passengers,” Paswan told The Telegraph over the phone. “Mandal and his three associates snatched my gold chain and two rings. They were around 30 grams in weight and must be worth a few lakhs of rupees. I have submitted a complaint to the GRP at New Delhi railway station and expect them to register an FIR,” Paswan said. Paswan said other passengers saved him and wondered “how voters elected people like Mandal as MLAs”. He also alleged that Mandal was inebriated. Mandal admitted he had moved in the train in his undergarments.Mandal said: “I was suffering from loose motion, and had to run in my undergarments to the toilet in the train. A passenger caught hold of my hand after which we exchanged words. I did not assault or abuse anybody. The passengers were saying women were travelling in the train, but there were no women in that coach.” Mandal told reporters.Asked about the incident, East Central Railway chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper that an incident was reported in the 02309 Tejas Rajdhani Express on Thursday._ “An altercation was reported among some of the passengers regarding the dress of one particular passenger travelling in the Patna-New Delhi Tejas Rajdhani Express on Thursday. The train superintendent immediately intervened in the matter,” Kumar said. New Delhi GRP station house officer (SHO) Ajeet Kumar told this newspaper that the complaint against Mandal has been “forwarded to the GRP at Patna because the incident occurred under its jurisdiction. The FIR could be registered there”. Mandal is known for being a loudmouth and creating controversies with his words and actions. Sources in the JDU said that he has become an embarrassment for the state government. The legislator has been involved in brawls, dancing with girls, alleged land grabbing, threatening MLAs from his neighbouring constituencies irrespective of their parties, and proclaiming that Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will soon become the chief minister. Mandal recently alleged that deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad was extorting money from businessmen and officials in Bhagalpur. He backtracked a couple of days later when the BJP raised a hue and cry. A senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity that Nitish was “giving a long rope to Mandal because he hails from the Extremely Backward Castes being wooed at present by all political parties. Moreover the JDU has just 43 MLAs and he (Nitish) cannot afford to lose an MLA at this juncture”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu:  M.K. Stalin decides to forego popularity 'priviledge'||It is not surprising that two acts of Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin last month went largely unnoticed, rather ignored, in today’s “new India”. In the first instance, the chief minister told his education minister not to print Stalin’s photographs on 65 lakh bags meant for distribution among schoolchildren in the state, opting to retain pictures of his political adversaries from the previous government that had sanctioned the project. Second, Stalin told a fellow DMK lawmaker not to waste his time praising the chief minister while participating in a discussion on animal husbandry in the Assembly. Both these actions were out of sync with the “new normal” in India. The schoolbags, which were custom-made for distribution during the time of the previous government, carried the photographs of AIADMK leader, the late Jayalalithaa, and then chief minister E. Palaniswamy. To print photographs of politicians on schoolbags was considered a normal practice. Discarding those bags and making fresh ones with photographs of Stalin would have cost the exchequer a minimum of Rs 18 crore. So Stalin’s government decided to distribute the old bags, irrespective of the photographs. Stalin’s decision to forego a “privilege” came at a time elected governments and their leaders are often accused of using public money to enhance their popularity among the masses. All the more, coming from Stalin the act is exceptional as he was born and brought up in a culture where larger-than-life cut-outs on display even in front of the leader’s own house is considered absolutely normal. Praising a leader in his or her presence is also not new in Tamil Nadu politics — at least from the time Jayalalithaa came into prominence by inheriting the legacy of her political mentor, the legendary MGR. When she was alive, AIADMK members of Parliament used to carry her photographs with them. “Amma” never discouraged them from doing so. Although such blatant acts of sycophancy were not encouraged during the time of Stalin’s father, the late Karunanidhi, the changed scenario in the country itself might have prompted DMK legislators, too, to toe the line and sing paeans to the new leader. Stalin has, however, said openly: “I have already instructed DMK members not to praise me and that I will take action against them if they do. The members should use the allocated time (in the House) judiciously.” Mouthing hymns of praise and wasting reams of newsprint eulogising a certain leader have become the norm. Day after day, the disease of sycophancy is spreading its tentacles, cutting across party lines. Putting a politician’s photograph on children’s bags may not seem incongruous in a country where the Prime Minister’s photo is emblazoned on Covid vaccination certificates, many believe. Forget the ethics of the act, despite the fact that the certificates with Narendra Modi’s photograph have put Indians travelling abroad to great inconvenience, the government has not bothered to take steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Karnataka: BJP leader asks state to rename Rajiv Gandhi National Park||A BJP parliamentarian has asked the Karnataka government to rename Rajiv Gandhi National Park in Nagarahole, taking a cue from the trend to drop the name of the former Prime Minister from prestigious projects across the country. Pratap Simha, who represents the Mysore-Kodagu Lok Sabha constituency, has in a letter to chief minister Basavaraj Bommai called for dropping the name of Rajiv and renaming the national park after former Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa. The letter follows an online petition for restoring the old name, Nagarahole National Park, or naming it after Cariappa since the forest part of the Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve in the Western Ghats is partly in his home district of Kodagu. This comes weeks after BJP leader C.T. Ravi urged the chief minister to change the name of Indira Canteen, a network of eateries offering heavily subsidised meals that was started by the Congress government helmed by P.C. Siddaramiah. The apparent inspiration for Simha’s letter was the Centre’s decision to rename the Rajiv Khel Ratna Award after hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. The Assam cabinet had on Wednesday renamed the Rajiv Gandhi National Park in the state as Orang National Park. Simha said that three of the country’s 103 national parks, including Nagarahole which falls in his constituency, are named after Rajiv. “Besides this, several other national parks in the country bear the names of Nehru-Gandhi family, which is an attempt to wrongfully appropriate inheritance of the projects of Government of India aimed at biodiversity conservation with the primary objective to preserve wildlife, save flora and fauna and restore the natural ecological balance,” he said. Simha cited the online petition and the fact that Kodagu district has contributed immensely to the armed forces. “A total of eleven officers from Kodagu have occupied top posts in the army so far,” he noted, referring to Cariappa, General K.S. Thimmayya and others. The Congress slammed Simha for his move to rename the national park named after a former Prime Minister who sacrificed his life for the country. “Rajiv Gandhi is not only a former Prime Minister of this country. He sacrificed his life for the nation, which is why Nagarahole National Park has been named after him,” state party spokesman V.S. Ugrappa told The Telegraph on Friday. “Those in power should develop new projects and name them after those who have contributed to the nation rather than going about renaming existing ones,” said Ugrappa. The Twitter handle of Simha saw several reactions for and against his proposal. “These guys can’t make anything new and only change names like claiming someone’s else’s children as their own,” tweeted a user Nageswara Rao P. “Please change Narendra Modi Stadium to Sachin Tendulkar Stadium,” tweeted Mallikarjun Wade, referring to the Motera stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||UP: 50 people, including children, die of dengue in Firozabad||At least 50 people, including children, have died in the past two weeks because of dengue and viral fever in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad. Four children died on Friday. Some reports have put the toll at 75. Chief medical officer Dinesh Kumar Premi in a statement said: ‘So far, 50 people have died due to dengue and viral fever. Ten areas — nine blocks and a Nagar Nigam area — in the district are affected.” About 40 deaths were reported till August 30 when chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the district and claimed that he had asked the officers to take immediate measures. On Thursday, the state government suspended Dr Girish Srivastava, in-charge of Sailai Public Health Centre (PHC). Other doctors of the PHC who were suspended include Dr Saurabh Prakash and Dr Ruchi Yadav. “They were suspended for dereliction of duty,” said Chandra Vijay Singh, district magistrate of Firozabad. Family members of the deceased said the toll might be higher as hospitals across the district had been denying treatment because of lack of infrastructure. “I kept roaming from one hospital to the other in the district and none was ready to admit my son. They would say that Mana, 10, was suffering from a mysterious fever. When I told them that he might have dengue, they said they didn’t have any means to test what caused the fever. Then I took my son to Agra where he died at a private hospital. I still don’t know what kind of fever he had,” said Kuldeep Singh of Humayunpurva Pathwari area in the district. Health department sources in Lucknow claimed that while the number of deaths was highest in Firozabad, many have died of dengue or other fever in Mainpuri, Etawah, Agra and Kasganj districts. Adityanath during his visit had said: “Thirty-two children and seven adults have died here. I have asked the health department to find out whether it was because of dengue or any other disease.” “We send the samples to Sarojini Naidu Medical College, Agra, for test and it takes seven to eight days to get the reports. Some of the patients were found suffering from dengue but in many cases, it was not detected,” said a senior health department officer in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||UP Assembly Polls 2022: BJP banks on Hindutva alone to retain power||Hindutva versus economic issues will be the dominant narrative in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and the BJP is keen to see if Hindutva alone can help the party retain the state. Party insiders said preliminary feedback from the ground had shown anger among large sections of voters because of a rise in the prices of essential commodities, joblessness and farm distress after the devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19. “Our initial survey has shown that the voters in general are distressed because of various reasons. But so far, that doesn’t mean they will vote to defeat us,” a BJP leader involved in managing the polls said. “This election in many ways will be a test case. It will bring out the strength of our Hindutva and nationalist ideology,” the leader added, hoping voters would be willing to bear some economic hardships to back the saffron party. He said their findings had shown that despite having complaints against the Yogi Adityanath government, the people were not ready to bring the Samajwadi Party or the Bahujan Samaj Party to power. Party leaders said after Gujarat under then chief minister Narendra Modi, Uttar Pradesh under Adityanath was the new Hindutva laboratory and the poll results would prove whether the aggressive line being pushed by the party was successful. “Yogi Adityanath’s image as a firm Hindutva ruler and an incorruptible leader is very popular among the people. Voters will think twice before deciding to defeat him,” a minister in the Uttar Pradesh government said. The saffron-clad chief minister is known for his strident divisive policies. Party managers feel the ongoing construction of a grand temple at Ayodhya would also help the party tide over misgivings over price rise and joblessness. Besides Hindutva, the party has launched a massive campaign to woo the OBCs, claiming that the Modi government at the Centre and Adityanath in the state were devoted to the welfare of the deprived sections. Some party MLAs feel that the outreach may not cut much ice as Adityanath has been accused of promoting the dominance of upper caste Rajputs/Thakurs. “The OBC community has been very badly hit by price rise and lack of jobs. People in my constituency are complaining that they have got gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme, but don’t have the money to buy cylinders that are getting costlier,” an OBC legislator from eastern Uttar Pradesh said. Internally, party leaders said the anger among voters was mainly concentrated in western Uttar Pradesh, the centre of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. “The ground situation here is very bad for the party,” a BJP MP from western Uttar Pradesh said. “There is only one big thing in favour of Yogiji. People are happy with the law and order situation,” the MP added, but felt this may not be enough to make people vote for the BJP. The Adityanath government has been credited for cracking down on criminals through encounter killings and ending the “goonda-raj” under the Samajwadi government, party leaders said. Party managers in Delhi said they were closely following the voices of voters on various TV channels and news portals and monitoring the situation, particularly in western Uttar Pradesh. “The farmers’ agitation is the major reason behind the anger against the government in western UP. But this is limited to only big farmers,” a BJP leader said. The BJP believes that only the agrarian Jat community is angry and hopes they will suffer only limited electoral loss in the region. BJP MPs and MLAs from western Uttar Pradesh and even some from the central and eastern regions of the state feel the party leadership could be underestimating the anger among voters. “The leadership feels Hindutva will dominate the minds of the voters, but on the ground we come across scores of people who say the Ram temple will not give them food and jobs,” a party MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Centre backs JNU’s new 'jihadi terrorism' course||The government has thrown its heft behind Jawaharlal Nehru University’s new course that describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”, with education minister Dharmendra Pradhan “complimenting” the JNU vice-chancellor. “One MP wrote to me about the JNU course. I compliment Jagadeshji (vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar) for this course. The MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) offers courses on terrorism. If the best universities debate on terrorism, why should our central universities not discuss it?” Pradhan said during a virtual interaction with vice-chancellors of central universities on Friday. Kumar, who is on extension, is seen as close to the ruling establishment and has been accused of introducing courses and taking other key decisions without consulting JNU’s academic bodies, besides taking harsh actions against dissenting teachers and students. CPI parliamentarian Binoy Viswam had written to the education minister earlier this week criticising as “deeply prejudiced”, “historically inaccurate”, “politically motivated” and “malignant” the new course on counter-terrorism, which also links Islamist and communist terror. The course — Counter-Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers — that will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at JNU’s School of Engineering has been widely criticised by academics for taking a constricted view of the subject, besides pandering to the Right wing view on the matter. The course also claims that the erstwhile “Soviet Union and China have been predominant state sponsors of terrorism”, a model that has been “well adapted by several radical Islamic states” after the Cold War. Although Pradhan drew a parallel between the JNU course and courses on terrorism at MIT, the course description of “Warlords, Terrorists, and Militias: Theorising on Violent Non-State Actors” on the American university’s website suggests a broad perspective. “This course is a general overview of the recent political science literature on violent non-state actors. Its aim is to examine why non-state actors (such as warlords, terrorists, militias, etc) resort to violence, what means and tactics they use, and what can be done to counter that violence…. Though thematically-driven, this course will also reference cases from the contemporary battlefields of insurgency and terrorism (be it Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, the West Bank and Gaza, Colombia, etc) as they relate to the pertinent themes,” the MIT course description says. The description of another MIT course — Advanced Topics: Plotting Terror in European Culture — says: “This interdisciplinary course surveys modern European culture to disclose the alignment of literature, opposition, and revolution. Reaching back to the foundational representations of anarchism in nineteenth-century Europe… the curriculum extends through the literary and media representations of militant organisations in the 1970s and 80s (Italy’s Red Brigade, Germany’s Red Army Faction, and the Real Irish Republican Army).” During Friday’s interaction, the education minister also endorsed Delhi University’s decision to introduce four-year undergraduate courses with multiple entry and exit options, a move criticised by some academics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||SC stays Kerala govt’s decision to conduct offline Class XI exams||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed for a week the Kerala government’s decision to conduct offline Class XI exams, observing that the Covid-19 situation was “alarming” in the state. “There is an alarming situation in Kerala. It accounts for more than 70 per cent cases of the country, with around 35,000 daily cases. Children of tender age can’t be exposed to this risk,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a three-judge bench, told the state’s counsel C.K. Sasi. The bench also comprising Justices Hrishikesh Roy and C.T. Ravi Kumar rejected the argument of the counsel that there was no apprehension of any spread of Covid-19 on account of the offline exams scheduled from September 6 as according to him the state had successfully conducted offline exams for Classes X and XII. The court observed that the earlier exams were conducted before April, after which the second wave exacerbated the situation and Kerala continues to witness a rapid surge of cases. “…We find force in the submission made by the counsel for the petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before having physical exam proposed to be conducted from September 6. As we were unable to get a satisfactory response from counsel for the state in this regard, we grant interim relief staying offline exam for till next date of hearing…” the bench said, while posting the matter for hearing on September 13. The bench passed the order after specifically asking the counsel whether the state was willing to give an assurance that not a single child would be affected if the court permits the government to go ahead with the exams and receiving a negative response.  Justice Roy said as he was earlier the Chief Justice of Kerala High Court, he knew the state has one of the best health facilities, but yet it failed to contain the rapid surge of Covid cases. Justice Kumar, who hails from Kerala High Court, also endorsed the view. Earlier, P. Padmanabham, counsel for the petitioner Rasoolshan, assailed the state’s decision to conduct the offline exam for Class XI despite the fact that Kerala was accounting for 70 per cent of the total Covid caseload in the country. The petitioner moved the apex court by way of a special leave petition after Kerala High Court declined to interfere with the state government’s decision to go ahead with the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Prashant Pandey (spiritual friend) emphasizing spiritual ideology amidst materialistic mindset||Where entire youth is focused on materialistic mindset but Prashant Pandey is the one who is deeply pegged in spiritual ideology. Prashant Pandey says that as the present time is moving rapidly towards materialism, in the midst of a large number of people not understanding the original meaning of spirituality, considering it as meaningless. But this ideology is rapidly developing the feeling of hatred, greed and anger among the people. People stand with full devotion and keep providing new energy and direction to the spiritual ideology. The law inside teaches you spirituality, so we have to do more and more work in this direction. It is because of this that the balance is maintained. The topic of spirituality is being presented wrongly in front of the people today. Yes and spirituality starts to be understood as religiousism whereas it is not so, inner discipline and interactivity is the simple explanation of spirituality. Along with material progress, if one pays attention to spiritual progress then a higher system can be created. Remember, spirituality has never been a hindrance in material progress, but it has been helpful. To create a distinction between these two is just a part of a big diplomacy. To understand these two factors, we have to go through these two points deeply. Spiritual Ideology: Let’s understand in this way!!! This world is made up of two things:- one is full of materialistic things and the second place is where only inner meanings left. There two type of person living in this world. One is following primary things and the second is following secondary things. When we left primary things for the sake of secondary thing that is spirituality. If we raise ourselves to the level where material things become secondary and inner meanings become of prime importance, then one is a spiritual person. Materialistic Mindset It is the reciprocal of spiritual ideology. When people can’t live without material things like greedy, money, fame, limelight than there life become absolutely meaningless. Their mind functions only in the direction of grabbing materialistic things. Because of this, they never get mental peace. And after sometime, they get depressed. But here, Prashant Pandey tells the power of spiritual ideology. No doubt, today, he is well-known name in the world of spirituality. He is continuously sharing the knowledge regarding spirituality, Yoga, meditation, etc, for the good mental health of the people. Here, he tells about the power of spiritual ideology that once you followed the spirituality, you start to feel some divine energy entering in to your body. The atmosphere around you is completely changed. Some positive vibes will be felt by you. If you are not able to focus on any work before then your willpower will be increased by practicing spiritual ideology session. Your focus power and working speed will be increased in the way that you will become able to manage more work in less time. Your mood will be happy and relax always. As you all know, today’s schedule is full of headache and stress due to which every person gets frustrated. They start feel peer pressure around themselves. But if you practiced yoga sessions regularly then begin to grasp all of the fundamental things not only within yourself but also outside by devoting part of your time, willpower, and determination. This is religion and this is the path of truth. According to Prashant Pandey, accomplishing something reinforces your self-control and assurance to where you can change the climate around you with simply an idea. In spite of the way that rehearsing Kriya Yoga prompts a high state known as freedom in the sacred writings, specifically being one in the unadulterated type of mindfulness, an inconspicuous power of homogeneous components starts to work in the material world also. Achievement can be accomplished in various manners. In this article, we are elaborating that Prashant Pandey has focused on spiritual ideology for those people who focused only on materialistic things of the world. He says that these materialistic things provide temporary happiness and peace for mind not permanent. But if you followed spiritual path then you will get permanent happiness and peace of mind. The most surprising thing is that the noise we create in our life to make things better, it makes that thing worse. This confusion takes the person in such a lap that he does not even realize it and becomes a part of a disturbed world forever. He indeed is a beautiful soul, as it is said; he is a sign of God. His address when I ask how much further his work will go is: ""I'm always planning to go back to Kashi." Many people have benefited from Prashant Pandey's spiritual rays and light like the rising sun on a universal level, and they have become his "spiritual friends" instead of followers. He has a youtube channel where he gives his kind words and engages with his followers whose link is as below.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
04-09-2021||India||Odisha web channel editor detained following Dutee Chand complaint ||The editor of a web channel in Odisha was detained on Friday following a mental harassment complaint by sprinter Dutee Chand. The sprinter has accused the journalist of posting obscene and defamatory content against her while she was taking part in the Tokyo Olympics. Bhubaneswar deputy commissioner of police Uma Shankar Das said: “We have detained Sudhanshu Shekhar Rout on the basis of the allegations filed in the Mahila police station. We have also seized computers and other incriminating material from the accused.” In her complaint registered on Wednesday at the Mahila Police station, Dutee alleged that Rout had run a malicious campaign while she was preparing for the 200m events at the Tokyo Olympics.  She has also held RTI activist Pradip Pradhan responsible for it. “I am today relaxed and happy as the police have detained one person in connection with the case. I have been subjected to mental harassment for the last few days as an attempt has been made to destroy my personal life and assassinate my character,” Dutte told reporters. She has also filed a Rs 5 crore defamation suit against Rout and Pradhan for maligning her and levelled charges of criminal intimidation, publishing obscene content and insulting the modesty of a woman against them. Dutee told The Telegraph: “I am playing for the country. I have always received the love of people. I had never imagined that people would drag me to such a low level. I am a bit relaxed today.” She had also threatened to leave Odisha if she did not get justice. Recalling her struggles since childhood to become an Olympian she said:  “I am unable to concentrate on my goals as this malicious campaign against me is distracting my attention.” The police have lodged a case under various sections of IPC 292 (obscene posts), 354 A  (outrage modesty), 385 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (insult the modesty of a woman) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Senior journalist Prasanna Kumar Mohanty said: “We all should know that there is a Laxman rekha (the boundary line). When one files a story against a woman and that, too, about an athlete of international repute, one should be careful.” Mohanty also cited the Supreme Court’s grave concern over the spread of fake news on web portals, Facebook and YouTube in the absence of a regulatory mechanism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
04-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC happy with EC decision to conduct Bhawanipore bypolls||The Bengal BJP and the CPI(M) on Saturday expressed reservations about the Election Commission's decision to hold by-poll in Bhawanipore Assembly constituency, from where Bengal Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee plans to contest, on September 30, while the ruling Trinamul Congress and the Congress welcomed it. Polling for "deferred adjourned" elections in two Assembly seats of Bengal - Samserganj and Jangirpur - will also be held on September 30, the Election Commission announced earlier in the day in New Delhi. However, citing the Covid-19 situation, the EC decided not to hold by-elections in four other Assembly seats in the state which are also lying vacant due to deaths and resignations of MLAs. "We had always maintained that holding by-polls and polls to all the seats should be held together when the Covid-19 situation improves. We don't know if holding by-election to one seat and election to two seats is a practical decision since the pandemic is still raging and there is the threat of third wave. However, we accept the decision of the EC," Opposition leader in the state Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, said. Adhikari defeated Mamata from the Nandigram seat in the Assembly elections held earlier this year. The ruling TMC is keen on the by-polls as Mamata will have to get elected within six months to continue as the CM. In that case, the by-polls must be conducted by November 5. The decision proved that the TMC's allegations that the EC is being controlled by the BJP are false, he said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh wondered why the election to urban local bodies in the state are being held up for years while assembly by-election is facilitated when the TMC enjoys absolute majority. Senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said, "The bypoll was a necessity as per constitutional norms but the BJP was trying to derail the process for narrow partisan interest. We hail the decision of the EC. We will follow all Covid-19 guidelines." The Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said it is a welcome decision of the EC since holding bypolls within six months of counting is mandatory. CPI(M) central committee member Sujan Chakraborty said, "Announcing the (by-election) date is welcome from the constitutional point of view. But why only Bhabanipur and two seats? Why not bypolls in other seats and elections in other seats?" He said while elections to different bodies were regularly held during the 34 years of the Left Front rule, elections to different municipalities were overdue for over two years. Mamata had moved out of her traditional seat in Calcutta's Bhawanipore to fight in Nandigram during the assembly polls. After the election results were out, senior TMC leader Sovandeb Chattopadhyay who won from Bhawanipore vacated the seat to allow Mamata to contest from there. Mamata had won from Bhawanipore twice since 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Relief for Didi as EC allows  Bhawanipore bypoll as special case||Mamata Banerjee received her best Durga Puja gift from Narendra Modi on Saturday as the Election Commission of India announced the dates for the by-election to the Bhowanipore Assembly seat  as a special case,  paving the way for the Bengal chief minister to seek re-election from the seat she had represented in the last two terms. Bhowanipore,  along with Assembly seats of Shamshergunj and Jangipur, will go to polls on September 30. The results of all the  three bypolls would be announced on October 3, just about a week before Bengal’s grandest festival. According to the notification of the Election Commission, the poll process will be completed before October 5, a month to spare before the deadline for Mamata to  become an elected MLA expires. The by-election was necessitated after Mamata’s loss in  the Assembly elections in Nandigram against the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikary, which has been challenged in the Calcutta high court. According to EC sources, while the chief secretaries of other states awaiting by-elections like Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, Telengana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and the advisers of the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu cited the Covid pandemic, flood situation and festive season to delay the poll process, Bengal claimed it was fully prepared. “In the meeting between the EC officials and the state chief secretaries, the Bengal chief secretary argued the Covid-19 situation was fully under control and the floods had not ravaged any of the poll-bound constituencies,” said a source. The chief secretary also referred to a possible constitutional crisis in the state if the by-election in Bhowanipore from where Mamata will contest was not held on time. The Bengal government argued, to avoid a vacuum at the top and for the sake of administrative exigencies and public interest, the byelection may be held in Bhowanipore. The question,  however,  remains that if Bengal is completely prepared to hold polls, then why the constituencies of Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba have been left out. These four seats fell vacant following resignations or deaths of the winning candidates. According to the ECI notification, “after taking into consideration the inputs and views of  chief secretaries of the concerned states and the respective chief electoral officers, while the Commission has decided not to hold by-elections in other 31 Assembly constituencies and three parliamentary constituencies, and considering the constitutional exigency and special request from the state of West Bengal, it has decided to hold by-election in Bhowanipore-AC.” There has been a growing feeling, largely fuelled by Mamata herself, that the BJP at the Centre was not keen on holding the by-election to a create a situation where Mamata would be forced to resign. The Bengal leader of Opposition, Suvendu Adhikary, too had kept up the ante on the chief minister. “We succeeded in rattling her. The announcement also proves that the EC does not run according to the wishes of the BJP,” said a central BJP leader. Despite Mamata’s occasional outbursts, the ECI had never gone on record saying elections would not be held. Even during her visit to Delhi last month, Mamata had requested Modi to ensure that the by-poll was held in time. Now there's a question on what happens to  state agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who had resigned hurriedly from Bhowanipore to facilitate Mamata’s entry to the Assembly. Chattopadhyay was tipped to contest from Khardah, where the Trinamul MLA succumbed after the results were declared. Chattopadhyay had even started grooming the constituency represented in the last two terms by  state finance minister Amit Mitra. Chattopadhyay would have to resign from the cabinet if he is not elected to the Assembly within November 5. Whether the Calcutta-based Chattopadhyay will be nominated in either Shamshergunj or Jangipur is not clear. Late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhishek who recently joined Trinamul is lobbying hard for the seat he had represented earlier in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
04-09-2021||West Bengal||BSF boats for border vigil along Bangladesh border in north Bengal||The BSF has deployed boats in riparian stretches along the Bangladesh border in north Bengal to prevent smuggling and other crimes. The north Bengal frontier of the BSF guards around 936km of the India-Bangladesh border. “As of now, around 110km of the India-Bangladesh border under the frontier, which include some riverine tracts, do not have fences. To ensure that no illegal activity is carried out along these stretches, we have introduced vigil by boats. Even civil boats have been hired for patrolling,” said Ravi Gandhi, the inspector general of the frontier. He was speaking to media persons at the frontier headquarters in Kadamtala, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Friday. A number of rivers, including the Teesta, Mahananda, Atrayee and the Punarbhaba, enters Bangladesh from north Bengal. Earlier, there were reports that smugglers were using the rivers, especially during the monsoon, to smuggle different items, especially cattle, into Bangladesh. Senior BSF officers disclosed details of the seizures and arrests made along the border in the frontier this year. The data showed that altogether, items —  which included cattle, narcotic, cough syrup, tablets, gold silver and snake venom —  worth over Rs 34 crore were seized from January till September 3 this year. Also, 170 people, including 70 Bangladeshi nationals and 97 Indians, who were associated with smuggling, were intercepted at the border during the period. “We are working in consonance with different agencies, including state police, to prevent illegal activities,” said Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
04-09-2021||West Bengal||BSF rescues three white peafowls in Nadia district||Three rare white peafowls were seized by the BSF while they were being smuggled into India from Bangladesh in the Matiary area of Nadia on Friday morning. Later, the BSF authorities handed over two peafowls to forest officials in Ranaghat as one of the rare birds had died earlier in the day. A senior forest department official in Ranaghat said a genetic variant has made peafowl a rare bird in India. An official of the forest department’s Nadia-Murshidabad division said: “We have examined the two peafowls that are similar to the blue Indian peafowl but a mutation has turned them white. They will be kept in our custody till further decision is taken.” “A genetic mutation known as leucism, which means an abnormal condition of reduced pigmentation on its layers of feathers, makes the white peafowls special and uncommon. Most peafowls we see belong to albino category, which have an absence of white pigmentation on their plumage. The white plumages of the rescued peafowls prove that they do not belong to the albino family. We have informed our senior officials who will examine the birds and identify its actual variety,” the officer told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||STF seizes four more SIM boxes from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar||The Special Task Force (STF) of the state police seized four more SIM boxes from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts on Friday. In the past 24 hours, this is the second raid in which the STF has made such seizures. On Wednesday night, the STF teams had conducted raids in a number of locations of the state, including Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, and had seized as many as 23 SIM boxes, along with several other equipment. Three persons, including a Bangladeshi national, were arrested. “Three more SIM boxes have been seized from Jaigaon, a the town in Alipurduar district located on the IndiaBhutan border, and one such box has been seized from Jalpaiguri district,” said a source in the STF. It may be mentioned that A SIM box can hold scores of SIM cards at a time, can route international calls through a card and can help the caller evade international calling charges. Also, different intelligence agencies have found that calls made through such a box are tough to be traced or tapped and can be used by criminals or terror forces. “Along with the concern about the kind of people who are using the equipment, it also means financial losses to the national exchequer as international call charges can be bypassed,” said a source. On Thursday, sources in the STF said that they have recovered SIM boxes which have a capacity of 256 SIM slots from seven locations. Added to it, routers and switches, around 400 preactivated SIM cards, WiFi modems, laptop, data cable and some other communication equipment were also seized. The seizure of SIM boxes from north Bengal, particularly from a bordering area like Jaigaon, has put the police and other agencies on alert. “This is because a vital defence installation, the Hasimara Air Force Station, is located just 18 kilometres away. Also, the IndiaBangladesh border is not far from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts.It is necessary to find out whether the boxes were used to make international calls,” said an official of a state intelligence agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda: TMC leader killed allegedly by woman panchayat member ||A Trinamul leader was hacked to death allegedly by a woman panchayat member of the party, her husband and some relatives in Malda district on Thursday night. Sources said Sherbanu Bibi, a Trinamul member of Chandrapara panchayat, and her husband Jamaluddin Sheikh had invited Setabur Rahaman to their home on Thursday night. “They had an argument over some trivial issue and Jamaluddin, his brother Kamaluddin and Sherbanu attacked my husband with sharp weapons,” said Aliyara Khatun, Rehman’s wife. Rahaman succumbed to his injuries at hospital. Kamaluddin Sheikh has been arrested and police said searches were on to round up other accused persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 686 new cases, 715 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded a fall in total active cases for 75 days in a row, with 686 new infections, 715 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 40 to 8,694. Calcutta logged 110 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 109, the only two districts of the state’s 23 with a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.23 lakh recoveries and 18,483 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Adhir runs into Trinamul protest in Murshidabad’s Raninagar||Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was heckled and shown black flags allegedly by over 300 Trinamul Congress workers in Murshidabad’s Raninagar on Friday morning. The MP was on his way to Godonpara village  where two Congress workers’ homes had been vandalised on Thursday night. Hecklers waved black flags at his convoy and called him the “leader” of a “murder syndicate”, holding up his visit for half an hour until Raninagar police arrived and dispersed the crowd. The police said Chowdhury was not physically injured. Chowdhury said: “I was on my way to visit party workers whose homes were vandalised by Trinamul workers. But Trinamul tried to create trouble in my way.” Trinamul’s Raninagar MLA, Soumik Hossain, said his party’s workers were not involved in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Exporters seek end to ‘syndicate raj’ on India-Bangladesh border||Representatives of a number of trade bodies and exporters based in north Bengal have sought intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to stop “syndicate raj” and improve infrastructure at two land customs stations (LCS) of the region located along the India-Bangladesh border. They held talks with the administrative officials of Jalpaiguri and also with officials of Customs and other departments, mentioning that illegal syndicates mushroomed at Fulbari (the LCS located on the southern end of Siliguri, with Banglabandha on the other side) of Jalpaiguri district and Changrabandha (with Burimari of Bangladesh on the other side) in Cooch Behar district. According to the exporters, these days, trucks carrying boulders are being allowed to cross the border by the syndicates on a priority basis while those laden with food grains, which are essential items and perishable, remain stranded on the boundary for days. “The syndicates are so active that they control the entire movement of trucks at the border. Ideally, essential goods and perishable items should get priority but syndicate members always insisted that trucks carrying boulders be allowed earlier passage. At times, it is taking over 10 days for a truck loaded with food grains to enter Bangladesh. We suspect this is done because of some financial interest and that’s why we have sought the chief minister’s intervention,” said Surajit Paul, the secretary of the North Bengal Industries’ Association. Sources said the syndicates run by local youths with political connections made money by collecting cash from trucks which cross the border. “This practice has to be stopped. We have requested officials to see if we can meet the chief minister during her ensuing visit to north Bengal and request her to take necessary steps,” said a representative of the North Bengal Exporters’ Association. North Bengal has seven international trade routes to Bangladesh, four of which are through land. A senior exporter based in Siliguri said the syndicates gave priority to trucks carrying boulders because they made more money as “commission” than a truck loaded with food grains. The trade bodies also want the state to augment ancillary infrastructure at the land custom stations in north Bengal, especially at Fulbari . They have said every day, thousands of trucks are parked along the Asian Highway 2, which enters Bangladesh through Fulbari. There is a truck terminus nearby but is inadequate to accommodate so many vehicles, they said. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, who had a meeting with the trade bodies and exporters, said she would take up the issue with the authorities concerned. “We will speak with police, Customs and some other authorities on the issues mentioned by them. The state always wants to ensure that there is no hurdle to the bilateral trade,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: HC order ‘executed’ soon after verdict, say police||A large team of Birbhum district police and civil administration reached Visva-Bharati on Friday afternoon and swung into action to carry out an order of Calcutta High Court which wanted vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s office and residence to be cleared of the agitating students. “We carried out all Calcutta High Court orders in the presence of Visva-Bharati officials. The protesters were removed from outside the house of the VC. All posters and banners were removed. An unclaimed lock that was put on the gate of the VC’s residence was broken to ensure his free movements. A pandal that the students had put up within 50 meters of the VC’s residence was also dismantled,” said Abhishek Ray, the sub-divisional police officer of Bolpur. Within half an hour of the high court order, a team of three armed constables was deployed in front of Purbita — the official residence of the VC. Apart from the SDPO, Bolpur subdivisional officer Ayan Nath also came, along with senior officers, to monitor the situation around 3.30pm. The police first broke an unclaimed lock to open the new gate of Purbita and cleared a few tins placed to guard the CCTV cameras. Festoons or posters were taken off the wall and the gate of Purbita within a few minutes. The police directed the students to clear the area around the VC’s residence. “The university officials’ presence on the spot confirmed that they were satisfied with the action following the court order,” said a district official. Although the order came as a blow to the protesting students, they didn’t waste any time in dismantling the pandal, which was set up as part of an agitation against VC Chakrabarty. The VC has had several run-ins with the student and teaching and non-teaching community of the varsity since he took over the reins of the central university around two years ago. “We have full respect and faith in the court and we will follow the order.... But we would carry on with our protest against the VC’s vindictive approach towards students and his attempts at saffronising the institution,” said Somnath Sow, a protesting student, who added that they had co-operated with the police in carrying out the court order. In the evening, the students set up a new pandal in front of one of the guest houses of the varsity — keeping a safe distance from VC’s residence — and said they would continue the peaceful dharna to press for their demand. “We followed the order and set up a new tent keeping a distance of more than 50 meters from the VC’s residence. The court had specified a few specific places from where we would not be allowed to conduct the agitation. We are not gheraoing anyone and are just demonstrating here,” said Sow. The demonstration was launched last week to protest the rustication of three students by the varsity authorities. A section of Visva-Bharati officials said the police had promised during the action that there would be no gathering of agitators on the campus. “We have already been informed about the new stage by the students. We would inform the authorities concerned about the new stage,” said a senior varsity official. Visva-Bharati public relations officer Anirban Sarkar did not reply to a message from this newspaper which asked him whether the authorities were satisfied with the action by the police and the administration following the court order. The Visva-Bharati authorities on Friday night said they had resumed the processes of student admissions and exam result publications. The varsity had last week put on hold the processes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI makes third arrest in Bengal post-poll violence cases||The CBI has made the third arrest in connection with the alleged political violence following the publication of Assembly election results in Bengal. Ratan Halder was arrested from Shyamnagar adjoining Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on Thursday night for allegedly murdering Sovarani Mondal, whose son was known to be a BJP worker. Senior CBI officers said Sovarani had allegedly been hit with bamboo sticks on the head when she had come to the rescue of her son from assaulters who had attacked her family at Shyamnagar. A team of CBI officers had reached the district a few days ago for the probe into Sovarani’s murder. The central investigating agency has been probing into alleged rapes and murders during the post-results violence as ordered by Calcutta High Court on August 19. Four teams comprising a total of 21 officers and led by four joint directors has been touring parts of the state since the verdict. On August 28, the CBI had arrested Bijoy Ghosh and Asima Ghosh from Nadia for their alleged involvement in the murder of BJP worker Ayan Mondal. The CBI on Friday filed a chargesheet against four persons at Barrackpore court in connection with the alleged murder of Jayprakash Yadav, a BJP worker of Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas, on June 6. Yadav was killed following a spate of indiscriminate bombing at Bhatpara. The four have been charged with murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The CBI had filed another chargesheet in Birbhum on Thursday in connection with the alleged murder of Manoj Jaiswal of Nalhati. The agency has drawn up 34 cases involving heinous crimes like murder and rape in the aftermath of the poll results in Bengal. Calcutta High Court on Friday appointed Justice (retired) Manjula Chellur as the chairperson of the Special Investigating Team (SIT) that was formed to probe alleged incidents of post-results violence, except murder and rape. A high court bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had on August 19 directed the state government to form the SIT that comprises police officers. Justice Chellur had served as the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Court asks cops to remove agitating students from Visva-Bharati||Calcutta High Court on Friday directed Santiniketan police to disperse with immediate effect the agitating students from the Visva-Bharati campus, particularly from the office and the residential area of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and the surroundings of the administrative building of the university complex. In his directive, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also asked the police to remove all banners and posters and related articles from the varsity complex and to ensure that loudspeakers were not used in the area. The judge asked the university to restore normality as soon as possible and directed both the police and the Visva-Bharati authorities to file regular reports before the court. The order said no agitation would be allowed within a 50-metre radius of the university complex. The court also ordered police deployment at the university complex for keeping normality. The court asked the authorities to ensure that all closed-circuit cameras were working properly within the complex. “The vice-chancellor of the university in addition to his own security guards shall also be provided with three constables from the Santiniketan police station for his protection,” stated the order, additionally. “No demonstration shall be conducted by any students or any persons within a distance of 50 meters of any portion or part of the university, particularly, the schools, classrooms, the residence of the vice-chancellor, teachers, professors, officials, staff library, the administrative buildings, laboratories, etc.,” it further added. The directions were to be carried out by the Santiniketan police from 4pm on Friday. The order followed a petition by the authorities of Visva-Bharati, which wanted the state government to take proper steps against students and teachers who had been holding “illegal” picketing around the VC’s office and residence for the past few days. The petition also claimed that outsiders were extending support to the agitators by entering the campus illegally and that the picketers were not even allowing physicians to check on the health of Chakrabarty. Appearing for the students, advocate Mohammed Shamim told the court that Chakrabarty was the “root” of the trouble, having rusticated three students illegally. At this, Justice Mantha said: “The students could move court to challenge the VC’s decision. The way they took instead, was not legal. The court cannot tolerate such acts. Normality must be restored in the university.” Advocate Shamim then said: “To stage peaceful demonstration is a fundamental right of the students.” Justice Mantha asked him to show him the law, for which Shamim prayed for time. “Till then, the days’ order will prevail,” said the judge. Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, the lawyer appearing for the university authorities, claimed that the agitation was not peaceful. The agitators locked the rooms of the vice-chancellor and other officials, he said. Appearing for the state, Amitesh Banerjee opposed the plea and said the vice-chancellor himself, with the help of security personnel, had locked the rooms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||West Bengal||Over 50 parakeets seized, two held in Siliguri||Two suspected smugglers were arrested with over 50 parakeets from the outskirts of Siliguri on Friday. A team of foresters posted at the Sarugara forest range of Baikunthapur forest division intercepted the duo in the Canal Road area. “The duo were carrying 55 parakeets in a big cage. We arrested them as they could not furnish proper documents for possessing the birds,” said a forester. Those arrested have been identified as Dinesh Das and Sajjad Alam, both residents of Galgalia, which is under Thakurganj district of Bihar. “Preliminary probe suggests that Das and Alam had procured the birds from somewhere near Malbazar (of Jalpaiguri district) and were taking those to Bihar. There are reports that a racket engaged in smuggling of parakeets and other birds is active in the neighbouring state and recently, some seizures have been made in Malda. We are on alert,” a forest officer said. In recent times, this is the fourth such incident of parakeets being seized in north Bengal. As per the Wildlife (Protection) Act, there is a ban on possessing, selling or caging parakeets. “Anybody found guilty can face imprisonment up to six years or a maximum fine of  Rs 6,000 can be imposed on him,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel Express to resume operations from Tuesday after four months||Steel Superfast Express, the most popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, will resume operation from Tuesday, September 7 after four months. The office of South Eastern Railway's chief passenger transportation manager in Calcutta notified the resumption of the train service on Saturday. “The decision for resuming the train service was taken keeping in view of the demand of passengers and declining cases of Covid -19. The train will run daily as per its schedule time. No alterations have been made in stoppages and composition of the train,” a railway spokesman told The Telegraph Online over phone from Garden Reach, Calcutta. The superfast express, which will run as a special train, will depart from Tatanagar at 6.10 am and reach Howrah at 10.20 am, covering a distance of 250 Km. On its return to Jamshedpur, the train will leave Howrah at 5.25 pm and reach Tatanagar at 9.20 pm. The train with 22 coaches will have stoppages at  Rakhamines, Ghatshila, Chakulia, Jhargram, Kharagpur and Santragachi. Rising cases of Covid-19 coupled with poor seat occupancy had prompted South Eastern Railway to withdraw the train in the first week of May this year. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association welcomed the decision to resume services. " Passengers from Tatanagar desperately needed the resumption of train. Requests were pouring in from patients in need of advanced medical treatment in Calcutta-based hospitals, " said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association. The senior functionary of the outfit, which works for welfare of passengers, had also recently sent a tweet to Union railway ministry, the Railway Board and South Eastern Railway, for resuming the train service. SER collects Rs 3.45 crore in fines During an intensive ticket checking drive South Eastern Railway collected penalty of Rs 3.45 crore during the month of August under its jurisdiction including two railway divisions in Jharkhand - Ranchi and Chakradharpur. Statistics available from SER headquarters revealed that during the intensive drive carried out throughout the month at Tatanagar, Ranchi and other railway stations, a total number of 66,476 cases were detected travelling without ticket or with improper ticket and unbooked luggage and an amount of Rs 3,44,65,779 was realized as penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Judge murder accused sent to Dhanbad jail||The two accused of allegedly murdering Dhanbad additional district and session judge Uttam Anand by ramming an autorickshaw into him on July 28 were sent to Dhanbad divisional jail on Saturday after being produced in court by CBI. The CBI brought the duo, auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma, from Ahmedabad to Ranchi on Friday evening by air. After that they were brought to Dhanbad on Saturday morning by road. In Dhanbad, the duo, along with a CBI team, were first taken to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) where their medical tests were conducted. Then they were taken to Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad where their Covid test was conducted, following which they were produced in court which sent them to jail. Jharkhand High Court had on August 27 directed CBI to provide proper security to the accused and also arrange for their air travel. The CBI special team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijay Kumar Shukla, which took up the case on August 5, a day after registering the FIR, first took the duo on remand of five days on August 6. CBI then extended the remand to 10 more days on August 11. The CBI obtained court permission for further extension of remand till September 3 to carry out brain mapping and Narco test of the accused. The CBI team, accompanied by a 10-member team of Dhanbad police led by Inspector Surendra Singh, took them to Delhi for brain mapping test as well as Narco test. The brain mapping test of the two accused was conducted in New Delhi on August 20. But the Narco test had to be conducted in Ahmedabad after which they were brought back to Dhanbad on Saturday. Judge Uttam Anand was killed on July 28 near Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad during a morning walk around 5.08 am when he was hit by an auto rickshaw. It was being driven by Lakhan Verma while Rahul Verma was present in the vehicle. The case hit the national headlines when CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media within a couple of hours of the incident. Dhanbad police which carried out the initial probe arrested Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma on July 29. The police also managed to recover the autorickshaw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Their husbands were lynched, now they want Hemant to enact law against mob violence ||Two young widows of victims of lynching began an indefinite sit-in near Raj Bhavan here on Saturday to press for a strong legislation against such crimes, accusing the state government of being apathetic to their needs of compensation and rehabilitation despite several representations over the last year. Sahista Perveen (21), widow of 2019 Seraikela lynch victim Tabrez Ansari, and Tabassum Perveen (35), wife of Mubarak Khan, who was killed by a mob in Ranchi earlier this year, began their dharna under the banner of Mob Lynch Vidhwa Sangharsh Samiti which is being supported by a few Muslim social outfits, namely Indian Union Muslim League and Muslim Youth League. From Sunday, more widows are expected to join them, the two women said. Sahista said that her protest was to ensure the government woke up from its slumber.  “My husband was brutally killed by a mob calling him a thief. He won’t come back anymore. But I am still to get justice,” she said, adding that several political parties, including those now in power, promised help but that nothing had been done so far. She also claimed she had met chief minister Hemant Soren several times. Tabassum, who has a 2-year- old son, lives with her parents in Seraikela. “Somehow I am surviving. But I am staring at an uncertain future. I wasn’t given any compensation despite promises. I want the government to provide me a job, take care of my child's education. But most important, we need a strong law to curb such incidents,” she said. On 17 June, 2019, Sahista’s husband Tabrez Ansari (22), who was returning with two of his friends on a bike, was attacked by mob on the suspicion of having stolen a vehicle at Dhatkidih village in Kadamdih in Seraikela-Kharsawan. While his friends escaped, he was caught, tied to a tree, mercilessly beaten and forced to chant Jai Shri Ram. The matter came to light after a video went viral two days later leading to a nationwide uproar. He died in  hospital four days later. As many as 13 people were named accused in the case and arrested. But, subsequently a majority of them got bail after police converted the charges against them in September 2019 to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. On the night of March 14 this year, Mubarak Khan was killed on the outskirts of Sirka village in Angara block of Ranchi by a mob that accused him of stealing tyres of bikes. As many as 17 people were arrested. More than a dozen incidents of mob lynching/attacks occurred in Jharkhand during the tenure of the BJP government of Raghubar Das between 2014 and 19. After the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government of Hemant Soren came to power in December 2019, two incidents of lynching have been reported in Jharkhand. Md Sajid Alam, state president of Indian Union Muslim League, said that they would support the widows and help them sustain their protest till their demands were met. “One of the major poll planks of the state governmwent was to enact a law against lynching. There have been four Assembly sessions since the new government was sworn in. But there is no law against lynching yet. We want the state government to commit to such a law during the ongoing monsoon session,” he said. State rural development minister Alamgir Alam had said last week that his party (the Congress) was in favour of legislation to curb lynching and would coordinate with the state government to come up with one. JMM, which is also part of the government, has spoken in its favour too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Congress pledge 27% reservation to OBCs in Jharkhand govt jobs ||Former Union Minister and Congress in-charge for Jharkhand, R.P.N Singh, on Friday said the party is committed to providing 27 per cent reservation to Other Backward Classes in government jobs in the state. Singh told the media at the Congress headquarters in Ranchi that a meeting has been held with all other political parties of the state, including the JMM, BJP and Ajsu, to extend support to the issue. Singh, however, pointed out that there were no flaws in the recruitment policy unveiled by the state government. “There is a misconception about the recruitment policy among some of our party MLAs. The issue will be taken up with chief minister Hemant Soren by our Congress legislative party leader Alamgir Alam and state unit president Rajesh Thakur. The recruitment policy aims at providing maximum job opportunities to the locals,” said Singh. On the unemployment issue, Singh said that the Congress has been working continuously to raise the voice of the unemployed people in the state and across the country. “The country is going through a very bad phase at this time but the (Narendra) Modi government at the Centre is unaware of the current situation. All sections of people in the country are suffering due to inflation but the central government has been oblivious to the issue so far,” said Singh. On land bank issue, he said the party has no objections if industries are set up on the land bank created under the BJP government as it will create employment opportunities for local youths. “However, land which was forcibly taken from the poor, should be returned. The issue of displacement was a major problem for the state. Therefore, a displacement commission should be formed in the state,” said Singh. In a veiled threat to bureaucrats allegedly ignoring party MLAs and leaders in the state, Singh advised government officials to ensure that they hear the points raised by Congress leaders. “Government officials should listen to the points raised by party leaders. Otherwise, party workers will go to their offices and meet them and explain their demands,” said Singh. He also advised party leaders to visit every corner of the state and establish a dialogue with local people, understand their problems and try to solve them. “The community dialogue programme should ensure that the party flag reaches every household of the state. The new president and new working president should visit every block of the district and should make contact with workers in the remote areas,” said Singh. He said the Congress will give equal rights to all members of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel to open doors to transgender persons||Tata Steel will become the first company in the country to open doors to transgender persons in the mining sector. Tata Steel has sought applications only from transgenders for the role of heavy earth moving machinery (HEMM) operators (trainee) at its West Bokaro coalfields divisions in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district. “Tata Steel India Workplace Equality Index certified (for LGBTQ+ inclusion) is looking for candidates (transgenders only) for the post of HEMM operators trainee (dumper, drill dozer, excavator, payloader, crane, etc) for its coal division at West Bokaro, Jharkhand,” said the company in the job posting. “This landmark initiative not only aims to break the glass ceiling but also targets mainstream transgenders in the society. Historically, Tata Steel is known for creating a diverse, inclusive, safe, and fair workplace across the globe. From establishing 8-hour work to free medical aid to leave with pay to becoming the first to implement 5-day-work-week to becoming the first company to implement menstrual leaves to enabling gender transition to women@mines, Tata Steel continues to further extend its arm to the transgender community for a more inclusive industrial growth. Expanding beyond its confines of factory and offices, transgenders will now be deployed as HEMM operators at mining location in West Bokaro post proper training,” an official said. LGBTQ+ refers to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, and related communities. Tata Steel vice-president human resource management Atrayee Sanyal said: “At Tata Steel, we believe a diverse and inclusive environment enriches the variety of thoughts, perspectives, and therefore strengthens the organisation. In our experience, workplace diversity not only attracts the best talent and widens the talent pool but also drives business results. We will continue to work towards actively promoting LGBTQ+ and building a benchmark workplace.” To be eligible for the job, one should have passed Matriculation and be born between September 1, 1981, and September 1, 2003; and candidates would be evaluated with a written test, interview and practical orientation test, followed by Medical Examination, it stated. Tata Steel has been known for hiring candidates from the LGBTQ community. In 2020, the company was named as a Top Employer for LGBT+ inclusion by India Workplace Equality Index (IWEI), the country’s first comprehensive benchmarking study to measure and enable efforts for LGBT+ inclusion. “IWEI Top Employers is the definitive list showcasing the best employers in India for lesbian, gay, trans employees. Tata Steel’s place as a Top Employer 2020 recognises the company’s commitment to advancing equality for LGBT+ people. Tata Steel is one of 18 organisations to feature in the Silver category,” said a company official. In 2019, the steel manufacturer introduced a new human resource policy that enables its employees from the LGBTQ+ community to declare their partners and avail all HR benefits permissible under the law. In August, Tata Steel West Bokaro division announced that it has onboarded 16 women HEMM operators at  Tata Steel’s West Bokaro Division   in all shifts under its flagship programme — Women@Mines. Tata Steel’s Women@Mines programme aims to provide technical training to unskilled women workers and enable them to work in core jobs in mines. From the formation of MOSAIC in 2015 to participate in RISE — the largest job fair for LGBTQ+ in Asia to train  transgenders, Tata Steel has not only evolved as a global torchbearer but has also encouraged others to be inclusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||FJCCI says Jharkhand govt should rectify lapses in functioning||The Jharkhand government should identify the lapses in its style of functioning in the industrial development of the state and also rectify those. The office bearers of the state’s apex trade body, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), said this while addressing the media at Chamber Bhavan on Friday evening. “Attempts were made even earlier but those failed because of these lapses,” said FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chhabra, adding there was a need for a change if the government was serious in bringing in investments in the state. The traders’ representatives echoed what some of the industrialists had told The Telegraph a few days ago that this paper published last Monday. “We all had seen Momentum Jharkhand that failed but the government didn’t review the reasons behind the failure,” added Ajay Bhandari, reminding the fate of the global investment summit the BJP government led by Raghubar Das had organised in Ranchi in February 2017 and later declared investments worth Rs 3 lakh crore would come to the state. “Satisfaction of customers is the best advertisement,” said Chhabra, adding the investors would come to the state only when they would be assured about the progressive growth of the industrial units they plan to set up. Instead of improvement, the industrial environment continued to be gloomy in the state, he further said, adding the same could be seen in almost all spheres, be it electricity or pollution. “I’m planning to expand my existing unit in Hazaribagh but the state pollution control board is yet to give me ‘consent to establish’ though I applied long ago,” alleged Sunil Agarwal who was present at the meeting. The state of renewal of industrial license is no different, they further alleged, adding the few running units would also be forced to down shutter if the state of affairs continued like this. “Not only that, those who were allotted plots for industrial purposes in certain parts of the state were still awaiting possession,” Chhabra alleged, giving example of Santhal Pargana Industrial Area Development Authority at Debipur in Dumka. “The entrepreneurs were allowed 81 plots in that area two years ago but they are yet to get possession of those,” he informed. “Of the total 360 units in Tipudana Industrial Area of Ranchi, about 200 are lying idle,” added its president Surendra Prasad Singh, giving example of the sorry state of affairs. The FJCCI office bearers expressed doubt if the industries secretary was aware of the pitiable situation, adding she never visited the industrial area during the past one year she had been in charge of the department. During the first day of the monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly on Friday, health minister and former BJP MLA Dr Dinesh Sarangi sat on a dharna (picture above) on issues related to medical compensation of former MLAs and MLAs, withdrawal of non-financed education policy etc. He lifted the agitation on the assurance of parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam to look into the demands. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto lauded the performance of Indians in the Tokyo Olympics and passed a condolence motion for those dignitaries, MLAs, and frontline workers who had died during the period between the previous session and the monsoon session. The issue of denial of Leader of Opposition status to BJP legislative party leader Babulal Marandi in the House again came to the fore during the condolence motion as the BJP leader raised demands that Marandi should read the condolence motion on behalf of the Opposition. The House was adjourned till 11am on Monday. The monsoon session  will continue till September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
