05-09-2021||Business||JLR launches Land Rover Defender V8 Bond Edition||Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) has globally launched the Land Rover Defender V8 Bond Edition to celebrate the 25th James Bond film No Time To Die, ahead of its world premiere later this month. Customers in India can book the vehicle from the limited edition of 300 units that have been produced for sale. The price for the special edition is yet to be announced. Land Rover SV Bespoke has created the limited edition car, inspired by the specification of the Defenders that appear in No Time To Die. The Defender V8 Bond Edition features an extended black pack with 50.80cm satin dark grey wheels, the signature Xenon Blue front brake calipers and a ‘Defender 007’ rear badge. The interior has illuminated ‘Defender 007’ treadplates and a specially developed touchscreen start-up animation for the intuitive Pivi Pro infotainment system that honours Land Rover’s long partnership with the James Bond franchise. Land Rover brand director Finbar McFall said: “The Land Rover Defender V8 Bond Edition represents a meeting of the two great British brands and is a unique celebration of Land Rover’s 38-year association with James Bond.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
05-09-2021||Business||Barbeque Nation raises Rs 100 crore||Restaurant chain Barbeque Nation Hospitality on Saturday said it has raised nearly Rs 100 crore through a preferential issue of equity shares to three different investors, including Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The company’s stakeholders’ relationship committee in its meeting on Saturday approved an allotment of 11,77,855 fully paid-up equity shares of a face value of Rs 5 each at a premium of Rs 844 by preferential allotment. It has allotted 7,06,713 equity shares to Massachusetts Institute of Technology for an aggregate subscription amount of Rs 59,99,99,337. On the other hand, 1,76,678 equity shares have been allotted to 238 Plan Associates LLC for an aggregate subscription amount of Rs 14,99,99,622, the filing added. Opportunities Fund Series-II has been allotted 2,94,464 equity shares for an aggregate subscription amount of Rs 24,99,99,936, it said. Consequent upon the above allotment, the paid-up share capital of the company has increased to Rs 19,37,16,375 from Rs 18,78,27,100, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
05-09-2021||Business||India to seek Covid drug patent waiver||The country has pitched for an early outcome of the TRIPS waiver proposal for Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics in the World Trade Organisation (WTO). India has also stressed the need to find a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the public stock holding programme for food security purposes. Addressing a meeting attended by trade and economic ministers of BRICS countries, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal also stressed on the need to adopt emerging technologies in a swiftly changing world while finding solutions to the challenges of data protection and cyber security and ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns. Goyal said BRICS countries should work together to strengthen the WTO and aim for a balanced and inclusive outcome in the forthcoming WTO ministerial conference later this year, keeping in mind the needs of developing countries. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal, suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organisation) members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPs Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. In May this year, a revised proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa and Indonesia. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPs came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. Further, the minister has said that the BRICS countries should work together for strengthening the multilateral system. The BRICS countries have endorsed the Framework for Cooperation in Trade in Professional Services with the objectives of enhancing domestic capacity and global competitiveness, promoting participation in intra-BRICS mobility of professionals and enhancing trade in professional services. All BRICS members could for the first time reach a consensus for jointly working towards protection of genetic resources and traditional knowledge, an official release said. “In this era of exponential jump in the use of e-commerce and online electronic transactions, the convergence to draw a common action plan among BRICS countries will help to promote exploring practical options for ensuring consumer protection,” the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
05-09-2021||India||Bengal: SC stays proceedings against editors of web news portal||The Supreme Court has stayed further proceedings in a fresh case filed in West Bengal against some people, including editors of a news web portal, in connection with articles published by them. The court also made the protection granted in an interim order of last year to Nupur J Sharma, the editor of Opindia, and others including its founder and CEO, as absolute. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh, while dealing with the fresh FIR said, "Further proceedings in pursuance of FIR No...registered at Bhadreswar Police Station shall remain stayed." It said that interim orders passed on June 26, 2020 in the main writ petition filed last year are made absolute and posted the next hearing in November. "Interim orders are made absolute. Liberty to the petitioners to file additional documents. The parties to file short synopsis running into not more than two pages each. List on a non-miscellaneous Tuesday in the month of November 2021," the bench said in its order passed on September 3. On June 26 last year, the top court had stayed further proceedings in three FIRs lodged in West Bengal against petitioners. In their intervention application, Nupur J Sharma and others said that they are constrained to move the top court due to "persistent hounding" and "victimisation" by the West Bengal government, "who in its endeavour to scuttle inconvenient media reports registered multiple FIRs against them". The application further said, "That the order dated June 26, 2020 came as a respite to the petitioners whose honour, life and liberty were sought to be repeatedly undermined by the state..." However, "it appears that the respondents are unrelenting in the efforts to persecute the petitioners/applicants as the petitioners/applicants have recently on August 5, been served with a notice under section 41A of the CrPC from CID, West Bengal in relation to FIR registered with Bhadreshwar police station", it said. It said that the FIR relates to media reports published in opindia.com about Telenipara communal riots of May 2020 and were registered contemporaneously around the same time as FIRs, which forms the subject matter of the writ petition. The petitioners said that the FIR came to their notice only on the receipt of the notice under section 41CrPC on August 5 requiring them to appear before the investigating officer on August 13 but later the investigating officer through an email dated August 12 asked the petitioner to appear on August 23. They sought a stay on the investigation emanating from the FIR registered at Bhadreshwar police station and the notice issued to them for appearing before investigating officer. The petitioners also sought quashing of the FIR. On June 26 last year, the Supreme Court had, while staying the three FIRs, issued notices to the West Bengal government and the Centre seeking their replies on the plea. The main writ petition filed by Nupur Sharma and others including the founder and CEO of the news portal and editor of its Hindi language publications claimed that the West Bengal government and its "authoritarian Calcutta Police" are misusing FIRs and "brute police powers" to intimidate journalists. "The petitioners are constrained to invoke the extraordinary writ jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution against the patently extortionist and mala fide actions of the Government of West Bengal to impose illegal censorship in the state by threatening, scuttling, and gagging honest media houses through misuse of state police," the plea has claimed. The petitioners claimed they were informed that the cause of one of the FIRs lodged by police was an article published by the news web portal on the issue of alleged hiding of data related to COVID-19. The plea claimed that one of the FIRs lodged pertained to a news report published by the web portal in October last year. It alleged that to undermine the freedom of press, the state has rather chosen to "hound down" the petitioners by registering multiple FIRs in order to "bargain for deletion of news articles by putting the petitioner's life and liberty at bait". It claimed the state and the police are not only intimidating the journalists but also threatening their family members to seek deletion of media reports which bring to the public notice "the actual state of affairs in the state of West Bengal during these difficult times". It also alleged that the police had intimidated some of the petitioners to get the news articles deleted. "Accordingly, the officers while insulting and demeaning the petitioner no. 1, asked her to use her influence to get the articles removed or to face the brunt of state's political executives," it has claimed. The plea claimed that deleting any content from the internet has a nationwide effect and any decision to delete any content has to be left to be taken by the Centre and not by state governments. It has also sought a direction to exclude the role of police in the matter of deletion of content on the internet "particularly since there exists a regulatory mechanism for overseeing such content" and restricting any mischievous contents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Right-wing activists manhandle Raipur pastor, 2 others at police station over conversion||A pastor and two others, including an officer-bearer of a Christian outfit, were allegedly manhandled and abused inside a police station at Raipur on Sunday by members of a right-wing organisation, a senior official said.  The group of right-wing activists accused pastor Harish Sahu of indulging in religious conversion and manhandled him as well as Ankush Bariyekar, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum, and one Prakash Masih, inside Purani Basti police station, he said.  "Sahu had been called to the police station after a right-wing organisation submitted a complaint against him that he is indulging in religious conversions. Accordingly, he came to the police station today along with Bariyekar and Masih. But a group of right-wing activists present there manhandled and abused the trio inside the chamber of the station house officer (SHO)," he said.  A video of the incident went viral on social media. After the incident, Purani Basti station house officer (SHO) Yadumani Sidar was attached to the police lines by Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav, the official added.  Bariyekar lodged a complaint in this regard, after which several people were booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he said.  The incident occurred exactly a week after a 25-year-old pastor, Kawalsingh Paraste, was allegedly beaten up in his house in Polmi village in the state's Kabirdham district by a mob of over 100 people, accusing him of indulging in religious conversions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||RSS distances itself from Panchjanya article targeting Infosys over IT portal glitches||The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday distanced itself from an article critical of Indian software major Infosys that was published in Panchjanya, a magazine associated with the saffron organisation. Sunil Ambekar, the RSS' all-India prachaar pramukh, said Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the article reflects the author's opinion and should not be linked with the organisation. In its September 5 edition, Panchjanya has a four-page cover story on Infosys 'Saakh Aur Aghaat' (Reputation and Damage), with its founder Narayana Murthy's picture on the cover page. The article has attacked the Bengaluru-based company and dubbed it as 'Unchi Dukan, Phika Pakwaan' (great cry and little wool). It also alleged that Infosys is aligned with “anti-national” forces and as a result messed up the government's Income Tax portal. However, Ambekar took to Twitter to clarify Sangh's stand. “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in the progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects the individual opinion of the author. “Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS,” he tweeted. The article drew flak from the Opposition parties which lashed out at the magazine calling the piece “anti-national”. Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi on Sunday questioned the “silence” of India Inc on the issue months after commerce minister Piyush Goyal's criticism of Tata Sons. “Then they came for me. And there was no one left to speak out for me” “RSS affiliated Panchajanya, says Infosys is working with anti-national forces and is part of tukde tukde gang. First the attack on Tatas by Commerce Minister and now this. Silence by industry biggies. Okay,” she said in a tweet. The Congress also dubbed them as “attacks” on India's “prized” corporate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Parts of south, west, north India to witness heavy rain in next 3 days||Several parts over south, west and north India are likely to receive heavy rainfall during the next three days with the revival of the Southwest Monsoon, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. It said enhanced rainfall activity with fairly widespread and isolated heavy to very heavy rains is very likely over Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala the during next three days and reduce in intensity and distribution thereafter. Under the influence of west-northwestward movement of a likely low pressure area or its remnant cyclonic circulation, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are very likely over south Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Vidarbha and south Chhattisgarh September 5-7. North Marathawada, north madhya Maharashtra, north Konkan, Gujarat Region is likely to receive rainfall during September 7-9. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over north Konkan during September 7-8, central Maharashtra and Gujarat Region on September 8 and Telangana on September 7. Rainfall activity is very likely to increase with scattered to fairly widespread rains over most parts of northwest India with isolated heavy falls over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, north Punjab and Jammu region and east Rajasthan during September 7-9. After recording deficient rainfall in August, the IMD has predicted above-normal precipitation in September. The rainfall deficit until August 31 was nine per cent. The deficiency until September 5 was nine per cent. While issuing its forecast for September, IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Wednesday said the shortfall recorded during August is likely to be compensated with excess rainfall in the current month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||BJP terms ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ as election meeting||The BJP on Sunday termed the 'Kisan mahapanchayat' organised in Muzaffarnagar an "election meeting" and accused its organisers of indulging in politics with assembly polls approaching in a number of states, including Uttar Pradesh. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states gathered at Muzaffarnagar on Sunday for the 'Kisan Mahapanchayat organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to protest the Centre's controversial farm laws. The BJP's 'Kisan Morcha' head and MP Rajkumar Chahar claimed in a statement that it is politics and not concerns for farmers which have been on the agenda of those behind the 'mahapanchayat'. "This was very much a political and election meeting. The opposition and these farmer union leaders have been using the shoulders of farmers to engage in politics," He said. Chahar claimed that no government has done so much for farmers as the one led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has in the last seven years. The farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the three contentious laws has been going on for over nine months. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they feel will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Scientifically investigate 'Mystery tunnel' under Delhi Assembly building: Experts||Historians and heritage experts, including those from the ASI, have called for carrying out a scientific investigation of a tunnel located beneath the sprawling building of the Delhi Assembly, which has again captured the imagination of the people. The 'mystery tunnel', first reported around 2016, has sparked multiple speculation, and experts said it will be too early to draw any conclusion unless the structure is thoroughly examined from an archaeological standpoint or any documentary evidence is found. The subterranean structure's mouth lies just below the floor of the assembly hall of the iconic building (Old Secretariat), which was constructed in 1912 by the British after the imperial capital was shifted from Calcutta to Delhi, and it is being planned to be thrown open to the public next year. Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Friday had said that historical significance of the tunnel is yet to be established but it is conjectured that the tunnel connects the assembly building to the Red Fort. He also claimed that there was an "execution room" at the site where Indian revolutionaries were brought to by the British. Many historians and heritage experts, including those who have done extensive research on the multi-layered history of Delhi, however, have expressed scepticism over the claims and suggested scientific investigation of the structure and the site. A senior Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) official said that theories and conjectures abound in absence of investigation. "So, the structures beneath need to be seen archaeologically, first. And, even if there are obstructions due to metro and flyover pillars, technology is there to investigate to test the theory. Without investigation, it would not be wise to make comments," he told PTI. Also, the Red Fort link theory seems a bit implausible as the distance between the 17th-century Mughal monument and the British-era landmark is over six km, and with a low height, a tunnel that long would be hard to imagine as it would also be hard to navigate, the official said. There are also multiple passages to reach the Yamuna river from the Red Fort. Without investigation, it is difficult to tell if the purpose of the tunnel in question was to escape or to store and if it was built before the construction of the early 20th century structure that stands over it, experts said. Another ASI official said no communication has been received by the Archaeological Survey of India from the Delhi Assembly authorities on carrying out archaeological examination of the tunnel. Designed by architect E Montague Thomas, the current assembly building initially served as the Secretariat of the imperial government while New Delhi capital was being built. Located in the prime Civil Lines area, the handsome white-colour landmark, also housed the Central Legislative Assembly when it was shifted to the new Parliament House near Raisina Hill in 1927. Historian and author Swapna Liddle also feels the Red Fort link theory remains a speculation as it has no backing of archaeological or documentary evidence. "Another possibility is that this was a 'tahkhana' (a cellar) for storage or hiding, given the British had grown wary of the native population after the 1857 Mutiny. So, a safe passage or hideout may have been built beneath the building," she told PTI. Liddle, author of 'Connaught Place and the Making of New Delhi' and former convener of the INTACH Delhi Chapter, also said that a conjecture that the tunnel predates the assembly building also does not seem very plausible, "as why would the British take the tunnel out in the Ridge area". The Delhi ridge area was a site of major actions during the First War of Independence in 1857. Rana Safvi, historian and author of 'Shahjahanabad: The Living City of Old Delhi', feels that it was "highly improbable" that such a long tunnel linked the two buildings from two different eras. "The British documented everything meticulously and if there was such an arrangement, some archival record or map must have shown it. Also, logically, there seems no reason as to why would they build such a long underground passageway," she said. City-based conservation architect and urban planner AGK Menon, however, said, if it was secret tunnel, "of course, there will be no record of it". "The tunnel is visible, now it should be investigated thoroughly and architecturally examined before drawing any conclusion or propounding any theory," he added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Nipah Virus: Tamil Nadu screens people at border in wake of cases in Kerala||Tamil Nadu has stepped up measures to monitor people who arrive from Kerala in nine bordering districts, in the wake of the neighbouring state reporting a death due to Nipah virus infection, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said on Sunday. A 12-year old boy died on Sunday due to Nipah virus infection at a hospital in Kozhikode, according to Kerala Health Minister Veena George. "Already we have been monitoring the nine districts that border Kerala. We have been conducting door-to-door awareness campaigns in the districts on the spread of Zika virus... In the wake of the Nipah virus, we have issued an advisory to district health officials to expedite measures like holding fever camps," he told reporters. The Minister said health officials of the nine districts to hold fever camps at the entry points in the border districts besides conducting thermal screening of the passengers, testing their saturation levels. "Already, we are allowing people to enter (Tamil Nadu) only if they have a Covid-19 vaccination certificate nor a RT-PCR negativity report," he said. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said people who enter Tamil Nadu from Kerala were screened not only for Covid-19 but also for other communicable diseases like Zika, Nipah. "We are continuously monitoring the people who enter Tamil Nadu. People need not panic about the Nipah virus. But at the same time they should not show negligence (in following the government advisory)," he cautioned. Health department officials of the nine districts that border with Kerala were urged to conduct surveillance for all communicable diseases, especially Zika and Nipah. "Deputy directors have been informed and the local bodies in border areas should stay alert about these diseases," a message sent to the district health officials said. Nipah Virus is a zoonotic virus -- it is transmitted from animals to humans -- fruit bats and pigs -- and can also be transmitted through contaminated food or directly between people. To a query about a few school students and teachers having tested Covid-19 positive after schools were reopened on September 1, Radhakrishnan said they might have contracted the virus earlier. "...these people (teachers and students testing Covid-19 positive), might have contracted the virus ahead of coming to the schools. There is still prevalence of the Covid-19 virus...People should strictly follow Covid-19 protocols," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||PM Modi's approval rating shows popular support to his policies, says BJP||BJP leaders on Sunday cited a global survey, which ranks Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the leader with the highest approval rating, to assert that this shows popular support to his pro-people policies. The data by Morning Consult, which regularly tracks popularity ratings of a host of global leaders, has put Modi with 70 per cent approval on the top of a list which included US President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. “The highest ranking for the country's top leader Narendra Modi in the global approval rating is a matter of pride and honour for the country. This is a result of people's blessings to his welfare policies for the masses,” BJP president J P Nadda said. The party's chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni said India's prestige has risen in an unprecedented manner under Modi. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said, "Global leader with highest approval ratings, that's our Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji with 70 per cent approval ratings. Congratulations."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Case against Chhattisgarh CM's father over alleged derogatory comments||Raipur police have registered a case against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel for allegedly making derogatory comments against a community, an official said on Sunday. After a controversy erupted over the alleged remarks of his father, the chief minister said he was pained by such comments and asserted that nobody was above the law in his government and police will take an appropriate action in the matter. Following a complaint filed by the 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj', the D D Nagar police here registered an FIR late Saturday night against Nand Kumar Baghel (86), the official said. The case was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquility), he said. The outfit in its complaint alleged that the CM's father recently appealed to people to boycott Brahmins by terming them as foreigners, and also asked people to not let them enter their villages, the official said. It also accused Nand Kumar Baghel of asking people to "evict" Brahmins out of the country, he said. In the past also, the CM's father had allegedly made derogatory comments against Lord Ram, the official said quoting the complaint. The outfit also said a video of the purported comments of the CM's father was available on social media platforms, the official added. According to police, Nand Kumar Baghel reportedly made the remarks while addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh recently. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in a statement said his father's comments have come to his notice and he is pained by it. The remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a specific class have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the class as well as social harmony and I am also pained by it, the CM was quoted as saying in a release issued by the state public relations department. The CM also said that through social media and other platforms, he has learnt it is being said that action against Nand Kumar Baghel will not be taken because he is father of the chief minister. "Every person is equal before my government, he said. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are very much different. I respect him as his son, but as the CM, I cannot forgive him for such mistakes which disturb the public order," he added. "Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the chief minister's 86-year-old father," the CM said, adding that an appropriate legal action will be ensured by police in this regard. He said the Chhattisgarh government respects every religion, caste and community and their sentiments, and gives equal importance to everyone. "It is our duty to protect the dignity and constitutional rights of everyone. Law is supreme for us," the chief minister asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Two health workers show symptoms of Nipah virus infection, says Veena George||Two more people have been identified with symptoms of Nipah virus infection, Kerala health minister Veena George said here on Sunday. The two are among the 20 high risk contacts of the deceased 12-year-old child, she said. "We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team have marked 20 of them as high risk contacts. Two of these high risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers. One works with a private hospital, while the other is a staff member of Kozhikode Medical College hospital," she told reporters after chairing a high-level meeting to take stock of the situation. She said all the 20 high risk contacts will be shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College by evening, while other contacts of the child have been asked to remain in isolation. The pay ward at the Medical College Hospital has been completely converted into a dedicated Nipah ward, she said. The boy died at a hospital here early this morning. The samples of the boy, which were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, confirmed the presence of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||High court judges appointed based on merit, seniority, says SC||The process of appointment of judges to high courts is through a well-established process where the HC collegium considers seniority, merit and all inputs received by the government, the Supreme Court has said while imposing a cost of Rs 5 lakh on an advocate for abusing the court proceedings by trying to stop the elevation of a judge. A bench of Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh made the observation while dismissing a plea filed by an advocate seeking directions to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action with the proposal of appointment of high court Registrar General A Venkateswar Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The three-member Supreme Court Collegium in a meeting held on August 17 had approved the proposal for elevation of six judicial officers as judges of the Telangana High Court including Reddy. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate B. Sailesh Saxena seeking directions to the Centre, Telangana and Registrar (Vigilance & Administration) of the High Court of Telangana to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action as per law for proceeding further with the proposal of appointment of Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The petitioner made several allegations against the high court Registrar General and stated that his recommendation should not be processed for his elevation as a judge. The petitioner advocate in his plea claimed that he was a legal advisor for the family of an MP belonging to the Telugu Desam Party and legal counsel for other politically connected persons and alleged that an FIR at the instance of the Registrar was filed on July 31, 2017 in pursuance to a direction issued by high court with a view to harass him. The bench said the high court registrar general, as a responsible officer, only followed the direction passed by the high court judge. The apex court said the high court opined that what the petitioner was attempting to do was to seek an investigation into the allegation that the evidence collected by the investigating officer in criminal complaints filed against him as fabricated and that was found to be nothing but a deflection towards derailing the course of investigation in the complaints lodged against the petitioner. The writ petition was found to be thoroughly misconceived and appears to be an abuse of process of law and a counterblast to the series of criminal complaints in which persons belonging to the 'so-called noble profession got involved'. "We are surprised as the brazenness of the petitioner now filing the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the aforesaid being the finding against him, to now somehow see that the elevation of respondent No. 4 does not take place on the account of these proceedings initiated by the petitioner. "This is gross abuse of process of law. The process of appointment of judges to the high court is under a well known established process where the collegium of the high court considers recommending the names and in case of judicial officers by seniority and on merits. Thereafter, the proposed IB inputs and other inputs are obtained and the Government processes names. "The collegium of the Supreme Court has the benefit of all the material before taking a call on whether to recommend the name or not. The appointment takes place thereafter by issuance of warrants of appointment. Thus sufficient safeguards exist in the system," the bench said. The top court said the endeavour of the petitioner is to harass respondent No. 4 (high court registrar General) and abuse the court proceedings. "We are of the view that appropriate imposition of costs seems to be the only solution.We thus dismiss the writ petition with costs of Rs 5 lakh to be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Welfare Fund within four weeks.We also think it appropriate that the Bar Council of Telangana examines the conduct of the petitioner as a member of the 'Noble Profession' and for that purpose a copy of the order be sent to the Bar Council of Telangana," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Have to save India from getting sold, says Rakesh Tikait at Kisan Mahapanchayat||Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states on Sunday gathered at Muzaffarnagar for a Kisan mahapanchayat aimed at "saving the country", just months ahead of the crucial UP Assembly polls. The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar in protest against the Centre's controversial farm laws. "These meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from getting sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved; business, employees and youth should be saved--this is the aim of the rally, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said. Popular names like Medha Patkar and Yogendra Yadav were seen on the dais. Yadav was given a yellow robe by Tikait, while the BKU leader was presented a mace at the event. Meanwhile, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday described the protesting farmers as "our own flesh and blood" and suggested that the government should re-engage with them in reaching common ground. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said farmers belonging to 300 organisations spread across different states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, among others, have gathered for the event. He said over 5,000 'langars' (food stalls), including some mobile stalls, have been set up for the participants. The farmers, including women carrying flags of different organisations and wearing different coloured caps, were seen arriving at the venue in buses, cars and tractors. A woman farmer leader from Karnataka addressed the gathering in Kannada language. One of the participants blew a ransingha' (trumpet), the photograph of which was posted by the Kisan Ekta Morcha on Twitter. "In old times, when the fight was for honour and respect, this instrument (ransingha) was used. Today, a call has been given for war by all 'kisan majdoor' unions against the BJP's corporate raj', it tweeted in Hindi. Meanwhile, the Muzaffarnagar administration denied Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhry's request to sprinkle flowers from a helicopter on the venue and participants of the mahapanchayat. City magistrate Abhishek Singh rejected the request, saying it cannot be allowed due to security reasons. The district authorities have posted police personnel at the residences of Union minister Sanjiv Balyan and BJP MLA Umesh Malik here, as a precautionary measure. The SKM on Saturday claimed that thousands of farmers from 15 states had reached Muzaffarnagar to participate in the mahapanchayat. The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws said the event would prove that the agitation had the support of all castes, religions, states, classes, small traders and other sections of society . "The mahapanchayat of September 5 will make the Yogi-Modi governments realise the power of farmers, farm labourers and supporters of the farm movement. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat will be the biggest ever in the last nine months," the SKM had said in a statement. It also said that 100 medical camps had been set up for the farmers attending the mahapanchayat. The farmers' protest against the three contentious laws has completed over nine months since they first arrived at Delhi borders. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind felicitates 44 teachers with National Teachers' Award||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday conferred the National Teachers' Awards on 44 teachers from across the country for their contribution in developing innovative methods of teaching. The national-level awards are given on Teachers' Day to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those who, through their commitment, have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students. Noting that every child has different capabilities and talent, the President said teachers need to focus on all round development of the students keeping their different needs and interests in mind. "Teachers should keep in mind that every student has different capability, talent and psychology, social structure and background. Hence, they should focus on all round development of each child in accordance with the child's needs, interests and capabilities," he said during an online award ceremony. "It is the duty of teachers that they develop interest towards studies in their students. Sensitive teachers can make the future of their students bright with their behaviour, conduct and teaching," he added. The National Awards to Teachers were first instituted in 1958 to recognise excellence and commitment of teachers in shaping the minds as well as future of the youth. From mid-60s onwards, September 5 came to be the fixed date for the function on account of the birthday of Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, former president of India and an eminent educationist. The award is to accord public recognition to meritorious teachers working in elementary and secondary schools. For the year 2021, online self-nomination process was followed by a three-tier selection process at district, state and national level. "Our education system should be such that our students develop feelings of respect and dedication for constitutional values and duties of citizens. It should strengthen their love for country and make them aware about their role in changing global landscape," Kovind said. A documentary film on each of the 44 awardee teachers was also shown during the virtual award ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Kashmir restrictions eased but security forces still deployed||Restrictions were eased out in Kashmir, but security forces continued to remain deployed on the fourth day on Sunday following the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, officials said. There are no restrictions on movement of people in the Valley, but barricades continue to remain in place along roads at several areas, especially those leading to Geelani's residence at Hyderpora here in view of the fourth day of mourning for the separatist leader. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, they said. The traffic movement has increased across the Valley, but most of the public transport remained off the roads, officials said. Few shops also opened in some areas of the city as well as in other parts of the Valley, they added. The situation is normal and under control, officials noted. The police had on Saturday said several preventive measures had been taken to maintain law and order, including preventive arrests of dozens of miscreants so far. The police also said several social media platforms, including Kashmir Media Service which are running from Pakistan, have been trying to spread fake news and videos to instigate miscreants to disturb peace. Even a few local media persons and channels have been found spreading fake news and the police are observing them, maintaining evidence and appropriate actions shall be taken against them, they said. While voice calling and fixed-line internet services across all operators were restored Friday night after remaining suspended for two days, mobile internet services remained barred. IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar on Friday said the services would be restored on Sunday after a review meeting. Geelani, 91, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. The pro-Pakistan separatist leader, who spearheaded separatist politics for over three decades in Jammu and Kashmir, was buried at a mosque near his residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Centre sends team to Kerala after 12-year-old dies of Nipah virus infection||A 12-year-old boy died due to Nipah virus infection at a hospital here while two others have been identified with symptoms of the infection, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Sunday. The samples of the boy, which were sent to the Pune National Institute of Virology, confirmed the presence of Nipah virus. The Central Government has rushed a team of the National Centre for Disease Control to the state. The team, which was scheduled to reach on Sunday, will provide technical support to the state. Two more people have been identified with symptoms of Nipah virus infection, George said here on Sunday. The two are among the 20 high risk contacts of the deceased 12-year-old child. "We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team have marked 20 of them as high risk contacts. Two of these high risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers. One works with a private hospital, while the other is a staff member of Kozhikode Medical College hospital," she told reporters after chairing a high-level meeting to take stock of the situation. She said all the 20 high risk contacts will be shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College by evening, while other contacts of the child have been asked to remain in isolation. The pay ward at the Medical College Hospital has been completely converted into a dedicated Nipah ward, she said. Nipah virus is spread by saliva of the fruit bats. Giving details of the boy, the minister told reporters, "Unfortunately, he passed away at 5 in the morning. The condition of the child was critical on Saturday night. We formed various teams and have started the tracing. Steps have been taken to isolate those who were the primary contacts of the boy". The minister said the infection was confirmed by the Pune NIV on Saturday night. "Three samples-- plasma, CSF and serum-- were found infected. He was admitted to the hospital with a heavy fever four days ago. But on Saturday, his condition became worse. We had sent his samples for testing the day before yesterday," the minister said. George said there was nothing to worry about. "The health department is closely following up the situation. Special officers have been posted and special teams were formed. The patient was first taken to a private hospital, then to the medical college and from there again shifted to a private hospital. So we have traced all his contacts. The friends he played with in his locality, his cousins and others, the health department had completed the identification and tracing of all these contacts," George said. The minister also asked the neighbouring Kannur and Malappuram districts to remain cautious. Hospital sources said the boy will be cremated today itself following the health protocol. Police have cordoned off an area of three km radius around the house of the boy. In the wake of the virus resurfacing in Kerala, the Centre has advised some immediate public health measures which include active case search in the family, village and areas with similar topography especially in Malappuram. The measures also include active contact tracing for any contacts in the past 12 days, strict quarantine of the contacts and isolation of any suspects and collection and transportation of samples for lab testing, the ministry said. The first Nipah virus disease outbreak in South India was reported from Kozhikode district of Kerala on May 19, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Active cases on the trot for fifth straight day as India records 42k new Covid-19 infections||With 42,766 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,29,88,673, while active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll has climbed to 4,40,533, with 308 new fatalities, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am on Sunday. The active cases have increased to 4,10,048, comprising 1.24 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.42 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 4,367 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily new cases are being reported for 70 consecutive days, the ministry said. It said 17,47,476 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of the infection in the country to 53,00,58,218. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.45 per cent. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.62 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 72 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,21,38,092 in the country, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 68.46 crore, it said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The 308 new fatalities include 142 deaths from Kerala, and 64 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,40,533 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,707 from Maharashtra, 37,401 from Karnataka, 35,000 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,854 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,422 from Kerala and 18,491 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Calcutta HC names of senior advocate, 3 others are iterated||The names of senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee, son of Justice U.C. Banerjee who had rejected the Godhra train carnage conspiracy theory, and three others have been iterated by the Supreme Court collegium for elevation as Calcutta High Court judges. The Centre had raised fresh queries after sitting on the recommendations for over two years. Justice U.C. Banerjee, a former Supreme Court judge, had helmed the commission that in 2006 ruled out any conspiracy in the 2002 Sabarmati Express fire tragedy in Godhra that killed 58 kar sevaks. The arson was cited as an excuse for the Gujarat riots that erupted when Narendra Modi was chief minister. The decision to iterate the names of Amitesh Banerjee and the three other advocates — Jaytosh Majumdar, Raja Basu Chowdhury and Lapita Banerji — was taken at a meeting of the collegium late on Friday night. The collegium is made up of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar. The four names had been recommended in July 2019. Sources said the Centre had in the second fortnight of August this year raised fresh queries on Amitesh Banerjee and the others. With the Supreme Court collegium iterating the names, the Centre has little option but to comply with the recommendations unless it chooses to trigger a fresh constitutional row over judicial appointments. Under the memorandum of proceedings that governs the appointment and transfer of judges, the government can raise objections over names recommended by the collegium. But if the collegium iterates the recommendations, the government has to accept the suggestions. The collegium on Friday night also iterated the names of five advocates whom it had recommended for elevation over the past two years. For Rajasthan High Court, the collegium iterated the name of advocate Farzand Ali. The names of advocates Rahul Bharti and Moksha Kazmi (Khajuria) were reiterated for Jammu and Kashmir High Court. The names of advocates Nagendra R. Naik and Aditya Sondhi were iterated for elevation as judges of Karnataka High Court. The Centre had returned their files by raising objections. CJI Ramana has been credited with taking strong measures to fill up vacant judges’ posts in the Supreme Court and the high courts to tackle the massive pendency of three crore cases in the country. Last month the collegium had recommended an unprecedented nine names at one go for elevation to the Supreme Court. The Centre, often chastised by the Supreme Court for sitting on collegium recommendations, had swiftly cleared the names in eight days, paving the way for their oath-taking on August 31. The government was said to have raised objections to the names of Justice Hima Kohli and then advocate P.S. Narasimha. However, CJI Ramana is understood to have taken up the issue at the “highest level” and made it clear that all the nine recommendations would have to be green-lighted. On Friday, the collegium suggested the names of 68 persons for elevation as high court judges, the highest one-time recommendation. Against the sanctioned strength of 72 judges at Calcutta High Court, it has a working strength of 31. The 72 include 54 permanent and 18 additional judges. The 31 are made up of 29 permanent and two additional judges. The high court has 41 vacancies — 25 permanent and 16 additional judges — based on official data as on August 1, 2021. Among the 68 names recommended on Friday, six are for Calcutta High Court, according to sources. Calcutta High Court is the fifth largest high court in the country after those of Allahabad (total strength of 120 judges), Bombay (994), Punjab and Haryana (85) and Madras (75).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Researchers warn of Covid-19 third wave risk  to children||Daily new Covid-19 infections among children during a possible third wave’s peak could on average rise to seven times the second wave’s crescendo counts, according to calculations made for Karnataka that could be tailored for other states. The calculations by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science and the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bangalore have projected likely future epidemic scenarios amid concerns that laxity in precautions, waning immunity or new coronavirus variants might trigger a third wave. Their computer simulations point to what it would take Karnataka to avert a third wave and under what conditions such a surge appears inevitable. Doubling the current vaccination rate and adhering to strict Covid-19-linked precautions, for instance, could blunt the impact of or even avert a third wave. Experts say future surges — either in states or across India — would depend on the proportion of the population protected by natural immunity or vaccination, level of adherence to Covid-19 precautions and whether new coronavirus variants capable of evading immune responses emerge. T. Jacob John, a senior clinical virologist who was formerly at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, is among experts who believe India is unlikely to see a third nationwide wave because of a large already infected and vaccinated population. But local surges within states may occur. The IISc-IIPH study suggests that the larger the population protected by Covid-19 vaccines, the lower the threat of a third wave. At Karnataka’s current vaccination rate of 280,000 daily doses, if a new immune-escape variant emerges in September, a third wave will likely peak in January 2022 with a maximum of 229,000 active cases, the simulations have suggested. However, if the vaccination rate is doubled to 560,000 daily doses and a new immune-escape variant emerges in September, a third wave will likely peak in February 2022 with a maximum of only 25,000 active cases. Under the 560,000 daily doses scenario, if a variant emerges in November, there will be no third wave, according to the simulation. The IISc-IIPH study has not been peer-reviewed so far, but posted on medRxiv, an online archive of research papers. The researchers have also attempted to forecast infection counts among children amid concerns that they might be disproportionately impacted during a third wave because a significant proportion of adults 18 years or older are now protected by vaccination. Their study suggests that the daily new infections among children (0 to 17 years) during a third wave’s peak in Karnataka could range from four to 10 times the numbers during the second wave. A seven-fold rise would be over 30,000 daily infections, compared with roughly 4,300 daily infections among children in Karnataka during the second wave peak in May 2021. In a worst-case scenario, daily new infections among children below 11 years could rise to 21 times the second wave’s peak. Sections of paediatricians have in recent weeks sought to douse concerns that a third wave might hit children harder, arguing with data from India and across the world that the vast majority of children remain asymptomatic or show mild symptoms. “Our findings show the importance of increasing the pace of vaccinations,” said Sashikumaar Ganesan, associate professor of computational sciences at the IISc and study team member. “A higher vaccination rate lowers the caseload and at a doubled vaccination rate with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds, a third wave could be averted,” Ganesan said. While the calculations are for Karnataka, he said, they could be done for other states using local data on proportions of people infected and vaccinated and vaccination rates. “The dynamics of the epidemic are similar,” Ganesan said. “The forecast could be applied to other states too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Syed Ali Shah Geelani's home clip tests cop version||Footage showing commotion and suggesting anguish after police allegedly snatched the body of hardline separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani for burial amid a scuffle with the women of the household on Wednesday night has left the Jammu and Kashmir administration red-faced and brought under stress the police claim of acting as facilitators in the last rites. The video clip shows women crying, apparently moments before Geelani’s body was taken out forcibly. A lone policeman wearing a mask is seen trying to prevent the protesting men from chasing the police as somebody shuts the door on them. Whether the body was forcibly taken away is not clear from the footage. “We will not allow you…,” a woman is heard crying. “Abba…,” cries another. The police on Saturday filed an FIR under the anti-terror UAPA for draping the coffin in the Pakistani flag and raising pro-azadi slogans. Geelani died at 10.30pm. At 3am, the family said, the police snatched the body and he was buried before dawn. “We were not allowed to move out…. They had everything, from the coffin to the shroud, ready. The grave was already dug. They were not allowing us to do anything. We told them either allow us to have his funeral bath or do whatever you want at the barrel of a gun,” a relative said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi alerted to Central Vigilance Commission vacuum||A group of former judges, advocates and activists have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to express grave concern over the failure to appoint the chairperson and a vigilance commissioner of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) despite the posts remaining vacant for several months. Apart from being the apex vigilance institution in the country, the CVC is vested with the power to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain categories of public servants, including complaints referred to it by the Lokpal. The CVC is the designated authority to receive complaints from whistleblowers under the Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informers (PIDPI) Resolution, 2004. Under the CVC Act, the commission should have a central vigilance commissioner, who is also the chairperson, and two vigilance commissioners. The letter stated that after the retirement of a vigilance commissioner in October last year, the CVC had been functioning with the chairperson and one vigilance commissioner. The chairperson demitted office in June this year and the institution has since then been functioning with only one commissioner who has been made the acting chairperson though no provision exists under the law for such an arrangement. The signatories to the letter are former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court Justice A.P. Shah, former judge of Patna High Court Justice Anjana Prakash, advocate Prashant Bhushan, social activist Aruna Roy, retired IPS officer Meeran Borwankar, IAS (Retd) Sundar Burra, former information commissioner (Central Information Commission) Shailesh Gandhi and social activist and Satark Nagrik Sangathan founder Anjali Bhardwaj. “Even in 2019 and 2020, for nearly 12 months, the commission was without a chairperson and an ad hoc arrangement of appointing an acting chief was resorted to. The purpose of setting up autonomous oversight bodies like the CVC is defeated if appointments are not made in a timely manner,” the letter stated. “The government has effectively paralysed the Central Vigilance Commission by leaving posts of commissioners vacant. Further, it is imperative that appointments be made in a transparent manner to maintain the integrity of the decision-making process,” it added. The letter pointed out that the Supreme Court, in multiple judgments, had given specific directions to ensure transparency in the process of shortlisting, selecting and appointing functionaries of various independent bodies such as the CVC and the CIC to prevent the undermining of the appointment process. Yet, the signatories said, no transparency is being followed by the government in the appointment process, thereby undermining the very purpose of the act and the institution created for combating corruption. “It is concerning to note that other than the circular of May 2021, inviting applications for the post of the central vigilance commissioner, no further details are available in the public domain. Even the names of the members of the search committee and details of applications received pursuant to the circular are not disclosed. “Timely and transparent appointments are key to ensure the proper functioning of institutions. Transparency safeguards against arbitrariness in the appointment process and builds public trust…. We urge you to ensure that vacancies in the CVC are filled without any further delay in a transparent manner,” the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Haji controversy: Two filmmakers drop biopic on Mappila hero||Two filmmakers who were among those who made a beeline to produce biopics on a central character of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion in Kerala have dropped out. Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji who led the 1921 revolt, originally against the British, has been a polarising character in Kerala with the Sangh parivar arguing that his was an anti-Hindu pogrom and not freedom struggle. After filmmaker Ashiq Abu and actor Prithviraj, who was supposed to play Haji, backed out of their film on Wednesday, Omar Lulu dropped his project on Friday, just a day after announcing the biopic with action hero Babu Antony in the title role. When Abu first announced a biopic starring Prithviraj in July last year, hate messages flooded their social media pages, including open threats from Right-wing leaders. The outcry that Abu’s project triggered had led to four other filmmakers announcing separate films on Haji and the 1921 rebellion, one of them being RSS co-traveller Ali Akbar. While all were projected as big budget movies, none could take off due to the pandemic. Lulu told The Telegraph on Saturday that he decided to drop his project after watching the 1988 film 1921 which was roughly based on the Mappila Rebellion through the eyes of a fictional character played by Mammootty. Haji was only a supporting character in that movie. “When I watched 1921 for a second time after 10 years, I realised that it had already narrated the story of Variyamkunnath Haji. So there is no point in making another big budget film on the same subject since 1921 is a very good benchmark,” he said. He admitted receiving many messages supporting and opposing his proposed project. “No one threatened me or my film. But I did receive a lot of messages from pro-Sangh parivar people who were against the film and many others who encouraged me to go ahead,” he said. Lulu had even received several offers from producers shortly after his announcement on making the biopic on Haji if someone were to pump in Rs 15 crore. While Dubai-based entrepreneur Iqbal Marconi offered to meet the entire expense, several others offered to jointly finance the movie. “My idea was to cast Babu (an actor trained in martial arts) in the title role and bring in experts to do action sequences to add value to the story of Haji. But now there’s no point in discussing that since I have dropped the plan,” he added. While neither Abu nor Prithviraj had explained the reason for backing out of the project, there was speculation that they had serious differences with producers Compass Movies. Compass Movies, in a statement on Friday, announced that the project was not shelved even after the exit of Abu and Prithviraj. It announced that the film would be made in two parts by a new team to be announced soon. Veteran filmmaker P.T. Kunju Muhammed had clarified that he would go ahead with his film soon after Abu’s decision shocked the Malayalam film industry. But there was no word from Ibrahim Vengara and Shahbaz Pandikkad, who too had announced their own films. Akbar did not respond to calls from this newspaper. Often described as a part of the Khilafat Movement, the Mappila Rebellion had led to heavy bloodshed with an estimated 10,000 people, nearly 2,400 of them rebels, getting killed. Haji and his compatriot Ali Musaliar who led the fight were executed after summary trials. The Indian Council of Historical Research had recently kicked up a row by deleting 387 names of Mappila rebels, including Haji and Musaliar, from the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle that contains accounts of martyrs from the First War of Independence in 1857 to the Independence in 1947.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Farmers gearing up for Sunday's mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar||Bharatiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait has said the people of Muzaffarnagar have decided to keep their doors open for farmers who are to arrive from across the country to attend a mahapanchayat against the three farm laws on Sunday. “The farmers coming here from all over the country will not face any problem as the people are ready to offer them food, water, shelter and other assistance,” the BKU chief said on Saturday. The mahapanachayat has been called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. “We are on a dharna at the Haryana-Delhi and Uttar Pradesh-Delhi borders for the last nine months. But this insensitive central government is hell bent on finishing farmers and handing over the agricultural fields to the corporates. The mahapanchayat would pledge to defeat the BJP in future elections so that the farmers are saved from its conspiracy,” Tikait said. Dharmendra Malik, a BKU leader, said over five lakh peasants might attend. Additional district magistrate Amit Singh said: “Besides security forces all over, there will be women police on duty to look after the women farmers.” State government sources said over 100 IPS officers and 20,000 police and paramilitary forces had been deployed in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining Meerut, Saharanpur and Shamli districts. According to an order from the police headquarters, Lucknow, besides security forces of the respective districts, IPS officers from Allahabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad and other districts would be on duty in Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Shamli and Meerut. “The administrative and police officers have held several rounds of meetings with our leaders and decided to deploy huge forces. We hope it is for the safety of the farmers,” Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Centre signs tripartite peace pact with Karbi insurgents||The Centre on Saturday signed a tripartite peace accord with Karbi insurgent outfits that is expected to end protracted violence in the Karbi Anglong region of Assam. The Karbi Peace Accord was signed in New Delhi in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and representatives of some Karbi insurgent groups from the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council that governs the Karbi Anglong district. The Karbis, who have been fighting for statehood, are a major ethnic community of Assam and have several factions and splinter groups. The history of the Karbi insurgent groups has been marked by ki­llings, ethnic violence and abductions since the late 1980s. A media statement from the Union home ministry said the agreement would ensure greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC), protection of the identity, language and culture of the Karbi people and focused development of the council area without affecting the territorial and administrative integrity of Assam. “The Karbi armed groups have agreed to abjure violence and join the peaceful democratic process as established by law of the land. The agreement also provides for rehabilitation of cadres of the armed groups,” the statement said. Shah said a Rs 1,000-crore development package would be given to Karbi Anglong. “I want to assure everyone that we will implement this accord in a time-bound manner,” the Union home minister said. The Assam government, the home ministry statement said, will also set up a Karbi Welfare Council for the development of Karbis living outside the KAAC area. “The Consolidated Fund of the State will be augmented to supplement the resources of the KAAC. Overall, the present settlement proposes to give more legislative, executive, administrative and financial powers to the KAAC,” the statement said. Besides the Centre and the Assam government, the signatories to the accord are Tuliram Ronghang, chief executive member of the KAAC, and representatives of the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front, People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri, United People’s Liberation Army and the Karbi People’s Liberation Tigers factions. In February, 1,040 Karbi militants belonging to these outfits had laid down arms before then Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal to return to the mainstream. The KAAC is one of the three autonomous councils in Assam under the Sixth Schedule that provides for protection of the rights of tribals. The other two are the Bodoland Territorial Council and the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council. The Naga Students’ Federation and the NSCN (I-M) had earlier expressed reservations about the proposed tripartite pact. The NSF had claimed that the Naga populace of Karbi Anglong district, who the outfit says are the original inhabitants of the area, had not been consulted. The NSCN (I-M) had said the proposed Karbi Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council should not “override” the interests of the Rengma Nagas living there. The NSCN (I-M) had said the “present Karbi Anglong areas” were officially declared Rengma Naga Hills in 1841 during British rule. “The Karbis who are immigrants from different places like Sivasagar, Nagaon, Cachar, Tezpur, Lakhimpur, Silchar and Khasi and Jaintia Hills during British rule cannot claim (for) themselves the status of original inhabitants,” an NSCN (I-M) statement had said. The outfit had also declared that any pact that “victimises” the Rengma Nagas, according to it the legitimate owners of the land, would not be acceptable to the Nagas in general and to the NSCN (I-M) in particular.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||CJI Ramana expresses concern over lack of adequate representation of women in judiciary||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday expressed concern over lack of adequate representation of women in the judiciary and the trend of “corporatising” the legal profession that has put access to justice beyond the common man’s reach. Replying to his felicitation by the Bar Council of India, Justice Ramana lamented that the majority of women advocates struggled within the profession and very few found representation at the top. ““Even when they do, they still continue to face significant challenges. After 75 years of Independence, one would expect at least 50 per cent representation for women at all levels, but I must admit (that) with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11 per cent representation of women on the bench of the Supreme Court. “Some states, because of reservation policy, may reveal higher representation, but the reality remains that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI’s remark comes against the backdrop of the elevation of three women judges to the Supreme Court. One of them — Justice B.V. Nagarathna — is in line to become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. Justice Ramana stressed the need for lawyers to contribute to nation building, but regretted that the profession was being commercialised. ““I want to highlight a new trend in the profession. This is similar to what has happened in foreign countries. I am referring to the corporatisation of the profession. Because of issues relating to livelihood, many young and bright lawyers are joining law firms. This is a welcome change as it is opening up fresh avenues for first-generation lawyers. “But at the same time, it is also causing a decline in the traditional practice. Common people cannot afford quality legal advice at corporate prices, which is an area of concern. Even though we are strongly providing access to justice, still lakhs of people in India are unable to approach the courts to seek remedy,” CJI Ramana said. According to him, steep expenditure and long delays in the legal process are the biggest challenges confronting the judiciary and there is a need for all stakeholders to come together to find a way out. “Although this might not be the right occasion to mention, but as an experienced member of the judicial family, it is my duty to bring to your notice certain hard facts. The judicial system is facing difficult challenges like that of deficient infrastructure, shortage of administrative staff and huge vacancies of judges. I have been emphasising on augmenting infrastructure for very long. I have a proposal to address this issue in a time-bound manner,” the CJI said. “A comprehensive proposal for the creation of a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation. We have collected the status report from across the country. A proposal in this regard will reach the Hon’ble law minister very soon. I expect full cooperation from the government,” he added. The CJI referred to Justice B.R. Gavai comparing him with Sachin Tendulkar because the collegium headed by him cleared nine names for elevation as Supreme Court judges at one go last month and then another 68 names on Friday for high courts. Both sets are the highest numbers of names cleared by the collegium in one stroke. Justice Ramana said: “A while ago I was referred to as Sachin Tendulkar. I must correct the perception here. Like (in) any game, it is a team effort. Unless all the members of the team perform well, it is difficult to win. Here, I must place on record my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the collegium — brothers U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao — who have become active and constructive partners in this endeavour. “Due to the collective efforts, as you are all aware, we could reduce the number of vacancies in the apex court to just one. Similarly, after I took over, the collegium has recommended, if I am not wrong, 82 names to various high courts. I hope the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court.” It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the Herculean challenge of filling nearly 41 per cent vacancies existing in… the high courts.” Hailing Justice Ramana earlier during the programme, Justice Gavai had described him as “Sachin Tendulkar breaking records one after another”. Terming the CJI as a “true leader” of the India judiciary, Justice Gavai said: “Under his able leadership, a common man feels that a real judge is there in the Supreme Court… who has a real concern for the common man and the downtrodden.” Justice Gavai said CJI Ramana treated all other judges as his own brothers and sisters and was always helpful and accessible to them. Justice Vineet Saran also lavished praise on the CJI, saying Justice Ramana had achieved what is being perceived as an impossible task of clearing the names of nine judges for the Supreme Court and 68 for the high courts at one go. Justice Saran also reminded the audience of how Justice Ramana had treated as a PIL a letter addressed to him by a 12-year-old schoolgirl, requesting him to resume physical hearings at courts since most other institutions had restarted normal activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Teachers’ association protests government’s online push||The largest central university teachers’ association has expressed apprehension that the government is trying to mainstream online education, potentially imperilling the careers of students by turning a pandemic-era exigency into a long-term learning mode. Quality concerns have been raised over online education, not to mention its limited reach in a country with patchy Net connectivity and lack of wide access to devices. The Federation of Central Universities’ Teachers’ Associations (FedCUTA) has opposed the new National Education Policy (NEP) that advocates the spread of online learning. The association has planned a protest in New Delhi on Teachers’ Day. FedCUTA said online education should be used to supplement offline learning, not replace it. However, several reputable central universities have made provisions for 40 to 60 per cent of courses being covered online. Delhi University (DU) and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have decided to introduce four-year undergraduate programmes, increasing the usual three-year duration, and permit students to pursue up to 50 per cent of a course in either the online or the offline mode from other universities. The students can earn credits from other institutions and redeem them for award of degrees from their parent institutions. FedCUTA president Rajib Ray said: “Online education was adopted because of the pandemic. But it is now being forced on us. This is dangerous.” Ray expressed doubts about the quality of the online courses offered under Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (Swayam), a government initiative where online courses prepared by professors of various universities are available. Students can pursue such courses online and get the credits transferred to their own institutions where they would not be required to study the same courses again. Prof. Milap Sharma, a member of the JNU teachers’ association and FedCUTA, said teachers were finding it difficult to engage with students online and ensure that they receive and follow instructions properly. Abha Dev Habib of the DU teachers’ association and also a FedCUTA member, pointed to the distance mode of learning in existence for years. She said the government should strengthen the institutions offering education in the distance mode, where students are allowed to participate from home, if it wanted to increase the gross enrolment ratio. “But through the NEP, the government is trying to convert regular mode programmes at conventional universities to semi-regular programmes by incorporating online learning,” Habib said. She said employers preferred students passing out of regular programmes, or in-campus learning, because of the opportunity it provided for peer interactions, discussions with teachers outside classrooms and extra-curricular activities. Prof. Ramsewak Dubey from Allahabad University and Prof. X.P. Mao from North-Eastern Hill University highlighted the reduction in government funding for higher education in recent times. The UGC has written to universities to take austerity measures and steps for generating internal resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Candidate names for bypolls to be announced in 2-3 days, says Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh||Bharatiya Janata Party will field a strong candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhawanipore seat, the party's state chief Dilip Ghosh said on Sunday. The Bhawanipore seat is scheduled to go to bypoll on September 30. "We will fight the election strongly. There is no doubt that it will be a tough fight as Mamata Banerjee is a big figure and the chief minister of the state. She has control of the entire state. We will also field strong candidates in West Bengal," Ghosh said as quoted by agencies. On Saturday, the Election Commission has announced by-elections to three assembly seats in West Bengal on September 30. These include Bhawanipore, the traditional seat of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, from where she will contest the by-election. Besides Bhawanipore, bypolls will be held in Samserganj and Jangipur constituencies. The counting of votes will take place on October 3. "We have defeated Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. Her slogan that 'Bengal wants its own daughter' flopped. The people of Bengal have shown that they do not want Mamata Banerjee. But after that, she is trying to come through the back door. She made an elected MLA who is also a minister resign in the greed of position," he said Mamata Banerjee suffered defeat at the hands of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram assembly constituency. Following this, the Bhawanipore assembly seat was vacated by the West Bengal Agriculture Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May, making way for the West Bengal chief minister to contest from the seat. Banerjee needs to win the bypoll she has to remain the Chief Minister of the state. "We want the election to be held in a peaceful environment and in a fair manner. But, post-poll violence is still going on. Around 95 BJP workers have been killed. It is a matter of great concern that how the polls will be held peacefully when there is violence going on and all IPS officers are probing that," he stated. Asked about the BJP's candidate against Mamata Banerjee, Ghosh said, "The party's election committee will oversee the matter. The suggested names will be sent to Delhi. After that, the parliamentary board will make the final announcement. However, in 2-3 days, the candidates of the West Bengal by-elections will be announced." The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress registered a landslide victory in the state polls, winning 213 seats in the 294-member Assembly. The BJP finished as the second largest party with 77 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata officially named TMC candidate for Bhawanipore bypoll||The Trinamool Congress Sunday officially announced Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as its candidate for the by-election in Bhawanipore. TMC's campaign in the seat in south Kolkata is already underway with the Election Commission announcing the bypoll on Saturday, following a request from the state government to avoid a constitutional crisis. Banerjee, who lost the election in Nandigram, has to win this by-poll to retain her chief minister's post. The BJP, Congress, and CPI(M)-led Left Front are yet to announce their candidates for the bypoll. The bypoll will be held on September 30 along with the elections to two seats in the Murshidabad district -- Samserganj and Jangipur where polling could not be held during the eight-phase assembly elections earlier this year. The counting of votes will take place on October 3. Jakir Hossain is the TMC candidate in the Jangipur seat, while Amirul Islam is contesting as the party's candidate from Samserganj. Veteran politician Sovandeb Chattopadhyay stepped down as the TMC MLA of Bhawanipore, allowing Banerjee a chance to become a member of the state legislative assembly by fighting the bypoll. Chattopadhyay had defeated BJP's actor-politician Rudranil Ghosh by around 28,000 votes from Bhawanipore. Banerjee had won from Bhawanipore twice since 2011. She had moved out of her traditional seat to fight in Nandigram during the assembly polls earlier this year but lost to his former close aide Suvendu Adhikari who contested on a BJP ticket. Adhikari is now the Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly. The notification for the Bhawanipore bypoll will be issued on September 6, beginning the nomination process. September 13 is the last date of filing nominations, while scrutiny of papers will take place on September 14. September 16 is the last date to withdraw from the electoral battle. According to an Election Commission statement, the West Bengal chief secretary had urged that in view of administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid a vacuum in the state, by-elections for Bhawanipore, from where CM Mamata Banerjee intends to contest elections, may be conducted. She has to become a member of the state legislature by November 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Will hang myself publicly if scam allegations are true, says Abhishek Banerjee||Senior Trinamul Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee Sunday said that he would get himself hanged if any central agency can bring to the fore his involvement in any illegal transaction. Speaking to reporters at the Calcutta airport on his way to New Delhi to attend a summons by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with an alleged coal scam case, Banerjee accused the BJP of indulging in political vendetta having lost the state assembly elections. "I reiterate what I had said in November at public meetings that if any central agency can prove my involvement in any illegal transaction of even 10 paise, there will be no need to hold any CBI or ED probe, I will walk up the podium and get myself hanged publicly," he said. He has been summoned to appear before the investigating officer of the case in New Delhi on September 6 for questioning in a money laundering case linked to the alleged coal scam in Bengal. "I am ready to face any and every kind of investigation," Banerjee said, adding that despite it being a case of Kolkata, he was summoned to New Delhi. "Having lost the elections and failing to tackle Trinamul Congress politically, they (BJP) are now seeking revenge," he claimed. The BJP has no other job than to use the investigating agencies to fulfill their political interests, he alleged. Banerjee said that he would like to invite any BJP leader to sit face to face with him and discuss what the central agencies have done in the last five years and the fate of the country in the seven-year rule of the Narendra Modi government. "You (BJP) decide the date, time and venue and I will go; if I cannot expose them then I will not put my feet in the political arena anymore," he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh threatens to put govt official, panchayat members in jail over funds misappropriations||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday threatened to put a local government officer and a panchayat member behind bars in Birbhum district over reports of funds misappropriation and said no one involved in looting public money would be spared. Ghosh, during a party meeting in the district's Mayureswar area, said that several allegations of misbehaviour and embezzlement of public money have been raised against a block development officer, who apparently works in collusion with a panchayat member. "Someone has built a three-storey house with public money, and he does not mind enjoying his tea in its balcony every morning, while masses are deprived of basic facilities. Your time is up," he said, without clearly referring to anyone. "I have come to know that the local BDO is working against the interests of common people. He is doing this in collusion with a panchayat member. We are asking them to mend his ways... No one involved in looting public money will be spared," he warned. In a veiled dig at the ruling TMC, Ghosh further said that "many of your leaders" have been jailed in Odisha, too, for cheating people and looting their hard-earned money. "We can despatch the corrupt to jails in this state, too. Stop dishonest practices now," he added. The state BJP chief was possibly alluding to the arrests made in the neighbouring state in connection with the chit-fund scams. Responding to his claims, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh told PTI, "Dilipbabu makes tall claims which have no truth in them." He contended that the "BJP knows nothing better than intimidating opposition parties with the use of central agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate". "By threatening people with jail terms, leaders like Dilipbabu are proving that his party is trying to make central agencies an extended arm of the BJP," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||CID summons Suvendu Adhikari over death of his bodyguard||The Bengal CID has summoned Opposition leader in the state Assembly Suvendu Adhikari in connection with the probe into the death of his bodyguard, a senior official said on Sunday. The Nandigram BJP MLA has been asked to appear before the investigating officers at the CID headquarters in Bhawani Bhawan inCalcutta on Monday, he said. The CID had formed a team to investigate the death of Adhikari's bodyguard Subhabrata Chakraborty, who had allegedly shot himself using his service revolver. Chakraborty's wife had filed a complaint at Contai Police Station demanding a probe into her husband's death. The CID has so far questioned over 15 people, including 11 policemen, as part of the investigation. Earlier, its team members had also visited the Adhikari residence 'Shanti Kunj' in Purba Medinipur. Chakraborty, a State Armed Police personnel, was part of Adhikari's security team from the time he was a TMC MP, and continued to be in the squad after he became a minister in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission of India calls Bhowanipore bypoll on Sept 30||The Election Commission of India has declared bypolls in Bhowanipore on September 30, clearing the decks for Mamata Banerjee to contest from there and virtually lifting the cloud of uncertainty over the Trinamul leader continuing as chief minister beyond November 5. The counting for the bypolls in three Assembly seats in Bengal and one in Odisha is scheduled for October 3. As Mamata was sworn in as the chief minister of Bengal on May 5 despite losing to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, she has to win from another seat and become a member of the Assembly within six months to carry on as the chief minister after November 5. As soon as the poll dates were announced, Trinamul supporters hit the streets in Bhowanipore in celebration and began campaigning for Mamata. Bhowanipore was vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won with a margin of over 28,000 votes, on May 21 to enable Mamata to be elected to the Assembly. The other two Bengal seats for which bypolls were declared are Jangipur and Samserganj — both in Murshidabad — where candidates died before polling in the summer. Leaders of the the ruling Trinamul, which sent several delegations to Nirvachan Sadan for the timely conduct of the bypolls, welcomed the poll panel's announcement. The Bengal unit of the BJP, which was all praise for the Election Commission during the eight-phase polls in the state, was bitterly critical of the poll panel for its decision to conduct the bypoll in Bhowanipore but not in Gosaba, Khardah, Shantipur and Dinhata, from where the winners either resigned or passed away. The Bengal BJP has been opposing bypolls during the pandemic while the initial uncertainty had prompted a section of Trinamul leaders to point fingers at the Election Commission. In a note, the Election Commission explained that it included Bhowanipore in the bypoll list, “considering the constitutional exigency and special request” from Bengal. “He (the Bengal chief secretary) also cited that under Article 164(4) of the Constitution of India, …there will be a constitutional crisis and vacuum in the top executive posts in the government unless elections are held immediately.” The Election Commission secretary, Sanjeev Kumar Prasad, added in the note that the commission decided against holding bye-elections in 31 other Assembly seats and three parliamentary constituencies based on inputs it had received from political parties and chief secretaries of these states. In response to a question on the legality of such a consideration against the backdrop of the allegation of bias by the BJP, the Election Commission cited certain precedents. “In the cases of former Prime Ministers P.V. Narasimha Rao in 1991 and H.D. Deve Gowda in 1996 and several chief ministers (like Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan in 1991; Rabri Devi of Bihar in 1997; Vijaya Bhaskara Reddy of Andhra Pradesh in 1993; the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 2017; the Nagaland chief minister in 2017, the Maharashtra chief minister in May 2020), the commission conducted byelections to fulfil similar constitutional requirement. The commission noted that this has been the consistent practice,” the spokesperson said in a message to The Telegraph. The Election Commission issued a slew of guidelines for the bypolls in view of the pandemic. ⚫ No processions before and after filing nominations and counting ⚫ Only three vehicles of the candidate will be allowed in a 100-metre radius of the nomination centre ⚫ Ceiling of 30 per cent capacity or 200 people for indoor campaign meetings and 50 per cent or 500 people for outdoor meetings, whichever is lower ⚫ No roadshows or car, bike, or bicycle rallies ⚫ Street corner meetings restricted to 50 people ⚫ Number of star campaigners restricted to 20 for national/state recognised parties and 10 for unrecognised parties ⚫ Not more than 20 vehicles allowed for a candidate/political party, excluding star campaigner ⚫ Passengers in each vehicle cannot exceed 50% capacity ⚫ Silence period increased from 48 to 72 hours before polling ends The Election Commission issued a slew of guidelines for the bypolls in view of the pandemic. ⚫ No processions before and after filing nominations and counting ⚫ Only three vehicles of the candidate will be allowed in a 100-metre radius of the nomination centre ⚫ Ceiling of 30% capacity or 200 people for indoor campaign meetings and 50% or 500 people for outdoor meetings, whichever is lower ⚫ No roadshows or car, bike, or bicycle rallies ⚫ Street-corner meetings restricted to 50 people ⚫ Number of star campaigners restricted to 20 for national/state-recognised parties and 10 for unrecognised parties ⚫ Not more than 20 vehicles allowed for a candidate/political party, excluding star campaigner ⚫ Passengers in each vehicle cannot exceed 50% capacity ⚫ Silence period increased from 48 to 72 hours before polling ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s home turf bypoll vexes Bengal BJP leaders||BJP Bengal leaders couldn’t seem to hide their anger on Saturday over the Election Commission of India’s decision to hold the bypoll to the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency on September 30, from where Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee is slated to contest. Mamata, who steered her party to victory for the third time but lost a contentious poll from Nandigram to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, has to win an Assembly seat by November 5 or within six months of her swearing-in, to remain the chief minister under constitutional norms. Her home turf being Bhowanipur, the result seems a foregone conclusion. The BJP state leadership, bitterly against the idea of Mamata’s victory, caught off-guard by the EC’s announcement, wasted no time in attacking the poll panel and dub its decision “unjustified”. “This decision is not justified...There would have been no constitutional problem if the bypoll at Bhowanipore wasn’t held now as (contrary to what was) cited by the chief secretary of the state (H.K. Dwivedi), since there would have been no change in the party ruling the state,” BJP state president and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh said. He added it was “not the EC’s job” to ensure that someone in particular remains the chief minister of a state. “The EC’s job is to ensure free and fair elections,” he said. Asked if his party would move court against the EC’s decision, Ghosh said the party would discuss the future course of action. Ghosh, however, said his party would participate in the bypoll. Sources in the BJP said they would meet either on September 6 or 7 to discuss probable names for the bypolls. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of the Opposition Adhikari hit out at the chief secretary. “We will make this an issue. He cannot write this being the state chief secretary...Out of 294 assemblies in the state only seven are not represented. How will it create a constitutional problem?” Adhikari said. This is the first time since the Assembly polls that the BJP lashed out against the EC. It was evident from both Ghosh and Adhikari’s comments that the party had expected that the EC would respond favourably to their objection against the bypoll at Bhowanipore. Bengal BJP leaders, especially Ghosh and Adhikari, had repeatedly said that Bengal’s political environment wasn’t fit for bypolls at the moment, referring to the pandemic or the alleged post-poll violence. However, the BJP also demanded that the civic polls be held before the bypolls. Eight reasons for their objection were sent to the central leadership and the EC as well. Their efforts fell flat when the poll panel announced the bypoll to Bhowanipore and two others of the seven seats on Saturday. “This is bizarre. During the polls the EC practically toed our line... suddenly it appears to have gone against us and it is surprising,” said a state BJP functionary. Minister and Trinamul general-secretary Partha Chatterjee, responding to the BJP, said: “Ask them if they are disheartened, scared or afraid of our leader (Mamata)...” The Congress welcomed the decision. The CPM demanded that dates for civic polls also be announced. “We demanded timely bypolls and that is being done...Constitutional obligations must be fulfilled on time,” said Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya. CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty also welcomed the poll panel’s decision but said: "Why are the four other Assembly segments, where bypolls, are due left out? Also, when will the state government give a go ahead for civic polls?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government to monitor all welfare schemes||The Bengal government has decided to monitor all welfare schemes run by it more closely on a regular basis to ensure that these do not face glitches, a move necessitated by the unprecedented funds crunch facing the state exchequer. Some officials said monitoring schemes at regular intervals is crucial when the state is facing acute funds crunch. “After launching the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme, the state government will have to shoulder Rs 17,000 crore for  only this. If proper monitoring is not done, other schemes may face trouble as the state’s revenue generation has not increased in the backdrop of the pandemic,” said a source. That’s why chief minister Mamata Banerjee has given state chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi the onus to review each scheme once a month from now on, said a source, adding that a schedule has been drawn up for regular review. As an example, schemes like midday meals, scholarships for students, tablets and smartphones for students and student credit cards, run by the school education department, will come for review on the first Monday of the month. Lakshmir Bhandar, Kanyashree, Rupashree run by the women and child development and social welfare department will be reviewed on the first Saturday of every month. “The schemes will be reviewed at regular intervals to ensure these don’t face trouble. If they do, hurdles can be removed during the top-level meeting,”  said a senior official. A minister said these schemes are vital for the ruling party as it is believed that these have helped the Trinamul retain power for the third consecutive time. “We will focus more on schemes ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls particularly when we want to take the BJP head on,” the minister said. Review meetings cancelled The chief minister's administrative review meetings scheduled in North Bengal on September 6, 7 and 8 have been cancelled after elections to Jangipur and Samserganj in Murshidabad and bypoll in Bhowanipore was announced on Saturday. The chief minister would be contesting the poll from Bhowanipore and as the model code of conduct has come into effect, the chief minister would not be able to promise anything, sources said. "During the review meetings, several instructions and development schemes are usually announced. As the chief minister would not be able to make any announcements, the meetings have been cancelled for the time being," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA defects to Trinamul Congress, third in 10 days||Soumen Roy, the BJP MLA of Kaliaganj in North Dinajpur, on Saturday switched over to Trinamul to become the third MLA —  after Tanmoy Ghosh of Bishnupur and Biswajit Das of Bagda — to do so in 10 days. Roy, who also became the first MLA from north Bengal to cross over, said he was against any partition of Bengal, referring to the statehood cry adopted by some BJP leaders in the region. In Calcutta, he was inducted into Trinamul by party general secretary Partha Chatterjee, in presence of Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul chief of North Dinajpur and Mridul Goswami, the Trinamul chairman of Alipurduar district. “It is true that I got elected on a BJP ticket but could I not accept the divisive politics that the party has adopted these days. I am against any partition of Bengal and want to see Mamata Banerjee continuing as the chief minister  and carrying out development across north Bengal. That is why, I have decided to leave BJP,” Roy said after receiving the party flag from Chatterjee. Ahead of the Assembly elections, Roy, who was with Trinamul since his student life, had quit Mamata’s party to join the saffron brigade. Multiple sources in the saffron camp said his decision exposed the rift in the party over the issue of a statehood for north Bengal that party MP John Barla had first raised. “In a recent meeting, five (of 29) MLAs and six (of seven) MPs of the party from the region, stayed away. Manoj Tigga, party’s chief whip in the Assembly and the MLA of Madarihat (in Alipurduar district), said the remarks of Barla and some other leaders over the issue of statehood were their personal opinion... But Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP and a BJP national spokesman, defended Barla... It’s clear we are divided on the issue,” said a BJP source. Roy attended the meeting but left the BJP two days later.  “He has clarified he could not buy the demand. His departure has reaffirmed that rifts are widening within the BJP in north Bengal over the issue,” said senior BJP leader in North Dinajpur. Basudeb Sarkar, the North Dinajpur BJP president, however, tried to put up a brave face on Roy’s defection. “Soumen Roy’s decision to walk out of the party only proves that he is an opportunist. He had joined BJP for his own interests. His defection will not affect the party in any manner,” said Sarkar. Another BJP leader in South Dinajpur said a number of other MLAs and party leaders are upset with the issue. Also, contradictory statements of party leaders have led to confusions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India's  ‘last dates’ raise brows in north Bengal||A recent directive by the Tea Board of India for the brew belt of north Indian states, including the tea-producing north Bengal, where the board has stated various last dates in December for plucking and processing of leaves, has evoked a mixed response here. For the past couple of years, the board has been issuing a directive on dates to state that no tea can be produced in the estates and in bought-leaf factories after that. On August 31, the board’s deputy chairman issued the directive saying that in Darjeeling hills, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, tea leaves can be plucked till December 4 and production can be carried out in factories till December 6. For Terai, the Dooars and neighbouring Bihar, the dates are December 18 (plucking) and December 20 (production). Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said they had urged the tea board to extend the dates this year, because they felt production could go on till December-end because of the steady yield in plantations. “The price of tea leaves has declined. We expected that in the end of the season, we could recover,” he said, justifying their request . In 2019, 1,390.08 million kilos of tea was produced in the country, which reduced to 1,257.53 million kilos last year. This year, production is expected to go up again. Tea planters said the decision by the board to notify the first and last days of plucking and production was made to prevent poor quality teas. During winter months, tea bushes stop yielding fresh leaves. “However, unlike north India, no such dates are issued for south Indian tea-producing states (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala). In south India, tea production continues throughout the year,” said M P Bansal, chairman, Terai Indian Planters’ Association. Sources in the tea board said dates were finalised with imputs from the tea industry. “Tea production in southern states is hardly 20 per cent of the national produce,” said a source, adding tabs on quality were stringent in south India as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||30 families of sinking Ghoramara Island get new land||As a first step to rehabilitate 30 families from Ghoramara Island in South 24-Parganas, where increasing water levels of the Bay of Bengal have endangered their survival, the state government on Saturday handed over land rights to ensure their relocation in Sagar’s Dakshin Haradhanpur. The pattas for 20 decimals of land for each of the 30 families as allotted by the state government’s land and land reforms department were handed over by South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan and the Sunderbans affairs minister Bankim Chandra Hazra in the presence of other officials in Sagar. Officials are hopeful that these families will settle well in their new locations once the housing department builds huts for them by the start of 2022. “It is a major step to save these families from a natural disaster that made their very existence vulnerable. The state government has allotted land to these families where we will build their homes and arrange livelihood options,” the DM said. Ghoramara Island, some 30km north of the Bay of Bengal, has seen unprecedented erosion in the past few years. The island, which was of around 26 sqkm, has shrunk to around 6.7 sqkm . Block development officer of Sagar, Sudipta Mondal said: “The entire Ghoramara Island is in a vulnerable situation. But these 30 families are the worst hit for the past two years because of two successive cyclones, Amphan and Yaas. We were in search of land for their rehabilitation. But a big stretch for a colony was not available until recently. Our aim is not just to relocate these families, but to give them livelihood support... by a coordinated initiative of land reforms, housing, fisheries, panchayat, animal husbandry departments.” Sources in the South 24-Parganas district administration said that on the allotted land the housing department would build residential huts for them, fisheries department will dig ponds, panchayat departments will build toilets, and animal husbandry department will offer them free ducks and chicks for rearing to help their survival. “At the same time the family members will be imparted with skill development training as per their aptitude under the guidance of departments concerned to help them in better living,” the BDO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 700 new cases, 707 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 700 new Covid-19 infections, 707 recoveries and eight deaths. With 76 straight days of a fall in its active Covid-19 cases, the total fell by 15 to 8,679. Bengal now has 2.16 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number. Calcutta logged 129 new infections and North 24-Parganas 105, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Five districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.25 per cent, its highest this pandemic, better than the nation’s 97.4. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, is 1.59 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.51 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.24 lakh recoveries and 18,491 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Controversy erupts over student protest site||A fresh controversy erupted in Visva-Bharati campus on Saturday over the location of the new protest venue of students, which they set up after the Calcutta High Court’s order on Friday that asked the police to remove agitating students from outside the residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Sources in the varsity administration said Ashok Mahato, the officiating registrar of Visva-Bharati, wrote to the police informing that the new dais of the protesting students was set up within the 50 meters of the campus, violating the high court order. Students claimed the new dais was set up keeping in mind the court order. Police, however, sided with the students. In his order, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha of Calcutta High court on Friday directed Santiniketan police to disperse with immediate effect the agitating students from Visva-Bharati campus, particularly the office and residential area of the VC and surroundings of the administrative building. Justice Mantha had specified a 50-metre distance of the protest from specific locations such as the VC’s home and classrooms, among others. “The officiating registrar Ashok Mahato wrote to the police as the new place of agitation is 50 metres away from the residence of the VC but within the campus as varsity guest houses are located there. In the order the court asked not to allow protests or demonstrations within 50 metres of any part of the campus,” said a senior varsity official. Police said after they received Mahato’s letter, they sent a team to measure the distance  and found no violation of the court order had taken place. “In its order, the court never asked to stop the students’ movement... It specified  50 metres from a few places, including the residence of the VC, would be out of bounds for any demonstration... We have measured and found the new place where students are protesting is around 65 metres from all the places mentioned in the order. The guest house is not attached to educational or official activities of the varsity,” said Abhishek Ray, the subdivisional police officer, Bolpur. In its petition filed in high court, Visva-Bharati authorities had claimed the two entry gates to the central administrative office and central library were locked by students. “While carrying out the court order we found that the allegation was baseless as the security personnel informed that they locked those gates as directed by varsity officials,” said Ray, the SDPO. Students said they were adhering to the court order. “We have shifted to a different place which does not violate the court order. Visva-Bharati wants to snatch away the rights of the students and that’s why they are blaming us,” said Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students. Students also got support from the ruling Trinamul. A large procession by Trinamul students’ wing was taken out in Santiniketan in support of the protesting students and a group of district and state leaders met the students with food and water to show solidarity. “The VC is ruining the culture of Visva-Bharati and promoting the agenda of BJP. The students were rusticated for protesting against his whimsical moves. We are with the students and we will continue our movement against the VC to save the institution,” said Jamsed Ali Khan, a Trinamul spokesperson in Birbhum. The CPM, Congress and several smaller Left outfits have also openly supported the movement of the students. AIDSO, a students’ outfit of SUCI, also took out a protest rally in Santiniketan to support the protest. “It may be a small platform but all anti-BJP parties and students’ wings came together to protest against the saffron agenda of the VC,” said Rituparna Sinha, a state general secretary of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad. A group of people from Bengal  Against Fascist RSS-BJP, who were behind the No vote to BJP campaign before Assembly polls, also met the agitating students on Saturday afternoon and held two protest meetings in Santiniketan, demanding the rustication of the students be revoked. “We can’t let BJP and RSS use Tagore’s abode to promote their divisive agenda,” said Kushal Debnath, the convener of the forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||BSF arrests inspector of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police in Cooch Behar||An inspector of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police in Bangladesh, who allegedly infiltrated India with the help of a tout from his country, was arrested by the Border Security Force (BSF) at Changrabandha in Cooch Behar on Friday. BSF sources said Mohammad Sheikh Sonel Rana, 46, was found in Changrabandha, a transit route to Bangladesh. The resident of Gopalganj, Bangladesh, planned to go to Kathmandu, Nepal. He had on him four debit cards, some US dollars and Euros and two phones with Bangladeshi SIM cards. “On September 2, he left Dhaka by bus and reached Patgram in Lalmonirhat district on Friday. To infiltrate India, he had paid him 10,000 Bangladeshi Taka. We have come to know that back in 2003 he joined Dhaka Metropolitan Police as a sub-inspector and had been under suspension for some reason with 21 other police personnel till 2008,” said a source. On Saturday, the BSF handed Rana to a team of Mekhliganj police station. In another incident, BSF troops of the 45th battalion posted at Bhootbati, also in Cooch Behar district, intercepted three Indians on Saturday and seized around 50,000 Bangladeshi catfish fingerlings from them. “They were carrying the fingerlings  illegally to Calcutta,” said a source. In India, farming of catfish has been banned by the Centre back in 2000. The trio, identified as Mohammad Zakim-ul Haq of Malbazar in Jalpaiguri, Tapas Mallick of Nadia and Ranjan Kumar Sarkar of North 24-Parganas, were handed over to the police at Kuchlibari police station, BSF sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Wild elephant kills tea garden worker in Siliguri||A tea garden worker was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Merry View tea estate located in Naxalbari block of Siliguri sub-division in Siliguri on Saturday morning. Harikishan, the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Kurseong forest division, said Kamloo Oraon, 53, had gone out of his quarter around 5.30am to answer the call of nature when the wild elephant attacked and trampled him to death. Harikishan said the elephant had come out of the adjoining Bengdubi forest. Local residents said elephants enter their tea garden regularly in search of fodder. “Elephant herds stray into the estate area and damage hutments and crops before harvest. We want the state forest department to be more active in preventing the animals from entering the garden,” said a worker. Foresters, however, maintained that their teams constantly work in the region to deter elephants from foraying into the tea estates on the fringes of the forest stretches. “The victim’s family will be paid a compensation of Rs 5 lakh according to the state government’s guidelines,” the DFO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans fisherman missing in royal Bengal tiger attack||A fisherman went missing after he was dragged away by a royal Bengal tiger in Jhila forest range of the Sunderbans during the early hours of Saturday. Sources said the victim was identified as Darik Mondal, 39, a resident of Lahiripur village of Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. “Mondal along with three others, including a woman, went to catch crabs in the creek when the incident took place,” said a source. Those accompanying the victim said the big cat swam silently and jumped on their boat from behind. Then, the animal dragged Mondal away even before they could realise what was happening. “It was a very big cat and too powerful for us. It simply jumped on the boat and dragged away Mondal. Everything happened within a few seconds,” one of the fishermen accompanying Mondal said. “The tiger disappeared in the dense forest adjacent to the bank of the creek where we were catching crabs,” the fisherman added. Later, the group on the boat returned to Gosaba and informed the forest officials about what had befallen Mondal. Forest officials immediately launched a search in the area. “However, till Saturday evening the missing fisherman could not be traced,” said a forest official. Sources in Gosaba said that those who had gone to catch crabs inside the Jhila forest range and entered deep inside the prohibited zone. Wildlife officials blamed the fishermen for inviting dangers by entering the deep jungle despite the strict ban on entry. “Entry inside the jungle is prohibited. We had organised awareness drives among fishermen to restrain them from risking their lives. We are trying to promote alternative sources of livelihood like apiculture for them. But it appears that they hardly pay heed to our appeal,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. At least 26 fishermen have been killed by royal Bengal tigers in the Sunderbans during the last 15 months, the forest department sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
05-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: No candles or cakes||India’s prime minister is a gift to the nation. Or so insist the Bharatiya Janata Party and his legion of admirers, impressed with the pledges that Narendra Modi has made to Indians in the course of his years as the premier. It, therefore, stands to reason that Mr Modi’s birthday — the event is imminent — should be a joyous occasion and that the man of the moment would soon receive innumerable gifts as tokens of appreciation for his unparalleled leadership. After all, what is a birthday without gifts? Strangely, the script seems to have gone awry this year. Yuva Halla Bol, a national movement by the youth, has decided to observe Mr Modi’s birthday as ‘Jumla Unemployment Day’. The plan, apparently, is to make some noise — pots and pans will be banged, just as the prime minister had directed the nation to do to lift the morale of health workers during last year’s lockdown. Only this time, all that clanging is intended to remind India of the long list of promises that Mr Modi has failed to keep. Among these, the members of the youth fraternity insist, are the prime minister’s assurance of depositing a hefty sum of money into the bank account of every Indian, a gift that citizens are yet to receive after seven years of Mr Modi’s rule. There is also another gift that has gone missing from Mr Modi’s basket of promised goodies: mass employment. India’s unemployment rate is hovering over 8 per cent, according to the latest data. Mr Modi would be assured to learn that there is, indeed, a tradition of sending ‘mean gifts’ and that — this is the bit that he would probably like the most — the high and mighty are often recipients of cruelty wrapped in kindness. Meanness has, occasionally, been quantified. One examination of mean gifts pegged the total value of unwanted merchandise that was returned to retail outlets in the United States of America during the holiday season some years ago at an astounding 60.84 billion dollars. The figure is likely to send a chill down the spine of kind souls. But can unkindness be righteous at times? The query merits reflection. Mr Modi has been elected leader of the people — twice. In a democracy, this implies a compact between a leader and the people: it is a compact of trust. The electorate exercises its franchise in the hope that the leader would keep his word. Mr Modi, undoubtedly, has failed to keep his, be it on employment, public health, or even on the protection of an inclusive social fabric. It can be argued that the prime minister has bestowed upon the people numerous unkind gifts. Things have now come full circle: the people, at least one segment among them, have now reciprocated Mr Modi’s gesture by delivering not-too-kind a cut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Eye-catching wall art is a breath of fresh air||Sir — Calcutta has always been synonymous with all things artistic. Lately, several prominent corners of the City of Joy have seen a makeover with the help of colourful, eye-catching wall art, which has come as a breath of fresh air for passers-by who are struggling to breathe under their masks. The New Town subway, the Park Circus tram depot and the outside of the Phoolbagan Metro station are some sites where such art can be spotted. One must laud these artists — many of whom remain anonymous — for celebrating art’s true purpose: elevating the human soul. Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — Human civilization cannot exist detached from science. Disregarding scientific facts is thus unacceptable. Unfortunately, in India, unscientific beliefs seem to be gaining more and more ground of late. These beliefs are being given credence by people in positions of power and those with the ability to influence public opinion. These days, a majority of Indians seem eager to veer away from the vision of the country that its first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, had envisaged. Nehru passionately advocated the cultivation of a scientific temperament for the creation and progress of a modern, forward-looking nation state. Promoting superstitious ideas has become a trend under the current dispensation. Who can forget that the prime minister himself said that Ganesha had had his head transplanted by plastic surgery? The pandemic only made a bad situation worse. Claims were made about cow dung and urine having the power to cure Covid-19; some of those who opposed such untruths were even sent to jail. The latest instance of such a blatant propagation of unscientific belief has come from a learned judge of the Allahabad High Court, who said that the cow is the only animal that both inhales and exhales oxygen. Such patently unscientific statements will come as a shot in the arm for cow vigilantes. Scientists who are fighting day and night to save humanity and ensure the progress of the race will soon be left to wallow in neglect. Worse, how can a judge, who is supposed to be learned enough to make decisions on life and death, make such an observation? What does this say about the justice system in India and those who run it? S. Sarkar, Berhampur Sir — The prime minister of Japan, Yoshihide Suga, has made it clear that he will be stepping down and shall not be contesting for his party’s leadership in the upcoming elections. His popularity has declined among 90 per cent of the Japanese population, mostly because of the way he handled the Covid-19 pandemic. It did not help matters that the Olympics were organized against the wishes of the Japanese people. It is almost certain that he would have lost the elections had he contested them. The fears of the Japanese people are not unfounded. Across the world, it seems nearly impossible to control the coronavirus, which mutates quicker than scientists can come up with a cure. Vaccination campaigns are not being able to keep pace with the virus the world over, especially in countries like India. The decision taken by Suga, then, indicates that he is taking moral responsibility for his failures. This is admirable. The situation was worse than Japan in many countries, with patients dying outside hospitals owing to Covid mismanagement and the lack of medical oxygen and beds. Can anyone forget the images from India’s second wave? Should not the heads of those countries resign as well? Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Sir — The allegations made by the Rajya Sabha member of parliament, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, against the growing misuse of Central agencies by the saffron party are serious. If Ray’s claims prove to be true, legal steps should be taken to stop the high-handedness of the party in power at the Centre. Arun Gupta, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Politics + religion = Taliban, says Digvijaya||With the Taliban and Afghanistan having become the subject of discussion the world over, Bihar could not fall behind. Cutting across party lines, politicians in the eastern state have risen to the occasion and shown their prowess in using the two terms to attack each other. As the Janata Dal (United) pitched the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, as ‘prime minister material’, the Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, hit back. Its spokesperson, Bhai Virendra, reportedly remarked that the only vacancy for the top job right now is in Afghanistan and suggested that Kumar should go there to satiate his lust for power. The RJD also equated the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh with the Taliban, prompting the Bharatiya Janata Party to retaliate by accusing it of turning the state into Afghanistan during its 15-year rule between 1990 and 2005. Soon afterwards, the Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Digvijaya Singh, arrived in Patna to gleefully give out a formula: ‘politics + religion = Taliban’. He refused to answer when people asked him if he had any particular party in mind. People are now waiting eagerly to find who fires the next ‘Taliban’ shot. Bhupender Yadav, recently inducted as a cabinet minister in the Narendra Modi government, seems to be the new rising star. He has two important portfolios — environment and labour — and holds the post of party national general-secretary in charge of two key states, Gujarat and Bihar. Yadav is known to be one of the most trusted associates of Amit Shah. Many feel that it was Shah who brought him into the government. Shah is believed to be getting his loyalists into the government to strengthen his position. Yadav is being promoted as a key face of the party in the ‘other backward classes’ domain. Recently, Yadav undertook a ‘yatra’ to take the blessings of the people of his state. This saw him travelling across two states — Haryana and Rajasthan. Haryana is his birthplace and he represents Rajasthan as a Rajya Sabha member of parliament. His yatra fuelled speculations of him emerging as a chief-ministerial face in both the states. In Haryana, none other than the chief minister, ML Khattar, said that young faces like Yadav should take up the leadership baton from ageing leaders. Khattar is 67 years old. In Rajasthan, speculations in party circles led reporters to ask Yadav about being the CM face. Yadav, as expected, termed the speculations as baseless. In party circles, however, the buzz is that Yadav was indeed eyeing the CM’s chair. Now this could be fraught with pitfalls for the budding leader. Who said the Lingayat strongman has been weakened after being made to vacate the chief minister’s seat? At least the 78-year-old BS Yediyurappa does not agree; and that has caused much heartburn in the BJP, whose leaders are reportedly tearing their hair out to convince him not to undertake his much-touted statewide tour to “strengthen” the party ahead of the 2023 state polls. The party wanted him to simply retire and enjoy the fruits of his labour, but Yediyurappa is in no mood to idle away. The BJP leadership is worried that the tour might send the wrong signal to the people and give a handle to the Opposition to label it as evidence of Yediyurappa strengthening his camp rather than helping the party since it is too early to start the 2023 campaign. The pre-poll grand alliance against the BJP in Assam is in tatters. But the Opposition parties are making efforts to come together before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The key players — the All India United Democratic Front and the Bodoland People’s Front — in the alliance formed earlier this year are out after the Congress accused them of cosying up to the BJP after the recent polls. The impact of the decision will become clear after the upcoming bypolls for six seats. But the BJP had stolen a march over the Opposition even before the mahajot cracked, with the defections of two Congress and one AIUDF member of the legislative assembly within three months of assuming power. More seem keen on switching sides. But most agree that the Congress-led alliance could have toppled the BJP-led one with more tact and time. The mahajot won 50 seats while the BJP-led front won 75, but the difference in vote share was less than one per cent. This did not translate into seats for the mahajot mainly because of poor candidate selection, lack of a cohesive campaigning and controversies with communal overtones, which were exploited by the BJP. The newly formed regional parties — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad — also cut into the Opposition votes. The Opposition must avoid these mistakes if it wants to mount a serious challenge to the BJP in 2024. Naveen Patnaik’s love for sports seems to have influenced the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath. Taking a cue from Patnaik, whose sponsorship of Indian hockey produced spectacular results at the Tokyo Olympics, Adityanath announced support for the Indian wrestling team till 2032 by pumping in Rs 170 crore. The president of the Wrestling Federation of India, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, said that he had approached the CM. Clearly, Adityanath hopes to enhance his public image before the polls next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Blood brothers||“Your grandfather left us to live with termites for all the times to come.” This is what a man told me in an email after an article of mine, published on another platform, had evidently needled him. In that article, which was sparked by the prime minister’s call for a day to remember Partition’s horrors, I had asked whether Muslims were included when Narendra Modi used the words, “sisters and brothers”. Why am I offering this reflection on that email through The Telegraph? Because Calcutta was where the first day of Independence-cum-Partition found my grandfather, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. Calcutta was also where, in the first week of September 1947, Gandhi fasted for fraternity among Hindus and Muslims. Again, Calcutta was where, during that same week, the young lives of Sachin Mitra and Smritish Banerjee were extinguished because they protected sisters and brothers from the ‘other’ community. And because Calcutta is synonymous with Tagore, whose Kabuliwala has shot back into our minds following Afghanistan’s cascading events. And because Calcutta is synonymous also with Subhas Chandra Bose, whose comrades in the battle to reach Delhi with the flag of Azad Hind were Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs, and whose older brother, Sarat Bose, strove so hard to prevent the division of Bengal in 1947. We all know that horrors accompanied the Partition. When we are honest, we also know that the horrors were all-sided. Heroism, too, showed its face in 1947. Numerous people, known and unknown, joined Sachin and Smritish in displaying humanity, whatever its risks. Before looking at another word starting with ‘h’ that sadly permeates the sentence quoted at the start of this article, we may ask, “Was Partition itself a horror?” And a connected question: assuming that Partition was a horror, would we want the subcontinent re-unified, if that were possible? Those seeing India as a Hindu rashtra were far fewer before August 15, 1947 than they are today, but they existed then too. Then, too, they criticized Partition, as they do today. A re-unified subcontinent controlled by Hindu nationalists may be their wish, but a re-united India where individuals are free and regions are autonomous is certainly not. In 1947, Hindu supremacy over the entire subcontinent was a hard goal that very few pursued. Some might desire it today; most would call such a goal senseless. On the other hand, a South Asian confederation of autonomous regions and free individuals might, in theory at least, seem wise to many. In practical terms, however, the idea is quite unrealistic. Saner relations across South Asia’s existing borders is the sole sensible goal in 2021. For Hindu supremacists, to term Partition a horror would, therefore, only be a hypocritical yell. A re-united India where individuals are free and the regions autonomous is the last thing they would want. In such a rearrangement, ‘termites’ would be swarming in even larger numbers. I am assuming that the sender of that email is a ‘good’ man. I have no knowledge that he is ‘bad’. Although he supplies a name, I don’t know him. Sadly, hate pervades his message. I wonder if he has ever gotten to know any of the people of whom he speaks with such ill-will, contempt, and fear. If he were to look again at his remark to me, he will find that the dislike in it permits of no exception. It is genocidal in scale. Who can help people who think and speak like this ‘good’ man? A candid rebuke from someone he respects or likes, a political leader perhaps, or a family member, might work, but going by recent history, our political leaders are not likely to offer a reprimand. As for family members, they may not be aware of his expressions. Or they may be fearful of him. Might he listen to a guru or an exponent of Hindu texts? Perhaps, but we haven’t seen hate or bigotry denounced from any venerated Hindu platform. A solitary exception was Swami Agnivesh, who died last year. It is the everyday citizen who has to speak up and supply the corrective. Researchers know that during the Partition horrors large numbers of ‘ordinary’ Indians on both sides bravely hid, protected, and sent to safety members of the ‘other’ community who were at risk. This resentment that ‘they’ exist, this hate of a visible but segregated mass of the unwanted who dare to share India’s space with ‘us’, cannot be healthy. If history is any guide, this hate is bound to recoil on sections of the hater’s own community. If Muslims are the targets of today’s wrath, Hindus of another caste, maybe your caste, will be tomorrow’s victims. Pol Pot’s Cambodia, the Rwanda of 1994, the China of the Cultural Revolution, and the Balkan killings of the 1990s are only some examples of the impossibility of restricting hate to a marked community. No, my good man. This mindless hate (a phrase that Mr Modi himself recently used) will not help you, or those you may love, or India. Moreover, if we can’t respect the humanity and autonomy of fellow Indians, what message will we have for Afghanistan — or for Myanmar? As I think of the rich Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, and Muslim worlds served or covered by The Telegraph — including West Bengal, Assam, the rest of the Northeast, and also Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, and Myanmar — the region’s multiple, oft-bitter divides also confront me. But then I recall Kabuliwala’s bond between an Afghan who sells dry fruits on Calcutta’s streets and a conservative Bengali family; the insaniyat that Sachin and Smritish painted with their blood in September 1947; the passion for Hindu-Muslim partnership that came across both from a marching Netaji and a fasting Mahatma; the qualities of present-day individuals I know across the region; and a certain election result in May of this year. My faith is renewed. Rajmohan Gandhi is currently teaching at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Dyer Consequence||Reports and emerging visuals of the recent restoration of Jallianwala Bagh have led to outrage. The ministry of culture insists that the effort was carried out with the “utmost respect”, while historians cry “insult”, “corporatisation” and “erasure”. Traumatic heritage places such as Jallianwala Bagh (India) or Auschwitz-Birkenau (Poland) or the Hiroshima Peace Memorial (Japan) or Robben Island (South Africa) have to negotiate the burden of a traumatic community memory and the responsibility of inserting it into the present, constructively or instructively. Days before the Jallianwala massacre, Marcella Sherwood, a mission doctor, was assaulted in Amritsar. Days after gunning down hundreds of Indians in Jallianwala Bagh, General Dyer issued the "crawling order". Any Indian wishing to cross the narrow street where Sherwood had fallen would have to crawl its entire length. Dyer said, “Some Indians crawl face downwards in front of their gods. I wanted them to know that a British woman is as sacred…” At Auschwitz-Birkenau, the concentration camp-turned-memorial and museum, they preserve among other things human hair. Prisoners’ hair was routinely shorn at Nazi camps. It seems the hair was processed and packed and sold to companies as material for haircloth and felt. The hair at Auschwitz was the harvest from dead prisoners. The memorial’s decision to display nearly two tonnes of human hair met with severe criticism. But in the end, the hair stayed in keeping with the museum philosophy of preserving authenticity, and there it will remain till it disintegrates naturally. In 1989, however, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, in Washington, D.C., received a consignment of artifacts from Aushwitz, among which was human hair. After much deliberation, the museum decided to instal a wall-length photo mural of the hair on exhibit at Auschwitz. In 2010, nine years after the 9/11 tragedy, the National September 11 Memorial & Museum was opened to the public. The design chosen from thousands of entries is called "Reflecting Absence". It has two pools where the North and South Towers of the World Trade Center used to be. Names of the dead are inscribed on bronze parapets edging the pools. There is a Memorial Glade in honour of those who got sick or died “from exposure to toxins in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks”. Among its collection on display are a fire truck, a concrete-and-granite-covered staircase, an elevator motor, a steel remnant from the facade of the North Tower. There are more than 30 pairs of shoes. When the museum opened, visitors were horrified to discover that a tour was to be a ticketed affair. There was uproar too when it was discovered that the gift shop was selling US-shaped cheese platters with hearts marking the spots where al-Qaeda terrorists crashed planes. And, in 2014, a VIP cocktail party was also hosted on the premises. The sister of a 9/11 victim tweeted the next day: “Did you enjoy having drinks on top of my brother's grave last night?” As for Dyer, he was cremated. According to his biographer, Nigel Collett, there is no memorial stone made to Dyer and no known resting place for his ashes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||You see, this is called a daymare||This happens, let me assure you, and this happens when you might believe your eyes are wide open. And you might believe right; this happens with eyes wide open, but it’s the stuff of what usually happens by night, eyes tight shut, the nether lashes quite in the clasp of the upper lid. But such things have begun to happen at other times, and it has been a while. Wonder if anyone has noticed, but odd things. More than odd things actually. Things that might qualify as abstract or not-everyday literary instruments. Unbelievable arcs of them, leaps of what could only be imaginary, albeit imaginary in ways that they would seem to belong in macabre, even malafide, minds. Like in some netherdom ruled by a villainous gnome — short, gnarled, glassy-eyed and hirsute beyond measure or proportion to person or position. That sort of gnome. Not the sort of gnome that nightmares would permit, not the sort of gnome you wake up from. The sort of gnome you’d want to flee to sleep from. So you see, that sort of gnome. But you see, you see that sort of gnome. In your daymares. It’s what makes daymares what they are. Things that you wouldn’t want to dream of. Think for a moment, you’re a cattle rearer and often rove about with your cattle for roving does them good. Think of what may happen to you, though: roving with cattle may not do you quite as much good as it does cattle. Or, think you make and market bangles. Bangles that add to dainty wrists or mask a flabby forearm. Think what those bangles might bring upon your person, the sheer hawking of their virtues, oh it can turn into a thing of vice. There is, come to think of it, no end of things to be imagined and what the consequences of those could be. Presume you were native of Mirkash, for instance, and presume to feel for five minutes, no more, like a native of Mirkash feels, if you can get yourself to feel any of that. Wake up in Mirkash and you’ve entered the daymare of the gnomes. Each and every single day. They are all over, it’s a daymare that will seduce your permanent residence with the worst nightmare imaginable. Not every path is fortunate with a fork somewhere along it. That you may choose this one from that and then be able to revel in your choice, or repent in it. There are paths that don’t need to wait for finders, they found them. Such are the paths in this netherdom of the gnome, and they all lead you to this daymare or that. Between this daymare and that there may yet lie a choice, but there may be all there is. If and when you do wake up Thinking it’s only a dream Get real, or, rather, get a pup And tell it the curdled is really cream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Team of doctors inspect East Singbhum’s Japanese Encephalitis-affected areas||A three-member team of doctors from Ranchi reached East Singhbhum district on Sunday to extensively inspect the steel city and adjoining rural areas for Japanese Encephalitis cases. Led by Dr SN Jha, state programme officer for Vector Borne Diseases, the team inspected Parsudih area of the city suburbs, Galudih, Musabani and Potka blocks in Ghatsila sub-division of the district. “We are here to carry out control measures for the Japanese Encephalitis which is spreading in the district. The vector-borne disease has already claimed a life in the Ghatsila sub-division recently and has affected seven persons across the district, including in the Jamshedpur block,” said Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also mentioned about a 38-year-old woman, dying because of Japanese Encephalitis at Kalchitti village in Galudih on Thursday. “Apart from the death caused by the Japanese Encephalitis, seven persons have been affected by the disease. Cases have been reported from the Jamshedpur block, two from the Potka block and one each from the Ghatsila and Musabani block,” revealed the state program officer. Talking about control measures taken to contain Japanese Encephalitis, Jha said, “The team had to do vital health activities in the pockets from wherever the cases were reported.” “We had to conduct a mass fever survey with the support of local health department officials followed by testing of the suspected victims with diagnostic kits. Apart from this we had to ensure that insecticides were sprayed in and around the affected areas,” the state program officer said. He pointed out that a coordinated effort by all those concerned in the health department has been taken and necessary instructions from the level of Sahia (village-level lady health workers) to district civil surgeon has been passed on. They have been asked to remain vigilant for the detection of the Japanese Encephalitis cases. This disease affects mostly youngsters and is caused by mosquito bite. An affected person from this fatal disease suffers from high fever, headache and stiff neck. In the severe condition, the patient gets unconscious after the neck-stiffens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Week-long mega vaccination camp at Keenan Stadium||The East Singhbhum district administration, with the help of the health department, will launch a week-long mass Covid-19 vaccination drive at the sprawling Keenan Stadium here in Jamshedpur from Monday. Dhalbhum SDO Sandeep Kumar Meena, who is looking after the preparations, said they have set a target of 5,000 jabs daily at the venue. As many as 20 vaccination points are being set-up at the venue for administering Covishield and Covaxin vaccine doses. According to health department officials, during the mass drive vaccines would be provided for those between 18 and 44 and above. " Vaccination would be provided through online slot booking and walk-in mode, " said A. K. Lal, the civil surgeon of East Singhbhum. He said all necessary training had been given to health department staff and computer operators to ensure there are no glitches. The SDO and the district civil surgeon inspected the venue on Sunday. Earlier, JRD Tata Sports Complex was selected for the vaccination drive. But, later the venue was changed due to issues of logistics. Fresh stocks of both vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have been ordered for the district. The consignment is expected to reach late in the evening on Sunday. The East Singhbhum health department is continuing with Covid vaccinations and tests at various other designated centres. According to data available with the district health department on Saturday, Covid-19 vaccines were administered to 11, 372 people on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad BJP hits the streets over namaz room row ||Over 50 BJP supporters hit the streets to protest against the  allocation of a room for offering namaz in state Assembly and burnt effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren and Speaker Rabindranath Mahato  near the district headquarters at Randhir Verma Chowk on Sunday. Led by Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, the group assembled at the chowk barely 100 meter from the district headquarters in the morning in the presence of BJP district president (urban)  Chandrashekhar Singh. The leaders also accused the Speaker of acting at the behest of the ruling dispensation headed by Hemant and not allowing BJP leaders to raise important issues in the Assembly. Talking to the media, Sinha said, “The allocation of a separate room for offering namaz is height of appeasement politics. The room has been allocated for only five Muslim MLAs who are also not five-time namazis, and remain busy in the Assembly even on Fridays.” “We will also demand allocation of a room for Hindu legislators for reciting Hanuman Chalisa,” he said accusing the state government of going against majority Hindu sentiments. Sinha claimed that soon people would join their protest and hit the streets against the state government's decision. Sinha accused Speaker Mahato of acting in a partisan manner. "Whenever any question is asked by any Opposition leader he looks towards the chief minister as if to seek his permission for allowing the leader to complete his question. “Why discussions are not allowed in the state Assembly on the complete failure of the Hemant Soren government on the issue of  employment?” Acting president of Congress Jaleshwar Mahto, during a felicitation function organised by the district unit of the Congress,  however, accused the BJP of raking up irrelevant issues. “They have the habit of taking the name of Pakistan and holding it responsible for the misdeeds of their own... What is wrong in allocating a  room for offering namaz? Who has prevented them from also demanding a room for holding a puja as the Assembly has no dearth of rooms,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Brawl at RIMS in Ranchi over post-exam party||A brawl broke out between two groups of undergraduate medical students at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Sunday morning over an alleged post-exam celebration by junior students which became “too loud” for  seniors preparing for PG NEET, police said. Cops from the Bariatu Police Station had to rush to the college campus and pacify the two groups of students and prevent the situation from escalating. “Our PCR van was already in the RIMS campus when the scuffle started. Cops from our police station also rushed to the spot to keep the situation under control,” said a sub-inspector at Bariatu Police Station, Pankaj Pramanik. Police sources said that initially the two groups clashed when final year students allegedly ragged their juniors after getting disturbed by their loud celebrations. Later, a group of junior students demanded a formal apology from their seniors for allegedly harassing them, police said. “Representatives of both the groups have held talks in our presence, and the situation was under control by afternoon,” said Pramanik. According to sources at RIMS, the brawl started between students of hostel number two-three and students of hostel number four. The junior students recently appeared for their supplementary papers and were on a celebration spree at the hostel, while the seniors were preparing for PG NEET, which is scheduled to be held on September 11, sources said. “We were celebrating with our batchmates. None of us disturbed the seniors, so their attempts at trying to school us on maintaining academic environment at the hostel was uncalled-for,” said a junior student. Even though the situation was under control by afternoon, police personnel were deployed at the hostel to prevent any further face-off between the two groups, police said. Local police also made regular announcements on loudspeakers, requesting the students to maintain peace. Thisr is not the first time that junior and senior students have clashed at the state-run medical college. In 2019, a group of junior and senior MBBS students had reportedly clashed over a beer party organised by the juniors at the hostel. A RIMS source said that alcohol consumption during such celebrations was common at the RIMS hostel, but went unnoticed. There was a brawl on Sunday because the senior students got disturbed by the loud celebrations and decided to give a piece of their mind to the juniors, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Political row brewing over namaz room in Jharkhand Assembly||The Opposition BJP launched an all-round attack on the Hemant Soren government on Saturday, two days after the Assembly Speaker allotted a separate room for namaz on the premises, lobbing accusations of "polarisation"  and demaning that it be allowed to set up a Hanuman temple within the Assembly precincts. The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD coalition goernment accused the BJP of "hate-mongering" to which the saffron party threatened to hit the streets to press for its demand for a temple in the Assembly precincts since a majority of the state's MLAs were Hindus. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, BJP's Ranchi MLA and former minister C.P.Singh said, “We have learnt today that the Assembly Speaker has allotted a dedicated room in the state Assembly for namaz. In a democratic country, all are free to practice their choice of religious faiths. At the same time, we demanded that the Speaker make provisions to set up a Hanuman temple. If the Assembly is starved of funds, give us the place, we will build a lavish temple." Singh said that a majority of the 82 MLAs of Jharkhand were Hindus. “Also, there are many Assembly staffers who are Hindu. So, a temple should come up there so that all Hindus can offer prayers," he said. The BJP social media ecosystem also initiated a campaign against the state government. Sing warned the state government of protests in the coming days. “Assembly or Parliament is regarded as a temple of democracy. The BJP will not tolerate the state government's attempts to appease a particular community and caste. We will leave no stone unturned to protest against it both inside the House and on the streets,” he said. JMM and Congress hit back at the BJP, accusing it of trying to rake up a hate campaign against a particular community. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said a provision for a place to offer namaz in the Assembly was there in the past too. "The BJP must know that the our Constitution and secular ethos offer everyone the right to practice religion of his/her choice. But the BJP is again doing what it knows  best—attack the secular fabric of Indian democracy,” he said. Agreed senior Congress leader and  former MP Furkan Ansari. He said that in 2000, then chief minister Babulal Marandi and then Speaker Inder Singh Namdhari had made provisions for a separate room for namaz in the Assembly building. “Why is the BJP protesting now? In 2000, it was a BJP government run by Marandi which made this provision. This clearly shows the BJP’s attempt to divide society now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: MSME plea for hand-holding||The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in Jharkhand face the same problems as other businesses do. This was revealed during a daylong business meet organised by the state unit of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) at a Ranchi hotel on Saturday for exploring possibilities of creating a favourable ecosystem for the MSME. Though some panellists pointed out the opportunities the MSME sector could grab, those actually running micro and small enterprises in the state said the ground reality was entirely different. “The ongoing expansion of the Indian steel industry offered enough opportunities but the MSME sector didn’t realise its potential and showed no inclination to capture those,” said Atul Bhatt, chairman and managing director of Mecon Limited in Ranchi. “Indigenously built components could reduce import dependence on China and eastern Europe,” he said, adding that the opportunities were still there as India was the potential “epicentre for growth of steel industry and the solution for crises that may crop up have to come from within the country”. ICC state council chairman Avijit Ghosh said: “MSME sector, with its 6.33 crore units, is the backbone of Indian economy.” Ghosh added that the MSME sector provides employment to 12 crore people and contributed 45 per cent of the total exports. But only 45 lakh of the total 6.33 crore MSME units availed bank loans, resulting in 50 lakh units getting either sick or closed, he said, adding that the banks should organise outreach programmes in rural areas for giving loans to such units. “The Union government has introduced many financial schemes and also incentives for helping MSME units to flourish,” said S.K. Sahoo, joint director in the MSME ministry, adding that loans were released to 89 per cent of eligible applicants in Jharkhand. “The MSME sector, despite being the growth driver contributing 31 per cent to the country’s GDP, mostly depends on funding from informal sources,” said Nand Kishore Singh, a deputy general manager of State Bank of India. Only 22 per cent of the total MSME funding was being sourced from banks and other financial institutions, he further said, adding that lack of financial information was the reason behind it. “The ground reality is entirely different,” contested Philip Matthew, president of the Jharkhand Small Industries Association, adding that bank officials often pretended to be ignorant about the schemes when its members approached them for collateral-free loans. “Besides loans, MSME units in Jharkhand also face the same problems as other industries in getting pollution clearance certificates and renewal of licence,” said Matthew’s predecessor Y.N. Ojha, adding that a single-window-system was still a distant dream for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||National award for Jharkhand mathematics teacher||Manoj Kumar Singh, a mathematics teacher from Jamshedpur, is the sole recipient from Jharkhand of the National Award to Teachers 2021 to be presented on Teachers’ Day on Sunday. Altogether 15 teachers from eastern and northeastern states have been selected for the coveted award which will be given by President Ram Nath Kovind through a webinar due to the Covid pandemic. The award carries a medal, a certificate and Rs 50,000. The teachers from eastern states include Haridas Sharma (Ramgarh, Bhabua) and Chandana Dutta (Rajnagar, Madhubani), both from Bihar, Ashok Kumar Satpathy (Bhadrak) and Ajit Kumar Sethy (Chatrapur, Ganjam), both from Odisha, and Hariswami Das (head teacher of Sovanagar High School, English Bazar, Malda, Bengal). Teachers from northeastern states who will receive the awards are Duda Sora (West Siang, Arunachal Pradesh), Swedesunuo Zao (Kohima, Nagaland), Ningmareo Shimray (Ukhrul, Manipur), Prem Das Chhetri (Gangtok, Sikkim), Mingma Sherpa (North Sikkim), Jacinta Vanlalengzami (Serchhip, Mizoram), Sib Sankar Pal (West Tripura), and Kangkan Kishor Dutta (East Jorhat) and Binanda Swargiary (Baksa), both from Assam. Expressing happiness, 49-year-old Manoj, a resident of Adityapur who is deputed as a mathematics and science teacher at Hindustan Mitra Mandal Middle School in Golmuri, Jamshedpur, attributed his selection for the award to his passion to teach complex mathematical concepts through innovative practical and art-based pedagogy mostly done outside the boundaries of classroom. “Students in state-owned schools are not that well versed in English to understand the concepts of mathematics, especially complex theorems and formulae. For the last one decade, I have devised my own art-based pedagogy with focus on ‘learning by doing’ concept to teach students hailing from poorer strata without good language skills the concept of mathematics. I can proudly say that most of the students in the schools I have been deputed have fetched good marks in mathematics at the matric level,” said Manoj, who conducts online teaching through his YouTube channel — Creative Learning with Manoj. Manoj is also a part of the e-content developer team of the Jharkhand Council of Education Research and Training (JCERT) who created online content for mathematics during the pandemic through the Digi School app. He has converted one room in his house into a classroom, in which all the necessary digital equipment like computer, camera, tripod stand, microphone, headphones and a big LED screen with a whiteboard, are available. “I live in a two-bedroom house but had to do this for the sake of my YouTube channel and also for imparting education through the Digi Sath app to students,” said Manoj. The e-content created by Manoj is broadcast continuously from the portal of Digi School. The Digi School app has been created by the state education department and JCERT for online learning of students from Classes I to XII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh: Bhupesh Baghel govt in Bastar outreach||People living in the remote areas of rebel-hit Bastar region of Chhattisgarh, who have been deprived of basic facilities for years, are now getting the services through special camps organised by the government. The Chhattisgarh government under Bhupesh Baghel has been organising these camps for redress of grievances related to Aadhar card, ration card, Ayushman Bharat (central health scheme) card and pension. In Maoist-hit areas such as Silger, Minapa and Sarkeguda villages in Sukma district, villagers throng similar camps in large numbers. The positive response by the villagers has prompted the administration to increase the duration of the camps. To provide various facilities to the villagers of these sensitive areas in Sukma district, a facilitation camp was organised at Sarkeguda. Vehicles were also arranged by the administration so that the villagers do not face any problem in commuting to the campsite. “Villagers of Minapa and Silger had informed the administration about their problems, for which facilitation camps are being set up in these areas for quick redress. Similar camps will be organised in other villages in the coming days,” said a source in the Sukma district collectorate. The camp strategy adopted by the Chhattisgarh government to provide basic facilities like education, health, employment, drinking water to the remote villages are proving to be very effective. There are seven districts in the Bastar division — Sukma, Bijapur, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Bastar (Jagdalpur) and Kanker. These seven are included in the list of aspirational districts of the country. In these tribal-dominated districts, access to facilities in the hinterland has always been a challenge due to geographical complexities and Maoist activities. The Baghel government decided to adopt a camp strategy according to the local conditions for the development of the Bastar division by moving away from the traditional methods. “This new strategy of governance is based on the principles of development, trust and security. To ensure an environment of security in the Maoist-affected interior areas, security force camps were set up at various places,” said an official in the chief minister’s secretariat. These safety caps opened the way for other camps related to public conveniences. After the mobile clinics under the Mukhyamantri Haat Bazaar Clinic Yojana, now medical camps have started in the weekly markets in tribal areas, where the villagers are getting the facility of free check-up, treatment and medicines. Success has been achieved in restarting hundreds of schools that were closed due to Maoist violence. Apart from the Hindi medium in traditional schools, English medium schools have also been started at various places along with teaching in local dialects. The English medium schools are being operated under the Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme, in which free education is being provided to every student with facilities at par with private schools. Amid the Covid pandemic, Chhattisgarh collected the maximum amount of minor forest produce in the country. “Most of the minor forest produce in the state is collected from these seven districts of Bastar division. With better strategy, now the collection of minor forest produce is being done in a more systematic and organised manner. From their collection to purchase, the work is being done by the forest dwellers only. These forest produces are being procured by self-help groups through purchase camps set up in haat-bazaars,” the official said. The enthusiasm of the villagers has increased due to the increase in the price of minor forest produce given by the government and increasing the number of such products purchased on support price from seven to 52. The minor forest produces collected from the forests of Bastar are being processed locally, due to which people are getting employment and benefits on a large-scale, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
