06-09-2021||Business||Sensex surges 260 points to hit fresh record in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 260 points in early trade to scale a fresh lifetime high of 58,390.21 on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Auto and L&T amid a largely positive trend in global markets. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty too surged more than 75 points to record 17,399.35 in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 260.26 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 58,390.21, and Nifty advanced 75.75 points or 0.44 per cent to 17,399.35 in initial deals. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, L&T, HUL, M&M, DR Reddy's and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Asian Paints, TCS, Power Grid, Titan and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share Sensex settled 277.41 points or 0.48 per cent up at 58,129.95. Nifty surged 89.45 points or 0.52 per cent to 17,323.60. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 768.58 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.20 per cent to USD 71.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
06-09-2021||Business||Cover drive||Indians are known to drive a hard bargain before spending money on any purchase. We evaluate the features offered by various retailers and service providers in the same price range before making the final decision. For instance, when we purchase a house, a car or a phone, we do a thorough market analysis before we come to any conclusion. Similarly, when it comes to purchasing a life insurance policy that requires financial commitment for the long term, it is imperative that we compare the benefits and features offered by different products and ask the right questions to the advisers before taking the final plunge. An effective insurance plan will help us secure our loved ones and help fulfil their dreams and goals under all circumstances. It will act as an effective safety belt, ensuring our peace of mind and enabling us to focus on our everyday life. But what are the factors that we must focus on before buying a life insurance plan so that they suit our needs. While term insurance is universally suitable as a savings product, depending on the current life stage, risk taking ability and future long-term financial goals, it is of utmost importance to know the category of the product we wish to purchase. To this effect, let us jot down the different parameters that we should consider before we buy a life insurance plan. Risk appetite As in most other sectors, a consumer is spoilt for choice when it comes to choosing a life insurance policy. The ability to take risk for a young individual is far higher than someone nearing retirement. As one size does not fit all, the specific needs of individuals require specific insurance solutions. It is essential to diversify our assets into a mix of traditional and Ulip products to fulfil these individual needs. Payment options Life insurance companies offer products where customers are required to make only a one-time payment, that is single premium. Other options include regular premium throughout the term of the policy or for a limited period of time. Knowing the cash outflow can help customers in planning their finances better. Additional benefits Unfortunately, everything in our lives can change within seconds. Changing lifestyles and genetic factors is increasing instances of critical illnesses. Accidental deaths are also on the rise and it is essential to safeguard ourselves and our family from the repercussions of unfortunate events. Hence, it is essential to focus on the additional riders such as critical illness and accidental death benefits while purchasing life insurance products. These riders provide for immediate claim payout providing much required relief. Fund performance/bonuses Information regarding where your money will be invested over a long period of time is significant for the buyer. Traditional life insurance products largely invest in fixed income assets which are less prone to market volatility and offer steady returns over the long term. Unit-linked insurance plans provide customers the flexibility to choose the investment strategy which best suits their long-term financial goals and their risk appetite. It is worth noting here that a unit-linked policy has a lock-in period of five years. The fund performances and bonuses can be checked periodically by the customers through the online portals available. Trust is a non-negotiable element of the life insurance business. Any person thinking about purchasing a policy should first figure out the trust quotient of the insurer. Moreover, they should evaluate the customer service indicators such as claim settlement ratio, which is the number of claims settled by the insurer versus those received by them in a given financial year, along with consistency of the claim settlement ratio for the past few years. Not limiting yourself to just this, you should dig deeper and compare the claim settlement experience — what is the turnaround time when it comes to settling death or maturity claims and whether the process is smooth and hassle-free. Buying a life insurance policy is an important financial decision that requires due consideration before making the final decision. The above questions mentioned in the article are the essential ones and obtaining answers to these questions will ensure that you have made an informed choice while purchasing life insurance for the security of your loved ones. The writer is chief distribution officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
06-09-2021||Business||Semi-conductor shortage likely to hit car sales in festival season||The semi-conductor shortage is likely to hit car sales in the festival season as the industry fears it may not be able to maintain production schedules which will affect the inventory with the dealers this month. Original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are, however, confident that the current crisis will blow over by the first quarter of next year. Supplies have also started trickling in as the lockdowns ease in Malaysia and other Southeast Asian manufacturing hubs. However, the festive season this year might just see a supply crunch . The country’s largest car manufacturer, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, which has been forced to cut down its production volume to 40 per cent of its capacity in September, says it will probably not be able to build up stocks . “The festive season starts from October 6 with Navaratri. Before that is an inauspicious period when no retail sales take place in large parts of north and south India. It was during this period that we used to build up stocks at the dealerships. Normally, a 30-35 day inventory is built up. This would go up to 40-45 day inventory in anticipation of the festive buying,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director, Maruti Suzuki. “This festive season will be different from others as it will be the first time that the supply will be an issue instead of demand. Normally, the question was always whether there would be enough demand. Now the question is will there be enough supply,” he said. Asked whether the crisis was slowing down recovery in the industry, the director said: “Not just chips, spiralling commodity prices too are dampening demand as prices of cars shoot up.” Toyota vice-president Naveen Soni, however, is not too perturbed by the problem. “We have been impacted but we are trying to manage with multiple suppliers. The headquarters was managing the semiconductor supply line and up to now we have tided ourselves over it. There is a crisis in the production of chips and Covid lockdowns are halting production. But even then, our festive season sales should be on track,” said Soni. The Malaysian production hub that includes the Bosch factory has been the supplier for a number of OEMs, including Maruti, Mahindra & Mahindra and Nissan. China has shut also supply owing to its aggressive Covid management. But industry players are confident that the situation can only get better from here. “We have reached the nadir and now things will improve,” said an industry insider. Maruti is closely watching what it calls a “dynamic situation”. The chip crisis is affecting production of top-end variants that use a lot of supercomputers. Maruti’s Dzire Tour, for instance, remains in short supply because of a crunch in chips for its CNG cars. Tata outlets in south Tata Motors inaugurated 70 sales outlets across southern India in a single day last week. Spread across 53 cities, the outlets have been mapped to key emerging markets of the southern. With the addition of these showrooms, Tata Motors will have 272 outlets in the southern states comprising Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. In all, the retail footprint in India will grow to 980. A total of 32 dealerships were opened in Bangalore (seven), Chennai (five), Hyderabad (four) and Kochi (four). The company’s expansion also includes the launch of 38 retail outlets in the upcountry markets of south India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Govt to extend incentive scheme for leather and footwear industries||The government is likely to extend an incentive scheme for leather and footwear industries, IFLADP, till 2025-26 with an outlay of Rs 1,700 crore, to boost manufacturing, exports and job creation, an official said. The commerce and industry ministry has submitted a proposal for the implementation of the Indian Footwear Leather and Accessories Development Programme (IFLADP) with an outlay of Rs 1,700 crore, to be incurred during 2021-22 to 2025-26, the official said. The Union cabinet might approve it soon, the official added. The programme has six components — Sustainable Technology and Environmental Promotion (proposed outlay Rs 500 crore); Integrated Development of Leather Sector (proposed outlay Rs 500 crore); Establishment of Institutional Facilities (Rs 200 crore); Mega Leather Footwear and Accessories Cluster Development (Rs 300 crore); Brand Promotion of Indian Brands in Leather and Footwear Sector (Rs 100 crore); and Development of Design Studios (Rs 100 crore). The expenditure finance committee, under the finance ministry, has already approved the commerce ministry’s proposal, the official added. Earlier, the IFLADP was announced with an expenditure of Rs 2,600 crore for three financial years — 2017-18 to 2019-20. It was also aimed at the development of infrastructure and facilitate additional investments, increasing production and employment generation. Sanjay Leekha, chairman of the Council for Leather Exports, said the scheme was “extremely” beneficial for the sector. “It helped the sector in registering healthy growth rates. If the government extends it, the leather industry would get a significant fillip,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Wapcos IPO likely to be launched by March-end||The initial public offering of Wapcos is likely to be launched by March-end, an official said. In February, the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) had floated tenders for engaging a registrar and an advertising agency to sell up to a 25 per cent stake in Wapcos through an IPO. Under the ministry of Jal Shakti, Wapcos provides consultancy, and engineering, procurement and construction services in the field of water, power and infrastructure sectors. The company also provides its services abroad, including Afghanistan. “There was some delay in the initial public offering due to the pandemic. The company is in the process of collecting data of its overseas operations, and we expect the valuation to be completed in couple of months,” the official told PTI. The government is also in the process of selling up to a 25 per cent stake in National Seeds Corporation (NSC) through IPO, and has invited bids from advisers to assist it in the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||PPE maker Mallcom (India) Ltd setting up a large unit in Bengal||A city-based personal protective equipment (PPE) maker — Mallcom (India) Ltd — is setting up a large unit in Bengal amid rising demand for PPE kits from  industries as well as the healthcare sector. The Bombay Stock Exchange listed company has manufacturing units in Calcutta, Haridwar and Ahmedabad. PPE includes both industrial safety gear such as gloves, helmet, suits, shoes  as well as medical gear such as masks and disposable protective covers. “We have altogether 12 outfits with the majority in and around Calcutta. A large garment facility for protective gears is now coming up at Ghatakpukur, in North 24 Parganas, on the Basanti highway. The projected capital outlay is estimated at Rs 50 crore. We have acquired the land and got it converted. Now we are putting up the building and the plant is expected to be commissioned by April 2022,” said Ajay Kumar Mall, managing director, Mallcom (India). The company had posted a consolidated revenue of Rs 320 crore in 2020-21 with exports contributing around two-third of the business. The company estimates to clock a business of Rs 500 crore over the next couple of years. Mall said that the changes to the occupational health and safety standards in India will give an impetus to organised players in the domestic PPE market. “Companies like ours should be at an advantage because we have been doing this for many years and we are also complying with the standards both in India and overseas,” he said. With the Covid crisis leading to a massive opportunity for PPE makers, Mall said that with a bit of a tweak in the existing production process, the company could get into the segment and address market demand, particularly in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||39 Coal India Ltd mining projects running behind schedule||State-owned Coal India Ltd’s 39 mining projects are running behind  schedule on account of delays in getting green clearances and issues related to rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R). This assumes significance in the wake of the country’s power plants grappling with depleting stocks at their end. “114 coal projects with a sanctioned capacity of 836.48 mty (million tonnes per year) and a sanctioned capital of Rs 1,19,580.62 crore are in different stages of implementation out of which 75 projects are on schedule and 39 projects are delayed,” Coal India Ltd (CIL) said in its report. The major reasons for delays in implementation of these projects are delay in forest clearances and possession of land and issues related to R&R. CIL’s nine coal projects, with a sanctioned capacity of 27.60 million tonnes per year and a sanctioned capital of Rs 1,976.59 crores were completed with a total completion capital of Rs 1,958.89 crore during 2020-21. Four of these projects belong to Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL), three of Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) and two of Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd (MCL). WCL,CCL and MCL are subsidiaries of Coal India. One project with a sanctioned capacity of 1.4 million tonnes per year and a sanctioned capital of Rs 143.63 crore had started coal production during the year 2020-21, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Stain on oil bonds cleared||The increase in excise duty collections in the first four months of this fiscal is three times the repayment liability of the legacy oil bonds in the full fiscal, official data showed. Excise duty collections rose to more than Rs 1 lakh crore in April to July from Rs 67,895 crore a year ago — and the rise of Rs 32,492 crore is three times the Rs 10,000-crore liability that the government has in the full year towards repayment of oil bonds that were issued by the previous Congress-led UPA government to subsidise fuel. First, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and then oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri had blamed the oil bonds for limiting fiscal space to give relief to people from fuel prices trading at near record high. Sitharaman had last month ruled out a cut in excise duty on petrol and diesel to ease prices, saying payments in lieu of past subsidised fuel pose limitations. She put the total liability that the BJP government has to service at Rs 1.3 lakh crore. On September 2 — a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a scathing attack on the government for raising cooking gas prices — Puri put the total liability at over Rs 1.5 lakh crore. “In ‘India’s Lost Decade’ known for rampant impunity & policy paralysis, UPA Govt saddled future govts with Oil Bonds. More than Rs 1.5 lakh cr of these remain to be repaid, thus tying up crucial resources, limiting fiscal space & restricting financial freedom of OMCs,” he had tweeted. After the introduction of the GST regime, excise duty is levied only on petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas. Barring these products, all other goods and services are under the GST regime. The bulk of excise duty collection is from the levy on petrol and diesel and with sales picking up with a rebounding economy, the incremental collections in the current year may be over Rs 1 lakh crore when compared with the previous year, industry sources said. In all, the UPA government had issued Rs 1.34 lakh crore worth of bonds (equivalent to a sovereign commitment to pay in future) to state-owned oil companies to compensate them for selling fuel such as cooking gas LPG, kerosene and diesel at rates below cost. Of this, Rs 10,000 crore is due to be repaid in the current fiscal, according to the finance ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||PhonePe looking to expand into financial services||Walmart-backed digital payments service provider PhonePe is looking to expand into financial services  with an eye to reach a user base of 500 million. The payments major, which has 314 million registered users and a 46 per cent market share in UPI payments according to NPCI data, has recently secured an insurance broking licence and an account aggregator licence from the RBI for consent-based financial data sharing. PhonePe has also applied for a payments aggregator license and is expecting a stock broking licence. “The focus area now is the BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) category. Since the start of the pandemic we have been focussing on insurance distribution. We have started our mutual fund platform. We are looking at stock broking and also want to become an account aggregator,” said Rahul Chari, CTO and co-founder of PhonePe. “We are currently at 300 million plus user base. The next 200 million users are largely expected from smaller locations and beyond and achieving this will be a great milestone,” he said, adding that the aim is not to focus on payments only but have financial services at scale. The company will also evaluate lending activities as part of its financial services ambition but a foray into the category may not be immediate, Chari said. Last year PhonePe had announced a partial spinoff from Flipkart and raised $700 million in a round valuing the company at $5.5 billion. “With the partial spinoff and $700 million infusion, we currently have more than enough capital in the medium-term. We also have patient investors who see the long term opportunity,” said Chari. Over the past one-and-a-half years, Chari said, PhonePe has been able to control spending while continuing to invest, Payments as a standalone business is expected to be profitable soon. PhonePe has clocked a total of 1492.09 million transactions in July, valued at Rs 2.8 lakh crore on the UPI platform. Nearly 80 per cent of the transactions are from smaller cities and beyond. PhonePe is in no hurry to launch its IPO and will go public “when it makes sense” for the company, even as a number of Indian internet companies, including rival Paytm, line up to mark their debut on Dalal Street in the coming months. The company has just “scratched the surface” when it comes to financial services and is excited about the prospects in multiple verticals like insurance, PhonePe CEO Sameer Nigam told PTI. Amazon Pay The UPI based online payments services of global e-commerce major Amazon has reached 5 crore customers. Amazon Pay said that in the last one year, over 75 per cent of its customers have come from the smaller cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Govt plans to come out with relief package for telecom sector||The government plans to come out with a relief package for the telecom sector, burdened by huge dues in adjusted gross revenues that threaten to turn the industry into a duopoly even as a relief package gives the operators access to funds for investment. Sources said the department of telecommunications is working out the package and will hold discussions with the finance ministry before it is finalised and sent to the Union cabinet for approval. They said the package could come out this month itself as delay even by a day will further weaken the sector. Besides, the sops would give the operators enough time to plan out their strategies for the 5G spectrum auction. The broad contours of the package, sources said, seem to have figured during a meeting of Aditya Birla Group (ABG) chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and Vodafone Global head Nick Read with the Union minister of telecom Ashwini Vaishnav last week. Possible measures The government may reduce the revenue share licence fee to 6 per cent of the operators’ adjusted gross revenue (AGR) from 8 per cent now. This would be done by reducing the component of universal service obligation levy to 3 per cent from 5 per cent. This reduction in the licence fee by two percentage points will provide a relief of around Rs 3,000 crore annually to the operators. The moratorium for spectrum payments may also be extended by a year or two. In November 2019, the government had offered the moratorium till 2021-22. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the industry was being handed out a Rs 42,000- crore lifeline. The DoT is likely to recommend changes in the foreign direct investment (FDI) norms. Although 100 per cent FDI is allowed, only up to 49 per cent is via the automatic route, with government approval required for the rest. The level of automatic inflow can be increased to 74 per cent of FDI. Telecom operators’ association COAI in a letter to the government had urged doubling the tenure of auctioned radio wave holdings, along with a 7-10 year moratorium for spectrum payments. The association, whose members include Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio, had suggested reducing the licence fee, the universal service obligation levy and spectrum usage charges to cover  administrative and regulatory costs. The industry wants a licence fee of 1 per cent of AGR against 3 per cent now. It has also advocated a reduction in the universal service obligation levy. Besides, the interest rate on deferred spectrum payment liabilities should be reduced to 4 per cent for all current and future payments, including AGR payments. Dues to banks The collapse of Vodafone Idea would have larger implications as banks have a exposure in the telecom player. As many as eight banks have lent to Vodafone Idea, with SBI the most at Rs 11,000 crore. Other lenders include IDFC First (Rs 3,240 crore), Yes Bank (Rs 4,000 crore), IndusInd Bank (Rs 3,500 crore), Punjab National Bank (Rs 3,000 crore), ICICI Bank (Rs 1,700 crore), Axis Bank (Rs1,300 crore) and HDFC Bank (Rs 1,000 crore). According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore out of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore and Rs 50,399.63 crore is outstanding. The telco has to pay nearly Rs 1,500 crore to the DoT as AGR every quarter over the next 10 financial years between 2021 and 2031. Vodafone Idea’s gross debt, excluding lease liabilities, stood at Rs 180,310 crore as on March 31, 2021. The amount included deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 96,270 crore and debt from banks and financial institutions of Rs 23,080 crore apart from the AGR liability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||India||'Standing resolutely and fearless': Rahul Gandhi voices support for protesting farmers||A day after thousands of farmers gathered at a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday voiced support for the protesting farmers and said they are fearless and standing resolutely.  The BJP attacked Gandhi and alleged that he was trying to fuel propaganda by tweeting an old picture "to claim success of the mahapanchayat".  "Standing resolutely and fearless, here are the 'Bharat Bhagya Vidhata'," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi along with a photograph of a massive public gathering.  Gandhi used the hashtag of 'FarmersProtest' along with his tweet.  Attacking Gandhi, the BJP's Information and Technology Department head Amit Malviya tweeted, "That Rahul Gandhi has to use an old picture to claim success of the Mahapanchayat just shows how the propaganda to call it a well attended 'farmer' agitation hasn't worked."  "It is political. With religious slogans raised, it leaves no one in doubt, what the actual motivation is!" he said.  Slamming Malviya, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary said the photograph tagged by Gandhi was from a kisan panchayat organised by his party in Shamli and asked what the BJP leader wanted to say. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states on Sunday gathered in Muzaffarnagar for the 'kisan mahapanchayat' and vowed to continue their stir till the three contentious agri laws enacted by the Centre are scrapped.  The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) which has been spearheading the agitation against the laws since November last year.  The farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the three contentious laws has been going on for over nine months.  They have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they feel will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.  The government has insisted that these laws have given farmers a new opportunity to sell their produce and rejected claims that they are aimed at doing away with the minimum support price regime and farm mandis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Seek prior approval to probe corrupt ministers, other officials: Centre to police officers||The Centre has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for police officers to seek mandatory prior approval before conducting any investigation against allegedly corrupt public servants, according to a Personnel Ministry order. An amendment carried out in the over 30-year-old Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA), 1988 in July 2018 bars a police officer from conducting "any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant" without "the previous approval" of the authorities. The SOPs were issued “to standardize and operationalise procedures with a view to achieving uniform and effective implementation for prior approval processes”, more than three years after the amendments came into force. They provide for stage-wise processing of information received by a police officer, specify the rank of the police officer to seek prior approval and lay down a single-window procedure for it among others, said the order issued to secretaries of the central and state government departments. All administrative authorities, including ministries and departments of the central and the state governments, besides the investigating agencies, have been asked to ensure "strict compliance" of the SOPs, it said. The SOPs have been shared with the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) "with the request that all field units may kindly be apprised of these SOPs for strict compliance", and also with the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC). The SOPs make it mandatory for a police officer to verify whether the information received by him pertains to the allegation of the commission of an offence by a public servant or whether it contains information to identify the public servant(s) against whom the offence has been alleged. It also makes it mandatory for them to specify act(s) of commission or omission attributable to such public servant(s) and "whether such act(s) are relatable to the official function or duty discharged by such public servant(s) specific to the office/post held at the time of commission of the alleged offence". “The police officer in receipt of an information shall place the matter before the police officer of appropriate rank for seeking previous approval,” it said. The SOPs have specified the police officer of appropriate rank who will make a proposal to the appropriate government/authority in respect of a person who is or has been a public servant, said the order. The police officer of appropriate rank will decide upon whether the information received merits to be "enquired" or inquired into or investigated, it said. Enquiry for the purposes of these SOPs means any action taken for verifying as to whether the information pertains to the commission of an offence, the order clarified. A director general (DG) or DG-equivalent police officer has been specified in the SOPs to seek prior approvals for Union ministers, Members of Parliament, ministers of state governments, members of state legislature, judge of the Supreme Court and high court, and chairpersons or managing directors of public sector enterprises (both central and state) and public sector banks (board-level). The Personnel Ministry has also shared a checklist for police officers for processing cases of prior approvals, said the ministry's order. The police officer will have to enclose a copy of the complaint if the request seeking approval against an allegedly corrupt officer is based on it. They would also have to enclose an authenticated translation in case the original complaint has been made in a vernacular language, it said. They will have to furnish details whether the complaint prima facie reveals deriving of an undue advantage by a public servant for self or any other person, information in respect of bribe giver and "details of the recommendation made or decision taken by a public servant, which is relatable to the offence alleged against the public servant", according to the order. The government authorities have been asked to "designate an officer" "not below the rank of an under-secretary for receiving the proposals relating to previous approval", it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Javed Akhtar faces heat for Taliban-RSS remark||Lyricist-poet Javed Akhtar on Monday came under attack from the Shiv Sena and the VHP for his comments that appear to equate the RSS and other right-wing outfits with the Taliban, a militant group that has seized power in Afghanistan, while police stepped up security outside his Mumbai home. Akhtar (76) recently told a news channel that right wing all over the world has an uncanny similarity. "The Taliban want an Islamic country. These people want to make a Hindu Rashtra," the veteran lyricist said without naming the RSS. A Maharashtra BJP MLA over the weekend hit out at Akhtar and said no film involving him will be allowed to be screened till he apologises for his remarks. The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, a former ally of the BJP, on Monday came out in defence of the Nagpur-headquartered Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and dubbed Akhtar''s comments as "completely wrong". "How can you say those who favour the concept of a Hindu Rashtra are of Talibani mindset? We don''t agree with this," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece ''Saamana'' said. Referring to his remarks, the editorial said, "Even though Javed Akhtar is a secular man and speaks against fundamentalism, he is completely wrong in comparing the RSS with the Taliban. The Marathi publication said the stand of those who propagate a Hindu nation is moderate. "The Partition which led to the creation of Pakistan was based on religion. Those who support a Hindu nation only want that the majority Hindus shouldn''t be sidelined. Hindutva is a culture and people of the community demand the right to stop those who attack this culture," it said. The Sena edit maintained that comparing Hindutva with the Taliban is an "insult" of the Hindu culture. "Despite being a Hindu majority country, we have raised the flag of secularism. The proponents of Hindutva only want that Hindus shouldn''t be sidelined," it said. "You can have differences with the RSS, but to call their philosophy Talibani is completely wrong," the Marathi daily added. The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) slammed Akhtar, saying his comments were a "conspiracy" to confuse the society and demanded strict action against the Bollywood lyricist. A top VHP functionary said the RSS and its affiliates do not believe in violence which was the case with the Taliban, seen as a violent movement. “The Taliban is a terrorist organisation which believes in violence and is anti-women. Comparing such organisations with the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal.....I condemn his statement. All these three organisations do not believe in violence and do not work against anyone. "They do social service. It seems like a conspiracy when such big people give such statements and society gets confused. His statement was aimed at confusing society by telling lies. Strict action should be taken against him,” VHP national general secretary Milind Parande told reporters in Nagpur. As Akhtar faced heat, police stepped up security outside his residence in Mumbai. Adequate police force, including women constables, was deployed outside Akhtar''s residence in suburban Juhu, an official said. BJP MLA and state spokesperson Ram Kadam condemned Akhtar''s remarks. The legislator from Mumbai said no film involving Akhtar will be allowed to be screened in the country until he apologises over his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Kerala: 11 contacts of 12-year-old Nipah victim show symptoms||The Kerala health department has identified 251 persons who have come in contact with the 12-year-old boy, who succumbed to Nipah virus infection, out of which 38 are in isolation at the Kozhikode Medical College hospital and of which 11 have shown symptoms, Health Minister Veena George said on Monday.  George, in a press meet here, said of the 251 contacts, 129 are healthcare workers.  "There are 38 persons in isolation at the Kozhikode Medical College hospital of which 11 have shown symptoms. Samples of eight persons have been sent to Pune NIV for testing," the minister said, adding that the health condition of all those who have shown symptoms are stable.  She said of the 251 contacts, 54 are high risk contacts out of which 30 are healthcare workers. This includes parents and few close relatives of the child too. "These contacts were identified following strict protocol," she said.  She said the special laboratory set up at the medical college hospital here by the Pune NIV team, which reached the state in the afternoon, will start testing the samples from tonight.  A medical expert team has visited the house and locality of the child. Another team from the Animal Husbandry Department also inspected the locality.  "The blood and serum samples of the two goats, owned by the child's family, will be tested at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal," the Minister said, adding that a team from Bhopal NIV will reach Kozhikode on Wednesday.  George also informed that the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kozhikode taluk has been halted for the next 48 hours. However, testing and other related activities will continue.  Special teams have been formed for a detailed collection of information from the locality of the child's house.  "The team will collect every single detail from all the houses in the containment zone. One team has been assigned for every 25 houses," she said.  Earlier in the day, the state government had issued a Nipah management plan listing the health protocol to be followed by government and private hospitals.  The state health department has been on high alert after a 12-year-old boy from Kozhikode succumbed to Nipah virus infection on Sunday.  An area of three kilometre radius from the house of the deceased child has been declared as a containment zone. This includes wards from five panchayats. The health department in four districts--Kozhikode, neighbouring Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad districts have been put on high alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Six minor girls paraded naked in MP to appease rain gods||At least six minor girls were paraded naked in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district as part of a ritual to please the rain god and get relief from the drought-like situation, officials said on Monday. Taking cognisance, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also sought a report from the Damoh district administration about this incident which occurred on Sunday at Baniya village under the Jabera police station area, about 50 km from the Damoh district headquarter, in the Bundelkhand region. A district official said, “A response will be submitted to the NCPCR.” Damoh superintendent of police (SP) DR Teniwar said, “The police received the information that some young girls were paraded naked to appease the God of rains as part of local practice and prevailing social evils.” Police are investigating this incident. Action will be taken if it is found that girls were forced to go naked, he said, adding villagers believe that this practice may result in rain. According to beliefs, young girls are made to walk naked with a wooden shaft rested on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. Women accompanying these girls sing bhajans to praise the rain god, he said. Damoh collector S Krishna Chaitanya said the local administration will submit a report in this regard to the NCPCR. He said the parents of these girls are also involved in this incident and they will be made aware of such superstitious practices. The district collector said none of the villagers complained about this 'ritual'. “In such cases, the administration can only make the villagers aware about the futility of such superstition and make them understand that such practices don't yield desired results,” he told reporters. Meanwhile, two videos of the incident have surfaced. In one of the video clips, girls (looking aged around 5 years) without clothes are seen walking side by side with a wooden shaft resting on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. A group of women singing bhajans follows the procession. In another video, some women can be heard saying that this ritual was being performed as the paddy crop is drying in the absence of rains. "We believe that this will bring in rains," they can be heard telling the person who recorded the incident. These women said that they would collect raw food grain from villagers during the procession and then cook food for 'bhandara' (group feast) at a local temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||BJP govt should respect farmer agitation; withdraw farm laws: Akhilesh||The BJP government should show respect to the protesting farmers and repeal the contentious farm laws, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday and added that the country would not tolerate any insult to the peasantry. Talking to reporters here, Yadav referred to Sunday's 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Muzaffarnagar and said, “I congratulate the farmers for uniting against the three new farm laws. The kind of dreams that the BJP had shown to the farmers, it promised farmers' income will double. But their income did not double, instead inflation increased.” “The BJP government should have respected the struggle of the farmers and withdrawn the three farm laws. The nation will not accept any insult to the farmers,” he added. Yadav was in Agra to meet the family members of his party leaders who died during the second wave of Covid-19. Yadav said the SP has left the Jaswantnagar assembly seat for the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), founded by his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav, to contest and added that his party respects the latter's associates. On forming alliance for the 2022 assembly polls, he said that his party would tie up with smaller parties, but ruled out any coalition with the BSP. "We had formed coalition with the BSP earlier, but this time it will not be done," he said. On the decision of the AIMIM led by Asaduddin Owaisi to contest the UP polls, Yadav said, “The state is big and many more people would come here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Karnal: Ahead of farmers’ mega meet, mobile internet suspended||The Haryana government on Monday ordered suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal district to ‘stop the spread of misinformation and rumours’, a day ahead of the farmers' mahapanchayat and planned gherao of the mini-secretariat over the August 28 lathicharge. The mobile internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 12:30 pm on Monday to Tuesday midnight, according to an order of the Home Department. The order, issued “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of Karnal district, said mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services, including bulk SMS (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services etc provided on mobile networks, except voice calling, will remain suspended”. “Whereas, it has been brought to my notice vide...dated September 6 by ADGP (CID), Haryana and District Magistrate, Karnal, that there is chance of intensification of protest which may adversely affect the public safety and law and order situation in Karnal district in the wake of call for Kisan Mahapanchayat on September 7.” “And whereas, there is a clear potential of disruption of public utilities and safety, damage to public assets and amenities and law and order in district Karnal on account of misuse of internet services by way of spread of inflammatory material and false rumours, which are being/could be transmitted/circulated to the public through social media/messaging services on mobile Internet services, SMS services and other dongle services,” the order said. It further added that the suspension of mobile Internet services was ordered to stop the spread of misinformation and rumours through social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter on mobile phones and SMS. It said this could facilitate mobilisation of mobs that can cause serious loss of life and damage to public and private properties by indulging in arson, vandalism or other violent activities. All telecom service providers of Haryana are, hereby, directed to ensure compliance of the order, it added. Earlier on Monday, prohibitory orders banning gathering of five or more people were imposed in Karnal. The district administration issued orders under section 144 of the CrPC and a traffic advisory with planned route diversions, officials said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 if its demands were not met. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Monday said a mahapanchayat will be held in Karnal on Tuesday, after which farmers will proceed to gherao the mini-secretariat. “Farmers will be gathering in Karnal's New Anaj Mandi on Tuesday morning,” he said, adding their demands have not been met and they will go ahead with their protest. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to ‘break heads’ of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Russia shares India's concern on Afghan terror factory, notes envoy||The Afghan soil should not be a source of spreading terrorism in other countries of the region and both Russia and India have ‘common concerns’ over it in the backdrop of the unfolding situation in Afghanistan, Russian Ambassador Nikolay Kudashev mentioned on Monday. Delving into implications of the latest developments in Afghanistan, the Russian envoy also said, “There is a danger of the possible spread of terror into Russian territory as well as Kashmir, noting that India and Russia will continue to work together to counter any threat of terrorism.” Kudashev told PTI in an interview that Russia would like to see an inclusive government in Afghanistan that is able to ensure security, stability and predictability, adding the issue of recognition to any new dispensation in Kabul is not an immediate area of focus. The Russian envoy said, “There is "ample scope" for cooperation between India and Russia on Afghanistan and both sides have been in regular touch with each other on the latest developments in the war-torn country.” “Both India and Russia are concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. We want an inclusive government. We want that the Afghan soil should not be a source of terror for other countries in the region,” Kudashev said. “These are the very basic values that bring Russia and India together. I do not see much of a difference in our position on Afghanistan,” he said. Asked whether Russia is concerned about the possible export of terrorism to Russia from Afghanistan, the envoy said ‘definitely’ and noted that any escalation of the civilian conflict would be detrimental to the regional security scenario. “As far as the phenomena of terror are concerned, we do share our concerns with India. There is a danger of terror being spread to the Russian territory and the territory of Kashmir. This is a matter of common concern,” Kudashev said, replying to a question on the possibility of various terror groups operating from Afghanistan shifting focus from the war-ravaged country. Asked about Pakistan backing various terror groups operating in Afghanistan and whether they pose a threat to regional security, Kudashev said, “Russia expects Pakistan to be among the countries that would like to see predictability and a secure environment in Afghanistan.” There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of a rise in activities of various terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan. Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in Doha last Tuesday. In the meeting, Mittal conveyed to Stanekzai that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism. It was the first publicly acknowledged formal engagement between the two sides. Kudashev said tackling the threat of terror has been a matter of continued dialogue between Russia and India under multiple frameworks, including the bilateral mechanism of the counter-terror working group. “Counter-terrorism is part of each and every bilateral meeting. Rest assured we know about this danger and we are most willing to cooperate to deal with it,” he said. The Russian envoy said his country would like to see the ‘future in Afghanistan with optimism’ and there is a need to give some time to any new dispensation in Afghanistan. “We are for an inclusive government in Afghanistan that can ensure sustainable development in the war-torn country. The Afghan people deserve peace, stability, and sustainable development just as any other nation in the world,” Kudashev said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on August 24 discussed the developments in Afghanistan over a week after its capital Kabul fell to the Taliban. After the conversation, Russian envoy said that the two leaders expressed the intention to enhance cooperation to counter the dissemination of ‘terrorist ideology’ and the drug threat emanating from Afghanistan and agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on the issue. Russia has been a key player in pushing for the Afghan peace process before the Taliban captured power in Kabul. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||High Court adjourns Varavara Rao’s plea for interim bail extension||The Bombay High Court on Monday adjourned till September 24 the hearing on the plea for interim bail extension of poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, and said he need not surrender to Taloja prison authorities till September 25. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the case, opposed Rao's plea for the extension of medical bail and to shift to Hyderabad from Mumbai, saying his medical reports did not indicate that he suffers from any serious medical ailment. Rao (82), who was granted interim bail on medical grounds in February 22 this year, was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. But, last week, the activist, through lawyer R Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover, filed an application seeking extension of the bail. Rao had also sought permission to stay in his hometown Hyderabad while out on bail, saying he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities here unaffordable. In its affidavit filed before the HC on Monday, the NIA said, "The medical reports filed by the applicant do not disclose any major ailment which necessitates him to take treatment at Hyderabad, neither it forms a ground for further extension (of bail)." The NIA, in its affidavit, further said, "The Taloja prison, located in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, had adequate health care facilities and Rao can be provided with the"best medical facilities there." The probe agency also said Rao should not be granted bail extension and should not be allowed to shift to Hyderabad as he is accused of committing a "serious" offence. "They (Rao) cannot expect the Hon'ble courts to pass orders as per their convenience, especially when the accused has prima facie committed offence of serious nature," the NIA said in its affidavit. As part of the stringent interim bail conditions imposed by the HC, Rao has been staying with his wife in a rented accommodation in Mumbai. When he was granted bail, Rao was undergoing treatment for multiple ailments at the city-based private Nanavati Hospital, where was admitted by prison authorities following the HC's intervention. On Monday, Grover told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that after being discharged from the Nanavati Hospital in February this year, Rao had developed three additional health ailments. NIA's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the HC that the central agency had filed a "detailed affidavit" opposing Rao's plea. The bench, however, pointed out that it had an administrative meeting to attend and could not hear further arguments in the matter. Grover then urged the HC to extend Rao's date of surrender till the next date of hearing. The HC agreed and said Rao needn't surrender till September 25, but added that he must continue adhering to the bail conditions until then, including staying within the jurisdiction of the Mumbai NIA court. In his plea seeking extension of medical bail and modification of bail conditions, Rao said as per doctors of the Nanavati Hospital, he is suspected to have a neurological issue, known as cluster headache, which needs further examination. Rao further said in the plea that he continues to suffer from multiple ailments, including urinary tract infection with recurrent hyponatremia, suspicion of Parkinsons' disease, lacunar infarcts in six major lobes of the brain, and some eye problems. The activist contended that if he returned to custody in the Taloja prison, which was not equipped to cater to his medical problems, his health would certainly deteriorate and he might die. Thus, he sought that his medical bail be extended for another six months. "All medical parameters of the applicant go to show that if he is sent back to judicial custody, it will not be long before his condition reverts back to what it was," Rao's plea read. Rao also said in his plea that he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities here unaffordable, and urged the HC to let him stay in Hyderabad while out in bail. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Kerala HC directs Centre to schedule second Covishield dose on CoWIN portal||The Kerala High Court has directed the Centre to allow scheduling, on CoWIN portal, of second Covishield dose after four weeks from the first for those who want to take it earlier than the present suggested gap of 84 days. Justice P B Suresh Kumar said that if the central and state governments can permit persons traveling abroad to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19, there is no reason why the same privilege cannot be extended to those here who want early protection in connection with their employment or education. The high court, in its order dated September 3 which was made available on Monday, said that even according to the Union Health Ministry's policy the people shall have the choice to get early vaccination, for the implementation of which vaccine is being distributed on payment basis through private hospitals as well. "The fourth respondent (Centre) is directed to make necessary provisions forthwith in the CoWIN portal, so as to enable scheduling of second dose of Covidhield vaccine after four weeks of the first dose for those who want to accept the second dose after a period of four weeks in terms of the initial protocol of the vaccine," the court said. The observations and directions of the court came while allowing the plea by Kitex Garments Ltd, represented by advocate Blaze K Jose, seeking permission to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine to its workers without having to wait for 84 days. Kitex, in its plea had said that it has already vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly Rs 93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions. The Centre had opposed the plea by contending that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield was fixed to increase the efficacy of the vaccine, as recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and was also based on the technical inputs provided by the National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NITAG).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Asian Development Bank clears $150 mn loan for Tamil Nadu’s urban poor housing project||Multilateral funding agency Asian Development Bank has approved a USD 150 million (about Rs 1,095 crore) loan for a sustainable housing project for the urban poor in Tamil Nadu. The loan to provide access to inclusive, resilient, and sustainable housing for the urban poor in Tamil Nadu was approved on September 3, 2021, ADB said in a release on Monday. The Manila-headquartered funding agency said Tamil Nadu is vital to India's economic growth, contributing 8.54 per cent to the country's gross domestic product (GDP). Economic opportunities have increased rural urban migration in the state, which already has one of the highest urbanisation rates in India. "Tamil Nadu's housing shortfall accounts for 6.66 per cent of the national deficit, and when mapped against income levels, low-income households bear most of the shortage," said ADB Principal Safeguards Specialist for South Asia Ricardo Carlos Barba. The aim is to provide vulnerable and disadvantaged households access to inclusive, safe, and affordable housing infrastructure and services, Barba said. Tamil Nadu has a population of more than 72 million (7.2 crore), nearly half of which are living in urban areas. The rapid urbanization and growth in the urban population will require adequate urban infrastructure and services, including housing, ADB said. With this USD 150 million loan, through the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, the project will construct housing units in nine different locations and relocate about 6,000 households vulnerable to natural hazards to safer locations. It will also help Tamil Nadu's Directorate of Town and Country Planning develop regional plans to map the state's economic and infrastructure development including affordable housing, environmental protection, disaster risk management, and gender, ADB said. A portion of ADB's assistance will be invested by the state government as equity into the Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund to catalyze private sector financing and support investments mainly in industrial housing and working women's hostels for low-income and migrant workers. In addition, ADB will provide a USD 1.5 million (nearly Rs 10.95 crore) technical assistance (TA) grant from its Technical Assistance Special Fund to support the capacity building of government agencies responsible for delivering affordable housing and regional planning in the state. The TA will document successful approaches to affordable housing delivery, including the graduation programme for vulnerable relocated beneficiaries, that can be adopted in other cities and countries, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||BJP calls Rahul Gandhi ‘political cuckoo’ of Indian politics||With Rahul Gandhi attacking the government over the farmers' protest, the BJP on Monday dubbed him as a political cuckoo of Indian politics who, it alleged, does not want to work on the ground and uses the shoulders of others for his political agenda. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also accused the Congress leader of posting an old picture of farmers' protest while referring to their Sunday mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, and said this is part of his politics of spreading confusion and lies . The Congress is without a (regular) president. It is incapable of raising ground issues. That is why Sonia Gandhi holds virtual meetings with leaders of other parties while Rahul Gandhi relies on old photographs in his attempt to spread confusion for politics, Patra told a press conference. Sonia Gandhi is the interim president of the party. As a cuckoo does not build her nest and seeks comfort in nests of other birds, Rahul Gandhi also works in a similar manner, he said. He does not work to build his party's organisation. He does not work hard. It has become his habit to use others' shoulders for politics, he charged. With protesting farmer unions hitting out at the government, Patra claimed that the Modi dispensation was always dedicated to farmers and will remain so. He cited a number of measures taken by the government, including direct transfer of over Rs 1.5 lakh crore to farmers, and record procurement and payment for their produce, to make his point. Citing the Morning Consult survey that ranked Modi with the highest approval rating of 70 per cent among 13 heads of governments, including Joe Biden and Boris Johnson, Patra said it was possible because of the government's achievements, including a host of welfare measures for the poor, deprived and farmers. At the press conference, the BJP spokesperson also referred to India's Covid-19 vaccination drive, which has been gathering pace and clocked over one crore jabs on two days recently, and hit out at Rahul Gandhi, who had earlier criticised the alleged slow pace of inoculation. Over 68.75 crore people have received at least one dose of vaccination, which has reached an average daily figure of 85 lakh, he said. Now Rahul Gandhi is not seen posting any tweet on the vaccination drive, he said. He also attacked the Congress leader for not speaking out on the alleged rape of a minor in Rajasthan and registration of an FIR against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father for his remarks allegedly targeting a community. While Gandhi spreads confusion everywhere for his politics, he has kept quiet on these issues involving the Congress-ruled states, Patra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||The drone takeoff has started, thanks to the new government rules||Ever since drones began flying, the government has looked upon them as a problem to be wished away. There was the danger to planes landing at airports. And, of course, there was a security risk and the possibility terrorists might use them to carry explosive devices. Consequently, the government kept drones tethered to the earth with a book full of rules and red tape. Suddenly, though, the government’s done a 180-degree about-turn and the nascent industry says the sky’s now the limit. “The takeoff has started,” says Smit Shah, who’s the director of the Drone Federation of India. Shah said a “rough estimate suggests in the next five years it will be more than a Rs 50,000-crore business.” He adds: “It could even be 10 times more.” Shah also says the industry could create 500,000 professional jobs over the next five years as the new rules open up opportunities for local manufacture of delivery drones. The new regulations make India “future-ready,” he declares. In recent years, drones have been evolving beyond their military original purpose to become powerful business tools. Globally, they’ve already made the leap to the consumer market and now they’re being put to work in commercial and civilian government applications from firefighting to farming. These developments have created a market opportunity that Goldman Sachs has called “too hot to ignore.” Green, yellow & red zones The country is about to be divided into green, yellow and red zones. Drones will be allowed to fly freely in green zones and subject to certain rules in the yellow zones. They’ll need permission to fly in Red Zones which will be around airports, defence establishments and government offices. Vipul Singh, CEO and co-founder Aarav Unmanned Systems (UAS), isn’t even looking ahead five years – he’s more worried about the next six months when he believes there will be a “40-times expansion in the number of drones.” He’s now worrying about how to up production, raise funds and train staff to cope with this sudden booming growth. For the moment, he isn’t worrying too much about revenues which he says will follow automatically. So what’s likely to be on the drone flight path over the next year? “You’ll see the first drone prototype air-taxis being built out of India in less than 12 months,” Shah predicts confidently, adding: “You may not have people flying in that prototype. But it will be a prototype that can be graduated for trials and people flying as well.” E-commerce package delivery Besides that, Shah reckons, we will soon have e-commerce packages and even, “very complex heavy packages” being delivered by drones, even between nearby cities once air passages are established. At a different level, he sees drones being used to drop medicines in hilly areas or to rural healthcare centres that don’t have fridges to store cold chain medicines. Besides that, there are already enormous government schemes waiting to take off that will literally need swarms of drones. There’s Svamvita which works with the Ministry of Panchayati Raj and the Land Records Department in different states and which aims to demarcate private and government property and create land records in India’s 6.6 lakh villages. Already more than 100 drones have been flying daily in states across the country working on this project but it’s reckoned about 3,000 will be needed to get it done efficiently. On a similar scale, there’s the government’s crop insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana. Roads and railways Turn to the public and private sectors and they will also step up the use of drones now that it’s easy to get them into the air without flying into a wall of red tape. Drones are of immense use in the infrastructure sector, in sectors like roads and railways. Also, for instance, they can quickly keep an overhead eye on oil and gas and petroleum pipelines. Mining companies too need them and so do iron and steel and coal companies. For these companies which keep large quantities of their raw materials out in the open drones can help with quick stocktaking. Also, there are a huge number of small drones being used by almost every wedding photographer or anyone covering an event. Giant Cos making a move Not surprisingly, the country’s giant corporations like the Ambanis, the Adanis, the Mahindras and the Tatas have all been making moves into the sector. Mukesh Ambani has bought a majority stake in Asteria which develops drones both for mining, oil & gas, agriculture and security-oriented vehicles for the police, paramilitary and military. Ambani also invested $100,000 in Detect Technologies which makes drones for surveying power company transmission lines and the suchlike. These have been increasingly in demand since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out forcing companies to use lower manpower on the ground. The Adanis and the Tatas, too, are making UAVs for the police and security services. And Mahindra Defence has tied up with Aeronautics of Israel to make unmanned vehicles primarily for the navy and also for crop spraying. The government, till recently showed no signs of wanting to loosen the rules that had tied the drone industry in knots over the last decade. After considerable lobbying by the Drone Federation of India, in March the government introduced what it called the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules 2021. To the industry’s dismay, the new rules simply refined the existing system of tight controls. Repeal in 3 months But the Drone Federation didn’t give up and amazingly less than three months later the government reversed course sharply. Says Smit Shah: “The repeal has come in just over three months. Under the same government, the same people. We started from a very control-centric and very licence-oriented regulation and then complete liberalisation.” Shah says the Prime Minister’s Office was deeply involved in loosening the regulations. Now that the government’s done its about-face, its ambitions for the industry are boundless. "India is on the cusp of a major drone revolution. The future belongs to drones,” Union aviation secretary P. S. Kharola said at the weekend. "We want to become drone leaders in the world. India is best suited for this sector as it became the IT capital of the world, then the startup capital and now drones beckon us," he said at the inauguration of a remote aircraft pilot training school in Bangalore on Sunday. Market valu: $20.24 billion The drones market is valued at $20.24 billion in 2020 and is forecast to post CAGR of nearly 16 per cent to 2026. The new rules apply to all drones of under 500kg and once a basic registration has been done the paperwork is now minimal. The number of forms needed to operate a drone has fallen from 25 to five and the types of fees from 72 to four. Most of the country is expected to be in the green zones for which no permissions are needed below a certain height. This is a huge change from before. Says Shah: “Before if any drone company wanted to do legal operation, they had to ask for an exemption from the rules.” Industry was waiting Mind you, the drone industry was just waiting for a green flag to get going. There are already 100 drone manufacturers, 200 service providers and 25,000 trained pilots. There are already eight drone aircraft system remote pilot training sites across India approved by the DGCA (Director General of Civil Aviation) in India. Karnataka has also just opened its first DGCA-approved (Director General of Civil Aviation) drone-training site. The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi, which has been training commercial airline pilots since 1986, is tying up with the drone-manufacturing company, Drone Destination, to set up drone pilot training centres. The companies launched one training centre in Manesar earlier in the year and the second was inaugurated in Bangalore at the weekend. Aerial spraying of crops Singh of Aarav Unmanned Systems points out that the Agriculture Ministry has recently loosened the rules and given the green signal for aerial spraying of crops – this hadn’t been allowed earlier. Besides that, in February, the government has also loosened the rules surrounding the collection of geospatial data. Again, the government has changed course sharply on geospatial data. Before it had taken a heavily security-oriented approach to allowing the capture of data. Singh notes that drones can be used at almost every stage of building roads. They can be used to map the route a road should take. Then drones flying overhead can monitor construction. And finally, they can identify potholes or other needed repairs. Aarav both makes drones and also operates them for its clients. Singh is looking at whether he will have to open a new facility in the coming months and also how he will build up staff and pilot training modules. Besides that, he’s also worried about global supply chains that have been severely disrupted by the pandemic. He could be spectacularly busy in the coming months – but he isn’t about to complain about that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||BJP seeks apology over Javed Akhtar's remark||Security was beefed up outside the residence of writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar in Mumbai on Monday after a Maharashtra BJP MLA demand an apology from him over his remark where he allegedly compared the RSS with the Taliban, a police official said. Adequate police bandobast was placed outside Akhtar's residence near the ISKCON temple in Juhu area, the official said, adding that security personnel, including women constables, were deployed outside the lyricist's home. Akhtar recently told a news channel that right-wing all over the world has an uncanny similarity. "The Taliban want an Islamic country. These people want to make a Hindu Rashtra," the lyricist said without naming the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). BJP MLA and state party spokesperson Ram Kadam condemned Akhtar's remark. The legislator from Mumbai said no film involving Akhtar will be allowed to be screened in the country until he apologises to Sangh functionaries over his comments. The Shiv Sena, which shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, on Monday said Akhtar was "completely wrong" in comparing the RSS with the Taliban. "How can you say those who favour the concept of a Hindu Rashtra are of Talibani mindset? We don't agree with this," an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||SC chides govt over appointments in tribunals||The Supreme Court Monday said the Centre was testing its patience and "emasculating" tribunals by not appointing officials to the quasi-judicial bodies which are facing severe crunch of presiding officers as well as judicial and technical members and sought action on the matter by September 13. Asserting that it did not want any confrontation with the government, a special bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the Centre to make some appointments to the tribunals before next Monday. There are around 250 posts lying vacant at various key tribunals and appellate tribunals such as NCLT, DRT, TDSAT andT. "You are emasculating the tribunals by not making the appointments," said the bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested the bench to adjourn hearing due to non-availability of Attorney General K K Venugopal due to personal issues. "No, sorry. Last time, we had made it very clear. We have set up this special bench of two senior judges by disturbing two regular benches. They had earlier heard these matters and passed detailed judgements," the CJI said. "There is no respect for the judgements of this court. This is what we are feeling. You are testing our patience. Last time, you made a statement that some persons have been appointed. Where are they appointed," he said. Mehta said that these appointments were made in Central Administrative Tribunals and shared information from the Finance Ministry on the new Tribunals Reforms Act and the rules to be framed under it. "The government will ensure that within the next two weeks, a decision on appointments to all the tribunals, where the search and selection committee has already recommended names for appointments," he said. The court took note of the submissions and adjourned the hearing on a batch of pleas pertaining to the vacancies at the tribunals and the new law for further hearing on September 13. "We hope the appointments will be made by then." "It seems you are bent upon not respecting the judgement of the court... We have only three options left, one is staying the legislation or whatever the Act that you have made and directing you to go ahead with the appointments, or close down these tribunals and give the powers to high courts to take up these matters, and third is we ourselves will appoint the people. We may consider initiating contempt proceedings," the CJI said. "We do not want confrontation with the government and we are happy with the way the nine Supreme Court judges were appointed. The entire legal fraternity appreciated this... But what about these tribunals? These are small tribunals. Some of them are very good like NGT, CAT, consumer commissions, NCLT. No chairpersons, no presidents, nothing...they are collapsing. Why are you so particular about these tribunals, we do not understand," the bench said. Mehta said, "The government does not want any confrontation either." The bench asked the Centre to apprise it of alternative proposals, if any and whether it wanted these quasi-judicial bodies. It said some panels headed by judges had made some recommendations 18 months ago under the then existing laws to which the government cannot have any objection. "Still, virtually no appointments were made... Some tribunals are on the verge of closing down. Some of them are functioning with one member, they are on the verge of extinction. We can understand that there was some law which was in the offing and the Centre was saying it will make appointments according to it, but these were recommendations made strictly in accordance with the law as it existed then," the bench said. It also referred to the severe crunch of presiding officers and other members in tribunals like AFT, NCLT and NCLAT. "These tribunals are critical to the economy. They are the cornerstone of the government's policy for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the corporate sector. Because of the vacancies, NCLT and NCLAT cannot dispose of matters... There is an outer limit of 330 days for completing the corporate insolvency resolution process," it said. "There is an apex court judgment which said if insolvency proceedings are not decided within the stipulated time period, then they will have to go under liquidation," it said. Justice Chandrachud referred to the new memorandum of procedure which said that the shortlisted names will be recommended only after getting the IB (Intelligence Bureau) clearance. He said that he was once heading the selection committee for appointments in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commissions (NCDRC). As per the new MoP, you first get the IB report and then shortlist the appointments. Once you make the recommendations, there is no question of IB raising any objections. So the names which are sent by the selection committee are all IB cleared. Unless IB clears, we don't send those names because we do not want to get into a thicket, Justice Chandrachud said. "Notwithstanding that, the names recommended were deleted and there is no clarity why they are deleted and the recommendations were made by the panel to which senior officials were also part," he said, adding, "It is a waste of energy ." The bench said the apex court has to deal with the burden in the absence of a work force in tribunals. "We have appeals against interlocutory orders from NCLT. Keeping in mind the outer limit, we are interfering. We are told that the tribunal could not take up these applications. We had to extend the periods otherwise the doors would have been closed..," it said. The bench asked the Centre to set up the Central Goods and Services Tax Tribunal (CGST) as sought by lawyer Amit Sahni in his PIL. "There is no question of filing the counter affidavit. You (Centre) have to constitute the tribunal, that's all. If you want an order, we will pass an order to the effect of whatever we have said in court. If you do not want an order, we want some appointments by the next date of hearing..," it said. The top court also issued notices on several fresh pleas including the one filed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging the Constitutional validity of various provisions of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, which was passed during the recent Monsoon Session of Parliament and received Presidential assent on August 13. Earlier, the bench had given details of pending vacancies in 15 quasi-judicial bodies such as Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRTs) and Securities Appellate Tribunal. There are 19 vacant positions of presiding officers or the chairman in these tribunals, besides 110 and 111 posts of judicial and technical members respectively lying vacant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||India administering 1.25 crore Covid vaccines daily, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said India is administering 1.25 crore Covid vaccines daily which is higher than the population of several countries. Modi said Himachal Pradesh has become a champion by being the first state to administer the first dose of Covid vaccine to all eligible people despite logistic difficulties. Sikkim and Dadra and Nagar Haveli too have achieved this target, he said. Earlier, Modi interacted with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the Covid vaccination programme in the state through video conferences. Interacting with Dr Rahul, posted at the Dodra Kwar Civil Hospital in Shimla district, Modi said 10 per cent of the expenditure can be saved if all 11 shots in a single vial are used while administering Covid vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Landslides cut off Sikkim from rest of India||Landslides, triggered by heavy rains, blocked the National Highway 10, cutting off Sikkim from the rest of the country, officials said on Monday morning. Personnel of the Border Roads Organisation are clearing the highway at 29 Mile area in West Bengal's Kalimpong where the incident happened, they said. The debris from the overnight landslide has covered almost 70 m stretch and it will take some time to clear the road for one-way traffic, officials said. At present, vehicles are being diverted through an alternate narrower and longer road that passes via the Darjeeling hills, they said. The area, about 60 km from the Sikkim border town of Rangpo, is a trouble spot on the state's lifeline NH-10. It was blocked due to landslides at least four times so far this monsoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Schools reopen for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka||Schools reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka on Monday, by following strict COVID-19 protocols and standard operating procedures (SOP). As per government directions, schools have been reopened in taluks where the COVID-19 positivity rate is below 2 per cent. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said that the government decided to reopen schools after approval from the state's technical advisory committee on COVID-19. "The department had an intention of reopening schools for some time now and teachers were also ready for it, but keeping in mind the health of the students along with education and concerns of the parents, we discussed with the technical advisory committee and after taking the opinion of expert paediatricians, we are reopening schools for classes 6,7 and 8," he told reporters. The Minister said many parents and students had urged him during his recent visits to several parts of the state to reopen schools. He said the entire government machinery and district administrations have been working together with the department for the safe conduct of classes. It is mandatory for students to submit a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes and these classes are not compulsory, as there is a provision of online classes also. The government has said that offline classes for students of classes 6-8 will be held on alternate days, each with 50 per cent attendance, it will be five days a week, and the remaining two days (weekend) will be used for sanitizing and other COVID control measures. In response to a question, the Minister said, looking at how offline classes will go on, the government after consulting the technical advisory committee will make a decision on reopening schools for classes 1 to 5, but did not specify any timeline. The government had already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee appears before ED in money laundering case||Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Monday for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in the state, officials said. Banerjee, 33, arrived at the office of the central agency at Jam Nagar house in central Delhi just before 11 AM. "I am ready to face investigation and I will cooperate with the agency," he said. The investigating officer of the case will record Banerjee's statement under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), officials said. Abhishek Banerjee represents the Diamond Harbour seat of West Bengal in the Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The ED has filed a criminal case under the PMLA after studying a November 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Speaking to reporters at the Kolkata airport on Sunday, Banerjee had said that he would get himself hanged if any central agency can prove his involvement in any illegal transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Actor Couple Pankaj And Divya Spills Their Opinion on Leveraging the Power of Social Media the Right way||Social media is a powerful tool in the hands of the youth. Over the years we have seen how the internet has come together in making trends, helping the world, exposing bad things and so much more. But did you know that it is also a lucrative career option that could transform your life? On the verge of launching their acting career with a brand new web series, Pankaj and Divya share how they found not only success, but also love, all on social media!  Together PJ and Divya have a fan following of over 15 million across platforms such as Moj, Instagram and YouTube. But life was not always easy for these youngsters. They came from middle class families, where career translated to security, and hence, it seemed that conventional jobs were the only way out. Owing to their consistent effort, and a lot of initial support from families, they struck out big in the world of content creation. Together they make more than most jobs could have paid at their age, and they just want to inspire the world to never give up on their dreams.  It was social media that gave this adorable couple the wings to fly. Divya says, “Social media is powerful. It does not discriminate. You don’t need to be rich, have good grades, a lot of education, or social and economic privilege to get fame here. It has opened up a whole new world of career, money and fame for the Indian youth.” PJ adds, “Social media gives us voice. We can convey so much in a few seconds and reach million at it. Earlier, a lot of careers had criteria, which can be hard to achieve for those without the means. But with content creation, it is you who decides what you want and the sky is the limit.”  PJ started with YouTube videos, while Divya with dance videos. It was a turn of fate that brought them together, creating original content together, and getting millions of hits with each video. The couple actually met while shooting their content and it was love at first collaboration. Like many other content creators, these two put in a lot of work into concepts, story and script, shooting, producing and final presentation. “All you need are passion and a smartphone”, they say, “and an attitude to never give up”.  This Indore-based couple have truly shown where hard work and determination can take you. They are fulfilling their big dreams and are currently are working on multiple offers of music videos and have a web series lined up on a popular streaming service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid casualties in 167 days||India logged 38,948 new coronavirus infections and 219 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 167 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 3,30,27,621, while the death toll has climbed to 4,40,752. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.33 per cent after 48 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. India had reported 199 deaths in a single day on March 23. The active cases have declined to 4,04,874 comprising 1.23 per cent of the total infections while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.44 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,174 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported for 71 consecutive days, the ministry said. As many as 14,10,649 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 53,14,68,867. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.76 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 73 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,21,81,995. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 68.75 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 219 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala and 67 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,40,752 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,774 from Maharashtra, 37,409 from Karnataka, 35,018 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,856 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,496 from Kerala and 18,502 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Protesting farmers unfurl Mission Uttar Pradesh/Uttarakhand||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws for over a year kicked off on Sunday Mission Uttar Pradesh/Uttarakhand, vowing to defeat the BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections, at the Kisan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat held in Muzaffarnagar. Emboldened by the response for the mahapanchayat held in the western Uttar Pradesh district, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which has been spearheading the farmers agitation at Delhi’s borders from November last year — announced a Bharat Bandh on September 27. Speaker after speaker drew attention to the size of the gathering as a response to the Right-wing ecosystem’s claim that only a handful of farmers are opposed to the farm laws. With farmers cutting across all faiths and from at least 15 states turning up for the mahapanchayat bearing the Tricolour and their organisational flags, the SKM sought to project it as a united struggle against the communal and casteist politics of the BJP governments at the Centre and in the states. Given that the rise of the BJP over the past decade in Uttar Pradesh has broken the Muslim-Jat compact nurtured by former Prime Minister Charan Singh for years, the farmers pledged to ensure that communal riots do not break out again and coined a slogan for Hindu-Muslim unity — “Allahu Akbar-Har Har Mahadev”. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh came in for particular targeting with farmer leaders pointing out that it has not fulfilled the promises made to the farming community. Even 20 per cent of the promised procurement has not been done. The UP government had promised loan waiver for 86 lakh farmers but only 45 lakh farmers have received the relief. The Union government agency CACP  has found that in the year 2017, the cost of sugarcane was Rs 383 per quintal, but farmers were paid Rs 325 per quintal, and sugarcane mills owe farmers sS 8,700 crore, they said. In Uttar Pradesh, crop insurance was paid to 72 lakh farmers in 2016-17, while in 2019-20, only 47 lakh farmers were paid, where as  crop insurance companies earned a profit of Rs 2,508 crore, they pointed out. The Adityanath government assumed office in the summer of 2017. The show of strength by farmers drew support from BJP MP Varun Gandhi, who posted a video of the massive mobilisation and tweeted: “Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground.” This was not just a tweet in support for agitating farmers but also a commentary on the government’s attitude towards the farmers protests. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi took to verse to again articulate support for the farmers tweeting in Hindi that the unjust government will have to listen to the voice of truth being echoed by the farmers. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “Bharat on the rise. Independent India has never seen such a historic 10-month-long struggle. Modi govt must repeal Agri laws & legalise MSP. Discuss with our Annadatas who feed all of us.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Nipah resurgence in Kerala, Centre sends team||The Union health ministry has sent a public health team to Kozhikode district in Kerala where a 12-year-old boy died on Sunday from suspected Nipah virus infection that had claimed 21 lives in the Kozhikode-Mallapuram area three years ago. The team from the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, will support the state’s efforts to trace the boy’s contacts, search for cases in his family, neighbourhood or village, and quarantine his contacts or other suspected cases. The infection is rare but deadly with a high risk of mortality. The Nipah virus resides in some species of fruit bats. Scientists believe the virus slips into humans when they come into contact with fruit bat droppings or saliva, possibly through contaminated fruits or date sap. Health experts say the infection spreads from person to person through respiratory secretions or contaminated surfaces. Symptoms typically appear four to 14 days after exposure to the virus and include fever, headache, cough or sore throat followed by encephalitis, or brain inflammation. On Sunday, Kerala health minister Veena George said 188 contacts, including 20 “high-risk” ones, had been identified. “Two health workers, one from a private hospital and the other from the medical college, are symptomatic for the virus,” she said. “We have decided to move all the high-risk contacts (including the two health workers) to a special ward that has been opened at the Kozhikode medical college,” the minister said. Kerala has asked the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to organise a point-of-care diagnostic test at the Kozhikode medical college. This will allow health authorities to rapidly screen contacts and others who show symptoms and isolate them to prevent any further spread of the infection. A 24/7 control centre has been opened at the government guest house in Kozhikode to monitor the situation. The boy from Chathamangalam died at a hospital on Sunday morning after suffering from high fever for four days. “Plasma, CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) and serum samples tested positive for Nipah,” the health minister said. The child’s family had moved him to a super-specialty hospital in Kozhikode on August 31 where doctors suspected Nipah and sent his samples to the NIV. The boy’s family members have confirmed that he had eaten rambutan that is grown in the neighbourhood. The body was buried around noon on Sunday under stringent safety protocols. The district authorities have sealed the area within a 3km radius from the child’s home and put neighbouring districts Kannur and Malappuram on alert. The NCDC team visited the house of the deceased and collected samples of rambutan fruits. The samples could help identify the source of the infection and confirm whether the origin was through a bat. Infectious disease experts say the standard public health measures to contain any Nipah emergence involve tracking down and isolating a patient’s contacts, including caregivers at home or in hospital, who might have unknowingly exposed themselves to the infection. Epidemiologists tasked with investigating the Nipah case are likely to also try to determine whether the boy was the index case — the first patient in an outbreak. Experts say quick isolation of patients is critical to preventing the infection from spreading. There is no specific treatment for the Nipah infection and doctors typically provide supportive care while waiting for the immune system to fight the virus. The boy had inflammation of the brain and heart muscle, the health ministry said. A Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode-Mallapuram in 2018 — the country’s third over two decades — had claimed the lives of 21 of the 23 patients who had tested positive, a 91 per cent mortality. India’s first outbreak of Nipah had occurred in Siliguri in 2001 and killed 45 of the 66 patients, a 68 per cent mortality. A second outbreak in Nadia in 2007 killed all five patients. Scientists at the NIV in December 2018 had urged public health authorities to inform populations considered at risk that they should not consume partially eaten fruits as they might be contaminated with the Nipah virus. Nipah outbreaks have also occurred since 1999 in Malaysia, Singapore and Bangladesh. Additional inputs from K.M. Rakesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||RSS magazine accuses Infosys of aligning with 'anti-national' forces||Panchjanya, a Hindi magazine that is known to echo the views of the RSS, has accused Infosys of aligning with “anti-national” forces to destabilise the Indian economy in comments that complement the “national interest” sermon delivered by Union minister Piyush Goyal to industry recently. In its cover story in the latest edition, the magazine cited the glitches in the income tax portal managed by the information technology giant to launch a tirade, accusing Infosys of aligning with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang”. “But, when same type of things (the glitches in the portal) happen repeatedly, then it naturally raises suspicion. There are accusations that the Infosys management is deliberately trying to destabilise the Indian economy,” says the report, titled “Saakh aur Aaghat (Reputation and Harm)”. The RSS sought to distance itself from the magazine, whose former editors include ex-Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and whose current editor is followed on Twitter by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The attack, which followed commerce and industry minister Goyal’s swipe at the Tatas last month, lends credence to accusations that the current regime appears to be openly targeting non-Ambani, non-Adani industry giants. The Modi government has been accused by the Opposition and many others of promoting the worst kind of crony capitalism by backing a handful of Gujarat-based industry houses Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had summoned Infosys CEO Salil Parekh last month and given the company time till September 15 to fix the glitches in the income tax portal. As the Panchjanya report kicked up dust, Sunil Ambekar, chief of the RSS publicity wing, tweeted: “Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or the opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS.” Ambekar went on to acknowledge Infosys’s “seminal contribution” to the progress of India. “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in the progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author,” he tweeted. Technically, the two weekly magazines, Organiser in English and Panchjanya in Hindi, may not qualify as mouthpieces of the RSS but people associated with the Sangh head the publications. Panchjanya editor Hitesh Shankar stood by the report. “Panchjanya stands firm with its report. If Infosys has objections, it should present its side by urging for a more thorough investigation of these facts (raised in the article) in the interest of the company,” he told The Telegraph, underscoring that there was a lot of anger among people over the glitches. Asked about the RSS distancing itself from the magazine, Shankar said: “Some elements are mentioning the RSS in this episode due to vested interests. Remember, this report is not related to the Sangh, the report is about Infosys.” On Twitter, Modi has been following Shankar from May this year. “Thank you @narendramodi ji. It shows your concern to understand people’s pulse. It is an honour!” Shankar had tweeted in reply to Modi following him. The Modi government and the BJP maintained silence on the attack on Infosys. The company did not respond to questions from this newspaper on the report in the magazine. Although Shankar referred to “facts”, the Panchjanya report itself said that it did not have “concrete evidence” to back the accusations. But the report added that “history and circumstances” give weight to the allegations. In “history and circumstances”, the article again banks on accusations without citing any evidence. “Infosys is accused of providing assistance to Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang,” the report said, claiming that the company “directly or indirectly” extends financial assistance to some web portals, calling them “divisive forces”. “Shouldn’t Infosys promoters be asked what is the reason for the company’s funding of anti-national and anarchist organisations?” the article asked and wanted to know whether Infosys should be allowed to participate in the government tendering process. Picking on the two key figures behind the formation of the company, the report said Nandan Nilekani had contested elections on a Congress ticket and N.R. Narayana Murthy was known for his views against the “ideology of the current regime”. These were presented as “history and circumstances” to back the allegations of Infosys aligning with anti-national forces. The report accused Infosys of hiring Left sympathisers for important positions. Last month, Union minister Goyal had said while addressing the annual conference of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in Mumbai: “A company like yours, just because you bought one or two foreign companies, their importance becomes greater than national interest?” Goyal’s question was seen as aimed at the Tatas, possibly for opposing the e-commerce rules proposed by his ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Paralympics: How Pramod Bhagat overcame daunting odds||The hand that wields the racket and gifted India its first Paralympic gold in badminton used to repair fans once in an Odisha town. When Pramod Bhagat, the world No. 1 in men’s para-badminton, leapt into the arms of his coach after the Tokyo triumph on Saturday, the moment stretched beyond the sporting arena and marked a milestone in his life-long battle with polio, poverty and the void created by the loss of his parents at an early age. Born at the nondescript Attabira in western Odisha’s Bargarh district, Pramod, 33, used to work in his family’s roadside electrical goods repair shop. When he reached the age of four, polio had blighted his left leg. So poverty-stricken was the family that he could not complete his course at an Industrial Training Institute in Hirakud. But badminton fascinated him. Pramod was 13 when he first witnessed a badminton match and was hooked to the game. His younger brother Sekhar, who now manages the family shop, told The Telegraph: “No one can imagine how happy we are today. We have lost both our parents. No one is there to see the phenomenal glory my brother has achieved. I have seen how he struggled hard despite polio to reach this place.” “When he called me from Tokyo after winning the gold medal, we both could not control our emotions. Our voices choked. The entire town is jubilant at his achievement. Sweets were distributed and crackers burst last night,” Sekhar said. In Tokyo after the summit clash, Pramod dedicated the gold to his parents. “I would like to dedicate this to my parents and to everyone who has supported me throughout. I’m glad I could make India proud,” he said. The eldest of the three brothers, Amod, works at a private company in Delhi. Keen to master the game, Pramod first worked on his footwork and fitness and then honed the other tactical skills largely by himself in the initial years. He played his first badminton tournament against players without disabilities at the age of 15 and won. There was no looking back after that. In 2005 while taking part in a badminton tournament at Burla, he came in contact with para-badminton coach Shib Prasad Das. “He is very cool, determined and focused. He practises for seven to eight hours a day,” Das told this newspaper. While practising at the Nalco Indoor Stadium in Angul, Pramod participated in the National Championship in Bangalore in 2006 and emerged victorious. Pramod has over 40 medals in his kitty, including four Para-Badminton World Championships gold medals. With badminton being introduced in the Paralympics in Tokyo, he has become India’s first gold medallist in the sporting event. Pramod has been conferred with the Arjuna Award and the Odisha government’s Biju Patnaik Sports Award. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and governor Ganeshi Lal have hailed Pramod’s feat at the Paralympics. “Golden moment! Congratulations to Odisha’s talent Pramod Bhagat who has won the country’s first gold medal in para-badminton,” Patnaik wrote on social media. “Your success has made the whole nation proud. Wishing you a bright future ahead.” Pramod has thanked the chief minister for his support. He is scheduled to reach New Delhi on Monday. “After he reaches Bhubaneswar, he will go to Attabira where residents are waiting to give him a grand welcome,” said Sunil Pradhan, another badminton player.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Farm protest: Message of unity at Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat||The chants of “Allahu Akbar” and “Har Har Mahadev” rang out in unison on Sunday at a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, the district in Uttar Pradesh that was left blood-stained by riots in 2013 that became a stepping stone to power for the BJP in the elections that followed. Over five lakh farmers gathered at the Government Inter College ground that was filled to capacity, with large crowds spilling outside, to send a message to the BJP ruling in the state and at the Centre that if the three farm laws were not repealed, the party would pay in the Assembly elections next year. “Allahu Akbar,” chanted Rakesh Tikait, a Jat leader of western Uttar Pradesh who had sided with the BJP in the last Assembly elections. “Har Har Mahadev,” the crowd chanted back. “Such slogans were chanted here in the past too…. Allahu Akbar-Har Har Mahadev. These slogans were raised. The slogans of Har Har Mahadev and Allahu Akbar were raised from this very soil. These slogans will always be raised here. There will be no riots here,” Tikait, the spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), said. “If there are such governments in the country, they will engineer riots,” the farmer leader added. “They will divide, we will unite.” The riots of 2013 that left 50 people dead and over 50,000 displaced had shattered the Jat-Muslim harmony in Muzaffarnagar. The polarisation helped the BJP win power in the 2017 Assembly elections as the Jats sided with the party. Sunday’s rally was called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmer unions from across the country that is leading the now nine-month sit-in at Delhi’s borders against the three laws that the farmers believe will rob them of their land and livelihood and allow corporate houses to take over agriculture. “The Centre has sent across the message that India is on sale — be it the country’s airports, ports or land. There are 14 crore unemployed people in our country and they are taking forward the farmers’ movement to prevent the sale of public and peasants’ properties,” Tikait said. “More such meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from being sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved, businesses, employees and youth should be saved — this is the aim of the rally,” he added. Varun call BJP MP Varun Gandhi later described the protesting farmers as “our own flesh and blood” and said the government should re-engage with them. “Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner, understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Sena questions Centre's exclusion of Nehru from I-day poster||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the exclusion of Jawaharlal Nehru’s picture from a poster released to mark the 75th year of Independence showed the Centre’s “narrow mindset”, and asked the government why it “hates” India’s first Prime Minister so much. Raut, in his weekly column in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, said the Indian Council of Historical Research had excluded the pictures of Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad from its poster, and alleged that it was an act of “political vindictiveness”. “Those who had no participation in the freedom struggle and creating history are keeping out one of the heroes of the independence struggle. This act, done out of political vindictiveness, is not good and shows their narrow mindset. It is an insult of each and every freedom fighter,” Raut said. “What has Nehru done to hate him so much? In fact, the institutions he built are now being sold to keep the Indian economy moving,” he said, referring to the Narendra Modi government’s National Monetisation Pipeline. It was because of Nehru’s “long-term vision” that the country was saved from economic devastation, Raut said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers wait for transfers to resume||Over the past year, a Kendriya Vidyalaya teacher posted in mountainous Nagaland has had to deal with snakes entering his home, missed his father-in-law’s funeral and decided against another visit after his little niece passed away. The 35-year-old teacher, a native of a small town in Uttar Pradesh who wished not to be named, fears his situation won’t change when he becomes eligible for transfer this year. Similar is the lot of many other Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers, especially those posted in remote locations because the central government-run Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) has put on hold transfers for the past two years. Although the KVS has cited the pandemic and consequent logistical hurdles to keep transfers in abeyance, the decision has affected the morale of teachers who are worried about their near and dear ones back home amid unprecedented health exigencies. The teachers are also concerned about their own health. Although classes have been mostly online due to the pandemic, the KVS has directed its teachers to remained stationed in their job locations. “This area is infested with snakes. Only two days ago, a snake entered my home. I had to remove it myself. This is so risky,” the teacher in Nagaland told The Telegraph over phone. He will complete three years at his current location and will be eligible to apply for transfer in March-April next year. There is, however, no word yet on whether the KVS will resume transfers anytime soon. According to the KVS’s transfer policy, a teacher completing three years of service in a “hard station”, schools located in hilly areas, is eligible for transfer subject to vacancies in schools in preferred destinations. Teachers posted in the plains can apply for transfer after serving for five years at a particular school. The teacher who lives in Nagaland with his wife and child, said: “I lost my father-in-law to Covid back in Uttar Pradesh in April. We could not attend his funeral. We took a flight from Dimapur and had a layover in Calcutta. By the time we reached, the cremation was over.” Last month, his eight-year-old niece died of illness. He decided against travelling to Uttar Pradesh again in view of the difficulties involved, only compounded by the pandemic. A teacher from Delhi who is posted at a school in Arunachal Pradesh said his wife was pregnant and mother unwell back home. He has not been able to visit them for the past six month. “I have completed four year in my current assignment. I could have applied for transfer this year but could not because the policy has been put on hold. I am too preoccupied with and worried about the family exigencies back home,” he said, preferring anonymity. Teachers posted in Kendriya Vidyalayas in places like Tawang and Roing in Arunachal Pradesh, Kargil and Leh in Ladakh, Nubra Valley in Himachal Pradesh and Tamenglong in Manipur face greater hardships due to the high altitude and hostile locations. The KV Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh (KVPSS), a teachers’ outfit, has urged the Union education ministry and the KVS authorities to resume transfers. P.V. Chhikara, a teacher at KV Bhatinda and KVPSS secretary, said: “This is so demoralising for the teachers. There are teachers who are suffering from serious ailments and awaiting transfer so that they can get better treatment. We have demanded immediate resumption of the transfer policy.” An email this newspaper sent to KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey on August 23 asking about the decision to stop transfers did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Bihar: Teachers take classes on boats amid flood||Where there is a will, there is a boat. This Teachers’ Day, three teachers rowed their watery way to school students marooned in floods in Bihar’s Katihar district and coached them on boats, continuing with an initiative they started five days ago. The Manihari sub-division, located along the Ganga in Katihar, gets inundated every year and stays under water for several months, disrupting normal life and the education of children. Borrowing boats from local fishermen and boatmen, the three teachers — Kundan Kumar Saha, Pankaj Kumar Sah and Ravindra Mandal — sail out in the morning to reach the remote villages. Once around 20 students are aboard a boat, they tie it to the nearest tree or stump rearing their heads through the floodwaters, put up a whiteboard and begin their classes, the waves of the swollen Ganga rocking them softly. The teachers don’t charge any fees, even buying books, notebooks and pencils for the kids. Education had never been a smooth sailing for the children of Manihari, mostly inhabited by impoverished farmers and labourers. The pandemic pushed them further in deep water as the area’s government schools closed and online learning remained a distant dream because of lack of Internet connectivity. “First the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown shut educational institutions, then the floods ravaged the area for at least four months. The twin troubles have disrupted the education of children since last year,” Mandal told The Telegraph. Those on the boat are a diverse mix — from primary school students to high school pupils. They are taught mathematics, physics, chemistry, Hindi and English, among other subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Assam: Rising number of police shoot-outs whips up political furore||Two persons accused of different crimes were injured in police encounters in Assam’s Guwahati and Dhemaji when they “tried to escape from custody”, a senior officer said on Sunday. Special director-general of police (law and order) Gyanendra Pratap Singh said sleuths in Guwahati had to open fire on one accused in self-defence when he tried to flee custody. The accused, who suffered a bullet injury on his leg, was recently arrested from Delhi for allegedly supplying cocaine in a rave party in Guwahati last month, he said in a tweet. Talking about the other case, Singh said a man accused of attacking a college girl, who later succumbed to her injuries, tried to snatch a police weapon in Dhemaji district on Saturday evening. He was injured in the police firing, Singh added. Since May, at least 23 suspected militants and criminals were shot dead in police encounters in the state as they reportedly tried to snatch service weapons or attempted to escape from custody, while 38 accused were injured along with some policemen. The rising number of shoot-outs has whipped up a political furore with the Opposition alleging that the Assam police has turned “trigger happy” under the chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma-led regime, which assumed charge on May 10.Unfazed by the criticism, Sarma had on July 15 said in the Assam Assembly that the state police has “full operational liberty” to fight against the criminals within the ambit of law. At the first ever face-to-face meeting with the officers in-charge of all police stations of Assam on July 5, Sarma had said that shooting at criminals “should be the pattern” if they attempt to escape from custody or try to snatch arms from the police to fire at them. Taking suo moto cognizance, the Assam Human Rights Commission on July 7 asked the state government to institute an enquiry into the circumstances that led to the death and injury of the accused in police encounters over the past two months. Earlier, a Delhi-based lawyer from Assam, Arif Jwadder, had filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission against the Assam police for the series of encounters that have taken place since Sarma took charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
06-09-2021||India||Bihar JDU MLA booked for creating ruckus on train||A Bihar JDU MLA, who hit the headlines for travelling by a New Delhi-bound train in undergarments and quarrelling with co-passengers when they took umbrage, has been booked under various sections of the IPC besides the SC/ST Act, officials said here on Sunday. They said the FIR was lodged on Saturday, based on a complaint lodged against the MLA Gopal Mandal. The complainant, Prahlad Paswan, had recorded his statement at government railway police (GRP) New Delhi on Friday soon after the train reached its destination. He alleged that he was travelling in the same compartment of Tejas Express as the legislator and had expressed his discomfort when he saw Mandal going towards the toilet in his vest and underpants. Paswan has alleged that he was physically attacked by the MLA and his cohorts, who asked him to disclose his name and abused him making reference to his caste. Paswan has also alleged that the attackers robbed him of some valuables, which included a finger ring, and forced him to drink water drawn from the lavatory tap. A zero FIR was lodged on the basis of Paswan’s complaint at New Delhi that was forwarded to authorities concerned here. The MLA, who represents the Gopalpur constituency of Bhagalpur district, has so far not reacted to the allegations made in the FIR though he had responded to the public outcry with the claim that he was suffering from dysentery and had felt the urge to relieve himself as soon as the train chugged off from Patna on Thursday evening. When asked for his comments, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JDU, said he would not like to say anything till the investigation got over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
06-09-2021||West Bengal||ED questions Abhishek Banerjee for 9 hours in money laundering case||Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, was questioned for about nine hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Monday in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in the state.  Stepping out from the agency's Jam Nagar house office in central Delhi just before 8 PM, the 33-year-old MP hit out at the BJP, saying its "tyranny will be defeated" and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will battle it out with "full vigour" against the party holding power at the Centre.  The MP from Diamond Harbour was grilled for close to nine hours after he entered the ED office shortly before 11 AM.  Officials said his statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).  He is understood to have been questioned about his links to the other accused involved in the case and in the context of two companies allegedly linked to his family in which some purported illegal transactions were done, they said.  The ED had filed the criminal case under the PMLA after studying a November 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol.  "If BJP thinks that the Trinamool Congress will be scared or will bend, get defeated due to this (the ED case and questioning) or will sit at home like the Congress or any other party...we will fight out with you with full vigour and will go to each such state where you murdered democracy," Banerjee, also the national general secretary of his party, told reporters outside the ED office.  '"Apko jo ukhadna hai, aap ukhad lo (Do whatever you like). TMC will defeat the BJP in the upcoming polls," he said.  A video link of this media interaction was also posted by the TMC on its official Twitter handle.  "The BJP's tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat, resources...mind my words these resources are going to fall flat," he said.  He continued: "We will give our lives, put our lives at stake but not bow down. We will not sell our spine to these autocrats, to these cowards who cannot defeat us politically.  "Take my word, we have the fire in our belly and come what may, we will defeat them in 2024," he said.  The West Bengal BJP had earlier said that the people of the state want the investigation in the case to be over within a time frame and the truth to unravel.  An alleged illegal coal operative of West Bengal, Anup Majhi alias Lala, is the prime suspect in the case.  The ED had claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade.  His wife Rujira was also summoned by the agency in this case on September 1 but she did not appear citing the prevailing coronavirus situation and requested the agency to instead question her in Kolkata.  It is understood that the agency may grant her the relief.  Some Indian Police Service (IPS) officers and a lawyer linked to Abhishek Banerjee have also been summoned to appear on different dates in this month in the case.  Reacting to these summonses, Chief Minister Banerjee last week accused the Centre of letting loose its agencies on her nephew and claimed some BJP ministers were working "hand in glove" with the coal mafia.  The ED has arrested two people in this case till now.  One of them is Vikas Mishra, the brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra, who is stated to have left the country sometime back and renounced his Indian citizenship.  The second person arrested in the case early this year is former Inspector in-charge of Bankura police station Ashok Kumar Mishra.  The ED had earlier claimed that the Mishra brothers received "proceeds of crime worth Rs 730 crore on behalf of some influential persons and for themselves" in this case involving an estimated amount of Rs 1,352 crore.  A "deep system" of political patronage and a "well-oiled machinery" were used to brazenly carry out certain unlawful coal mining in West Bengal, the ED has claimed before a court while seeking the remand of Inspector Mishra in April.  A charge sheet was also filed by the ED in May this year.  Quoting the recorded statement of an unidentified "close associate" of Majhi, the ED had earlier alleged that prime suspect Majhi had been running his "illegal coal mining business smoothly by managing senior functionaries of a political party of West Bengal though Inspector Mishra".  The statement of this unidentified "witness" furnished by the ED in the remand note stated that "it is known fact that Vinay Mishra collected money from illegal coal mining of Majhi and his associates for his political boss in the present ruling party; that Vinay Mishra is the youth leader of TMC and he is very close to Abhishek Banerjee and that he (Vinay Mishra) is the eyes and ears of Abhishek Banerjee."  The agency had claimed that documents seized by it show that "Majhi assisted in transferring substantial funds derived from the proceeds of crime to Shri Abhishek Banerjee's close relatives (wife and sister-in-law) at London and Thailand."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||JU teachers’ body asks state govt to vaccinate students, reopen varsity||An association of teachers of Jadavpur University on Monday wrote to West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu, urging him to take immediate steps for COVID vaccination of students and researchers to reopen the institute. In the first phase, final year students can be allowed to attend physical classes in separate batches after administering vaccine jabs to them, Jadavpur University Teachers' Association said in a letter to Basu. It also requested him to allow resumption of research activities in the varsity. "We demand immediate Covid-19 vaccination for research scholars and students as a preparatory step for reopening the campus," JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Roy said. Demanding commencement of physical classes for students whose studies have been suffered for almost 18 months, the teachers' body also urged the minister to allow on-campus inoculation camps for those who have not received jabs. Roy said online teaching cannot be alternative to physical classes, and laboratory-based subjects cannot be taught through virtual mode. "You might be aware that instruments are lying idle at our university's laboratories for a long time. Many are no longer functioning properly. If these high-value instruments are not used, it leads to a loss of lakhs of rupees, which is a sheer wastage of public money," the teachers' body said in the letter to Basu. Meanwhile, a section of JU students owing allegiance to SFI and other unions on Monday held a demonstration in front of the administrative building of the varsity, demanding reopening the campus and shouted slogans against the authorities. Presidency University Students' Union also submitted a memorandum to the authorities and demanded on-campus vaccination for free. Noting that inoculation of students will facilitate resumption of activities on the campus, the SFI-controlled students' body said, "It has been 539 days since closing down our campus due to the COVID-19 outbreak." Alleging that the university authorities "have not made efforts to reopen the institute" even though the second wave of COVID-19 subsided, the union's president Mimosa Ghorai said the administration must form a committee to discuss and take decisions on restarting of on-campus activities. The union urged the authorities to provide access to library services as students are facing problems without the facility. SFI also organised a demonstration in front of the main gate of Presidency University to press for its demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek at ED door; Suvendu stays away from CID, but gets partial relief from HC||The politics of revenge occupied centre stage in Bengal as two prominent political rivals resorted to different responses to summons issued to them by probe agencies. Trinamul’s all-India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee landed at the doorstep of the Enforcement Directorate in Delhi, while his fiercest rival and former colleague Suvendu Adhikary, Bengal’s leader of the Opposition, chose to stay away in distant Bankura instead of the CID headquarters at Bhabani Bhawan. Later in the day, however, Adhikari received a reprieve from Calcutta High Court that ruled that no coercive action could be taken on him without its intervention and stayed proceedings in three of the five cases against him. “The investigating agency (ED) had summoned me for today. I am ready to face any investigation. Investigation agency is doing its job. As a citizen I must cooperate with them,” Abhishek said in Delhi. Before departing for Delhi on Sunday evening, Abhishek had accused the BJP of indulging in political vendetta after its bitter loss in the Assembly polls. Apart from Abhishek, the ED had also summoned his wife Rujira to appear before it on September 1, which she had declined on the grounds of the ongoing Covid pandemic, saying that being the mother of two young children she would be putting them at risk in case of travel. The Enforcement Directorate took up the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act following an FIR lodged by the CBI in November 2020, relating to illegal activities in the Eastern Coalfield mines in Asanasol’s Kunustoria and Kajora, in which Abhishek, his wife and her sister are among those accused. While Abhishek was ranting about the BJP’s vendetta politics, the state CID issued summons to Adhikary in connection with the unnatural death of his guard Subhabrata Chakraborty. He was asked to appear at Bhabani Bhawan around 11 am on Monday. Instead, Adhikary sent an email apologising for his absence for the day as he was busy attending party events at Bankura. Chakraborty, a security guard of Adhikary while he was a Trinamul minister, was shot dead in 2018. After the Bengal poll results were announced, Chakraborty’s widow lodged a complaint of murder following which Adhikary was summoned. CID has also summoned Adhikary’s personal driver, Sambhu Maity, and a close associate, Sanjeev Shukla, to appear before the sleuths on September 7. Adhikary has lodged a case with the Calcutta High Court with an appeal to either quash all the five cases filed against him by the Bengal government or to hand over the probe to the CBI, as he does not have faith in state-controlled investigating agencies. The court ordered stay of proceedings in three of the five cases against him, while investigations are to continue in the remaining two. Also, ndtv.com reported that no coercive action could be initiated against the BJP leader without the court's intervention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari skips CID summons in bodyguard death case||Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari on Monday did not appear before the West Bengal CID in connection with the probe into the death of his bodyguard, stating that he was busy, an officer said. Adhikari, the BJP's Nandigram MLA, was summoned by the CID to its headquarters in Bhabani Bhawan in connection with the death case of his bodyguard Subhobrata Chakraborty. "He mailed us around 9.30 am, mentioning some political engagements due to which he was unable to come and meet our officers," a CID officer told PTI. The CID held a meeting after receiving Adhikari's mail to chalk out the possible next steps into the investigation, including whether another summons would be sent to him, a source in the agency said. Adhikari was not immediately available for comments. A CID team has already visited his Kanthi residence in connection with the probe. Chakraborty had allegedly shot himself with his service revolver at the security camp outside Adhikari's Kanthi residence in October 2018, according to police. The CID has so far questioned over 15 people, including 11 policemen. Chakraborty, personnel of the State Armed Police, was a part of Adhikari's security team since he became an MP. He continued in the team after Adhikari was made a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal police STF arrests 2 more persons in simbox case||A Bengal police special task force (STF), investigating a simbox-based communication racket across the state, have arrested two more persons including a Bangladeshi national for their suspected involvement. Arrested Shah Alam Talukdar is from Dhaka. The other arrested, Aftar Ali Khan, is from Odisha. Both have been brought to Calcutta for interrogations. The first arrest was also of a Bangladeshi national, Mamun, on September 2. Another person from Nadia was arrested on September 3. A simbox works as a virtual telephone exchange that routes international phone calls as local calls, which are charged by local mobile service providers. Simboxes, also known as simbanks, are usually fitted with a few hundred GSM SIM cards used to route calls through data-functional devices. Sleuths on this case had expressed serious concern that such illegal exchanges could serve as “secret channels” and could threaten national security while potentially robbing network providers of rightful revenue. This is the second time within a year that a simbox racket has been busted in Bengal. In December last year, city police busted a similar racket after receiving inputs from the Lucknow-based Military Intelligence Unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Silt deposits turn Siliguri taps dry||Around 10 lakh residents of Siliguri, the largest urban hub in north Bengal, are facing acute shortage in drinking water that is supplied by their civic body for about a week. The reason being huge silt deposits at the entry point where water is drawn from the Mahananda canal to the water treatment plant run by the state public health engineering (PHE) department. The plant located in Fulbari on the southern end of the city filters the water which is then supplied to the civic area across 47 wards. According to sources, since the past few years, the PHE and officials of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) associated with drinking water supply in the city had sounded alerts on the problems that have now snowballed. “The infrastructure of the existing treatment plant, set up in the 1990s, is inadequate to cater to the population of the entire city. Secondly, regular silt deposits at the entry point made it narrower and it takes hours to draw adequate water to the plant,” said a source in the SMC. Since August 30, water supply was disrupted at a number of areas in the city. The situation worsened in the past couple of days as water supply virtually stopped. Since Friday evening, sources said, too little water from the plant could reach all of the 16 overhead and four underground reservoirs spread over the SMC area. “Around 150 million litres of water should be supplied every day. But hardly 50 million litres could be distributed,” the source added. Residents are now scrambling to buy drinking water bottles and jerry cans. “We fail to understand why the PHE and the civic body did not develop an alternative route through which water can be drawn into the plant. It is disappointing that only because of silt deposits that we have to face such a big inconvenience,” said Subhash Sengupta, a schoolteacher. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) of the SMC, visited the water treatment plant on Sunday and spoke to PHE officials. He was accompanied by Alok Chakraborty, the member at the BoA who is in charge of water supply. “Engineers of the state PHE department have worked on a war footing during the past seven days and have clear most of the silt blocking the passage of water. Also, a group of engineers from the department will arrive here from Calcutta on Tuesday. We hope the water supply will normalise soon,” said Deb. He also accused the erstwhile civic boards, including the Left-led board that was in power till last year, of gross neglect. “They did not bother to address the issue. It is because of their negligence that people are facing this problem now. The state has decided to set up a mega drinking water project for the city with an estimated cost of around Rs 470 crore. The state PHE department is preparing a detailed project report,” added Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Choosing Didi challenger daunting task for BJP||The beleaguered Bengal BJP appeared for the second consecutive day to be in a state of disarray with its indecision on a candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll. As the BJP’s myriad of woes were compounded by the Election Commission of India’s declaration of the bypoll in the Bhowanipore seat, sections within the party even started mulling over moving court to try and get a stay from the judiciary on the by-election. The Trinamul Congress on Sunday formally announced Mamata as its candidate for the Bhowanipore bypoll which will be held on September 30. The party also nominated Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam for the Jangipur and Samserganj bypolls, respectively. According to a section of state BJP leaders, the party’s Bengal unit had a misplaced sense of confidence that the Election Commission would continue toeing the saffron camp’s line and keep deferring the bypolls so that Mamata would miss her November 5 deadline to get elected to the Assembly. “It is surprising that our leaders had no plan B and actually had unflinching faith in the central leadership’s ability to browbeat the commission into further deferring the bypolls. They never really considered the possibility of the bypolls taking place any time soon. As a result, no candidate was seriously considered. Some leaders think of approaching the judiciary for a stay on the bypoll,” a state BJP functionary said on the condition of anonymity. Mamata lost a contentious election — now being challenged in court — in the Nandigram seat by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share) to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. However, she led her party to a historic 213-seat victory in 292 constituencies that went to the polls. The chief minister’s home turf of Bhowanipore was vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May for her to contest. Having taken oath as chief minister on May 5, she needs to get elected to the House before November 5.Another source in the BJP said in the preliminary discussions regarding the nomination, it had been found out that there was only one person willing to accept the daunting challenge of contesting against Mamata in Bhowanipore, where the result is deemed a foregone conclusion. “Many of us think that someone popular, a heavyweight candidate must fight against Mamata, although there is almost no chance of a victory, simply to send a positive signal down to the grassroots,” he said. “Suvendu Adhikari keeps boasting of defeating Mamata at Nandigram, albeit by the skin of his teeth. He had also claimed before the Assembly polls that she would’ve lost from Bhowanipore as well. Why doesn’t he step up again?” he asked. Another section of the BJP, close to state chief Dilip Ghosh, wants to field former state president Tathagata Roy from Bhowanipore. Roy has been a fierce critic of Ghosh and his leadership in the aftermath of the party’s poll debacle. “Tathagatada has been publicly criticising the leadership since we lost the poll, especially over the selection of candidates. Let him now show his love for the party and his abilities as a candidate, by contesting against Mamata,” said a leader close to Ghosh. Most of Bengal BJP’s A-listers, including Roy, remain unwilling to take on Mamata, said multiple sources in the party. In case nobody agrees to take up the challenge, the BJP will have to once again field actor-turned-politician Rudranil Ghosh, another Trinamul turncoat, who contested from the seat and lost to Chattopadhyay this summer by nearly 29,000 votes, nearly 23 per cent of the vote share. The state committee of the BJP will meet on Tuesday to decide on three possible names for each bypoll, said BJP spokesman Shamik Bhattacharya. These options would be sent to the national election committee, which will take a final call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA of Raiganj lashes out at district party chief||Tension brewing in the saffron camp in north Bengal surfaced again on Sunday as Krishna Kalyani, the BJP MLA of Raiganj, announced he was severing ties with the North Dinajpur district party. His assertion comes a day after Soumen Roy, the BJP MLA of Kaliaganj, North Dinajpur,  joined Trinamul. “The district BJP president (Basudeb Sarkar) is running the party with a handful of followers on his whims. I raised a number of issues which the party should have addressed but nothing was done. I also apprised state leaders of these issues but surprisingly, they too, are silent. That is why I decided that from today, I will not maintain any link with the district party,” said Kalyani. The Raiganj MLA, however, dodged a direct reply when asked if he would quit the BJP. “Only time will tell… all I can say now is though I won’t keep any ties with the district BJP, I will work as an MLA to serve people who voted for me.” After Roy’s exit, Kalyani is the only BJP MLA in the district where Trinamul won seven of nine seats. A senior BJP district leader said internal differences should be patched up or there could be more defections. Sarkar also said he would speak to Kalyani. “I came to know about the MLA’s grievances from the media. I will talk to him and pass on the information to state leaders,” he said. Kalyani said Sarkar ignored many prominent party functionaries and MLAs. “I sought the district committee be reconstituted as many leaders who worked to establish the BJP’s base here were feeling left out. No one paid heed,” he said. Ever since the BJP appointed Sarkar as district chief, there were a number of protests by party leaders and workers. Yet, Kalyani’s stand is significant. “It’s the first time an MLA has criticised the district leadership blatantly. It reconfirms differences in the party,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal records 707 new cases, 723 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 707 new Covid-19 infections, 723 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases in the state fell by 27 to 8,652, with a slide for 11 straight weeks or 77 days. Bengal has 2.16 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 128 new infections and North 24-Parganas 119, the only two of Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported one. The state’s recovery rate is 98.25 per cent, fairly ahead of the nation’s 97.41. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.64 per cent on Sunday. The state currently has over 15.52 lakh Covid-19 cases since March last year. The total includes nearly 15.25 lakh recoveries and 18,502 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government to provide free migrant ration under ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to give free foodgrains to migrant workers living in Bengal under the “one nation one ration card” programme. “The Centre provides rice at Rs 2 kg and wheat at Rs 2 a kg under the National Food Security Act. The Bengal government gives further subsidy to provide free of cost food grains to 6.01 crore beneficiaries in the state. Now onwards, those who have migrated to Bengal in search of work would also get the benefit,” said a senior government official. The move, sources in the government said, has been initiated to send a message across the country. “The state government claims it runs the maximum number of welfare schemes in the country. The ruling party is set to highlight it ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls to attack the BJP. Extending the benefit of the free grains scheme to migrants is the first step towards the goal,” said a source. A Trinamul Congress insider said if migrants coming to Bengal got the benefit of the scheme, the word of mouth publicity would establish the credibility of the free food grain scheme, which would result in political gains for Trinamul, especially Mamata Banerjee. “These migrants could be our unpaid PROs in other states, particularly when we are trying to focus on the BJP’s anti-poor track record.... We would also campaign that similar schemes would be launched across the country if the BJP is removed from power and the Opposition is given a chance to run the central government,” said a minister. However, there is no official estimate about in-migrants (those who come to Bengal in search of jobs) to the state. “During the nationwide lockdown last year, the state had estimated that over 1 lakh migrants from other states were stuck in Bengal. But there is no official estimate about the number of migrants living in Bengal.… Besides, Bengal is now more an out-migrant state as more people leave the state in search of jobs,” said a source. The Trinamul insider said the government was worried about the number of migrants living in Bengal as its main objective was to ensure that they told their friends and families about the scheme when they went back home. “The human face of the Mamata Banerjee government should be known to people outside and that objective would be achieved,” said a source. According to the one nation one ration card programme, any NFSA beneficiary would be able to withdraw his or her allotted foodgrain from any of the ration shops in the country. That is why Aadhaar cards of the beneficiaries were seeded with their ration cards. Bengal had not joined the scheme initially as the chief minister was reluctant to share biometric details of the beneficiaries from the state with the Centre in the backdrop of the Citizenship Amendment Act. The situation, however, changed after Trinamul came back to power in May and Bengal joined the scheme. “We will also highlight that while migrants in Bengal are getting free foodgrains, those who leave the state will have to pay for the food grains. The contrast will be clearer then,” said a Trinamul minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati student and teacher start relay hunger strike||A rusticated student and a suspended teacher of Visva-Bharati started a relay hunger strike at the protesting students’ tent on Sunday, accusing varsity authorities of “lying in court” on Friday to allege that students demonstrating against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had locked up two gates on the troubled campus. Contrary to the authorities’ claims, a police probe on Saturday indicated the gates had been locked up by varsity officials and not students, which triggered this hunger strike by Rupa Chakraborty, one of the three recently rusticated students, and economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya, who had been suspended months earlier. Both had in the past protested against VC Chakrabarty’s alleged wrongdoings and “saffron leanings”. On Sunday, they said they would continue their hunger strike till “the end of all such episodes” on the campus helmed by the VC. “It is the first time that a VC and his administration have clearly lied before court in order to trap (student) protesters. (To shame the ongoing protests against the rustication of three dissenting students) the varsity stopped paying salaries and halted the admission process and other activities, blaming protesting students for locking up two gates. Such lies were presented before Calcutta High Court. But police found both gates were locked up by varsity authorities. We know such lies were presented on the VC’s directive. Our relay hunger strike protests this,” said Bhattacharyya, also the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association president. “Teachers’ Day is an apt day for this (fast),” he added. Last week, when the VC’s residence had been gheraoed by students, the central varsity authorities purportedly had decided to stop disburing salaries for August. However, salaries were released immediately after a prod from the Union ministry of education. Before that, the varsity had sought to halt the admission process and publication of results owing to the gherao, claiming the VC’s physical presence was needed for the jobs. However, the high court on Friday not only ordered protesters to shift from the immediate vicinity of the VC’s house but also asked the varsity to resume these tasks too. “It is very interesting that varsity officials claimed these tasks could not be done without the physical presence of the VC. But the operations started again despite the absence of the VC. It proves that the VC lied,” said Rupa. In court, Visva-Bharati claimed the agitators had locked two entry gates to the central administrative office and central library. Police officers later said they found those gates had been closed by varsity authorities. “It proves how the Bidyut Chakrabarty-led varsity authorities had submitted false charges against agitators,” added Bhattacharyya. Students will be continuing their protests in a new tent that has also been objected to by varsity authorities. An official said Visva-Bharati might move court over the ongoing agitation. Visva-Bharati’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to text messages when contacted by this newspaper on the varsity’s comments on the developments of the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Migrant worker from Malda killed in Gujarat||A 52-year-old migrant worker from Malda district was bludgeoned to death at Jamnagar, Gujarat, on Friday. Fudan Mondal’s body reached his village, Kankania, in Harishchandrapur 2 block on Sunday. He worked in a company that installs cellphone towers. “He had been outside Bengal for almost 20 years. After the lockdown last year, he was back home, but went to Jamnagar four months ago. We want the police in Gujarat to find out the killer,” said Bholanath Mondal, his brother-in-law. Mondal’s wife Asha said she had no idea why her husband was murdered. Residents said Mondal did not own farmland. His sons Jyotish and Dipendra work in Uttar Pradesh. On Sunday, as their father’s body reached the village, they also came home. Sources said on Friday, Mondal who was working at a site was approached by a man. They had an altercation and the man hit his head with an iron rod. Mondal’s co-workers rushed him to a hospital where he died. “We don’t know why he was murdered. I live in the village with our two daughters. I have no idea how I will run the family now,” said Asha. Tazmul Hossain, the Trinamul MLA of Harishchandrapur, said he would see if the family can be compensated. “The incident has again proved that migrant workers are not safe in Gujarat where the BJP is in power. I will speak with administrative officials to see what can be done for the family,” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Ajoy Edwards back in Darjeeling, keen on ‘new party’||Ajoy Edwards on Sunday received a warm welcome from supporters on his return to Darjeeling after nearly a month, the former GNLF leader dropping broad hints that he would float a new political party “different” from the rest in the hills. Edwards, also an entrepreneur and social worker, had earlier claimed that GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had sent him to Delhi early last month to bring together like-minded forces to pursue the proposed “permanent political solution” of the hills but was ditched by Mann. Edwards alleged Mann did not bother to contact him in Delhi when the former went to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in August first week. Mann has not responded to the allegations. On reaching Darjeeling, Edwards said: “We have to open a party, politics is the highest form of social work.” He, however, said that he would stand as “a voice of the silent majority” and if the need arose would also contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) polls. “In politics, diplomacy is needed with both the state and Centre, but we should not be subservient (to them),” said Edwards, who clearly stated that while the issue of Gorkhaland was always there, development and economic well-being of the downtrodden should also be taken care of. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA and GNLF’s secretary general, said: “Let his first float a political party, he will understand what it is to run a party,” said Zimba. Edwards hasn’t yet officially handed the GNLF his written resignation. However, the GNLF appointed M. Subba as chief of the GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee on Sunday, a post Edwards held. The GNLF leadership also went hammer and tongs at Edwards. “I had earlier said he is not a politician, he is a social worker…He talks Bengal’s language, he talks like a nephew of Mamata Banerjee, he talks of ‘ramro (good)’ Darjeeling not ‘hamro (our)’ Darjeeling, because he is a businessman and if there is a strike his business will not flourish,” said Zimba. “When our people were killed (during the Gorkhaland agitation), should we not go for strikes,” said Zimba, adding they too had many issues to expose on Edwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP pursues vendetta politics, says Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday accused the BJP government at the Centre of practising politics of vendetta and repeated his vow of hanging himself if there was evidence of corruption worth even 10 paise against him. Trinamul’s Number Two issued the stern statement at the Calcutta airport before departing for New Delhi, where he was summoned to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday in connection with a money-laundering case linked to alleged coal pilferage in Bengal. “My stand remains unchanged, as in the past. I have said this repeatedly at public meetings, that if any central agency is able to show before the public any evidence against me, then there will be no need to unleash the CBI or the ED against me,” said Abhishek. “So much is being alleged about a supposedly large scam, all sorts of numbers, from Rs 100 crore to Rs 1,000 crore are being cited. If they can furnish evidence of a transaction of even 10 paise, let them come out with it before the people, then there will be no need for these central agencies against me. Let them get the noose ready and let me know, I will readily hang myself,” the Diamond Harbour MP added. “I had said this in the past, I am saying this again today. I am willing to face any and every kind of investigation.” The ED had summoned Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and his wife, Rujira, for questioning to Delhi. Rujira, who had been asked to appear before the ED on September 1, hadcited her inability to travel to the national capital amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Rujira —questioned earlier by the CBI in the case at her residence — had also said she is the mother of two children, and travelling to Delhi would expose them to grave risk. She asked the agency to question her at her residence in south Calcutta. “They (the BJP) were routed in the election. Unable to contest politically with the Trinamul Congress, now they have resumed practicing the politics of vendetta,” said Abhishek. “They have no work other than unleashing the central probe agencies to hound political opponents and thereby further their own political agenda,” he added. “But why is nothing being made public? A Calcutta case, I am being summoned to Delhi. I am going there now.” Abhishek also demanded answers on why “those” — apparently referring to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari who is now in the BJP — seen accepting money on camera were not being similarly hounded by central agencies. “Those seen on the screen, taking money, without any hesitation or shame, does the ED or the CBI develop cataracts, when it comes to them?” he asked, in a veiled reference to the Narada “sting” operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
06-09-2021||West Bengal||Leopard roaming in Jalpaiguri tea garden trapped||An adult female leopard was trapped in a cage set up by the state forest department at a plantation of the Gandrapara tea estate in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri district on Saturday night. Sources said for the past one week, terrified residents of the tea garden had been reporting to the management a leopard roaming on the estate. Bishu Das, the garden’s labour welfare officer, managed to click a picture of the leopard. Garden authorities informed the forest department. Accordingly, a trap was laid on Saturday with a live goat as bait by the wildlife squad of Binnaguri. Around 11.30pm on Saturday, a night guard sensed the leopard’s presence in the cage and informed the manager. He in turn called up foresters. A team of the wildlife squad led by Subhasish Roy, the range officer, and Sima Choudhury, an honorary wildlife warden, reached Gandrapara and confirmed the leopard was trapped. Around midnight, the animal was sent to the nature interpretation centre in Gorumara National Park. “We will keep it under observation and then release it into the wild,” said a forest officer. A wild elephant carcass was spotted in Mechpara of Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri on Sunday. A team from Belakoba forest range under Baikunthapur forest division reached the site near a stream to recover the carcass.Range officer Nila Rai said the elephant was around four years old and primary findings suggested it died of illness. Its post-mortem report was awaited, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
06-09-2021||North East||IWAI to set up northeast’s first ship repair facility in Assam ||The Inland Waterways Authority of India recently signed two MoUs to set up the northeast’s first ship repair facility at Pandu here and another for the smooth transport of large cargo vessels in Assam. Both the initiatives are part of a vision to improve the waterways for economic development and prosperity of Assam and the northeast. The MoU for the Rs 75 crore ship repair facility was signed between the IWAI and the Cochin Shipyard Limited at Pandu Port on August 26 evening. The technical support for the facility — also known as slipway — is being provided by IIT Madras and will be developed on 3.67 acre plot provided by government of Assam and is expected to be completed by August 2023. Given the expected rise in vessels transporting cargo from the region, there will be an increasing demand for ship repair and maintenance. Presently ships are sent to Calcutta for repair, which is not only expensive but also a time consuming and tedious exercise. The slipway will overcome this hurdle and also create employment in the state. The IWAI under the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways had earlier in the day signed an MoU with the Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) in Golaghat district to facilitate cargo movement. An ambitious scheme has been drawn up to dredge the confluence of Dhansiri river with Brahmaputra for seamless transport of cargo to NRL, among others. These are steps in line with the vision of Act East policy of the government. While the infinite potential of waterways potential remains largely underutilised, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has “resolved” to develop this untapped economic potential. “As many as 20 national waterways are there in the northeast and these will be developed to realise their potential. Waterway transport, trade and tourism will get a boost,” Sarbananda Sonowal, Union minister for ports, shipping and waterways and AYUSH, said at Pandu. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Shantanu Thakur, Union minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways attended the MoU signing function at Pandu port, the most important and largest river port in Assam. This port connects Calcutta through Bangladesh known as Indo-Bangladesh Protocol (IBP) route. Sonowal, while thanking Sarma for his support to the project, said the rivers would be dredged wherever required for smooth navigation. Sarma had replaced Sonowal as chief minister in May. “Nadi main dredging hoga, jahaj chalega... development will take place under the leadership of Modi ji. We have also decided to set up a convention centre of international standard at Pandu on the request of the Assam government,” Sonowal said. The MoU with the NRL will pave the way for making rivers navigable throughout the year by IWAI and assist in bringing large cargoes and capital equipment, including single piece prefabricated process plants for the refinery expansion project. It will also open up trade and commerce as outward freight movement in large consignment will be possible from river Dhansiri, adjoining the refinery in the future. “The entire Numaligarh Refinery expansion project and the emerging infrastructure will set a new pace and narrative of faster development and unbridled progress of the northeast. All these are thanks to the great vision of Modiji,” Sonowal had said in Numaligarh. As part of the refinery expansion project from 3 MMTPA to 9 MMTPA, over 1,000 very heavy and large equipments shall be transported from across the country and abroad. Due to various limitations in road transportation, the sea and riverine routes shall be leveraged to connect the major ports in western region to the northeast region up to NRL through the riverine route along Indo-Bangladesh Protocol Route and Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
06-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hot death||The urgency of the threat of climate change-induced disasters has been confirmed with the release of the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which warned that warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius or more above pre-industrial levels is likely to occur by 2040. Such a forecast does not bode well for several metropolitan centres; Calcutta, in fact, has been identified by the report as having recorded the maximum rise in warming over the past seven decades. A map in the IPCC report shows that from 1950 to 2018, the Calcutta area recorded the highest rise of 2.6 degrees Celsius among the cities and regions studied. This grim turn of events can be attributed to several factors, not least of which is the rapid, chaotic urban development that the city and its surrounding areas have witnessed over the past few decades. This is evident in the mushrooming of real estate projects, big and small, that led to significant tree-felling as well as in the unabated encroachments upon the city’s natural ecosystem. Calcutta’s disappearing wetlands — the city’s kidneys — are a case in point. Exacerbating these challenges is a spike in industrial emissions, vehicular pollution, population pressure and creaking drainage facilities — the city’s British-era drainage system is highly silted. The future is bleak. Apart from temperature rise, the frequency of compound events — climate-related phenomena occurring in unison — will increase, with higher precipitation, a rise in sea level and high-intensity cyclones wreaking havoc together. The city, with its unsustainable infrastructure, is ill-equipped to deal with the resultant climatic impact. The seriousness of the threat cannot be overstated. There is likely to be massive collateral damage in the form of death, displacement, poverty and migration. Countering the problem is proving to be especially difficult because addressing climate change — astoundingly— is yet to acquire the requisite political urgency. A concerted public effort — citizens, the media, philanthropic entities and political parties — must be undertaken to galvanize resources — funds, technology and so on — to find remedial measures. Modernizing infrastructure, encouraging climate-resilient construction, greening transport, providing sops for non-polluting industries, cutting emission — a myriad steps need to be taken on a war footing to mitigate the disaster on the horizon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Poison ivy||The concern expressed by a bench of the Supreme Court headed by the Chief Justice of India about the communal content disseminated by some media outlets deserves a thorough introspection. The apex court bench was equally scathing about the absence of regulations for social media outlets which, the bench rightly pointed out, collude with the powers that be and serve as the fount for a divisive, toxic agenda. India, a secular republic, is given a bad name by these institutions. The context for the Supreme Court’s indignation must also be made clear. The wise judges were responding to a petition by the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind that is seeking an injunction against mischievous segments of the fourth estate that had attributed the spread of the coronavirus pandemic to a religious function organized by the Tablighi Jamaat last year. A shrill, complicit media — sizeable sections of it — had joined the chorus to denounce, indeed demonize, India’s largest minority community. The medieval witch-hunt at the time of a public health crisis was both unprecedented and morally untenable. The points raised by the Supreme Court need to be taken further for examination. Unregulated social media platforms can, indeed, be a menace. Worryingly, in response, the Centre seems to be willing to tar every digital entity with its brush of intimidation — the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 have been accused of infringing on media freedom. Moreover, regulation may not serve as an effective deterrent on every occasion. Several television channels — they are supposedly better regulated than entities on social media — were part of this chilling campaign of vilification against Muslims. The problem — crisis — therefore is deeper. It indicates the communalization of the wider ambience in which society and media function. The State is, undoubtedly, the source of the contamination. Tragically, an overwhelming number of media outlets in every conceivable form — television, print, digital — have capitulated to the State’s encroachment. The motives could be pecuniary or ideological, or both. The Supreme Court’s anguish must be complemented by a national conversation on leeching the poison from the body politic of the nation. This enterprise must be truly public in character, encompassing the media, the State and, most importantly, citizens. The collective cleansing — healing — is the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||Bitter taste of Old anger||China has 1.01 billion netizens in a population of 1.43 billion people. Their clout can be enormous, or negligible, depending on how the Communist Party of China perceives it. Last week, the authorities of the coastal city of Dalian decided to pay heed to netizens and shut down a commercial street, part of a new township called “Tang Little Kyoto”, which is being built by a Chinese firm. As the name suggests, the township is a bid to recreate Kyoto, especially the old streets around the famous temples of Japan’s ancient capital. The prefix, “Tang”, signifies the influence of China’s Tang Dynasty on Kyoto’s architecture. The promotional video describes the project as a means to recall the glory of the Tang Dynasty, whose reign is considered a golden age of Chinese arts and culture. That touch of appeasement proved to be yet another irritant for netizens who jeered at the “low EQ” of those behind the project. Apart from the historical animosity towards Japan, which colonized parts of China in the 19th century, Dalian, particularly, has bitter memories of Japanese occupation and of the Port Arthur (renamed Lushun) massacre of 1894, in which the victorious Japanese army killed thousands of Chinese soldiers and civilians. In spite of this past, the Dalian authorities have been giving incentives to Japanese investors for more than a decade now, and they unhesitatingly approved this six billion yuan project covering 148 acres. Dalian’s mayor attended the signing ceremony of the project in Tokyo in 2019. The firm’s vice-president had exuded confidence then, as Japanese-style villas built by the company elsewhere in China had proved popular. She wasn’t wrong: in spite of last year’s pandemic, the villas completed in the first phase were sold out. The commercial street also attracted many visitors during the 10 days that it functioned. Given the nature of the project, Japanese restaurants and brands such as Panasonic had outlets there. What happens to their investment now? Much the same that’s happened to those who invested in Japanese-themed streets elsewhere. Foshan’s Ichiban Street, replete with Japanese-style bus stops, road signs and cartoon characters, proved a major tourist attraction when it opened in August last year. But then on China’s National Day, celebrated on October 1, the authorities thought it fit to remove the Japanese flags on it, and within two weeks, the entire street was shut, partly owing to copyright issues as well. On Suzhou’s Japanese street, shops renting out kimonos had women flocking to them. But when a Chinese can be refused a Covid test for wearing a kimono, as happened in Xiamen city (she was a waitress in a Japanese restaurant nearby; the kimono was her uniform), how could girls wanting to be photographed in kimonos be tolerated? The Suzhou street hasn’t closed down, but the kimono shops are deserted. Anger against the Japanese is both a real and a whipped-up sentiment in China. The super-rich buying Little Kyoto’s villas and the ordinary Chinese thronging Foshan’s Ichiban Street can hardly be called unpatriotic. But such is the power of online media that a rumour that only Japanese companies were allowed to do business on Little Kyoto’s commercial street was enough to provoke those who were already angry with its presence. The rumour was false; Chinese brands also had outlets on the street. But when outrage against “cultural invasion” is trending online, and the 80th anniversary of Japan’s invasion of Manchuria is near, who bothers about dry facts. Will this outrage extend to the rest of the 1,300 villas and 83 hotels planned in Tang Little Kyoto? More importantly, will it be allowed to by the government?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||The case for a fairer force||The honourable Supreme Court allowed women to take the National Defence Academy examination, which was to take place on September 5 but has now been rescheduled to November 14. It admonished the government and the armed forces for not doing enough since its previous order, underlining that equality is a constitutional guarantee that cannot be denied based on gender. The NDA, a male bastion with around 2,000 young men, would need to be ready for women by January 2022. In 2018, the then chief of the army staff, Bipin Rawat, had stated that women soldiers weren’t serving in frontline combat positions because “a woman would feel uncomfortable at the front line.” He had also asserted that maternity leave was an issue, women needed more privacy and protection, and that India was not yet ready to accept “body bags of women” killed in combat, further adding that women needed to be “cocooned” from the eyes of subordinate soldiers. Predictably, Rawat’s comments sparked considerable outrage and were shrugged off by women officers. Captain Yashica Tyagi (retd) served during the Kargil War while five months pregnant. Another lady officer agrees: “I have gone on night patrols, managed issues like uncomfortable sleeping quarters and sanitation facilities. I find the objections to expanding the role of women in the forces immature. As for physical fitness, it depends on your training.” A retired male general concurs: “the right of a woman to serve in any role in the armed forces must be equal to a man’s as long as the physical and qualitative standards are not compromised.” Historically, although the Indian Military Nursing Service was formed in 1888, it was only in 1992 that the Indian army permitted women to serve for five years via the ‘Special Entry Scheme’, later converted into Short Service Commission. It’s worth noting what’s been achieved in the 29 years since. Women have worked as doctors, nurses, engineers, signallers, administrators and lawyers. They’ve treated soldiers on battlefields, handled explosives, detected and removed mines, and laid communication lines. By 2008, permanent commission was extended to women in Judge Advocate General and Army Education Corps. In early 2020, the Supreme Court urged the government to consider lifting the military’s ban on women in combat roles: “test them on the same footing as men. Do not exclude them (women officers) as a class. Change of mindset is required [sic].” The government’s stand — that women officers have physiological limitations — was rejected by the highest court as being based on “sex stereotypes” and “gender discrimination against women”. Women have now been granted permanent commission in all 10 branches where they are inducted. Women were kept out of command positions due to the reasoning that the male-dominated rank and file tend to have problems with women commanding officers. But all this is set to change as they’re now eligible to occupy all command appointments on a par with male officers. However, women have still not been inducted into combat arms like the infantry and the armoured corps. In early 2021, the Indian navy deployed four women officers on warships. India’s only aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, and the fleet tanker, INS Shakti, have been assigned their first women crew. The army inducted the first batch of 83 women into the corps of Military Police in May 2021. The women have joined the military in the non-officer cadre — a rare first. Still, numbers don’t lie. The armed forces are pathetically gender disparate. A total of 9,118 women are serving in the defence forces. The army has 12,18,036 men against 6,807 women constituting 0.56 per cent; the air force has 1,46,727 men against 1,607 women forming 1.08 per cent; and the navy has 704 women or 6.5 per cent of the force. On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that Sainik schools will admit girls. Despite the armed forces being on high alert due to border tensions, the three services chiefs made a hasty visit to the NDA on August 21, purportedly to assess facilities needed for training women cadets. Many questions beg answers. Why have the Indian armed forces not been made ready to accept women during these 29 years? Could military and Sainik Schools, which typically provide 25 to 30 per cent of the cadets joining the NDA, have been turned into co-ed facilities with gender parity, like the National Cadet Corps, in 1992 or earlier? Could the armed forces have gradually sensitized its soldiers and worked at removing the patriarchal mindset from November 1, 1958, when the first woman doctor was inducted into the Indian army? Could female commandos have been trained and all-women battalions created, ready to be integrated into frontline divisions? The armed forces pride themselves on being fair and secular. All soldiers are treated equally. Caste, language or race are not given special importance. Courage and leadership are highly respected. By the same analogy of equality, the inclusion and respect for women who prove themselves in combat cannot be an insurmountable task. Women in combat would face the same hazards as their male counterparts and, therefore, must be trained and tested with identical parameters. There cannot be any compromise with national security. It is noteworthy that the United States of America, Israel, North Korea, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Australia and Canada employ women in front-line combat positions. In deference to the orders of the Supreme Court, the Indian armed forces would go through radical changes. That said, the armed forces mirror the societal mindset. The responsibility for bringing gender sensitivity and radical change to a patriarchal society lies primarily with the political leadership. This legal directive will be a gamechanger for India’s future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||Going West||The West has got virtually all its own people out of Afghanistan. Very many of their Afghan workers and supporters (including those holding citizenship of Western countries) are left facing calamity, having passed their sell-by date. The British left behind the addresses of some local staff. The Americans bequeathed ampler data to the Taliban (not to mention a huge arsenal), and US military retaliation is killing children alongside terrorists. America is a blessedly prodigal nation. It throws away 40 per cent of the food crowding its supermarket shelves and home freezers. It also stocks its larder of international acquisitions with territories, peoples and properties, cleaning out the marketplace of the nations. It crams its fridge without borders with goodies from — and in — all countries, consumes them at will, then trashes them when they grow rancid or simply boring. This great global tuckbox attracts people from everywhere. The whole human race hankers after the luscious contents of America’s transnational larder. They ally with America, they settle there, they visit and interact with the country. At the very least, they try to savour something of its delights in their own homelands. All of us, myself included, stand somewhere in that line of distribution. Now comes the catch: the consumables in this larder are none other than ourselves and our communities, our economic, political and cultural existence. We unthinkingly assume that other nations and individuals will pay for the dinner — in fact, be the dinner — while we sit at table with America, even if at the far end with a poor choice of dishes. We might well achieve this happy state; but also, conceivably, end up like the rooster in Sukanta Bhattacharya’s poem, that longed to reach its master’s table. So it did — not to eat but to be eaten. This is so horrendously the fate of today’s Afghans that we may feel light-years removed from their plight, as indeed we are; but how totally from the underlying condition? To properly answer the question, we must define it more closely. America is not simply a territory but a metonym for the West and what we associate with the West. America is the branded, almost vulgarized, epitome of an ethos and a state of mind that we prize for many reasons, right and wrong. The right ones must be hailed: they add value to the human condition, laying out a template for more ordered, productive and fulfilling lives than in almost any other option open to us. Again the Afghan predicament is prototypal: the choice of Taliban rule is so unthinkable that it makes hitherto sane men cling to flying planes in the urge to escape. The alternatives are seldom so starkly opposed. In fact, they are adeptly bridged by many communities. Terrorist groups operate out of the West, exploiting its imperfect but genuine commitment to free speech, privacy and personal liberty that the terrorists themselves despise. At the other extreme, deeply law-abiding ethnic majoritarians (notably including Hindutva acolytes) embrace minority status in outlandish climes to encash the latter’s promise of freedom, opportunity and efficiency, and use the proceeds to advance contrary causes in their homelands. Alongside, and often opposed to them, a hyper-articulate intellectual class acutely analyses the defects of the Western order, but finds it opportune to do so from Western campuses. For all these groups, citizenship of a Western country is an unquestioned asset for their otherwise contentious agendas. It is this evident openness, countering any alienation owing to location and culture, that makes the world look Westward and travel there. With time, people might discover the limits to such inclusiveness; even so it seems, and often is, markedly wider than the confines back home. The desperate crowds outside Kabul airport are qualitatively different from the old overnight queues and today’s online wait-lists at visa offices; but is there a visceral link somewhere? Where in the middle ground should we place indigent South Asians paying more money to people smugglers than they might earn if they ever reach their goal? Or the unabating tide of people pouring across Latin America to the US border, or braving the Mediterranean in leaky boats? For such people, the dream of a hospitable West often dies on the journey even if they themselves do not. But the collective myth does not die. It is sustained by a modicum of acceptance in the host countries; by real and fictitious get-rich-quick stories; by deprivation at home, or what is viewed as such; by the global media and consumer culture. Higher up the social and educational ladder, the myth is more often validated by success; but it remains a rarer inflexion within the same paradigm. Does the high-flying NRI feel a stab of affinity with his displaced compatriot selling umbrellas on the street, or those demonized migrants — invisible, undocumented, toiling in farms and sweatshops — whom he might never encounter? After the partition of India, translocated Bengalis who had improved their lot felt unsettling twinges of kinship with those still adrift. Does something of the kind happen among the diaspora? We were shaken to see parents handing over their children to strangers across the wall at Kabul airport. The circumstances remain unclear. A common explanation is that they were abandoning their offspring in the forlorn hope of wafting them to a better life. Is this utterly different from beleaguered villagers in the Global South consigning their somewhat older progeny to a journey into darkness, at the tender mercies of human traffickers? Looking farther, might we draw a moment’s mad parallel with the middle-class family whose plans, funds and fears have the sole object of propelling its younger generation permanently abroad? No doubt I am raving. The footage from Afghanistan shows the deranging outcome when two civilizations implode on contact with each other. The images impose themselves on familiar untroubling scenarios, and others that don’t trouble us because we don’t think about them. Once we do, they can disorient our notions of the world. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant writes to Modi for funds to curb malnutrition||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday seeking his intervention to release funds to the tune of Rs 312 crore under the 15th Finance Commission for the year 2020-21 to fight malnutrition. “A substantial part of the population in Jharkhand belongs to the ST and SC community in which malnutrition is rampant.  Therefore, on behalf of all citizens of Jharkhand, I would like to request that the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, be directed to release the recommended amount of Rs 312 crore for the year 2020-21 for the state of Jharkhand,” he wrote. Quoting the findings of the National Family Health Survey-4, Hemant noted that every second child aged between 0-6 in Jharkhand was suffering from malnutrition. About 45 per cent of such children were underweight, 23 per cent were skinny, 11.3 per cent severely malnourished and 40.3 per cent stunted. “Besides the programmes of the Government of India, the state government has also decided to fight malnutrition with its limited resources. The state government has also planned to provide egg and other equivalent protein-rich food to children between 3 to 6 years from its resources. Therefore, if the central government releases the funds allocated for the cause, it will prove to be big support for the state government in its fight against malnutrition,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Low-pressure hub leads to rain across Jharkhand||A low-pressure area which formed over Bay of Bengal resulted in rain across several parts of Jharkhand on Monday. Several places, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro, woke up to overcast conditions with intermittent rain accompanied by wind blowing at speeds of 20kmph-25 Kmph. Weathermen said under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over north and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal, a low-pressure had area formed over northwest and west central Bay of Bengal off south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts. An associated cyclonic circulation was extending upto 7.6km above mean sea level. "The impact of the low-pressure would remain for the next 24 hours or so as it is likely to move northwest wards during the next 48 hours. We are also expecting heavy rain at a few isolated pockets of the state in the next 24 hours," said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met office also issued an alert of thunder and lightning in various districts during the next 24 hours. On Monday, the monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Bikaner, Jaipur, Guna, Gondia, Gopalpur, stretching up to east central Bay of Bengal. The forecast suggests formation of another back-to-back low-pressure zone this weekend. Rain data suggests that so far, Jharkhand has received 803.8 mm rain against a normal of 876.9 mm, a deficit of eight per cent. Weathermen said the expected good spell of rain due to the impact of the prevailing low-pressure was likely to bring down the deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand add-on Budget tabled in Assembly amid chaos ||The state government presented its first supplementary budget to the tune of Rs 4,984cr in the Assembly on Monday amid bedlam by BJP MLAs who chanted slogans and rushed to the Well of the House to express displeasure at the Speaker's decision to allot a separate room for namaz within the premises, prompting chief minister Hemant Soren to criticise the Opposition for its disruptive ways. Question Hour had to be suspended because of the continuing chaos. A scheduled discussion on employment and price hike could not be held too. The Assembly had to be adjourned thrice since the start of the day's proceedings at 11 am. The first adjournment was at 11.30am. The House re-assembled at 12.45pm and was adjourned again within 10 minutes after state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon tabled the first supplementary budget. The House reconvened at 2.08pm, but had to be adjourned soon after till 3.03pm. The BJP first moved an adjournment motion before the start of Question Hour seeking cancellation of the namaz room allotment. Party MLAs also demanded amendments to the state's employment policy by including Hindi, Sanskrit, Magahi and other local languages. But the Speaker disallowed the motion, asking the MLAs to allow the House to function. While Congress MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad rose to question the government on the employment situation in the state, BJP’s Bhanu Pratap Shahi led the ruckus in the House, forcing the Speaker to adjourned the House till 12.45pm. Finance minister Oraon tabled the supplementary budget after the House re-assembled but repeated disruptions meant that a debate on the supplementary budget could not be held. The pandemonium continued even after lunch break. Before the start of the day's proceedings, BJP MLAs sat at the entrance of the Assembly performing bhajans with many playing traditional musical instruments. Deoghar MLA Narayan Das danced while singing "Hare Rama, Hare Krishna", while others chanted "Jai Shri Ram" _ all this to protest against the Speaker's decision day's ago to allot a separate room for namaz within the Assembly premises. Talking to reporters later, Hemant criticised the BJP for stalling the House. “As an Opposition party, the BJP doesn’t have any issues. Hence, its MLAs are disrupting the House. They are doing injustice to the people (voters) of this state. Today, the CM’s Question Hour could not be held. It was an occasion for them to ask questions directly. We were ready to answer all their queries," he said. Asked if the decision to allot a separate namaz room in the Assembly would be rolled back, the chief minister was clear. "I don’t think there is any need. Mann mein agar astha ho toh sab jagha prarthana kar lenge. Lekin mann mein agar rakshash ho toh sab dusman hi lagega (If you have faith in your heart you can pray anywhere. But if you have demons inside you, you will consider everyone as your enemies).” Former chief minister Raghubar Das, however, threatened to sit on a dharna near the Assembly if the state government did not go back on its namaz room decision within the next 48 hours. In a letter to the Speaker, Das said, “Being the head of a constitutional and democratic institution, the onus of maintaining the virtues of constitution and its norms solely lies on you. I, therefore, urge you to take back this unconstitutional notification within 48 hours. Or else I will sit outside the Assembly entrance to hold a protest."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant inaugurates much-needed power substation in Garhwa||Chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurated a power substation (132/33 KV grid) at Bhagodih in Garhwa district and laid the foundation stone for two other substations of similar capacity at Nagar Untari in Garhwa and Chhatarpur in Palamau district through a virtual ceremony here on Monday in the presence of senior bureaucrats, an MLA and state minister Mithilesh Thakur, among others. Sources said that the sub-station in Garhwa would help the district cut down on its dependence on neighbouging states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The Bhagodih sub-station, set up at a cost of Rs 26.74 crore, will get electricity from Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCIL)’s grid in adjoining Palamau district. Hemant said the move would end power cuts in Garhwa and the entire Palamau commissionary region. “Our government is focusing on improving the overall electricity situation in these areas to light up the lives of people residing there. Seamless electricity will also mitigate problems related to irrigation facilities and help in overall development of the region,” he said. Both Garhwa and Palamau are regarded as dry districts owing to scanty rainfall. Lack of regular power supply oftrn leads to paucity of drinking water. “Soon, these shortcomings due to power crunch will be over. Our aim is to make the state power sufficient in the coming days so that people can get electricity round- the- clock," Hemant said. State energy department secretary Avinash Kumar said the new facilities would improve the electricity situation in the Palamau zone. “So far, vast parts of Garhwa and Palamau remained devoid of proper power supply. Other areas suffered erratic supplies. Those problems will be solved now,” he said. Speaking about the two new sub-stations whose foundation stone was laid, Kumar explained that these would be built at a cost of around Rs 90 crore. “The work is targeted to be over in two years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jhargram Express to resume service from tomorrow||Passengers from different stations of Dhanbad Chandrapura Railway line as well as those travelling frequently between Dhanbad and Tatanagar relieved as Jhargram Dhanbad MEMU Special (08019/08020) is all set to resume its services from tomorrow. Notably, at present the passengers running between Dhanbad and Tatanagar and vice versa have no other option other than to travel by buses or other private vehicles. Ashish Bansal, divisional railway manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central, shared a detailed time table of the train through his official twitter handle yesterday informing that the train (08019) will begin its journey from Jhargram at 6 am, tomorrow to reach Dhanbad at 1.45 pm. The train will be crossing different intermediate stations like Ghatshila (7 am), Tatanagar (7.50 am), Chandil (9 am), Purulia (10 am), Bokaro Steel City (11.30 am), Chandrapura (12.06 pm), Phulbartan (12.26 pm), Sonardih (12.35 pm), Katrasgarh (12.45 pm), Sijua (12.51 pm), Bansjora (12.56 pm), Baseria (13.02 pm), Kusunda (13.10 pm). The train however will not stop at several intermediate stations including Tetulia, Tundu, Budoda, and Jamunia Halt as the railway has discontinued the stoppage of trains on these stations since October 2019 itself. During the return journey the train will start operation from Dhanbad Railway Station at 14.15 am and reach Jhargram at 9.15 am. PK Mishra, Public Relation officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway said that the train will operate on all seven days of the week beginning from tomorrow. Notably, the train used to operate for six days a week. Its services were not available during Saturday. He further said, that besides Jhargram Dhanbad MEMU express, another train Adra Barkakana Memu train will also be resume its service from tomorrow as the train will begin its journey from Adra at 4.55 am and reach Barkakana Station of Dhanbad Division at around 9,45 am. During the return journey the train will begin journey from Barkakana at around 2.05 pm and reach Adra at around 19.15 pm Talking to Telegraph Online today, Ranjit Kumar, a resident of Katras said, “With Jhargram Dhanbad MEMU train resuming its services, the residents of Katras and Baghmara along those travelling between Dhanbad and Tatanagar will heave a sigh of relief. Lack of trains has left us with no option but to travel in buses which are expensive as well as unsafe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Auto-immune disease among kids rising in Ranchi, warn doctors ||Doctors in Ranchi have sounded an alert over rising cases of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS) among children following hospitalization of over a dozen kids affected by this auto-immune disease in which antibodies produced in response to Coronavirus start affecting organs and damaging them from within. At least two children suffering from MIS were admitted in the paediatrics ward of Sadar Hospital in Ranchi recently, while over a dozen patients were admitted in Rani Children Hospital, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said. “This is a serious disease and it can prove fatal if it is not treated on time. In children suffering from MIS, the antibodies produced in response to the exposure to SARS-COV-2 virus start gradually damaging their organs,” said Dr Kumar, adding that children in the age bracket of four to 10 years were most susceptible to this disease. Children who were either infected by coronavirus or developed antibodies due to exposure to their Covid-positive parents or other family members develop MIS, said doctors, claiming that the treatment includes administering immunosuppressants and even steroids. “Timely diagnosis and treatment is extremely important in such cases. Undetected MIS may damage heart, liver, kidney and other important organs,” said the civil surgeon. Any child suffering from high fever or cough and cold for five to six days is an MIS suspect if there is a history of coronavirus infection in his or her family. It can be confirmed only after some tests, including the Covid antibody test. Paediatricians said some patients also suffer from severe abdominal pain, diarrhoea or vomiting. Also, MIS-induced diarrhoea leads to quick dehydration in children and needs immediate attention, say doctors. While the cases of Covid-19 have dropped significantly in Jharkhand lately, doctors fear that MIS could be a cause for concern. MIS, doctors said, may impact kids just like post-Covid complications affect adults. As per government data, the state has so far reported 3,47,957 cases of Covid-19 and more than 98 per cent of patients have recovered. While the state doesn’t have separate data on the number of kids affected by Covid-19, doctors believe that the deadly virus may have affected several kids, who were never tested for Covid-19 but still have antibodies against SARS-COV-2. However, every child with antibodies against coronavirus is not prone to develop MIS, the civil surgeon clarified, adding that in some cases, “too much” immune response to the virus may lead to this ailment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Speaker defends decision to offer namaz room in Assembly||Jharkhand Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto defended his move to provide space for namaz within the Assembly precincts,  accusing the BJP of raking up a "non-issue" even as the Opposition party held protests and burnt effigies of the chief minister and Speaker in some districts, including Ranchi. On Sunday evening, over two dozen party workers, led by state BJP  general secretary Aditya Sahu staged a protest in Harmu in  stte capital. BJP has accused the Speaker and state government of "appeasement politics" and demanded space for construction of a lavish Hanuman temple with similar arrangements for people of different faiths within the Assembly building. Speaker Mahto, however, maintained that there was nothing "unconstitutional" about the move to offer space for namaz in the Asembly premises. “I don’t know why the BJP is protesting over a non-issue. This trend of a earmarking a separate room for those who want to offer namaz, mainly on Fridays, was there even in the old Assembly building which was used over a decade ever since creation of Jharkhand in 2000. Now that the Assembly has shifted to a permanent building, we have simply  notified a room where people can offer prayers (namaz). Why so much fuss?" he wondered, claiming that such facilities were present in other states too. "The Vidhan Sabha,” he said, "will always be the temple of democracy. It is where we celebrate all festivals like Sarhul, Holi and the like.” The Opposition BJP, however,  isn’t ready to climb down. State party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said on Sunday that they would continue thier protest till the order was taken back. “The Hemant Soren government has kept doors of the temple for devotees closed for months citing Covid-19, but provides a room for namaz at the Assembly. This move exposes his intention to polarise,” he said. On Saturday, Ranchi MLA C. P. Singh had demanded that the Speaker provide a space for the construction of a Hanuman temple within the Assembly premises. He also said that the BJP was ready to bear the cost. BJP chief whip in the Assembly Biranchi Narayan has threatened to challenge the Speaker's decision in court. In a letter to Mahto, he appealed to him t withdraw the notification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid situation shows further improvement ||The Covid situation in Jharkhand showed further improvement during the past one month. The active caseload that stood at 223 on the state a month ago, slid to 133 on Saturday evening while the number of new cases also went down from 30 to 9. According to data released by the state health department, no new case was found in 20 of the total 24 districts on Saturday. Of the 9 new cases detected in the state on that day, 6 were detected in Ranchi district alone while East Singhbhum, Hazaribagh and Sahibganj districts had one each. One Covid death was recorded in Dhanbad on Saturday, the second in the state since August 17 when another Covid patient had died in the same district. Of the total 133 active cases in the state on Saturday, Ranchi alone 84 or 73 per cent caseload while Jamtara was the only other district where the number of cases was in double digit of 13. Among the rest 22 districts, 6 districts — Dumka, Giridih, Gumla, Koderma, Pakur and Palamau  — did not have a single active case on that day while East Singhbhum had the maximum 8 active cases. All 15 other districts had less than 5 cases each. The recovery rate in the state 98.48 per cent on Saturday compared to the national figure of 97.40 per cent. “Ranchi being the gateway of the state, people from many other Covid-affected states and even abroad are coming here everyday and being detected Covid-19 positive on arrival,” Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of Covid-19 task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, replied when asked why Ranchi had maximum Covid patients in the state, adding many of them may belong to other districts but were found positive after put on test in Ranchi. The infection can be checked if people adhered to Covid-appropriate behaviour and also got vaccinated at the earliest, he further said. A heritage tour began in Puri on Sunday to promote the rich culture of the holy town in Odisha. Fifty-three famous heritage locations like mathas, temples and ashrams have been identified and divided into five cycling and walking routes, the Puri district administration said on Twitter. "Every Sunday, a group of 40 children from government schools take this educative ride with guides and volunteers," it said. A quiz contest would also be held at the end of the tour and winners will be rewarded. The ride and walk will be open for tourists and senior citizens very soon, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly likely to witness rough monsoon session||The Jharkhand Assembly is unlikely to witness smooth business during the rest of the monsoon session if the happenings on the opening day are any indication. The 5-day monsoon session that began on September 3 has only four more working days left — from Monday to Thursday. While the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine is preparing for getting some important business done during the brief session, the BJP is also trying its best to corner the government on certain issues. The government is all set to present the first supplementary budget for 2021-22 on Monday. It also wants to push through 75 per cent reservation of private jobs with monthly salary amounting up to Rs 40,000 for local people. The Congress, an alliance partner of the ruling combine, has already declared that it would pursue 27 per cent reservation in state government’s jobs for other backward classes (OBCs). Besides, the government also has on its agenda passing of a resolution favouring caste-based census. But the question at the moment is whether the Hemant Soren government would be able to get those done during the current monsoon session smoothly. More so as the BJP, on the other hand, has also declared that “anti-people policies of the Hemant government will be opposed”, adding they would also protest against deteriorating law and order situation of the state and also “fight for getting the new employment policy scrapped”. Besides, the party also announced it would continue to demand recognition of their legislative party leader, Babulal Marandi, as the leader of the Opposition. This is a long pending issue as the Speaker did not recognise him as the leader of the opposition because Marandi who, along with two others, had won the last Assembly election as JVM (P) candidates but switched parties. Marandi joined the BJP after dissolving his party while two other MLAs went to the Congress fold. Their political status in the Assembly was yet to be decided. It was the same issue that the BJP picked up for protesting when the Assembly started for the monsoon session last Friday. As it is customary on the opening day of the session, obituary references were taken up and the Speaker asked BJP’s chief whip Biranchi Narayan to read out the same for quite a few who died recently, including former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Olympian Milkha Singh and actor Dilip Kumar. But his party colleagues asked Narayan not to proceed with it as it should have been ideally done by Marandi who, being the leader of their legislative party, was supposed to be the leader of the Opposition as well. The BJP leaders then started shouting slogans against the Speaker who adjourned the House till Monday morning after the obituary references were hurriedly made. “BJP threw the parliamentary traditions to the wind by disrupting the House during obituary reference,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya alleged afterwards, adding the Speaker should initiate action against those involved if they did not apologise for their act. Many others also criticised BJP legislators for shouting slogans when obituary references were being made. But that certainly did not guarantee smooth business in the House during the rest of the session. Meanwhile, the BJP also got a new issue when Jharkhand Assembly earmarked a room within its premises for offering namaz. “We are not against any religious practice but condemn the politics of appeasement  that hurt others' sentiments,” said BJP state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash, adding they would demonstrate against the decision across the state till Thursday, beginning with burning of effigy of the Speaker on Sunday. Ranchi MLA C.P. Singh went a step further and demanded construction of a temple of Bajrang Bali within the Assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
