07-09-2021||Business||CBDT allows taxpayers to file applications by Sep 30 for settlement of pending cases||The finance ministry on Tuesday said income taxpayers can file applications before the interim board for settlement of pending tax cases at the Income Tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) level by September 30. The Finance Act, 2021, has amended the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, to provide that the ITSC shall cease to operate with effect from February 1, 2021. Further, it has also been provided that no application for settlement can be filed on or after February 1, which was the date on which the Finance Bill, 2021, was laid before the Lok Sabha. To dispose of the pending settlement applications as of January 31, 2021, the government had constituted the Interim Board for Settlement. The taxpayers, in the pending cases, have the option to withdraw their applications within the specified time and intimate the assessing officer about such withdrawal. Following this, the ministry had received representations that a number of taxpayers were in the advanced stages of filing their application for settlement before the ITSC as of February 1. Further, some taxpayers have approached high courts requesting that their applications for settlement may be accepted. In some cases, the high courts have given interim relief and directed acceptance of applications of settlement even after February 1. 2021. This has resulted in uncertainty and protracted litigation, the ministry said. "In order to provide relief to the taxpayers who were eligible to file an application as on January 31, 2021, but could not file the same due to cessation of ITSC vide Finance Act, 2021, it has been decided that applications for settlement can be filed by the taxpayers by September 30, 2021, before the Interim Board," the ministry said in a statement. This would be, however, subject to the condition that the assessee was eligible to file the application for settlement on January 31, 2021, for the assessment years for which the application is sought to be filed. It is also subject to the condition that all the relevant assessment proceedings of the assessee are pending as of the date of filing the application for settlement. Such applications, subject to their validity, shall be deemed to be 'pending applications' and shall be disposed of by the Interim Board as per the provisions of the Act. "It is clarified that taxpayers who have filed such applications shall not have the option to withdraw such applications. "Further, the taxpayers who have already filed an application for settlement on or after February 1, 2021, as per the direction of various high courts and who are otherwise eligible to file such application...on the date of filing of the said application shall not be required to file such application again," the ministry said. Legislative amendments in this regard shall be brought in due course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Learn From European Royal Alexandre de Damas to Dominate Your Industry as a Rising Entrepreneur||Every individual dreams of dominating his or her respective field or industry. These lofty dreams require dedication and discipline to achieve. While it may be challenging, it is certainly possible to stand out in the crowd and lead your industry. Alexandre de Damas is an accomplished public figure, and he's well-versed with what it takes to become a leading name in your field. Alexandre de Damas is a famous public figure. He is the founder of Damacorp, the first to use artificial intelligence (AI) in the CRBI industry. Alexandre de Damas belongs to one of Europe's most distinguished royal families- the House of Damas. Despite his royal lineage, he is a self-made success. He shares valuable insights to help you dominate your field and emerge successful. Know the intricacies of your industry You can understand the challenges faced by the audience of any industry if you pay attention to the minute details. It is important to gather work experience and cultivate knowledge about the intricacies of your industry. Interact with a lot of people and pay attention to their pain areas. Putting in enough effort will help you identify the one idea or solution that nobody else could. Build impeccable client service Your customers expect you to provide them with the desired product or service and solutions to existing problems as well. It is essential to go the extra mile and build powerful relationships with your clients. Ensure that your client service is flawless and that you are always providing strong value-adds. Have a superior value proposition: Alexandre de Damas advises new entrepreneurs to take the time to develop a solid value proposition. Just like Damacorp introduced a radical value proposition into a conventional industry, you can also formulate a value proposition that will make your company stand out. He says, "Create a need in the market or identify what's missing, then fulfill that need. It is the simplest way to add value and stand out." Create lasting partnerships: You cannot win in any industry without having solid allies. Many companies can benefit from a partnership with you, and vice versa. Approach them, get them on board, and employ your combined resources to generate bigger profits, develop better solutions, and spread your name farther. Reliable collaborations can also help you in difficult situations. Hence, it is always a good thing to rely on your partners and have their back as well. Alexandre de Damas insists on using every interaction, professional or not, as an opportunity to grow your knowledge. It can be related to your industry, developing people skills, or subtly networking. This will help you rise to the top while making strong relations to boost your growth effortlessly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Markets end flat, HDFC jumps over 2.50 per cent||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended with mild losses on Tuesday after investors rushed to profit booking at higher levels amid weak cues from European markets. The 30-share BSE Sensex settled 17.43 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 58,279.48. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 15.70 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,362.10. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 2.56 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank, ITC, UltraTech Cement, Nestle India and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, HCL Tech, Infosys and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul settled in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.54 per cent to USD 72.61 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 589.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Mumbai Airport registers four-fold traffic growth in August as festive season begins||The onset of the festive season coupled with some countries easing visa and travel curbs helped Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to post a nearly four-fold growth in passenger traffic in August. CSMIA handled 16-lakh passengers in August this year, the private airport operator said on Tuesday. Of this, the domestic passenger segment accounted for almost 90 per cent, while international was a little over 10 per cent, amid a ban on scheduled international flight operations from late March 2020, and only a limited number of air services being allowed on overseas routes under various special arrangements and pacts. In August 2020, the country's second busiest airport handled 4-lakh passengers. CSMIA expects an upward trend in leisure travel both on domestic and international routes in the coming months, with the ensuing festival and holiday season, it said in a release. CSMIA played host to a total of approximately 15,87,150 passengers with flights from across domestic and international destinations in August, it said in a release. With the festive season just around the corner and with countries across the globe easing down travel restrictions, August witnessed a surge in the number of passengers travelling through CSMIA, it stated. Of the total passengers, 14,02,369 were domestic and the remaining 1,84,787 passengers were international passengers, it said, adding that about 7,85,479 passengers arrived at the CSMIA, while 8,01,677 flew out to various domestic and international destinations in the previous month. Delhi, Bangalore and Goa emerged as the most-travelled domestic destinations from Mumbai Airport, while Doha emerged as the top most international destination, it added. With festivals like Raksha Bandhan, Janmashtami and Onam falling during weekends in August, the Airport witnessed an upward trend in week-end travel. Goa emerged as the highest travelled destinations with 22,078 passengers, followed by Srinagar, Jammu and Leh during the weekend of August, CSMIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Cairn to drop all litigations against India after receiving $1 billion refund||UK-based Cairn Energy PLC on Tuesday said it will drop litigations to seize Indian properties in countries ranging from France to the US, within a couple of days of getting a USD 1 billion refund resulting from the scrapping of a retrospective tax law. The firm, which gave India its biggest onland oil discovery, termed "bold" the legislation passed last month to cancel a 2012 policy that gave the tax department power to go back 50 years and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas but business assets were in India. The offer to return money seized to enforce retrospective tax demand in lieu of dropping all litigations against the government "is acceptable to us," Cairn CEO Simon Thomson told PTI in an interview from London. Cairn will drop cases to seize diplomatic apartments in Paris and Air India airplanes in the US in "a matter of a couple of days" after the refund, he said adding Cairn's shareholders are in agreement with accepting the offer and moving on. "Some of our core shareholders likes BlackRock and Franklin Templeton agree (to this). Our view is supported by our core shareholders (that) on balance it is better to accept and move on and be pragmatic. Rather than continue with something negative for all parties which could last for many years," he said. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government last month enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecoms group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. "Once we get to final resolution, part of that resolution is us dropping everything in terms of litigation. We can do that within a very short period of time, just a matter of a couple of days or something," Thomson said. "So we are preparing on the basis of getting this resolution quickly, all these cases being dropped, and putting all this behind." He said all enforcement proceedings brought because of the Government of India's refusal to honour an international arbitration award asking it to return the value of money seized to enforce the retrospective tax demand, will be dropped. "Everything will be dropped. There will be no more litigation, that will be it. It will clear the matter up," he said. Cairn in its half-yearly report on Tuesday said it will return up to USD 700 million out of the Rs 7,900 crore (USD 1.06 billion) it is supposed to get from the Indian government, to "shareholders via special dividend and buyback." "Payment of the tax refund would enable a proposed return to shareholders of up to USD 700 million, via a special dividend of USD 500 million and a share buyback programme of up to USD 200 million. The remainder of the proceeds would be allocated to further expansion of the low-cost, sustainable production base," it said. Thomson said Cairn has had a "good, open and transparent line of communications with the Government of India" on finding a resolution to the retro tax issue. "Our aim was to get to a resolution... something which would be acceptable to our shareholders." "We were pleased when the Government of India made what we thought was a pretty bold move, in terms of enactment of the legislation," he said. "The intention of the government, we are obviously aligned with it, is to get this resolved as quickly as possible. Hopefully, that means within the next few weeks. It is good not only for us and our shareholders but also importantly for India." The resolution will bury the ghost of retro tax and help move on. "We are keen to get back to Cairn being talked about in terms of success in Rajasthan. I think moving on from this will allow us to do that," he said referring to the prolific oil discovery the firm made in Barmer. In accepting the terms of the new legislation in India, Cairn would be required to withdraw its international arbitration award claim, interest and costs and to end all legal enforcement actions in order to be eligible for the refund. "It will mean we will forego interest and penalty in terms of the original arbitration award. The important thing for us is it returns the value that was taken from us. From our perspective it is the right thing to do, be pragmatic, put this behind us, move on," he said adding this would help wipe away a factor negatively impacting investment for many years to come. The 2012 legislation was used to levy a cumulative of Rs 1.10 lakh crore of tax on 17 entities including UK telecom giant Vodafone but nearly 98 per cent of the Rs 8,100 crore recovered in enforcing such a demand was only from Cairn. An international arbitration tribunal in December overturned a levy of Rs 10,247 crore in taxes on a 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India prior to its listing, and asked the Indian government to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld. This totalled USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. The Indian government initially refused to honour the award, forcing Cairn to identify USD 70 billion of Indian assets from the US to Singapore to enforce the ruling, including taking flag carrier Air India Ltd to a US court in May. A French court in July paved the way for Cairn to seize real estate belonging to the Indian government in Paris. All these litigations will be dropped, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 70 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 70 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Infosys, ICICI Bank and TCS amid foreign fund outflows. The 30-share Sensex was trading 79.69 points or 0.14 per cent lower at 58,217.22. Similarly, Nifty fell 26.30 points or 0.15 per cent to 17,351.50 in initial deals. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Infosys, ICICI Bank, SBI, and Kotak Bank. Meanwhile, TCS slipped 0.26 per cent. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ITC, Nestle India, Tata Steel, HUL and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index advanced 166.96 points or 0.29 per cent to its new closing record of 58,296.91. It touched an all-time high of 58,515.85 during the session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 54.20 points or 0.31 per cent to its fresh lifetime peak of 17,377.80. During the session, it surged to a record 17,429.55. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, and Hong Kong were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Tokyo closed in the green. US equities ended mixed in the overnight session. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 589.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.44 per cent to USD 72.54 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Infosys likely to close share buyback programme||Infosys is likely to close its share buyback programme after the company said it had utilised 99.99 per cent of the Rs 9,200 crore corpus it had set aside for the purpose. The committee’s buyback  committee will meet on Wednesday (September 8) to discuss a range of options, including the closure of the share buyback programme that was announced on April 14. Under the plan, the company had committed to buy shares from the market at a maximum price of Rs 1,750 per share. On Monday, the stock closed at Rs 1,730 on the Bombay Stock Exchange, up 1.75 per cent. During the buyback period, the highest price that the stock reached was Rs 1,748.45 on August 17. The buyback is part of the Bangalore-based company’s capital return of Rs 15,600 crore, which also includes a final dividend of Rs 6,400 crore. Effective fiscal 2020, Infosys had enhanced its capital allocation plan and said it will return 85 per cent of free cash flow cumulatively over five years via buyback and dividends. Chief financial officer Nilanjan Roy had said in the conference call after announcing Q1 results that the company’s return on equity (ROE) had risen to 29.3 per cent in the first quarter from 27.4 per cent in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal. “ROE has increased by over 3.4 per cent in last two years, driven by a robust capital allocation policy,” Roy had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Government plans to lease out The Ashok hotel to investors ||The government plans to lease out The Ashok to investors to turn the sprawling 25-acre property in the heart of the national capital into a multi-purpose building, housing an array of facilities, including service apartments and a mall, an official said. The tourism ministry is working on the contours of the bidding and aims to complete the process in the current financial year. “The intention is to turn ‘The Ashok’ into an iconic building which would house service apartments, besides a mall and other amenities taking advantage of its location,” the official said. The lease could be of 90-100 years, he said, adding that as the hotel land is spread over 25 acres and close to the Diplomatic Enclave, the service apartments could attract international dignitaries. The Ashok and the adjacent Hotel Samrat are among the eight India Tourism Development Corp (ITDC) assets listed under the National Monetisation Pipeline announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. “The government is not looking to ramp up collections from this transaction. The intent is to utilise the asset to its full potential and build a multi-purpose building like those in foreign countries,” the official added. ITDC’s Hotel Nilachal in Puri, Hotel Kalinga Ashok in Bhubaneswar and properties in Ranchi, Pondicherry, J&K and Anandpur Sahib will also be monetised. The Centre also plans to monetise the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and two Sports Authority of India regional centres at Bangalore and Zirakpur. Last month, the government launched the asset monetisation pipeline under which existing assets worth Rs 6 lakh crore may be monetised through the fiscal ending March 2025. The ownership control would, however, be retained with the government. Assets in various sectors, including road transport, railways, power, civil aviation, shipping ports and telecommunications, will be monetised under the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Tamilnad Mercantile Bank files papers with Sebi for IPO||Private sector lender Tamilnad Mercantile Bank has filed preliminary papers with capital market regulator Sebi to mop up funds through an initial share sale. The initial public offering (IPO) comprises fresh issue of 15,827,495 equity shares and an offer for sale of up to 12,505 equity shares by selling shareholders, according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). The offer for sale consists of of up to 5,000 equity shares each by D. Prem Palanivel and Priya Rajan, up to 1,000 equity shares by Prabhakar Mahadeo Bobde, up to 505 equity shares by Narasimhan Krishnamurthy and up to 500 equity shares each by M. Malliga Rani and Subramanian Venkiteshwaran Iyer. The Tuticorin-based bank proposes to utilise the net proceeds from the fresh issue to augment its Tier–I capital base to meet its future capital requirements. Tamilnad Mercantile Bank is one of the oldest private sector banks in the country with a history of almost 100 years. It offers a wide range of banking and financial services primarily to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), agricultural and retail customers. As on June 30, 2021, the bank has 509 branches, of which 106 branches are in the rural, 247 in the semi-urban, 80 in the urban and 76 in the metropolitan centres. As on June 30, 2021, it had a customer base of 4.93 million of which 70 per cent comprised customers who were associated with the bank for more than five years. Axis Capital Ltd, Motilal Oswal Investment Advisors Ltd and SBI Capital Markets Ltd are the book running lead managers to the public issue. Indiabulls Housing Shadow bank lender Indiabulls Housing Finance entered the market on Monday seeking to raise Rs 1,000 crore through the sale of notes — a return to the market after a turbulent phase during which it ran into trouble with enforcement authorities and saw the RBI nix its plan to merge with Lakshmi Vilas Bank that would have marked its entry into retail banking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business|| Nuvoco Vistas Corporation posts consolidated net profit of Rs 114.28 crore||Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd, the fifth largest cement maker in the country, on Monday announced a consolidated net profit of Rs 114.28 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2021. The company had posted a loss of Rs 91.38 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago and a profit of Rs 37.52 crore for the quarter ended March  2021. This is the first financial result of the company disclosed on the stock exchanges. The company listed its shares on August 23 with an issue size of Rs 5,000 crore. On Monday, the shares closed at Rs 566.95 on the BSE, up 1.11 per cent over the previous close but lower than its issue price of Rs 570. The total consolidated income during the quarter was Rs 2,208.56 crore against Rs 849.99 crore a year ago. Nuvoco said that it had allotted 15,751,303 equity shares to Kotak Special Situations Fund on July 24 this year on account of conversion of convertible debentures. As a result, the basic and diluted EPS was Rs 3.35 as on June 30, 2021 instead of Rs 3.45 per share. Kotak Investment Advisors Limited, which manages the Kotak Special Situations Fund, had in July 2020 announced an investment of Rs 500 crore in Nuvoco to finance the acquisition of Emami Cements Ltd. Emami Cements Limited had become a wholly owned subsidiary of Nuvoco effective from June 14, 2020 and the company was renamed as NU Vista Limited. Nuvoco is part of the diversified Nirma group, which forayed into the cement business in 2014  with a greenfield plant at Rajasthan and has subsequently expanded inorganically through acquisition of Indian cement business of LafargeHolcim in 2016 and NU Vista in 2020. As of March 31, 2021, the company had 11 cement plants located in Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Haryana with an installed capacity of 22.32 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Parliamentary standing committee on finance meets SEBI officials||The parliamentary standing committee on finance headed by Jayant Sinha met the officials of the Securities and Exchange Board of India on Monday amid disapprovals in the regulator’s handling of the Franklin Templeton debt default and extremely weak action on its part in the NSE co-location case. The regulator had dropped action against the NSE and its former bigwigs. The six debt schemes of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund with assets of around Rs 26,000 crore were frozen on 23 April, 2020 after they faced unprecedented redemptions. The schemes were known to invest in relatively risky debt to get high returns. The discussions of the house panel mainly focussed on a single regulatory code that was proposed in the budget and seeks to  consolidate provisions in various legislations, including the Sebi Act, Depositories Act and the Government Securities Act. Sebi’s annual report had called for the early finalisation of the unified code. The standing committee had earlier met RBI officials and discussed the role of the central bank in regulating the country’s debt markets and single securities code. Sebi has said the code will remove ambiguities and contradictions between various laws. A member of the parliamentary panel said “discussions were on the broad policy issues and not on specific case details. Much of the discussion with financial sector regulators on strengthening broad policy measures and submissions would be studied in detail and would be part of the report to be submitted to parliament.” The six debt schemes of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund with assets of around Rs 26,000 crore were frozen on 23 April, 2020 after they faced unprecedented redemptions. The schemes were known to invest in relatively risky debt to get high returns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Formula driven bi-annual domestic natural gas prices to double from October 2022||The formula driven bi-annual domestic natural gas prices are likely to double from October 1 from the present $1.79 per mBtu (million British thermal unit) following a spike in prices at the benchmark global hubs, analysts said. “Domestic gas prices are expected to almost double in the next revision owing to increase in prices at various international hubs,” rating agency Icra said in a research note. For the first half of the current fiscal, the price was notified at $1.79/mBtu (GCV basis), the lowest since the introduction of the modified Rangarajan formula. However, the upstream players were making losses at such low prices.. The current domestic prices are the lowest since 2014, when the nation began to link the price of locally produced gas from old fields to a formula tied to global benchmarks, including Henry Hub, Alberta gas, NBP and Russian gas. Low natural gas prices affect the earnings of producers Oil and Natural Gas Corp and Oil India Ltd. Asia’s spot LNG prices have soared to multi-year summer highs owing to strong regional demand and surging prices in European gas hubs and have exceeded Rasgas term LNG price significantly. Henry hub prices have risen to $4.2/ mbtu levels in August 2021 from $2.4/ mbtu in April 2021 owing to strong exports and heat waves in the US. BPCL  doubts Fitch Ratings on Monday said uncertainty over the bidder consortiums and process complexity, including valuation, may lead to potential delays in privatisation of India’s second-largest fuel retailer, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). Affirming BPCL’s rating at ‘BBB-’ with a negative outlook, Fitch said it continues to treat the potential divestment of the company by the Indian government as an event risk. “We believe the risks of further Covid-19 waves and global oil and gas companies’ increased focus on energy transition lead to additional uncertainty over the timing and valuation of potentially large acquisitions in the sector,” it said. Fitch said it will review the ratings once significant progress is made. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL for which three expressions of interest, including one from Vedanta Group, have been received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Equity indices tick to lifetime peaks for third straight session||Equity indices ticked higher to fresh lifetime peaks for the third straight session on Monday, riding on robust gains in Reliance Industries and IT stocks amid a firm trend overseas. The 30-share BSE Sensex advanced 166.96 points or 0.29 per cent to its new closing record of 58296.91. It touched an all-time high of 58515.85 during the session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 54.20 points or 0.31 per cent to its fresh lifetime peak of 17377.80. During the session, it touched a record 17429.55. The benchmark 10-year bond ended marginally higher on Monday at 6.17 per cent against 6.16 per cent on Friday. Bond yields have been ruling at around 6.2 per cent levels for the whole of last month, but has lately dropped off a bit at 6.1-per-cent levels. The rupee on Monday declined by 8 paise to close at 73.10 against the US currency mainly due to the dollar's gains in the global markets. At the interbank foreign exchange market, the domestic currency opened flat at 73.02 but later lost ground to touch a low of 73.11 in the day trade. On Friday, the rupee had settled at 73.02 against the US dollar. Reliance gains Shares of Reliance Industries continued to move higher on Monday and closed with a gain of nearly 2 per cent after the company said its subsidiary has acquired a majority stake in genomic testing firm Strand Life Sciences for Rs 393 crore. The stock jumped 3.83 per cent to its all-time high of Rs 2,479.85 during the day on the BSE. It closed at Rs 2,424.55, a jump of 1.52 per cent. On the NSE, it gained 1.69 per cent to close at Rs 2,429. “Positive global markets and strong support from IT and realty stocks, aided domestic markets to trade modestly higher. Hopes of continued economic support by the Fed Reserve due to weak US job data and talks of more stimulus in Japan and China boosted global markets,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Milind Muchhala, executive director, Julius Baer, said: “The broader markets seem to be witnessing some signs of exhaustion after the healthy rally seen in the past month where India was the best performing market with gains of around 9 per cent.” “In fact, a small correction would be welcome at this juncture and help the markets to become healthier,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Thyssenkrupp India mining business not be sold to Denmark’s FLSmidth||The mining business of German conglomerate thyssenkrupp (TK) in India will not be sold to Denmark’s FLSmidth as part of the 24-nation deal, paring the value of the transaction by almost 14 per cent. The Danish company, which is also present in India independently, had announced a 325-million-euro (Rs 2,818 crore) deal on July 29. The transaction included the sale of TK’s Indian mining business too. FLSmidth on Monday said it would exclude the India business from the deal and accordingly, the total consideration (enterprise value) for TK Mining will be reduced by 45 million euros (Rs 390 crore) to 280 million euros (Rs 2,428 crore). The Danish major did not categorically disclose the basis for the change but suggested that the sale of the India business was part of an ongoing “negotiation” as TK’s mining activities are part of a larger integrated entity which is not fully owned by the German conglomerate. “Following discussions between the parties and with the minority shareholders, it has now been agreed to exclude  the TK Mining activities in India from the final transaction,” FLSmidth said in a statement on Monday. The mining activity of TK is housed in an entity called thyssenkrupp Industries India Pvt Ltd, where four Indian families have significant shareholding, even as the German company has majority stake. Minority shareholders Sources said the Indian minority shareholders, who came together historically over the last three to four decades, held a contra view on the proposed transaction. The minority shareholders had nearly a 48 per cent stake, while TK had about 52 per cent. Apart from open cast mining and bulk handling division, thyssenkrupp Industries India Pvt ltd has three other businesses — sugar plant and machinery, cement plant and machinery and energy (boilers for industry). In 2020, TK’s mining activities had delivered a revenue of  100 million euros (Rs 860 crore), while TK Mining (excluding India) had delivered a revenue of 680 million euros (Rs 5,897 crore). No impact The Danish company said FLSmidth already has a strong presence in India and  TK Mining’s activities in India are not strategically important for the transaction. The exclusion of the India business will not affect the transfer of TK Mining’s key IP and technologies to FLSmidth as part of the overall transaction, it informed. “The exclusion of TK Mining’s activities in India has no impact on the expected synergies and integration costs for the transaction. TK Mining is still expected to be net profit and cash flow positive from 2024 on a standalone basis. The EV/EBITDA normalised incl. synergies are around 3.5x post integration,” FLSmidth said in the official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Semiconductor crisis likely to stretch till 2023||Soaring demand for semiconductor chips means the auto industry could struggle to source enough of them throughout next year and into 2023, though the shortage should be less severe by then, Daimler AG’s CEO said on Sunday. Car makers, forced by the Covid-19 pandemic to shut down plants last year, face stiff competition from the sprawling consumer electronics industry for chip deliveries, hit by a series of supply chain disruptions during the pandemic. Cars have become increasingly dependent on chips for everything from computer management of engines for better fuel economy to driver-assistance features such as emergency braking. “Several chip suppliers have been referring to structural problems with demand,” Ola Källenius told reporters during a roundtable event ahead of the Munich IAA car show. “This could influence 2022 and (the situation) may be more relaxed in 2023.” The IAA show is the first major motor industry event worldwide since the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India hikes prices of entire product range||Maruti Suzuki, the country’s largest car maker, has hiked the prices of its entire product range, except the Celerio, in the range of Rs 7,500 to Rs 22,500 with immediate effect. The hike comes just before the start of the festive season, which kicks off with Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10. In a regulatory filing, the company said that it has taken the decision to hike prices because of an increase in various input costs. The weighted average price rise in ex-showroom prices (New Delhi) across select models is 1.9 per cent, it added. The price rise  is the maximum on the Eeco at Rs 22,500 and the least on the S-Presso at Rs 7,500, industry sources said. They said the entry-level Alto 800 has seen a hike of up to Rs 16,100 in the ex-showroom price, while the popular Wagon R and Swift will be dearer by up to Rs 12,500 and Rs 13,000, respectively. The prices of the Vitara Brezza have gone up by around Rs 10,000, Ertiga prices have been  increased by Rs 20,000. In the Maruti’s Nexa range, the Baleno price will go up by around Rs 15,200, the Ignis by up to Rs 14,680, Ciaz by up to Rs 20,500, XL6 by up to Rs 12,300 and the S-Cross by up to Rs 20,500 on their ex-showroom prices. This is MSI’s third price hike this year. The auto major has already raised prices in January and April, with an overall hike of around 3.5 per cent. On April 16, it announced a 1.6 per cent weighted average increase in ex-showroom prices (Delhi) across models. On January 18, the auto maker had hiked prices of some models by up to Rs 34,000. In July, it had hiked prices of hatchback Swift and CNG variants of other models by up to Rs 15,000.At present, the company sells a range of models from entry-level hatchback Alto to S-CROSS, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39  lakh, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||India||Narendra Dabholkar murder case: Charges to be framed next week||Charges would be framed against five accused in the case of the murder of anti-superstition activist Dr Narendra Dabholkar on September 15, a special court here said on Tuesday.  Dabholkar, who headed the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, was shot dead in Pune on August 20, 2013, allegedly by the members of a right-wing extremist group.  A criminal trial starts once charges are framed.  Charges would be framed against Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar and Vikram Bhave under IPC sections 302 (murder), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention), relevant sections of the Arms Act and section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (punishment for terrorist act), the court said.  Against advocate Sanjiv Punalekar, another accused, charges would be framed under IPC section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence or giving false information to screen offender), said special judge for UAPA cases S R Navandar.  Tawde, Andure and Punalekar attended the hearing through video link while Bhave was present in person. Kalaskar could not be present virtually due to technical reasons, prosecution sources said.  When the judge asked the accused if they pleaded guilty to the charges, Tawde sought time saying he wanted to meet his family members and lawyers in person.  Andure also sought more time.  The judge said there was no need to grant time for merely pleading guilty or not guilty.  As the accused insisted, the court passed the order to frame charges while deferring the proceedings to September 15, but made it clear that there would be no further postponement.  CBI lawyer and special prosecutor Prakash Suryawvashi said the central agency had proposed the same charges against Punalekar as those against others, but the court in its order only mentioned section 201 of IPC in his case. "We will not challenge the order. I will convey the order to the CBI," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
07-09-2021||India||Invited by top national leaders including PM, says Chirag||LJP leader Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said he has invited top national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, for an event in Patna on September 12 to mark the first death anniversary of his father and Dalit stalwart Ram Vilas Paswan. The event assumes heightened political significance at a time when Chirag Paswan is embroiled in a bitter dispute with his uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras to claim the legacy of his father. He also went to Paras' residence here to give him an invite. The young leader rejected speculation about his party wanting his father's Delhi residence of over three decades to remain under its control by installing a bust of Ram Vilas Paswan and asserted that as a lawmaker he will not do anything that is considered encroachment or any violation of law. "As of now the government has permitted me to stay here. The bust is a symbol of the party's love for the late leader and will be shifted whenever an alternative arrangement is provided. The bust should never be seen as an attempt on my part to encroach the property," he said. Noting that government rules do not allow converting any residence into a museum or a memorial, he said he would never support anything that goes against this and asserted that the party plans to install his father's bust or statue in every district across the country. The Urban Development Ministry had issued an initial notice for vacating the residence soon after the death of Ram Vilas Paswan, but the family has been allowed to stay there for now after Chirag Paswan took up the matter with senior government functionaries, sources said. On the September 12 event, Chirag Paswan said he has spoken to Modi and Shah to invite them and has also met Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in this regard. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, with whom the LJP leader has had sharp differences, and RJD's Lalu Prasad Yadav have also been invited. Paras is also likely to organise an anniversary event on October 8, the day Ram Vilas Paswan had died last year. He is also expected to invite top national leaders. Chirag Paswan, who left for Bihar on Tuesday with his family, is going by a traditional calendar to hold the event on September 12. Political observers will be keenly watching the attendance at the Jamui MP's event at a time when he has been touring Bihar on an "Aashirvaad Yatra" to rally support for his LJP faction. Five of the six party MPs have joined hands with Paras. While the BJP has given a ministerial berth in the Modi government to Paras ignoring Chirag Paswan's claims to the party, opposition leaders, including Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi Yadav, have reached out to him. Though he has voiced displeasure over the BJP's treatment of him, he has so far maintained silence about his future political moves, saying his priority now is to build his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
07-09-2021||India||Strong, decisive decisions slowed down spread of Covid-19 in India, says MoS Health||India's strong and decisive actions like surveillance at points of entry slowed down the spread of Covid-19 and gave enough time to the country to build public health capacities and infrastructure to effectively manage the pandemic, Union Minister Bharati Pravin Pawar said on Tuesday. The minister of state for health and family welfare represented India at the World Health Organization-South East Asia Regional Office (WHO-SEARO) through video-conference. She offered intervention on behalf of India at the ministerial roundtable for the seventy-fourth session of the WHO Regional Committee for South-East Asia. Pawar also highlighted the key measures and strategies planned to build back better' to achieve Universal Health Care and health related Sustainable Development Goals and to strengthen health system resilience for the future. Noting that COVID-19 has affected virtually every sphere of life and caused a huge number of deaths, she said the country adopted a proactive, pre-emptive, whole of government, whole of society and people-centric approach to manage the pandemic. "Our preparedness and response strategies utilised our past experiences of managing public health emergencies and contemporary scientific knowledge about evolving nature of disease to decide requisite public health interventions,” the minister said. "India's strategy for fighting the pandemic is built on five pillars Test, Track, Treat, Vaccinate and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. With a decentralised but unified, whole of government approach, we focused on rapidly creating Covid-dedicated infrastructure and upskilling our healthcare workforce," she said. Pawar noted that the proactive and bold decisions by India's "strong and decisive leadership" like surveillance at points of entry slowed down the entry and spread of COVID-19 and gave enough time to the country to build public health capacities and infrastructure to effectively manage the pandemic. Inter-sectoral coordination facilitated by establishing high level inter-ministerial groups and communication with states, other stakeholders and community at large facilitated a jan andolan (people's movement) for managing the pandemic, the minister said. "Legal and policy provisions like the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, already available to the Union and sub-national jurisdictions, provided the enabling framework to operationalise all aspect of pandemic management by clarifying roles, responsibilities while facilitating inter-sectoral coordination as governance from national to local levels," she said. Further, technical support by the Union government on containment, treatment protocol and all aspects of Covid management ensured a unified response, Pawar added. Speaking on the human cost of the pandemic, she said realising the indirect impact of COVID-19 especially on the poor and marginalised sections of society, a number of social security measures, including supply of food grains, minimum income support schemes, support for small industries, support for children who have lost their parents due to COVID-19 and other economic measures were taken to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. On the massive implication of India's development and deployment of vaccines along with amplification of production capacities on global health, Pawar shared the fundamental principles of India's vaccination strategy such as augmenting production of vaccines, prioritising vulnerable groups for vaccination, making efforts in procurement of vaccines from other countries, monitoring vaccinated people for their second dose, as well as providing requisite digital vaccination certificate. Our National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 provides guidance on vaccine trials, equitable distribution of vaccine, procurements, financing, delivery mechanisms, prioritisation of population groups etc. and the National Task Force on Vaccine Development supports Research and Development of Drug, Diagnostics and Vaccines for Coronavirus, the minister said. India utilised the existing infrastructure of the Universal Immunization Programme which was augmented to ensure cold chain maintenance besides managing required logistics of vaccines and syringes, she said. Pawar added that the capacity building at all level was taken by training more than 7,600 participants at the state level and around 61,500 at the district level apart from training more than 2 lakh vaccinators and 3.9 lakh other vaccination team members. "To enhance vaccine production, financial support as grant was provided to vaccine manufacturers, advance payment for orders placed, permission for at-risk manufacturing was allowed besides focusing on technology transfer to aid production, the minister said . The Co-WIN digital platform supported transparent registration and tracking of every beneficiary for COVID-19 vaccination along with real time information on the available stocks of vaccine, their storage temperature, digital certificates, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
07-09-2021||India||Srimaan Ramachandra Raja striving to make the world a better place to live in||Being a youngster, he chose to live a life for others, which has led him to initiate "Shree Welfare Foundation." Isn't it wonderful to know about all those people whose ultimate aim in life is not to fulfil their desires but do the unusual and take multiple steps forward for the betterment of others? Only a handful of people in this world think on these lines and make sure to move on the path of benevolence, a path that can lead them and, most importantly, others to their definition of peace, calm and happiness through their work. Moving relentlessly towards the same and paving his own path as a social activist and humanitarian is Srimaan Ramachandra Raja. This young man exudes pure love, passion and a will to do the greater good for people with his efforts and hard work, and that's why he initiated his NGO named Shree Welfare Foundation, created with the sole aim to support a social cause for the welfare of children, women and the underprivileged. However, there is more than what meets the eye in the case of this young talent. Srimaan Ramachandra Raja is not just the founder of his foundation and a social activist but also is a novice entrepreneur and an aspiring politician. On asking why he desires to be a part of the political world, Srimaan says that politics gives power, and with power, multiple things can be achieved. Hence, he wants to keep this as his backbone to achievement in the right direction. This Chennai young lad who was raised in Rajapalayam is an MBA graduate, but still, he chose social welfare as his way of life, which has earned him massive love, respect and recognition of people, especially those whose lives he has touched profoundly. Srimaan also holds the post of National Governing Council Member- NGPL. Throwing light on the selfless acts he does, Srimaan says that a helping hand and a good heart always reaches people's hearts and gives the power to extend help to others with genuine care and concern. This has been his motivation throughout, which has inspired many other youngsters as well to help others and impact lives. Currently, Srimaan is helping underprivileged children with school fees in excess of 2.5 lakhs, medical assistance worth 6 lakhs through his foundation. He has also been providing food to farmers amidst their protests in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Embrace your life and step towards a purpose driven life with the remarkable mindset coach munish maya||Munish Maya is a man of a remarkable personality and an all inclusive nature, he is a charismatic entrepreneur, a successful business & Life Strategist, social media Influencer, Leadership Expert, Success & Mindset Coach, Motivational Speaker. His aim and mission is to help people unlock their full potential and create a life they love and be successful at. Munish Maya says that,” In order to change your life, you need to embrace the CHANGE.” Munish has a striking experience of 10 years in this industry, since then he has been dedicated to help his followers and clients to overcome each & every obstacles that comes in their way, by teaching them to live powerfully with a state of clarity in their mind and courage in their heart. This will lead them to become the best version of themselves. Munish believes that we should be ready to take risks and go the hard way just to make the most out of our lives, as risk is the down payment of a successful life. Munish has received so much appreciation and recognition for his striking ideologies and strategies which are really effective and applicable to real life scenarios that millions of people now consider Munish as their inspiration and looks up to him as a constant source of motivation. Talking about his followers and fan-base currently Munish has a thriving community of 1 Million+ people connected to him worldwide. Mr. Munish, has been actively and consistently seen consulting some of the top Fortune 500 brands, startups, thought leaders, artists as well as visionaries. He also holds the honor to be amongst the first Global Brand Ambassador from India. Talking about his earlier education, Munish Maya has a degree of Bachelor in Technology in Electronics & Communication, from the renowned Thapar University. Mr. Maya is one of the most talked about and appreciated name in the field of personal development and leadership landscape. Munish has closely worked with many professionals and clients and he is fully aware of the prevalent mindsets that people have, he says that many people think that they’re already too old to succeed in life. This is myth and stops people to work towards exploring their purpose in life. Munish says that,” Success has no deadline. It is not defined by a certain age or a certain time or by any deadline. Success is something that you have to define for yourself, and no one else can do it for you.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Goa government issues SOPs for Ganesh Utsav||The Goa government on Tuesday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for Ganesh Utsav celebrations in the state, which include a ban on priests visiting homes for rituals, as well as households having Covid-19 patients being barred from inviting guests or visiting others. The SOP lays down that priests can conduct online puja, and appealed to families to perform rituals associated with the festival by "using various technologies like Youtube or Whatsapp videos". Officials said 'sarvajanik Ganeshotsav', or public festivities, may be permitted by local bodies on a case to case basis with adherence to all COVID-19 norms, including the use of masks and sanitisers, deployment of thermal screening equipment, and maintenance of social distancing. "Family with person in Home Quarantine or in Home Isolation shall neither host anyone in their houses or visit any other person outside their house, stated the SOP. The immersion of idols will take place in a staggered manner between 5pm to 10pm, the SOP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi asks Centre to postpone NEET exam||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for the postponement of the NEET examination, and alleged that the government is "blind" to students' distress. The former Congress chief also urged the government to let the students "have a fair chance" in the exams. Gandhi's remarks come a day after the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. The advocate for the petitioners argued that medical entrance exam NEET-UG 2021 be deferred as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. "GOI is blind to students' distress. Postpone NEET exam. Let them have a fair chance," Gandhi tweeted. Later, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted,"Time after time the government pushes on against the legitimate demands of students across India." "Why is it so hard for those in power to hear out and help those who are the future of our nation? Does their mental health and wellbeing not matter?" she said on Twitter with the hashtag "JusticeForNEETAspirants".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Bengal government challenges relief to Suvendu Adhikari||The West Bengal government on Tuesday filed an appeal before the Calcutta High Court challenging an order of a single bench that directed the police not to take coercive action against BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari in criminal cases relating to him in the state. The matter was mentioned by a state lawyer before a division bench presided over by Justice Subrata Talukdar with regard to filing an appeal against the single bench order. The state's appeal may be listed for hearing before the bench on Wednesday, a lawyer associated with the matter said. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha on Monday stayed proceedings against Adhikari, Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, in connection with three cases relating to the death of a security guard, an alleged political clash in Nandigram and a case of snatching lodged in Contai, Nandigram and Panskura police stations respectively in Purba Medinipur district. Allowing investigation in an alleged job scam case registered with Maniktala police station in Kolkata and a case of "threatening" the police at Tamluk, the court directed that no coercive action can be taken against Adhikari in connection with these two cases. Directing the West Bengal government to furnish information regarding any further FIR registered against Adhikari, the bench said the state will have to obtain permission of the court before arresting him or taking any coercive action against him in all such cases. Justice Mantha directed Adhikari to cooperate with the investigating officers in connection with the two cases in which investigation will continue, while making it clear that the investigators will, as far as possible, accommodate him, if he is required to give any statement, from a place and time convenient to him, considering his public responsibilities. The order was passed by the high court in Adhikari's petition seeking the court's intervention in criminal proceedings filed against him by the police or an order transferring investigation of the cases to CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh chief minister's father arrested over derogatory remarks against community||The Raipur Police have arrested Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel from Delhi in a case registered against him for allegedly making derogatory remarks against a community, an official said here on Tuesday. After being brought from the national capital, Nand Kumar Baghel was produced in a local court which sent him to jail under judicial remand for 15 days, he said. The CM had strongly disapproved of the objectionable remarks allegedly made by his 86-year-old father and asserted nobody is above law. Nand Kumar Baghel was arrested and brought from Delhi to Raipur on Tuesday." Raipur Additional Superintendent of Police Tarkeshwar Patel said. He was produced in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Janak Kumar Hidko who sent him to 15-day judicial custody, he added. According to police, the octogenarian did not apply for bail. The case against Nand Kumar Baghel was lodged on Saturday night at the DD Nagar police station in Raipur on a complaint filed by the 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj' against him. He was charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquility), police had said. The outfit, in its complaint, alleged that the CM's father recently made a controversial appeal to people to boycott Brahmins by terming them as "foreigners", and asked people to not let them enter in their villages. The organisation also accused Nand Kumar Baghel of asking people to "evict" Brahmins from the country. The organisation had said a video of the purported comments of the CM's father was available on social media platforms. According to the police, Nand Kumar Baghel reportedly made the remarks while addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh recently. After a controversy erupted over the alleged remarks of his father, the chief minister had said he was pained and asserted nobody was above law and police will take appropriate action in the matter. The remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a specific class have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the class as well as (affected) social harmony and I am also pained by them, Bhupesh Baghel had said in a statement. Nobody is above law under my government even if he is the chief minister's 86-year-old father, the Congress CM had said. He said the Chhattisgarh government respects every religion, caste and community and their sentiments, and gives equal importance to everyone, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Talks fail, thousands of farmers march towards Karnal mini-secretariat||Police used a water cannon near the district secretariat here as thousands of farmers marched towards the complex demanding action over a police lathi-charge last month. Farmer unions had warned that protesters would lay siege to the mini-secretariat if action was not taken against officials involved in the lathi-charge in Karnal on August 28. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav claimed that protesters -- marching to the secretariat from the venue of a mahapanchayat 5km away had already begun a gherao there. Farmers reached the New Anaj Mandi for a mahapanchayat in the morning, riding tractors and motorcycles. As they gathered there, an 11-member delegation was invited by the local administration to discuss their demands and dissuade them from marching towards the secretariat. "Our talks with administration failed as they did not agree to our demands," senior farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said about three hours later. Farmer union leaders then urged the large gathering at the mahapanchayat to march peacefully towards the mini-secretariat, five kilometres away. The leaders told the farmers not to enter into any confrontation with policemen, and squat in protest wherever they are stopped. Thousands of protesters walked towards the secretariat carrying farmer union flags. Several barricades have been put up on the route. Earlier, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters that they had demanded the suspension of the IAS officer who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Darshan Pal and Yogendra Yadav were among the senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders who had reached Karnal for the rally, being held days after a huge mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting for months over the three farm laws enacted at the Centre, claiming that the legislation will lead to the erosion of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal's Inspector General of Police Mamta Singh and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia, were among the officials who took part in the talks with farm leaders. Which law? Addressing the mahapanchayat earlier, Yogendra Yadav said, "We have come to ask the government which Constitution, which law gives an IAS officer permission to give orders to break the farmers' heads." "Under which law are police allowed to carry out brutal lathicharge resulting in the death of one and injuries to several others," he added. The authorities have, however, denied that any farmer died due to the violence on August 28. The Haryana Police had that day lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic on the national highway while heading towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha over his alleged break heads remark. Transfer posting Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday as well. After failing to get any satisfactory response on their demands the farmers decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Tuesday, he added. He had earlier sought the registration of a case against those involved in the lathi-charge. Central forces deployed Security arrangements had been beefed up in Karnal a day ahead of mahapanchayat and central forces deployed. Mobile internet services were suspended in Karnal and the four adjoining districts of Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat until Tuesday midnight. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC banning gathering of people were imposed in Karnal district. Traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was not disrupted while the panchayat continued, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Covid-19 put a full stop to education of 37 per cent rural, 19 per cent urban kids||There have been "catastrophic consequences" of the prolonged school closure in the country due to Covid-19, with over 37 per cent of students in rural areas not studying at all and 48 per cent not being able to read more than a few words, a recent survey has claimed. The School Children's Online and Offline Learning (SCHOOL) survey, titled "Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education", involving nearly 1,400 students from underprivileged households was conducted in August in 15 states and union territories. It was released on Monday. "The picture that emerges from this survey is absolutely dismal. In rural areas, only 28 per cent of children were studying regularly at the time of the survey, and 37 per cent were not studying at all. The results of a simple reading test are particularly alarming: nearly half of all children in the sample were unable to read more than a few words," it said. The corresponding figures for students studying regularly, not studying at all, and unable to read more than a few words in urban areas were 47 per cent, 19 per cent and 42 per cent, respectively, the survey claimed. The main findings of the SCHOOL survey are focused on the relatively deprived hamlets where children generally attend government schools. Schools and other educational institutions across the country have been closed for over a year and a half since the onset of the pandemic. Following a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation, several states are reopening the schools in a phased manner from September. As per the report, the proportion of children who were studying online regularly was just 24 per cent and eight per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. Lack of money, poor connectivity, or no access to smartphones were some of the reasons behind the "very limited" reach of online education among sampled students, the survey noted. "One reason for this is that many sample households (about half in rural areas) have no smartphone. But that is just the first hurdle: Even among households with a smartphone, the proportion of children who are studying online regularly is just 31 per cent in urban areas and 15 per cent in rural areas. Smartphones are often used by working adults, and may or may not be available to school children, especially the younger siblings (only nine per cent of all SCHOOL survey children had their own smartphones)," it explained. Even among the underprivileged households, the figures were "much worse" for Dalit and Adivasi families than for others, be it for online education, regular study, or reading abilities, claimed the survey. For instance, only "four per cent" of rural SC/ST children were studying online regularly, in comparison to 15 per cent among other rural children. Barely half of them were able to read more than a few letters in the reading test, the survey added. According to the survey, an overwhelming majority of parents felt that their child's reading and writing abilities declined during the lockdown. Even among urban parents with "online children", the proportion who felt so was as high as "65 per cent". "In the sample as a whole, only four per cent of parents felt that their child's reading and writing abilities had improved during the lockout something that should have been the norm. The proportion of parents who felt that their child had adequate online access was just 23 per cent in urban areas and eight per cent in rural areas," it said. Among rural SC/ST parents, a mammoth "98 per cent" wanted schools to reopen as soon as possible. However, according to the report, reopening of schools, which is still being debated, is just the "first step" and it will take years of patient work to "repair this damage". "Even preparations for that first step (such as repairing school buildings, issuing safety guidelines, training teachers, enrolment drives) are virtually invisible in many states. After that, the schooling system needs to go through an extended transition period not only to enable children to catch up with a reasonable curriculum but also to restore their psychological, social and nutritional wellbeing. As things stand, the system seems to be heading towards business as usual when schools reopen this is a recipe for disaster," it warned. The survey conducted in 15 states and union territories -- including Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal -- was a joint effort of nearly 100 volunteers across the country. The report was prepared by a coordination team, including the likes of economists Jean Dr ze and Nirali Bakhla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti claims she is under house arrest, says Kashmir situation far from normal||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday claimed that she has been placed under house arrest, and said the move has exposed the government's claims of normalcy. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also posted on Twitter pictures of a security force vehicle blocking the main gate of her Gupkar residence here. "Ive (I have) been placed under house arrest today because according to admin(istration) the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy," she tweeted. She also hit out at the Centre alleging that while the Government of India was expressing concern for the rights of people in Afghanistan, the same were denied to Kashmiris. "GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris," the PDP leader charged. Meanwhile,  Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh on Tuesday complimented the cops, Central Armed Paramilitary Forces and the Army for handling the situation professionally following the death of Geelani. "The DGP has complimented the police, CAPF and Army deployments for highly professional handling of ground situation over the last five days. Special restraint shown by police and security forces and a very responsible conduct of the local people especially the youth is highly appreciated," a police spokesperson said. Singh said all stakeholders have to move together in strengthening peace. "We have to move forward together to strengthen peace, identifying the enemies of peace and weaning out mischievous elements, and strictly deal with them under law," he added. The DGP said most of the restrictions in the valley have been eased, including internet curbs. "The situation is fully normal in both regions of Kashmir and Jammu, but under close watch," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court orders UP Police handover of missing girl probe case to Delhi Police||The Supreme Court Tuesday handed over the investigation of a case lodged in Uttar Pradesh, after a 13-year-old girl was missing from Gorakhpur since July 8, to Delhi Police which recently recovered her and arrested the alleged abductor. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar transferred the probe and said that all records related to the case collected by the UP Police be handed over to Delhi Police. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) R S Suri, appearing for Delhi Police, told the bench that the girl was recovered and the man who allegedly abducted her was arrested from Calcutta on September 2 and they were brought here on September 4. After that, the minor was examined at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and also given counselling. Suri told the bench, also comprising justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar, it seems that on July 15 she had married the offending man and she has refused to go with her mother. He said the girl has been handed over to the Gorakhpur Police as they wanted her custody to present her before the magistrate there. While arguing that investigation should be handed over to Delhi Police, Suri told the bench that the minor refused to go with her mother as she is upset with her parents. Advocate Pai Amit, appearing for the girl's mother who has filed a petition seeking directions to the UP Police and Delhi Police to trace her daughter, told the bench her pregnancy test is positive and if something has to be done, it has to be done in an urgent manner. He said the girl is about 15-16 years old but in her Aadhaar, her age is mentioned as 13. Suri said the girl claims that she is 17-year-old and the AIIMS has referred her to the forensic department for estimation of her age. "We will transfer the investigation to the Delhi Police. That we will do immediately. But, how should we go thereafter, you should indicate it to us," the bench told the ASG, who said he would discuss the issue and apprise the bench about it. The bench told the counsel appearing for Uttar Pradesh that it is transferring the probe to the Delhi Police and if he has any objection to it. "I have no objection. I leave it to my lords," the lawyer said. After the ASG referred to the report of counselling, the bench said, She has admitted sexual assault? . Suri replied in the affirmative after which the bench observed, Something needs to be done about it . The bench, while posting the matter for further hearing on September 14, said in the backdrop of the manner in which the matter proceeded before it and without recording any finding on the factum of nature of investigation done by the Gorakhpur Police, it is transferring the investigation to the Delhi Police. The investigation of the case shall be carried forward by the Malviya Nagar Police with immediate effect and they must take all necessary steps required to protect the minor girl from being exposed to any untoward situation, the bench said in its order. The bench said since the girl is not represented before it through a lawyer, it is nominating senior advocate K V Viswanathan to represent her. On September 3, the Delhi Police had informed the top court that the girl was recovered and the man who had allegedly abducted her was arrested from Calcutta. The top court had on September 1 pulled up Uttar Pradesh Police for its probe into the case and directed it to forthwith share the investigation report with Delhi Police. The mother, who works as a domestic help in Delhi, has claimed in her petition that her daughter is believed to have been kidnapped from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh by a man when her family members had gone there to attend a marriage ceremony. An FIR was registered in the case at Gorakhpur. In her petition, the girl's mother has sought directions for carrying out investigation into the disappearance and kidnapping of her daughter and take appropriate action against those who may be found involved in this. The habeas corpus petition, seeking to produce the girl before the court, has alleged that despite an FIR being lodged at Gorakhpur and an attempt being made to make a complaint with the Delhi Police, no action has been taken to trace the minor. It said the man, who is suspected to have kidnapped the girl, was constantly luring and coaxing her to accompany him. The mother claimed after an FIR was registered in Gorakhpur, she returned to Delhi and approached a police station where she had complained regarding the man on a previous occasion but the police refused to register or take steps for recording her complaint about kidnapping of her daughter on the grounds that a prior FIR has already been lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Farm leaders invited by Karnal admin amid mahapanchayat, plan of gherao||An 11-member delegation of farmer leaders was invited to hold talks with the district administration here on Tuesday as protesters in large numbers assembled for a mahapanchayat and later planned to gherao the district headquarters. Senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, have arrived here for the mahapanchayat demanding action against the police lathicharge on farmers on August 28. These senior leaders will be part of the talks with the administration and have said that they will raise various demands during the interaction. "We are talking to a delegation of farmers, Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told PTI over phone. Officials said details of the meeting will be shared later. Meanwhile, security arrangements have been beefed up in Karnal as the farmers have planned to gherao the mini-secretariat here. There is heavy deployment of Haryana Police as well as central forces in Karnal, while security forces in adequate strength have also been deployed at the new Anaj Mandi here where farmers are holding the mahapanchayat and plan to move towards the mini-secretariat, they said. Officials said vehicular traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was plying normally in the morning. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni had earlier in the day appealed to the farmers to assemble at the Anaj Mandi in a peaceful manner. Next course of action will be decided at the mahapanchayat, Chaduni had said in a video message. However, a statement issued by Haryana Police and Karnal district administration said some people had reached the new Anaj Mandi armed with lathis and iron rods, which does not show good intention on their part. Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, iron rods, which does not show good intention on their part, according to the statement. The statement said police and district administration have spoken to farmer leaders who have tried to persuade such elements to leave the venue, but they are not listening to their leaders. Karnal district administration and police is warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order. All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law, it said. Braving inclement weather in the morning, farmers reached the new Anaj Mandi riding tractors and motorcycles. Senior police officials have been put on duty at the new Anaj Mandi. There is also heavy barricading and deployment of security forces at the mini-secretariat. A day ahead of the proposed gherao of the mini-secretariat by the farmers, central forces were deployed, mobile internet services suspended and prohibitory orders banning gathering of people were imposed. The Haryana government, which had earlier ordered suspension of mobile internet services here from Monday 12:30 pm to Tuesday midnight, decided to suspend these services in four adjoining districts -- Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat districts with effect from 12 am to 11:59 pm on Tuesday. Forty companies of security personnel, including 10 companies of central armed police forces, have been deployed in Karnal district where local authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, officials said. The SKM, an umbrella body of farmer outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal district headquarters on Tuesday if its demands were not met. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Chaduni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday, but after failing to get any satisfactory response about their demands they decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Tuesday before proceeding to the mini-secretariat to gherao it. He had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge. He also demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who died after allegedly sustaining injuries in the lathicharge. However, the administration here claimed that the farmer was not injured in the police action but had died due to a heart attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Increased infectivity of Delta variant causes it to be dominant, says study||The Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which has become the dominant strain in India and many other countries, most likely spread through its ability to evade neutralising antibodies and increased infectivity, according to a study published in the Nature Journal on Tuesday. The B.1.617.2 or Delta variant was first observed in India in late 2020. It has since spread around the globe. The international team of researchers combined lab-based experiments and epidemiology of vaccine breakthrough infections, showing that the Delta variant is better at replicating and spreading than other commonly-observed variants. "There's also evidence that neutralising antibodies produced as a result of previous infection or vaccination are less effective at stopping this variant," said Professor Ravindra Gupta from the University of Cambridge in the UK, and one of the study's senior authors. "These factors are likely to have contributed to the devastating epidemic wave in India during the first quarter of 2021, where as many as half of the cases were individuals who had previously been infected with an earlier variant," Gupta noted. To examine how well the Delta variant was able to evade the immune response, the team extracted serum from blood samples collected as part of the https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/new-education-measures-will-make-youth-future-ready-says-narendra-modi-at-shiksha-parv-conclave/cid/1829692-19 cohort of the UK's National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) BioResource. The samples came from individuals who had previously been infected with the coronavirus or who had been vaccinated with either the Oxford/AstraZeneca, known as Covishield in India, or Pfizer vaccines. Serum contains antibodies raised in response to infection or vaccination. The team found that the Delta variant virus was 5.7-fold less sensitive to the sera from previously-infected individuals, and as much as eight-fold less sensitive to vaccine sera, compared with the Alpha variant. In other words, it takes eight times as many antibodies from a vaccinated individual to block the virus. The researchers also analysed over 100 infected healthcare workers at three Delhi hospitals, nearly all of whom had been vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2. They found the Delta variant to be transmitted between vaccinated staff to a greater extent than the Alpha variant. "The Delta variant has spread widely to become the dominant variants worldwide because it is faster to spread and better at infecting individuals than most other variants we have seen," said Partha Rakshit from the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, and joint senior author of the study. "It is also better at getting around existing immunity -- either through previous exposure to the virus or to vaccination -- though the risk of moderate to severe disease is reduced in such cases," Rakshit said. The spike proteins of the SARS-CoV-2 bind to ACE2, a protein receptor found on the surface of cells in our body. Both the spike protein and ACE2 are then cleaved, allowing genetic material from the virus to enter the host cell. The virus manipulates the host cell's machinery to allow the virus to replicate and spread. Using 3D airway organoids -- 'mini-organs' grown from cells from the airway, which mimic its behaviour the team studied what happens when the virus reaches the respiratory tract. The researchers used both a live virus and a 'pseudotyped virus' a synthetic form of the virus that mimicked key mutations on the Delta variant and used this to infect the organoids. They found that the Delta variant was more efficient at breaking into the cells compared with other variants as it carried a larger number of cleaved spikes on its surface. Once inside the cells, the variant was also better able to replicate. Both of these factors give the virus a selection advantage compared to other variants, helping explain why it has become so dominant, according to the researchers. Professor Anurag Agrawal from the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, India, joint senior author of the study, noted that infection of vaccinated healthcare workers with the Delta variant is a significant problem. "Although they themselves may only experience mild Covid, they risk infecting individuals who have suboptimal immune responses to vaccination due to underlying health conditions and these patients could then be at risk of severe disease," Agrawal said. "We urgently need to consider ways of boosting vaccine responses against variants among healthcare workers. It also suggests infection control measures will need to continue in the post-vaccine era," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court grants more time to for filing response on pleas seeking Pegasus probe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted some more time to the Centre for filing its response to a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter and fixed them for further hearing on September 13. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had issued a notice to the Centre on the pleas on August 17, while making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security. As soon as as the matter came up for hearing before the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that due to some difficulties, the affidavit, sought by the bench, could not be filed and sought listing of the case either on Thursday or Monday. There is some difficulty with the affidavit. We had filed one and you had enquired if we want to file another one, some officers were not there...if this matter can be kept on Thursday or Monday, the law officer said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for senior journalist N Ram, said that he does not have any objection to the request. List it on Monday, the bench said. The court is hearing as many as 12 pleas, including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India, seeking an independent probe into the matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||New education measures will make youth future-ready, says Narendra Modi at Shiksha Parv conclave||The teaching-learning process in the country has to be constantly redefined and redesigned to make our education sector world-class, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. The prime minister also launched several initiatives in the education sector, asserting that they will play an important role in shaping India's future. Addressing the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv' through video-conferencing, he expressed confidence that these measures will not only make our education system globally competitive but also make the youth future-ready. "We have to constantly redefine and redesign our teaching-learning process in order to make our education sector world-class. In this rapidly changing era, our teachers also have to learn about new systems and techniques rapidly. The country is preparing its teachers for these changes," he said in his address. "During Covid, we have all witnessed capabilities of our education sector. There were a lot of challenges, but you solved all challenges swiftly. Online classes, group video calls, online exams - terms such as these weren't heard by many earlier," he added. Modi launched the Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning), Talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired), School Quality Assurance and Assessment Framework of CBSE, NISHTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat and Vidyanjali portal (for facilitating education volunteers, donors and CSR contributors for school development). "Today, on the occasion of Shikshak Parv, many new schemes have been started. These initiatives are also important because the country is currently celebrating the nectar festival of freedom. Taking new resolutions for how India will be after 100 years of independence," the prime minister said. "For development of any nation, education needs to be both equitable and inclusive. For the same, the country is including talking books and audio books as part of education. Based on UDL, an Indian sign language dictionary has been developed. "You all are aware that for the progress of any country, education should not only be inclusive but should also be equitable. That is why, today the country is making technology like talking books and audio books a part of education, he added. People participation has been a key aspect of the government's decision-making in the seven years, he said and cited programmes like 'Swachh Bharat' and move to boost digital transactions among the poor to assert that the kind of work done during this period could not have been imagined otherwise. "When the society does something together, then the desired results must be met. Public participation is again becoming the national character of India. In the last six-seven years, due to the power of public participation, such things have been done in India, which no one could have imagined. "From the formulation of the New Education Policy (NEP) to its implementation, there has been contribution of academicians, experts, teachers, at every level. You all deserve praise for this. Now we have to take this participation to a new level, we also have to involve the society in it," he said. The theme of the Shikshak Parv-2021' is Quality and Sustainable Schools: Learnings from Schools in India . On the occasion, Modi also lauded performance of the Indian players in the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, saying they have inspired youngsters. He said he has asked the players to visit at least 75 schools each during the ongoing 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' programme, and that they have accepted his request.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||78 Afghanistan evacuees released from ITBP quarantine centres||Seventy-eight people including Afghan nationals, who were evacuated from Afghanistan after Kabul fell to Taliban last month, were on Tuesday discharged from an ITBP facility here after they completed a 14-day quarantine rule in place to check the spread of coronavirus infection. The group includes 53 people from Afghanistan (34 men, nine women and 10 children), and 25 Indians (18 men, five women and 12 children), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. They were handed over medical certificates and a red rose as they left the facility. These people were brought to this COVID-19 quarantine facility located in south-west Delhi's Chhawla area on August 24 after they landed here onboard an evacuation flight operated by the Indian Air Force. The Afghan nationals have been sent to a designated location in south Delhi while the Indians are expected to go to their homes, a senior officer said. The facility still has 35 people, who returned from Afghanistan, under quarantine that includes 24 Indians and the rest from Nepal. This group is also expected to be discharged similarly on Wednesday, at the end of their 14-days quarantine period as mandated under existing COVID-19 medical protocol, the officer said. This ITBP quarantine centre was operationalised last year soon after the outbreak of COVID-19 and it has hosted over 1,200 people including foreigners from at least eight countries till now. The first batch of Indians and some foreigners returning from Wuhan in China were also quarantined here last year. The ITBP is a border guarding force under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and it is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 km long Line of Actual Control with China apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||India records 31,000 new Covid-19 cases, active infections decline||India logged 31,222 fresh cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,30,58,843, while the active cases were recorded below four lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,41,042 with 290 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The active cases have declined to 3,92,864 comprising 1.19 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 12,010 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,26,056 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,31,89,348. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.05 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last eight days while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.56 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 74 days, the ministry said. With more than 1.13 crore vaccine doses administered in the last 24 hours, the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 69.90 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 290 new fatalities include 135 from Kerala, and 37 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,042 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,811 from Maharashtra, 37,426 from Karnataka, 35,036 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,861 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,631 from Kerala and 18,515 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Rahul says government blind to students' distress, asks to postpone NEET||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for the postponement of the NEET examination, and alleged that the government is "blind" to students' distress. The former Congress chief also urged the government to let the students "have a fair chance" in the exams. Gandhi's remarks come a day after the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. The advocate for the petitioners argued that medical entrance exam NEET-UG 2021 be deferred as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. "GOI is blind to students' distress. Postpone NEET exam. Let them have a fair chance," Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Nipah: Close contacts of deceased child test negative for virus||Kerala heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday as the test results of those who came in close contact with the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah virus infection returned negative. State Health Minister Veena George said the test results of the samples taken from the child's eight close contacts are negative. "The samples of parents and healthcare workers, who were symptomatic, have been tested negative. It's a moment of relief that the results of those who were in close contact with the child came out negative," the minister said at a press meet. George said there are currently 48 people in the high risk category who are at a medical college isolation ward and their health condition is "stable". Five more samples are being tested in the facility arranged at the medical college by Pune NIV, the minister said. Out of the 48, 31 people are from Kozhikode, four from Wayanad, eight from Malappuram, three from Kannur and one person each from Palakkad and Ernakulam districts. The minister also informed the media that more samples will be tested on Tuesday. Officials from the animal husbandry department and forest department launched a massive drive to identify the source of the infection that killed the boy who is suspected to have eaten rambutan fruit grown in the area. Veterinary experts from the animal husbandry department collected swabs and blood samples from a goat from the child’s home since he had tended to the animal that had fallen sick recently. But deputy director of the department K.A. Baby told reporters that there was no precedence to a domestic animal testing for the virus. “Samples of body fluids from domestic animals were collected just to rule out any possibility although we don’t have any evidence of them being the host for this virus,” Baby said. He said work was on to trap wild boars and fruit bats to collect fluid samples. While fruit bats are known to be hosts of Nipah, wild boars could have traces of the virus if they consumed fruits contaminated by the bats. Health workers had already secured samples of rambutan fruits to test if they carried any trace of the Nipah virus possibly transmitted by an infected fruit bat. The health department on Monday said 251 contacts of the child had been identified, of which 129 are healthcare workers. The department has been on a high alert since the 12-year-old boy from Kozhikode succumbed to Nipah virus infection on Sunday. The area within a three-kilometre radius from the house of the deceased child has been declared a containment zone. This includes wards from five panchayats. The health departments in four districts -- Kozhikode, neighbouring Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad -- have been put on high alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Survey underscores alarming levels of learning in unprivileged kids||Over one third pupils of Classes III to V belonging to unprivileged sections living in hamlets and slums were unable to read a sentence, a survey has found, underscoring the alarming learning levels because of the pandemic-induced school closure. The SCHOOL survey conducted by nearly 100 volunteers under the supervision of academicians and researchers Nirali Bakhla, Jean Drèze, Vipul Paikra and Reetika Khera also found a trend of children switching from private to government schools because of the inability to pay fees. “The first step should be to start reopening schools and having a discussion about how to reopen them safely,” Dreze told The Telegraph. A few states have started opening schools, mostly covering higher classes from Classes IX to XII. Some, such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have opened schools for all grades. The survey was held last month in Assam, Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh and the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The survey covered 1,362 households, 60 per cent of which belonged to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Over 500 households were in urban slums and 842 in rural hamlets where most children usually attend government schools. One child from each family enrolled in any grade between Classes I and VIII was interviewed with their parents. The survey found that 28 per cent of rural children were studying regularly, 37 per cent were not studying at all while 35 per cent were studying from time to time. In the urban areas, 47 per cent were studying regularly and 19 per cent were not studying at all. The survey included a reading test in which children were asked to read a sentence in Hindi printed in a large font: “Jab se corona mahamaari chal rahi hai, tab se school bandh hai (Ever since the coronavirus pandemic is on, the school has been shut).” The children of non-Hindi speaking states were given the same sentence in their respective state language. About 42 per cent rural children of Classes III to V were unable to read a single word while 35 per cent of urban kids of the same grades clocked the same performance. About 31 per cent urban and 26 per cent rural children could read the sentence while the remaining students had difficulty in reading or could read only some words. Even at the upper primary level (Classes VI to VIII), the proportion of children who could read fluently is just over half, in both rural (57 per cent) and urban areas (58 per cent). About one fifth of the children surveyed were enrolled in a private school when the lockdown began in March 2020. About 26 per cent of children who were initially enrolled in private schools had switched to government schools during the lockdown. Many private schools started online education and continued to charge the same fees, following which parents were reluctant to pay, either because of the fall in their earnings or because online education did not work well for their children. Other costs like smartphone and recharge also added to their burden. The Union education ministry has claimed to have started digital platforms for providing e-content to children to study. For instance, DIKSHA provides such e-content while Swayam Prabha TV channel offers educational content for school students. The survey found the reach of online education was very limited. The proportion of surveyed children who were studying online “regularly” was just 24 per cent and 8 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. One reason for this is that 49 per cent rural households and 23 per cent urban households surveyed had no smartphone. Even among households with a smartphone, the devices are often used by working adults. Weak connectivity and lack of money for data also contribute to poor access to online education. About 57 per cent of those accessing online study in urban areas and 65 per cent in rural areas faced connectivity problems. Although regular educational broadcasts for school children are available on Doordarshan, only 1 per cent of rural children and 8 per cent of urban children acknowledged TV programmes as a regular or even occasional mode of study. Among the parents whose children were accessing online education, 65 per cent in urban areas and 70 per cent in rural belts said their child’s reading and writing abilities have declined during the lockdown. Among those parents whose children were left to study on their own, 82 per cent urban parents and 76 per cent rural parents had the same opinion. Among those who were not studying online at the time of the survey, a large majority are either not studying at all or just studying on their own at home from time to time. In states like Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, virtually nothing has been done to help offline children to continue studying since March 2020. In states like Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan, worksheets have been given to children for homework. Teachers have been instructed to visit parents’ homes from time to time for advice. The survey found that the educational support from the local school was very sporadic or virtually nil in rural areas. Among the children studying without online access, 39 per cent in rural areas and 25 per cent in urban areas said they were given homework. Among such children, about 51 per cent in urban areas and 58 per cent in rural areas had not met their teacher at all during the 30 days preceding the survey. The pupils up to Class VIII in government and aided school are entitled to midday meal support. As schools are closed, states are largely providing dry ration and monetary allowances to meet the cooking cost. About 80 per cent parents reported having received some food, mainly rice or wheat, during the preceding three months. Anita Rampal, former dean of faculty of education at Delhi University, said that school reopening was the way forward. “Parents in urban areas, especially among the better-off sections, seem hesitant to send their children to schools. But the situation in rural areas is different. As reflected in this survey, parents are eager to send children to schools. Schools should be reopened for the elementary grades,” Rampal said. She described the government’s claim of starting various technological measures to take education to the doorstep of children as an attempt to cover up the situation of children being deprived of learning opportunities. “All the online interventions have limited reach. The education television channels are yet to be used except in a few states like Kerala. The government is trying to abdicate its responsibility of providing quality education to all,” Rampal said In any case, online lessons cannot pass off as meaningful education for any child, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Karnal announces internet shutdown before gherao ||The district administration of Karnal in Haryana on Monday announced an Internet shutdown from half past midnight on Tuesday in view of a call given by protesting farmers to gherao the mini-secretariat. The gherao is in protest against the BJP-led Haryana government’s decision to back former sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera ordering the police to break the heads of farmers if they tried to breach a security cordon on August 28. Late on Monday night, the  Haryana government issued an order suspending mobile Internet services for 24 hours in the adjoining districts of Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat. According to the shutdown order for Karnal, all forms of telecom Internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS) and SMS services provided on mobile networks will remain suspended for the next 24 hours. Only voice calls will be possible during the shut down in Karnal, which has already been brought under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday said they would go ahead with their protest action and hold a kisan mahapanchayat in Karnal. Farmers have been told to assemble at the grain market and then proceed to gherao the mini-secretariat. The Congress has stepped in to urge the Haryana government to withdraw the prohibitory orders, restore Internet services and allow the farmers to hold their planned mahapanchayat, besides take action against the erring officials. After Sinha’s video went viral and several farmers were injured in the lathi charge that took place at the Karnal toll plaza on August 28, the SKM had given a call to lay siege of the mini-secretariat on September 7 if their demand for dismissal of the former SDM is not met by Monday. Subsequently, following the death of a farmer — who had suffered injuries in the lathi charge — the SKM has been pressing for Sinha to be booked for murder. The family of the deceased farmer, Sushil Kajal, has alleged that he was denied treatment by the police. The Haryana government eventually transferred Sinha out of Karnal to Chandigarh but this has failed to cut any ice with the farmers as no disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against the former SDM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||SC warns Narendra Modi govt of contempt proceedings||The Supreme Court on Monday warned the Narendra Modi government of contempt proceedings if it failed to take steps to immediately fill 250 vacancies in various tribunals. A special bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said the Centre had scant respect for the country’s highest court whose “patience” it was “testing”. Instead of making appointments to the tribunals, the government is coming out with fresh pieces of legislation which were nothing but a “replica” of what was already struck down by the apex court earlier, the court noted. An act rushed through Parliament last month seeks to vest the Centre with powers in the appointment and removal of the quasi-judicial members in various tribunals. Tribunals — adjudicatory quasi-judicial bodies like the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, National Green Tribunal, the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal — were set up with retired judges to decongest the regular courts and deal with specialised issues. On Monday, the CJI said: “You (the government) are bent upon not respecting the judgment of this court. This much is very clear. We have only three options left now. “One is staying the legislation or whatever act that you have made and direct you to go ahead with the appointments. Or, close down the tribunals and give the power to take up the matters. Third is we ourselves will appoint the people to the tribunals. We could consider initiating proceedings for contempt of court.” The bench, which includes Justices L. Nageswara Rao and D.Y. Chandrachud, gave vent to its ire after noting that despite its earlier directives, the government had not taken adequate steps for filling the vacancies. Both Justices Rao and Chandrachud are members of the collegium, too. On Monday, the court issued a formal notice to the Union government on a fresh petition filed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging the constitutional validity of various provisions of the tribunal reforms act. The act has already been challenged by the Madras Bar Association, which has contended that the legislation is an attempt to scuttle the apex court’s earlier judgments upholding the independence of the tribunals. Justice Chandrachud referred to a proviso in the new legislation under which a person aged below 50 is ineligible to be appointed as chairperson or a member of a tribunal. The amended provision was contrary to the Supreme Court rulings in the earlier judgment, Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Ramana told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who is appearing for the Centre: “There is no respect for the judgments of this court. It is unfortunate. Last time, you have said that you have appointed some members in the tribunals. How many you have appointed? Show us the details.” The bench declined to adjourn the matter for two weeks as sought by Mehta. The CJI pointed out that the special bench had been constituted with senior judges and the court’s time could not be frittered away with frequent adjournments. “You are testing the patience of this court…,” Justice Ramana told Mehta after the solicitor-general read out a government notification stating that some of the appointments would be made in the next two weeks. On August 16, too, the apex court had castigated the Centre for rushing through the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Services) Bill, 2021, without proper debate in Parliament. The Opposition has been complaining that bills were being passed in the House without any discussion. In 2019, a five-judge constitution bench had struck down an amendment incorporated to the appointment and removal process made by the government. Undeterred, the Modi government brought in an ordinance with similar provisions, which was struck down again by the apex court in April this year on a petition filed by the Madras Bar Association. Subsequently, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Rao, while iterating the opinion of the constitution bench, struck down some amendments made by the Centre in 2020 to dilute the effect of the 2019 judgment. However, the Centre came up with fresh legislation to override the ruling of both the constitution bench and the subsequent one by the apex court. “The judgment was passed with the law in place then. All recommendations were made keeping all parameters in mind, why were the appointments not made?... The recommendations were strictly in accordance with law,” Justice Nageswara Rao pointed out. Justice Chandrachud told the solicitor-general that several cases were being adjourned in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission for over year because of the absence of tribunal members. He cited the instances of several petitions coming up before his bench relating to company law adjudication because of vacancies in the National Company Law Tribunal. “We don’t want confrontation with the government and we are happy with the way the names of nine Supreme Court judges were cleared by the government. But then these tribunals are collapsing with no members or chairpersons…. Tell us your plans. What is that you want? Do you want to close down tribunals?” Justice Ramana asked Mehta. Mehta said the government, too, did not want any confrontation with the judiciary. “I think you never advised (the government) on the legislation. This judgment is passed now, you pass another legislation. We are upset, we will give you another three or four days to come back and say what you want to say,” the CJI told Mehta.. The CJI also regretted that the Centre had so far failed to constitute the CGST council to adjudicate disputes pertaining to the levy of GST. Later, the court adjourned the matter for next Monday by when the government is expected to come out with details of the appointments made to various tribunals whose vacancies are pegged at nearly 250, accounting for 50 per cent of the sanctioned strength.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Delhi University  set for phased opening of colleges, depts & centres||Delhi University  is set for phased opening of colleges, departments and centres. On Monday, it issued a notification suggesting the theory classes for all the Under-Graduate (UG) and Post Graduate (PG) would be continued online till further order. For laboratory and practical classes, the UG and PG students will be able to come to departments and colleges on voluntary basis from 15th September. But only 50 per cent students will be called at a time. The other half can be called some other time. Final year students can come for consultation too. The library is opened from Monday. If sitting arrangements are not ensures under Covid protocol, at least books can be issued. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has allowed opening educational institutions with 50 per cent attendance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||LAC: China continues construction in 'occupied' territory||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is continuing construction activity in the “occupied” territory in Depsang Plains and has been building additional military camps at the friction point, sources in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have said. “The latest ground reports from Depsang Plains suggest the PLA has intensified construction works in the occupied zone and has been building concrete shelters and additional military camps for its soldiers,” said an ITBP official. The PLA, he said, has so far refused to disengage from the remaining friction points within India claimed lines – Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km China frontier, which passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The army remains behind it. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May last year. The border standoffs in Hot Springs and Depsang Plains is continuing even though there has been “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Military veterans have questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a buffer zone, saying such buffer zones within India claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding territory to China. Sources in the defence ministry said India has also undertaken several infrastructure development projects within its claimed territory along the China frontier and has been building nearly 70 roads of operational significance. China, too, has also been enhancing its border infrastructure by building roads, bridges, a railway network and airports, sources in the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||BJP cites online poll to claim Modi as 'most popular leader'||A day after more than five lakh farmers gathered in Muzaffarnagar and vowed to defeat the BJP in the coming elections if it did not repeal the three farm laws, the party cited an online poll to claim Narendra Modi was the “most popular global leader”. The survey in India covered 2,126 respondents. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also hit out at Rahul Gandhi for a tweet he had posted in support of farmers. “Dataa hai, nidar hai, idhar hai Bharat Bhagya Vidhaata. (The maker of the country’s destiny is firm, is fearless and is here),” Rahul had posted with a picture of a farmers’ rally and the hashtag  #FarmersProtest. “Today, Rahul Gandhi has once again resorted to politics of illusion. He has tweeted an old photo of the farmers’ protest to show the present picture,” Patra said.  The BJP’s IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted: “That Rahul Gandhi has to use an old picture to claim success of the Mahapanchayat just shows how the propaganda to call it a well attended ‘farmer’ agitation hasn’t worked.” He suggested that the picture was from a February meeting. Rahul had neither referred to the Mahapanchayat nor put any date to the picture, which only showed a crowd at a rally. On Saturday, when he had tweeted a picture from the gathering at Muzaffarnagar, he had tagged it #Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat. Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary responded to Malviya’s tweet, saying the photograph posted by Rahul was from a farmers’ meet organised by his party in Shamli and asked what the BJP leader had to say. “Friends, on one side is Rahul Gandhi and on the other side is Hindustan’s pradhan sewak Narendra Modi. The kind of place he has achieved among the people of the country and in the world is unparalleled,” Patra said. “Recently, the United States’ global leader approval rating has come. It has given a rating of around 70 per cent to Narendra Modi ji,” he said. “An approval rating of 70 per cent is in itself a big thing, a big achievement,” he added. The rating has been given by Morning Consult, a US-based private company, that tracks the approval ratings of leaders of 13 countries on a weekly basis. Its online sample size in India was 2,126 respondents. Patra said Modi had emerged as the “vishwa ke sabse chahete leader” (most loved global leader) among the heads of state of 13 countries. “Be it Joe Biden or Germany’s Chancellor Merkel, if there is one leader ahead of them in the world then it’s PM Modi,” Patra said. He said Modi’s approval rating had increased from 66 per cent to 70 per cent because of the government’s service towards the poor and the farmers. The BJP leaders have gone all out to use this rating to underscore that Modi’s popularity remains unaffected by the farmers’ protest and privately claim that the party will retain both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand despite the efforts of the Opposition. “The farmers’ agitation is a politically motivated campaign against Modi ji,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Nipah virus outbreak easier to contain, say experts||A Nipah virus outbreak, although deadlier, is easier to control, and even douse, in contrast to Covid-19, virologists said on Monday amid uncertainty about the size of Kerala’s second and India’s fourth Nipah flare-up. The Nipah virus has documented human kill rates 50-fold or higher than the 1.3 per cent average case fatality rate recorded among Covid-19 patients in India, but both viruses demand similar strict infection control measures, the researchers said. Kerala, already battling a large Covid-19 epidemic, has started contact tracing, containment efforts and testing of the close contacts of a 12-year-old boy who died from Nipah infection in Kozhikode district on Sunday. Two healthcare workers, among the boy’s 20 close contacts, have developed symptoms. The public health measures to control both infections are similar — trace and quarantine all the close contacts of patients, test and isolate anyone who may show symptoms, and create a perimeter zone to prevent the spread of infection. Health authorities have cordoned off the Chathamangalam panchayat and adjacent areas and imposed lockdown-like restrictions within 3km radius of the boy’s house and are currently looking out for anyone else with symptoms. “Nipah is harder to catch than Covid-19,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Person-to-person spread of the Nipah virus requires touch or close contact with infected persons through nasal or respiratory droplets, urine, or blood. But SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is transmitted through the air, albeit only short distances. Virologists say this makes SARS-CoV-2 spread faster across a community. The reproductive number — a measure of how many persons get the infection from one infected person — of the two viruses are quite different. The reproductive number value for the SARS-CoV2 Wuhan strain was 2-3, while the value for the highly contagious Delta variant is 5-6. But the reproductive number for the Nipah virus calculated on the basis of 248 patients during several outbreaks in Bangladesh between 2001 and 2014 is 0.33. In other words, it would take 10 Nipah patients to infect three more persons, while 10 Delta infected patients could spawn 50 more infections. Strict adherence to infection control, efficient contact tracing, and surveillance can help contain and douse out Nipah outbreaks relatively quickly, John said. But SARS-CoV-2 is likely to remain circulating among humans, become endemic, causing a trickle of cases for years to come, he said. Nipah is largely considered a zoonotic disease — an infection that humans get from contact with animals or birds — with poor person-to-person transmissibility, a prerequisite for a pandemic. But outbreak investigations have shown that it does spread from person to person. The Nipah virus, which resides in fruit bats, has caused sporadic outbreaks in Malaysia, Singapore, Bangladesh and India over the past two decades with severe disease and death and mortality rates reaching an average of 70 per cent. The virus jumping from bats to humans appears to be a “rare event,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and the director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana). It is believed to occur through contact with bat droppings or bat saliva or contaminated fruit. The previous outbreaks in India had occurred in Bengal’s Siliguri in 2001 and Nadia in 2007 and in Kozhikode-Malappuram area in 2018. The 2018 Kerala outbreak had claimed the lives of 21 of the 23 patients, a mortality rate of 91 per cent. The high mortality actually curbs the infection from spreading because, experts say, a patient if appropriately isolated from others, doesn’t get a chance to pass it to others. “But we need to remain vigilant as the Nipah virus too has the potential to evolve,” said Vrati. “If the virus gains mutations that allow it to spread easily from person to person, we could face the risk of a Nipah pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Kerala: Number of high risk people for Nipah virus rise to 32||The number of people categorised as high risk primary contacts of the Nipah victim rose to 32 as 251 people have been so far found to have had some proximity to the 12-year-old boy who died in Kerala in the latest outbreak of the deadly zoonotic virus. Kozhikode district collector N. Tej Rohit Reddy informed on Monday that all 32 high-risk contacts have been admitted to a specially created Nipah ward at the Government Medical College in the north Kerala city. Eight of the high-risk contacts, including the child’s mother and two nurses have developed fever although their condition remained stable. State health minister Veena George who has been camping in Kozhikode since Sunday told reporters that samples of the eight symptomatic cases have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune. The medical college set up a special lab to test fluid samples of contacts and any suspect case. “The availability of a lab (in Kozhikode) is helpful to quickly decide on shifting the patients to the special ward and begin treatment,” said George. Officials from the animal husbandry department and forest department launched a massive drive to identify the source of the infection that killed the boy who is suspected to have eaten rambutan fruit grown in the area. Veterinary experts from the animal husbandry department collected swabs and blood samples from a goat from the child’s home since he had tended to the animal that had fallen sick recently. But deputy director of the department K.A. Baby told reporters that there was no precedence to a domestic animal testing for the virus. “Samples of body fluids from domestic animals were collected just to rule out any possibility although we don’t have any evidence of them being the host for this virus,” Baby said. He said work was on to trap wild boars and fruit bats to collect fluid samples. While fruit bats are known to be hosts of Nipah, wild boars could have traces of the virus if they consumed fruits contaminated by the bats. Health workers had already secured samples of rambutan fruits to test if they carried any trace of the Nipah virus possibly transmitted by an infected fruit bat. Local police barricaded a 3km area around the child’s home in Chathamangalam with no one allowed to leave or enter the area until further notice. “We have created this containment zone to ensure everyone remains in their homes and outsiders do not have access to this part of the town,” sub-inspector of Mukkam police station Sajith told reporters on Monday after surveying the place. He said shops selling essential commodities could stay open from 7am to 2pm in the containment zone. The state had two earlier outbreaks of Nipah in 2018 and 2019. While 17 people died in the 2018 outbreak in Kozhikode, a college student who contracted the virus in 2019 in Ernakulam district was completely cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court issues notices to the Centre on medical quota||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre and the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) on a plea by a group of doctors to quash the July 29 notification allowing reservation for OBCs (Other Backward Classes) and EWS (Economically Weaker Section) in the all-India quota for medical seats from 2021-22 academic year. The all-India quota comprises 15 per cent of the total available undergraduate seats and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats in government medical colleges. In the petition, the group of doctors has alleged that the policy is unconstitutional and contrary to some of the assurances given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the pandemic. NEET PG Exams are scheduled to be held from September 11 and the MCC has announced that 1,75,063 students will appear for the tests. This is the first time such reservation benefits are being extended to the OBCs and EWS categories in higher medical education. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli sought the Centre’s and MCC’s response to the petition within two weeks which argued that the notification was arbitrary, unconstitutional and illegal as the rules cannot be changed once the examination process has been initiated. Senior advocates Vikas Sing and Arvind Datar appeared for the doctors. The petitioners have moved the court against the MCC’s July 29 order providing for the said quota although the NEET PG exam process had commenced in April. However, the exam had to be postponed to September because of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Covid: Kerala High Court allows early second dose of Covishield ||Kerala High Court has allowed a garment manufacturer to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine it has purchased for its employees without waiting for the 84-day gap since the government had permitted several sections of people to complete their vaccination schedule after 28 days of the first dose. The court, in its order dated September 3, directed the Union government to make necessary alterations in the CoWIN portal to schedule the second dose four weeks after the first. Currently, the portal does not accept entry of second shots before the prescribed time period. But the single bench of Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar said: “I have not considered the question whether a person is entitled to make a choice between early protection and better protection from Covid-19 infection in the matter of accepting the free vaccine provided by the government.” The petitioner, Kitex Garments Ltd, one of the biggest garment manufacturers in Kerala, had sought permission to administer 10,000 second doses of Covishield it had procured and stored through a private hospital in Ernakulam before 84 days. Sajeev T.K., general manager of the company based in Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district, told The Telegraph on Monday that plans were afoot to start the second dose of vaccination from Tuesday. “This is a huge relief for us since we have been waiting to get all our employees and their families to get the second dose. While some of them have already taken the second dose since they completed 84 days, a huge majority of them would benefit from this judgment,” he said. Assistant solicitor-general of India P. Vijayakumar had filed a statement on behalf of the Union government seeking the dismissal of the petition since the “the decision to increase the dose interval of Covishield vaccine was based on scientific evidence and expert opinion as per available efficacy data”. The court considered the petitioner’s argument that several sections, including students and workers travelling abroad, members of the Indian Olympic team and government officials, were among those who were exempted from the 84-day mandate and allowed to get their second shot of Covishield after four weeks. The court ruled that the stand taken by the Union government against shortening the gap “cannot be accepted, for, as indicated, the very premise on which the present writ petition is instituted is that the decision of the government in providing relaxation in the protocol regarding administration of second dose of vaccine to certain classes of persons alone amounts to discrimination and the directions sought are directions to extend to the petitioners also the same relief”. “If the government can permit persons who are intending to travel abroad to exercise a choice between early protection and better protection from Covid-19 infection, there is absolutely no reason why the same privilege shall not be extended to others who want early protection in connection with their employment, education etc.” The court pointed out that when there was no compulsion on the people to get vaccinated, there was no reason for the government to stop them from taking an early second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||M.K. Stalin govt allots Rs 1,500 crore for temple administration||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu has announced a package of over Rs 1,500 crore to spruce up temple administration and declared that it does not exploit “bhakti (religiosity)” to stoke violence or for personal gains. The M.K. Stalin government’s focus on places of worship and the broadside at the milking of religion for the wrong reasons appeared aimed at countering the Hindutva plank. Tamil Nadu Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR & CE) minister P.K. Sekar Babu, while speaking during the debate on the state budget in the Assembly on Saturday, said Rs 1,512 crore had been set aside for improving temple infrastructure. This was part of 112 announcements made by the minister at one go, appearing to stun the AIADMK-BJP Opposition. “We (the DMK) are not a government that uses bhakti (religiosity) to incite violence, nor do we exploit bhakti for personal gains. The government headed by… Stalin will nurture the finer aspects of culture and spiritualism with a humanitarian approach,” Sekar Babu told the Assembly to the thumping of desks by the Treasury benches. “We have a chief minister who does not bend to the north, a quality even saints like Pattinathar and Vallalar would laud if they were alive now,” he said, adding that “spirituality” had nothing to do with “Hindutva”. The HR & CE department administers over 44,200 temples across Tamil Nadu. The proposed package of Rs 1,512 crore will be dedicated to measures to improve the temples’ upkeep and administration, increase cash assistance for archakas (priests), oduvars (musicians) and other shrine staff, renovate temples and provide more amenities to devotees. Pilgrims will no longer need to pay to get their heads tonsured at temples. The shrine administration will pay the barbers. Disabled couples won’t be charged for temple weddings. A Rs 200-crore “master plan” has been drawn up to give a facelift to 40 big temples in places such as Rameswaram, Madurai, Palani, Tiruttani, Samayapuram, Srirangam, Tiruvannamalai and Chennai. An all-day annadana (free food) scheme for devotees will be in place at 10 major shrines from September 17. Jewel plan Minister Sekar Babu announced the revival of a scheme to efficiently manage the gold jewels, gems and precious stones offered by devotees to temples. Amid complaints of loss of donated jewels, the government now plans to keep only the basic and most valuable jewellery that adorns the deities at the respective temples, besides the precious stones in their vaults. Sekar Babu said that after a thorough stock-taking of the huge quantities of unused smaller jewellery, such as earrings, nose studs and chains donated by devotees over the past 10 years and lying in temple vaults, they would be sent to the government gold mint in Mumbai to be melted and converted into gold bars. These bars will be deposited in stable banks to yield revenue in the form of interest. An official later said about 2,000kg of unused jewellery could be turned into gold bars. The HR & CE department will establish 10 arts and science colleges at various places, including Chennai, at a cost of Rs 150 crore. Periyar birthday Chief minister Stalin on Monday said the DMK government has decided to celebrate September 17, the birthday of late rationalist leader and social reformer Periyar E.V. Ramaswami, as Social Justice Day every year as an act of thanksgiving for his ideals and social reforms that helped to build a modern, inclusive and progressive Tamil Nadu. “Wherever we are today, we all owe it to the Dravidian Movement spearheaded by Periyar and the ideals of self-respect, rationalism, equality and women’s empowerment and there is a big responsibility cast on us to take forward his legacy,” Stalin said in the Assembly. Even as all the political parties welcomed Stalin's announcement, the DMK government's decision is seen in political circles as yet another strategic counter to stem the rising tide of Hindutva and communally divisive politics by the BJP, ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Six-member central team lands in Patna to assess flood situation ||A six-member team from the Centre on a two-day visit to assess the devastation brought by four rounds of floods in Bihar so far this year, landed in Patna on Monday. The state government greeted it with a demand of Rs 3,764 crore assistance required to deal with the situation, while chief minister Nitish Kumar asserted that the team arrived late despite request that it should come and see the situation. “We request the central government every year to come and see the flood situation and how much area has been affected in the state. We had been asking the Centre to send a team to come and see everything, but it came late this time,” Nitish told media persons when asked about the visit of the assessment team. Speaking further on the sidelines of his ‘janata durbar’ Nitish pointed out that the floods started early this year in the month of June, but the government has to stay alert about it till the end of September. He also said that the deluge has hit areas in south Bihar also, apart from the usual north Bihar areas. “As per our assessment conducted a week ago, floods in the state have affected around 57 lakh people this year. We are conducting relief works for all of them. If the central team sees the affected places and feels that help should be provided to the state, it will do so,” Nitish added. The assessment team led by Union home ministry joint secretary Rakesh Kumar Singh held a meeting with Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, disaster management department additional chief secretary Pratyaya Amrit, road construction department principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena and other senior officers over the issue. A presentation on the devastation by floods in the state this year was shown to the visiting central officials. Of the Rs 3,764 crore assistance demanded by the Bihar government, Rs 1,470 crore is for the water resources department, Rs 1,169 crore for the disaster management department and Rs 661 crore for the agriculture department. The rest of the amount is for road construction, rural works, energy, public health and engineering, and animal husbandry and fisheries resources departments. These are the departments that bear the brunt of the floods brought by the Ganga and the rivers flowing into the state from neighbouring Nepal, which destroy crops, roads, electricity supply system and other infrastructure.  “This is a preliminary demand by the state,” Amrit said. The assessment team left for an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas after a meeting with the Bihar officials. It will halt at Darbhanga on Monday evening and continue its work on Tuesday to fly over the deluge-hit areas in and around Bhagalpur. Floods have hit 27 out of 38 districts in the state this year in which 53 people have lost their lives so far. At present, 13 districts — Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saharsa, Vaishali, Bhagalpur, Saran, Katihar, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, East Champaran, Gopalganj and Madhepura are still reeling under floods. The state government has spent Rs 477 crore to proved gratuitous relief of Rs 6,000 to 7.96 lakh families so far apart from the usual rescue and relief operations, distribution of dry ration to the affected families and running community kitchen for the displaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Naveen gives Odisha model schools 10-year road map  ||The Odisha government has come up with an ambitious 10-year plan for the state-run Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya scheme (Odisha Model School scheme). The road map will focus on making model schools centres of excellence in studies so that students stop migrating to English medium schools run by private bodies. The state had earlier announced 15 per cent reservation for students in the state-run engineering and medical colleges who pass out from government schools. The 314 model schools across the state will be given achievement targets for the next 10 years. They will also be asked to promote yoga, sports and healthy living. As per the announcement of chief minister Naveen Patnaik on the occasion of Teacher’s Day on Sunday, Odisha Adarsha Vidyalayas (OAVs) will be made talent centres and will ensure that at least one student can crack one of the national entrance examinations each year. OAVs aim to impart free quality education in English through the CBSE curriculum to students from Class VI to Class XII especially in rural and semi-urban areas. Minister Samir Ranjan Dash told The Telegraph: “The chief minister has a vision for the students. He wants the overall development of the personality of each student. Earlier, the students had a complex about reading in Odia medium schools. Now they will overcome that complex and can be at par with the students of the English medium schools. We will convert all the 8,000 government-run high schools into model schools in a phased manner.” Meanwhile, all the high schools in the constituency of Naveen — Hinjili — have been refurbished and turned to model schools. According to the road map, all OAVs will have green campuses and comply with net zero emission standards by 2025. In order to make the students aware that blood is precious and it saves lives, all OAVs will be asked to conduct at least one blood donation camp in collaboration with Rotary and Lions’ Club this year, subject to Covid rules and regulations by the government. The state has also decided that each OAVs will conduct a mock UN session to highlight global issues and interconnections in sustainable climate planning. Besides, OAVians will carry out community service of “each one teach one” to gain practical experience in the field of education. In order to meet the rising demand of skilled people in Odisha as several industrial houses including ArcelorMittal are going to set up industries in the state. The government has decided to set up skill centres in the schools. “Skilling in schooling to be promoted for the needy,” said officials. Besides, every OAV will have an interactive and dynamic web page that will be a source of learning and expression for the teaching and student community. They will also be asked to publish a monthly newsletter namely OAVS NEWS/OAVians. On the occasion of the Teacher’s Day on Sunday, Naveen laid the foundation stone for construction of Adarsha Vidyalaya on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. The school will come up with a budget of Rs 100 crore and it will be developed as a centre to provide quality education to the meritorious students. The schools will enroll 1,000 students with 500 each for Class IX and Class X. The students will be selected from 314 model schools in the state. It will have 26 classrooms and eight science laboratories. Two hostels, one for girls and another for boys, will be set up on the premises. Earlier in July 2019, Dash had visited Delhi Schools to see the transformation made by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. However, Dash maintained the state government had nothing to do with Delhi government’s transformation on schools. “We had inspected their schools. But our planning to transform the education sector has not connected to the Delhi model,” he said. Initially, the schools will function from a rented house from academic year 2022-23. “We will ensure that the school buildings are completed as soon as possible,” Dash said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
07-09-2021||West Bengal|| Didi sets the mood, promises Puja sops this year too||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday decided to continue with its financial aid for the annual Durga Puja festival, which according to the chief minister was a Rs 32,377 crore enterprise. “This is an ongoing project,” Mamata said referring to the annual festival shortly after state chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi announced that the state government would provide Rs 50,000 to each of the nearly 36,000 Durga puja committees, big and small,  across the state. Of the 36,000 Durga Puja committees in the state, 2,500 are in Calcutta. Around 1,500 pujas are organised exclusively by women in Bengal. Like in 2020, for the second consecutive year, the annual festival to be held under the cloud of the Covid pandemic, the government has decided on a 50 per cent waiver on electricity charges and full waiver of  municipal and fire brigade charges. “We have not yet decided on whether visitors will be allowed to visit pandals at night,” Mamata said. As of now, the movement of people is not allowed at night from 11pm to 5am as a part of Covid restrictions. “There is over a month’s time still. We will decide on that after the elections when the situation will become clearer. If there is no third wave (of Covid) there should be no problem,” said Mamata. The chief minister said she would also request clubs participating in the Puja festival to publicise various welfare schemes and projects of the state government. Mamata has also asked the puja organisers, media houses and corporates to sponsor sanitisers and masks at the festival premises. BJP moves poll panel Later on Tuesday, Bengal BJP moved the Election Commission citing violation of  the moldel code of conduct  after the state government announced Durga puja sops. The letter reads, “it was done to influence these clubs who play an important role in the electoral process & give undue advantage to Mamata Banerjee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI raids Trinamul leader’s residence in Birbhum in connection with post poll violence||A team of CBI officials raided TMC leader Lalan Ghosh's residence in West Bengal's Birbhum district on Tuesday, as part of its investigation into cases of post-poll violence, agency sources said. The probe team visited Gopalpur village in Illambazar police station area of the district, where BJP worker Gourab Sarkar was beaten to death shortly after the assembly poll results were declared on May 2, and conducted raids at Ghosh's residence, the sources said. Several documents, including a mobile phone, were seized from the TMC leader's home, they said. The central agency has so far filed 34 FIRs, and made three arrests in connection with the post-poll violence cases two in Nadia and one in North 24 Parganas. The Calcutta high court had, on August 19, ordered that probe into cases of alleged rape and murder in the aftermath of the assembly elections be held by the CBI, taking note of an NHRC report in the matter. The West Bengal government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court order that directed a court-monitored CBI investigation into the cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Teenager, mother found dead in Calcutta flat, police detain six||The bodies of a teenage boy and his mother were recovered from inside their flat in the southern part of the city's Parnasree area, following which six persons were detained in connection with the case, the police said on Tuesday. Thirteen-year-old Tomojit Mondal and his mother Sushmita were found lying motionless, in a pool of blood, with the main door of their flat locked from inside, an officer at Parnasree Police Station said. The boy's father, Tapan Mondal, broke open the door after not getting any response from inside their residence on his return from work, and subsequently informed the police about the incident. "We are trying to find whether there is anything missing from the flat. The door was locked from inside and there is no sign of any forcible entry. Tapan Mondal had to break open the door with the help of their neighbour. "We have detained six persons in connection with case. These six do not have any link to the family. We are also talking to the husband as well as the neighbours," the officer said. The police are also looking for Tomojit's private tutor, who had visited the household on Gopal Mishra Road on Monday evening, he said, adding that sniffer dogs have been employed to find clues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Fresh erosion gobbles 35 houses in Malda||Around 35 houses, a metalled road and a mosque were gobbled by the Ganga in an unexpected fresh erosion in KaliachakIII block of Malda district since Monday morning. Over 100 residents people of Chinabazar, a hamlet under BirnagarI panchayat of the block, have become homeless within a few hours and were shifted to safer places. Some others are busy shifting their belongings and also dismantling their houses to take away whatever they could salvage out of the rubbles as the river is aggressively eroding chunks of land every hour. “The erosion started around 6am and in the next five to six hours, at least 35 houses, a road and the local mosque were eroded by the Ganga. For the past few days, water levels of the river had receded but it increased againI have also lost my house in the erosion,” said Harun Al Rashid, a member of BirnagarI panchayat. “We stood helplessly watching our houses collapse into the river. We don’t know when this erosion will stop. The administration should help erosion victims,” Rashid added. Sources in the state irrigation department said the Ganga is flowing at 25.02 metres, around 33 centimetres above the danger level and as the river started eroding land and gulped above it, the residents panicked. The women and children were shifted to safer places while the men hurriedly assembled their belongings and moved out of the houses which stood precariously as the Ganga went on eroding the earth from underneath the structures. Over 300 houses in different areas of Kaliachak-III block, along with vast stretches of agricultural land, have been gobbled by the Ganga this In the current-monsoon season. Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar, said: they are in touch with the administration. “We will see that the affected families are provided with all necessary help. Also, the block administration is monitoring the situation to ensure that there is no casualty due to erosion.” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation plans new water intake point||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation has come up with a proposal for the installation of an alternative intake point through which water from the Mahananda canal can be routed to the treatment plant at Fulbari and sought the state public health engineering (PHE) department’s approval. The move has been taken in the backdrop of the current crisis in drinking water supply across Siliguri. Since August 30, the supply has remained erratic and it worsened in the past couple of days. Thousands of people are left with no option but to buy drinking water. The principal cause of the crisis is huge silt deposit at the existing intake point through which water is drawn into the plant from the canal for treatment. Although the PHE department has cleaned it to a considerable extent, SMC sources said it would take at least a couple of days more for the water supply to become normal. “Meanwhile, we have drawn up a project for building an alternative point through which water can be drawn if there is any problem at the principal entry point as it has happened. Around Rs 6.9 crore is required to build this point. We have already submitted the proposal to the PHE department and are waiting for the approval,” said Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC. On Tuesday, a group of engineers from the PHE will arrive here from Calcutta to check out the water treatment plant. They are also likely to recommend how the water supply can be restored in a fullfledged manner across the city. Deb said the previous Left Frontrun civic board should have put in place the proposed arrangement. “We are in constant touch with the minister and officials of the PHE department and hope the project will be approved in due course,” he said. Asok Bhattacharya, the former Left Front mayor, has blamed the state government for the water problem which the residents has been facing for the past seven days. “Ever since I had assumed the mayor’s office in 2015, I had approached the state government many times, seeking the approval of the new drinking water project. But the government acted in a biased manner as we were in power at the civic body and did not approve it. It is because of this delay that the people are suffering now,” said the veteran CPM leader. Shankar Ghosh, the BJP MLA of Siliguri, also criticised the government. “It is unfortunate that the civic authorities could not even provide drinking water to residents of the city. If there is no improvement in the situation soon, we will launch a movement across the city,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: 30 teachers protest openly against VC||A group of 30 Visva-Bharati teachers on Monday evening participated in an open protest, demanding the removal of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and vowed to be with the ongoing students’ movement. Many at the varsity said the open protest by the teachers would come as a blow to Chakrabarty as the Union education ministry was purportedly annoyed with him for stopping salaries and over several other activities. “The senior officials of the education ministry had repeatedly asked the VC to sit down with the students and resolve the current impasse through a dialogue. But he took it to court. The salaries were released after the intervention of the ministry,” said a senior varsity official. “The time has come to raise our voice openly. The vice-chancellor has not only got the students in trouble for their protests, but several teachers also have been at the receiving end of his wrath, simply for not supporting his whimsical moves. Dozens of teachers were suspended or terminated by the vice-chancellor himself, over the flimsiest of excuses, apparently to satisfy nothing but his ego,” said a senior varsity teacher who took part in the protest. The teachers, mostly the members of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA), protested silently for around a half-hour near the Santiniketan post office with posters in their hands, demanding investigation by the Centre against the activities of Chakrabarty, his immediate sacking, and bringing normality to the campus by revoking rustication or suspension of students and teachers. After their silent protest with posters, the group went near the dais of the protesting students, where they demonstrated for another half-an-hour to show their solidarity with them. This is the first time that so many teachers protested publicly against the current VC. Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a suspended teacher of economics and president of the VBUFA, had already started a hunger strike along with rusticated student Rupa Chakrabarty from Sunday. The VBUFA wrote to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday, asking him to start a thorough investigation and take action against Chakrabarty immediately, citing how employees and teachers had suffered allegedly for not supporting his wrongdoing. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not respond to or texts from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: BJP divided over candidature against Didi||The BJP was on Monday divided over whether it should field a candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore Assembly seat or approach the judiciary against the byelection even as just four days were left for the filing of nominations. While Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh reiterated that the party was considering legal options to challenge the Election Commission of India’s decision of holding the bypoll in Bhowanipore, the party’s chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya made it clear that the saffron camp was in no mood to bypass the battle by taking the matter to courtrooms. “We will not hide behind the law to run away from the battlefield....The BJP will contest the Bhowanipore bypoll with full strength,” said Bhattacharya. Earlier in the day, Ghosh, who was at a BJP programme in East Burdwan’s Panagarh, had said “there was something wrong” with the poll panel’s decision and the party was taking legal advice on the issue to contest the decision. A section of the South Calcutta organisation district leadership, sources said, placed the demand for a local candidate for the bypoll, while senior leaders said they were exploring the possibility of fielding a prominent face. Several leaders and workers of the Bhowanipore constituency have conveyed to state leaders that they are against the possible candidature of Rudranil Ghosh, who had been fielded against Trinamul’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay from the same seat this year. “Rudranil has been scarcely available after the polls.... One who doesn’t stand beside his workers during the crisis cannot be our candidate again...,” a worker of the Bhowanipore seat said. Also, Ghosh is a resident of Howrah . Amid the confusion on who can take on Mamata, the possibility of Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari as a candidate in Bhowanipore has already started doing the rounds. Asked whether he was willing to take on Mamata once more, Adhikari said he was a disciplined BJP worker and would contest if the party asked him to do so. But Dilip Ghosh swatted away the possibility. “He (Suvendu) has already defeated her (Mamata) once.... Someone else will get the chance this time...,” Ghosh said. Some sources in the party said the name of state vice-president Pratap Banerjee was also being considered. State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday hinted that his party was considering contesting the Bhowanipore bypoll. Earlier, he had publicly said that there was no point fielding a candidate against Mamata who had come back to power for a third term with a landslide victory. After a meeting of the state Congress unit on Monday, Chowdhury said: “That was my personal opinion and not the party’s stand... However after that, the situation has been rapidly changing.... We have had a discussion today and our leaders have voiced their opinion.... We will let the high command know about this and they will take a final call...,” Chowdhury told journalists. He added that the Congress was in constant touch with the CPM — with which it had forged an alliance during the Assembly polls — and would inform the Left party about the Congress’s decision as and when it was finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Banker strangles wife with dog leash, surrenders before police||A 33-year-old bank officer has purportedly strangled his wife because he was “frustrated” with her allegedly persistent demand for money to buy expensive clothes and jewellery and surrendered before police later. Biplab Paridah, who hails from Cuttack in Odisha, gave himself up before Kanksa police in West Burdwan on Monday. The assistant manager of a nationalised bank claimed that he had strangled Ipshita Priyadarshini, 28, with the leash of their dog on Sunday night. The couple stayed at their rented flat at Lalita Apartment in Arrah near Durgapur. After the murder, Paridah drove to the nearby Malandighi police outpost under Kanksa police station and surrendered. The police went to the flat with Paridah and found Priyadarshini lying dead on the floor. The couple’s pet dog was at their home. Sources said Paridah had married Priyadarshini, a resident of Bhubaneswar in Odisha, in 2019. The duo had been staying at the rented flat for the past three months. The deceased was a homemaker and the couple had no children. Paridah was produced in a court, which remanded him in five days of police custody. Paridah told journalists that his wife had been living in a “world of fantasy” and used to allegedly force him to give her money to buy expensive jewellery and clothes regularly. “My wife was a homemaker, but she was not happy. She wanted to become a fashion designer and had been asking me to get her admitted to a college for the course. She was very demanding and highly ambitious, which led to frequent quarrels between us,” said Paridah. “She used to torture me whenever I refused to give her money. I was never happy with her,” he added. Paridah said he had murdered his wife around 7.30pm on Sunday following a quarrel over cooking. “I had to bring food regularly from restaurants or cook myself after returning from work. My wife did not want to cook. I was frustrated and could not bear it anymore,” he added. Priyadarshini’s father Hridayanand Behera reached Kanksa police station in the evening and lodged a complaint against his son-in-law. “We had given him a lot of gold ornaments and cash during the wedding. But Biplab started demanding more money after the wedding,” said Behera, a retired bank employee from Odisha. He added that the amount Paridah had started demanding recently was Rs 30 lakh, which he had firmly refused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
07-09-2021||West Bengal||High court relief for Suvendu Adhikari in criminal cases||Calcutta High Court on Monday directed investigators not to take coercive measures against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari or arrest him in connection with five criminal cases lodged against him by the state authorities since his defection from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP in December last year. The breather for Adhikari has come from Justice Rajasekhar Mantha. Adhikari had been interrogated by the state-run probe agency, the CID, at its headquarters at regular intervals in a case of unnatural death of one of his security personnel (in Contai). The state government, sources said, plans to challenge the order before a division bench within a couple of days. In the past few months, five criminal cases were initiated against Adhikari, at Contai, Nandigram, Panskura and Tamluk in East Midnapore and Maniktala in Calcutta. The judge stayed any criminal proceedings against Adhikari in three criminal cases. With regard to two criminal cases at Contai and Maniktala, the order stated that any action against Adhikari was subject to the prior approval of the court. The case over the murder of Adhikari’s security guard drew special attention of the court as Justice Mantha asked advocate-general Kishore Datta why the police had not acted against Adhikari if the crime had been committed two-and-a-half years ago. Datta replied that a member of the victim’s family lodged the case against Adhikari two-and-a-half years after the murder. Appearing for Adhikari, Billwadal Bhattacharyya and Kallol Mondal had argued that all the cases against their client had been lodged out of political grudge. “Soon after he left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP, Trinamul has started lodging one criminal case after another against him. The incidents in which our client was implicated were said to have occurred before December 2020 when he was a minister of the Trinamul-led government,” said Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League protest against BJP MP Raju Bista’s ‘lie’ on hill talks||The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League’s Bharati Tamang faction on Monday staged a protest against alleged lies of Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista after the Centre had failed to convene a meeting to discuss the “permanent political solution” of the hills. After meeting Union home minister Amit Shah on August 6, Bista had claimed that a tripartite meeting to discuss the “permanent political solution” of Darjeeling, the Terai and the Dooars would be held by the first week of September and letters would be sent to the invitees around August 12. Bista is a national spokesperson for the BJP as well as the national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. On Monday, when all commitments made by Bista had missed the deadline, supporters of the ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction) carried an effigy of the MP that was garlanded with slippers in Darjeeling. Vikram Adi Rai, vice-president, ABGL (Bharati faction), said the protest rally was held as Bista was not respecting his mandate. “The hills gave him a lot of respect by casting 7 lakh votes (in his favour). But if he cannot work according to the respect given to him, he deserved to be garlanded with slippers and shoes instead of flowers,” said Rai. “He is simply covering one lie with another. Many agree that Bista has been one of the most vocal MP from Darjeeling to raise “issues” of the hills in Parliament. “The hills, however, want something concrete,” said an observer. The ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction)’s protest on Monday found traction among many in the hills as their general secretary, S.P. Sharma, had lifted his fast-unto-death on hearing Bista’s assurance on August 6 through media reports. The hunger strike had been started by Sharma to seek something concrete on the “permanent political solution”. After meeting Shah, Bista had said: “I am happy to state that the Union home minister has assured us that an invitation for an official meeting for a permanent political solution will be issued next week, around August 12… and the first official meeting will start in the first week of September.” The Darjeeling MP had also said that invitation would also be sent to the Bengal government and the announcement had created a stir in hill politics. When the invitation had not been issued in mid-August, BJP leaders had clarified that the delay was possibly because of Independence Day celebration. A few days earlier, Bista had reportedly said developments in Afghanistan “maybe” the reason for the delay in holding talks in the first week of September. On Monday, sources said the ABGL supporters had wanted to carry the effigy on a pony but since they could not get hold of one, they decided to carry Bista’s effigy from Ladenla Road in Darjeeling to Bista’s Darjeeling residence, Matterhorn, situated at the Mall. Ponies are available for rides at Chowrasta. While Bista could not be immediately contacted, Mann Ghisingh, GNLF president, who was part of Bista’s delegation to meet Shah on August 6, however, defended the delay. “The dialogue will open, it will happen soon, within September. But I don’t want to talk about a particular date,” said Ghisingh. The Bharati Tamang faction of the ABGL has threatened to hold the protest rally once a week, until the meeting is held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 505 fresh cases, 13 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 505 Covid-19 cases, 664 recoveries and 13 deaths as a fall in the total number of active patients continued for 78 successive days. The total fell by 172 to 8,480. Bengal has 2.19 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 107 new infections, the only district of the state’s 23 with a three-digit figure of fresh cases. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.26 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.92 per cent on Monday. “The situation is firmly under control now. We have seen off even the residual impact of the second wave, and there are no signs yet of the onset of the feared third wave,” said a minister. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. Calcutta reported none. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.52 lakh Covid cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.25 lakh recoveries and 18,515 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Do whatever you can: TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee to Centre||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee dared the BJP to use its all might against him after he had appeared before the Enforcement Directorate here on Monday in connection with a money laundering case related to alleged coal theft in Bengal. “I told them everything and gave my answers in writing,” Abhishek said after spending nine hours at the ED headquarters. “I had said this before as well, if there are proofs against me, the agency should bring them out in public,” he said while emerging from the Jamnagar office of the central agency where he had reached around 11am. In a black shirt and trousers, the Diamond Harbour MP, who is also the all India general secretary of Trinamul, emerged from the ED office around 8pm. In his brief interaction with reporters waiting outside the ED office, he came down heavily on the BJP and accused the ruling party at the Centre of using investigating agencies against political opponents. “These agencies did nothing to people, who were seen accepting money on camera because they all are associated with a political party. All this is done to keep those fighting the BJP under pressure. I understand the situation of the officers of the agencies as they are also under pressure,” said Abhishek It was clear that he was referring to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, an accused in the Narada case, against whom the central agencies haven’t filed any chargesheet. “I am telling you that we will go to every state where there is BJP and fight them head on.... We will not sit back like other political parties. Our lives may be in danger, but we will not bow down our heads. We will defeat the BJP in 2024,” said Abhishek, reiterating what his aunt and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said during her Delhi trip in July. After trouncing the BJP in the Bengal Assembly polls, Mamata has been playing a key role in building an alliance of opposition parties before the 2024 polls. The Trinamul leadership has been stressing that the BJP was targeting Abhishek, who was sent a summon on August 28 in connection with the coal pilferage case, to settle political scores. His wife Rujira was also summoned to Delhi on September 1, but she requested the agency to question her at her south Calcutta residence as it was not possible for the mother of two to travel in the time of the pandemic. “Do whatever you can... BJP’s tyranny will be defeated. Let the BJP pull all its might, vigour, threat and resources, mind my words, their resources are going to fall flat,” he said before stressing that at least 25 BJP MLAs were in touch with his party to switch over. Sources in the agency said his statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED case is based on an FIR registered by the CBI last year, alleging theft of coal from some mines of the Eastern Coalfields Limited in Asansol. Two persons, identified as Vikas Mishra and Ashok Mishra, inspector in charge in Bankura police directorate, have been arrested by the ED in connection with the case. The agency, however, did not issue any official press statement on his questioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government readies e-challan route for sand mining||The Bengal government is set to launch a centralised e-challan system within a couple of weeks for the transportation of sand extracted from authorised sand mines. The move is part of an attempt to curb illegal sand mining and ensure more government revenue. “The centralised e-challan would be introduced by the mid of this month by doing away with manual challans issued by district administrations. This will help the government curb illegal sand mining,” said a senior state government official. According to the plan, every miner — 700-odd sand mines in the state are leased out — has to log in with his or her credentials on a portal that would be managed centrally to get the e-challan after paying required royalty to the government’s industry and commerce department. There will be a barcode on each invoice comprising the quantum of sand to be carried, its price, the registration number of the truck, source and destination of the sand and details of the seller and the buyer. “As soon as the centralised e-challan system would be in place, it would be easier to track the vehicle whether it was carrying sand against which the royalty was paid.... The e-challan would have a time-limit and no one would be able to use the e-challan for multiple use,” said an official in Calcutta. The new system is expected to help the state in many ways, sources said. The existing system in which districts used to issue challans manually had its limitations. “Often these challans were forged to carry more sand than the quantum for which royalty was paid. This was hurting the state in many ways,” said a source. First, the overloading trucks were damaging roads across the state. Second, the state was being denied the legitimate royalty. Moreover, the ruling party was facing infighting over the spoils of sand mining. “If these irregular practices can be stopped, the state government as well as the ruling party would be spared of multiple embarrassments,” said the source. The new system is expected to help the state generate more revenue as rapid checking of trucks carrying sand over the past few weeks has revealed that many of the miners were digging and supplying sand illegally. “The state has earned a sum of Rs 30 crore in the past few weeks during raids by means of fines from the trucks carrying sand illegally. This makes it clear that if the new system is put in place, the state can generate more revenue,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested with firearm and ammunition in Bagdogra||Two persons were arrested with a firearm and some live ammunition in Bagdogra on Sunday. Police sources said the special operation group of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bagdogra police intercepted Sunny Thakur, a resident of Panitanki in Siliguri near Nepal border, and Tapan Singha, who hail from Kharibari block of Siliguri sub-division, at Bihar More in Bagdogra. “As the duo were searched, an improvised firearm and two rounds of live cartridges were found in their possession. Also, a cell phone and a bike have been seized,” said a police officer. “We are trying to find out whether they are associated with any illegal arms racket. The firearms are suspected to be smuggled from Bihar.” Lightning injuries Twenty workers of the Diana tea estate in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri suffered injuries after they were struck by lightning at the plantation on Monday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
07-09-2021||North East||‘Open to Trinamul’: Tripura royal to lead northeast alliance against BJP||A new political initiative was launched on Tuesday within the northeast aimed at taking on the BJP’s might in the region. The grouping, the first two constituents of which are The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (Tipra) and the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), is yet to be named. Tipra chairman Pradyot Manikya Debburman, head of the Tripura royal family, is spearheading the new platform. He said it was open to allying with West Bengal's ruling Trinamul Congress for the 2023 polls in his state. AJP President Lurinjyoti Gogoi said the new platform aimed to strengthen the regional political movement of the northeast. The final decision on this front, he said, will be announced soon after a dialogue with all regional parties. The launch assumes significance given that the BJP and its allies control governments in all eight states in the region through the North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a political coalition formed in 2016. “The whole of northeast is now ruled by one party...the BJP and its allies. The allies of the BJP are not happy. You have seen what has happened in Assam and Meghalaya as well,” the Tipra chairman said in Guwahati on Tuesday. “The idea is to form a pivotal platform that speaks in the voice of the northeast not the language of Delhi.” Debburman claimed to be in talks with many NEDA partners -- the IPFT in Tripura and other outfits in Assam, Meghalaya, and Mizoram -- as “their issues are not addressed". He dubbed NEDA "only an election-winning machine”. Addressing a bunch of AJP leaders and supporters in Guwahat, Debburman referred to the potential for an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led party. “The Trinamool has to give it to us in writing that they would support our demand of a Greater Tipraland in Parliament. No one is untouchable in politics. Even the Congress is not untouchable,” he said. Tipra and AJP put forward the primary demands for the new initiative. These include the immediate repeal of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, updating the National Register of Citizens, ensuring constitutional provisions for the protection of Tripura's indigenous identities and cultures, and the formation of Tipraland or Greater Tripraland. “The people of Northeast are realising and even paying for the...BJP's aggressive agenda in order to strengthen their foothold in the Northeast...they are trying to implement their concept of Hindutva which is different from the old traditions of Hinduism based on love and compassion,” said Gogoi. “As a result, many ethnic traditions and languages have become either extinct or endangered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
07-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Clear the air||Times change; so do the challenges they bring with them. This is why India is set to update its national ambient air quality standards, which would consider more pollutants, including ultra-fine particulate matter. Interestingly, experts would also factor in India’s geographical position and meteorological conditions. This is particularly relevant in light of a recent report, Air Quality Life Index, by the University of Chicago, which shows that India’s air pollution levels have expanded geographically over time. The Indo-Gangetic plains remain central to the country’s air pollution problem — its emissions are responsible for 46 per cent of the premature deaths in the country linked to PM2.5 — but the toxicity has now spread to western and central Indian states such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, decreasing the life expectancy of the residents by two to three years compared to early 2000s. Even Bengal’s average annual PM10 pollution showed an upward trend from 2017 through 2019 — it rose to more than one-fifth in three years. In 2019, India’s average particulate matter concentration was seven times the World Health Organization’s guideline level. Not only have studies linked air pollution with dementia and lung cancer in adults, but research also shows that nearly one out of every three schoolchildren in Delhi has asthma and airflow obstruction. This, in spite of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and the Environment (Protection) Act. Clearly, laws alone will not solve the problem: they must be complemented with public awareness. But this is not possible unless there is complete transparency on the part of pollution control agencies, the majority of which do not share adequate information with the public. The use of green technology, too, must be encouraged. For instance, the rise in the number of vehicles on the road — India has registered a threefold increase over the last decade — must be met with a push for affordable electric vehicles, an industry that is still at a nascent stage in the country. Further, the ambit of reparative action and monitoring must be expanded. While most measures are city-centric — last month, Delhi installed India’s first ‘smog tower’ — data show that in many cases levels of air pollution in rural areas rival, or even surpass, those in urban centres. This is because practices like stubble burning and use of fossil fuels are primarily rooted in rural areas. Air pollution is not merely an environmental or health hazard. It raises deeper questions about human consumption and ethics. Collaborative, mitigatory action — legal, political, policy — among stakeholders is important. But these must also be complemented by contemplation on modern templates of production, the true ambit of individual need and the threat of avarice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bama, Sukartharini and Mahasweta Devi out of DU syllabus||Muffled voices Sir — The removal of works by two Dalit authors, Bama and Sukartharini, as well as of Mahasweta Devi’s “Draupadi” from the undergraduate English syllabus of Delhi University on the flimsy ground of “culture and ethics” is indicative of institutional bias against certain kinds of writing (“Far from epic”, Aug 31). According to the registrar, who defended the decision, the syllabus cannot include works of literature that may “hurt the sentiments of any individual” or have the potential to make “students hate the military”. If the university is worried that certain works might hurt the sentiments of the upper castes, then by that logic the works of Munshi Premchand, especially “Sadgati”, which is a scathing commentary on the caste system in India, should not be taught either. Mahasweta Devi’s “Draupadi” is crucial in exposing institutionalized violence faced by tribal communities in India. Replacing the works of Dalit writers with those of an upper-caste writer — Ramabai in this case — will result in a further exclusion of marginalized voices. The university must rethink its decision to remove these texts. Students should be exposed to a wide range of literary works so that they can have a greater understanding of the social realities in India. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The deletion of Mahasweta Devi’s short story, “Draupadi”, and the works of two Dalit writers, Sukartharini and Bama, from the English honours syllabus of Delhi University is unfortunate. “Draupadi” is a disquieting account of the plight of a Santhal woman, Dopdi Mejhen, who is captured on suspicion of being a Naxal and is raped by the military. The seminal work was eventually translated by the literary theorist, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, and has been a part of the DU undergraduate syllabus since 1999. The reach and importance of the work is such that it had inspired Manipuri women to strip in public in 2004 to protest against the rape and killing of a woman by the armed forces. These works have now been replaced by Begum Rokeya’s “Sultana’s Dream” and the life and works of an upper-caste writer, Ramabai. In response to this decision, 15 members of the university’s academic council have rightly submitted a dissent note against the functioning of the oversight committee. Several academics as well as politicians, including the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, have condemned this decision. The history of the Indian subcontinent is rife with shameful instances of oppression and violence. The removal of these works amounts to the silencing of marginalized voices. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur Sir — Removing certain texts from the syllabus cannot erase India’s contentious past. DU must include the works of Dalit writers if it hopes to provide a well-rounded education. Amita Saha,Calcutta  Unsafe city Sir — Two Indian cities — New Delhi and Mumbai — were recently featured on the Safe Cities Index 2021. While both were ranked at the bottom, it was nonetheless a surprise to see New Delhi included at all. Those of us who have lived in or travelled to Delhi know how unsafe it is, especially for women, compared to cities like Calcutta or Pune. Delhi may rank higher in parameters such as health or infrastructure, but none of this can make up for physical safety. In that aspect, Delhi is unlikely to feature on the personal safety list of Indian citizens. Meghna Basak,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Stick lovers||In an address on the occasion of the 51st anniversary of the foundation of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, the Union home minister made an important observation. The freedom to express opinion, Amit Shah said, was integral to democracy and this freedom — this is significant — is predicated upon a modernized police force. In other words, Mr Shah attempted to draw an organic link between the success of democracy and an effective law and order machinery. Unfortunately, it is the police and their political masters who have been instrumental in encroaching upon civil liberties, most notably since Mr Shah’s party attained political ascendancy. There is evidence to support this conjecture. Students’ protests in campuses, be it in Jawaharlal Nehru University or Jamia Millia Islamia, have faced the brunt of police excesses. Participants in anti-government demonstrations have been accused of hatching conspiracies against the State by the Delhi Police that is subservient to the Union home minister. The police, perhaps in their enthusiasm for crossing the line, have been found to be deficient in their primary duties. The judiciary has taken note of this and other transgressions. To cite one recent example, an additional sessions court commented tersely that the Delhi riots would be remembered as a monumental abdication of duty by the police. Mr Shah agonized over the fact that the good work done by the police seldom merits attention. The discrepancy perhaps has to do with the bunglings by investigators, something that has prompted the Supreme Court to contemplate assessing the performance of the Central Bureau of Investigation. This demand for accountability must be turned into a public campaign with the judiciary, civilians, media and, most important, politicians pressing for the police to function within the ambit of the law. For policing to complement democracy, the police — the government’s proverbial stick to beat opponents with — must reform itself. The first task would be to depoliticize the police: minimal intervention from the government would help policemen serve as custodians of justice. The template of police modernization should also pay adequate attention to the sensitizing of personnel to the need of being fair and transparent. Only then — why is Mr Shah oblivious of this? — can the police become the do-gooders that they are mandated to be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Darwin’s dead||The Central Board of Secondary Education has ‘rationalized’ the curriculum for the 10th and 12th standards, keeping in mind the loss of school hours for the last one and a half years due to the pandemic. It seems to have given ‘evolution’, along with other important topics, the miss in this curtailed syllabus for biology for both classes. ‘Evolution’ has been a cause of debates, discourses and disagreements in the academic world. Several countries choose to leave this area of science out of the high-school syllabus considering religious sentiments. However, there is colossal evidence in support of the theory of evolution. There is no denying the fact that we are yet to discover the value of ecocentrism. Moreover, the wisdom of keeping two academic batches unaware about the process of evolution at a time when the Covid-19 virus is mutating defies logic. At this point, the new generation should already start asking questions like ‘How are such a large variety of lethal pathogens being formed?’ Or ‘Can such pathogens surface again?’ Unfortunately, we are suppressing such questions from cropping up in young minds. Students have the wisdom to understand that human beings are not the most evolved of species. They appreciate that the environment can subject us to extreme conditions which, in turn, can inflict upon us the same fate as that of dinosaurs. I was astounded when a 16-year-old pointed out, “If we do not learn about evolution, we cannot ask the primary question that we always do — why are people like this?” Such analytical minds are being restricted to knowledge-gathering rather than being encouraged to ask searching questions or go into the depths of reasoning. Today, the world is fighting Covid-19 by producing vaccines and encouraging ‘herd immunity’. How do we intend to explain ‘herd immunity’, ‘mutation’, vaccine testing on phylogenetically-related animals and vaccine production without them having the knowledge of phylogeny, genetic drift, natural selection, and so on? Our curriculum aims at nurturing creativity and perceptive thinking in learners. Therefore, it needs to include topics that demand meticulous analysis. Unfortunately, there is a line of thought that believes ‘evolution is history’ and that it is not essential for competitive examinations. The entire focus of teaching high-quality, advanced, and stylized biology has shifted from evolution to biotechnology, molecular biology, and genetics. These topics are of importance, but the foundation of all of these lies in the way we adapt and react to the dynamic nature of our environment. The CBSE has clarified its rationale, stating that the measure was meant to reduce the stress of examination. Was this the best solution to reduce examination stress? Alternatively, the chapter on evolution could be included in interdisciplinary essays/presentations/projects. Learners would then have the option to correlate evolution with two or three subjects like mathematics, history, arts, economics, sports, geography, civics, and so on. This would help them widen their areas of interest. It is time that we decentralized the curriculum and allowed schools to take charge of the specific needs of learners. That way, we can move towards a future where an examination is not stressful and evolution not obsolete to the curriculum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Changes in the heartland||Agra’s majestic Mughal heritage illustrates the ideological contestations shaping urban politics in the heartland state of Uttar Pradesh. Hindu nationalist ideologues portrayed the Mughals as foreign invaders. The former chief minister, Mayawati, sought to capitalize on Agra’s heritage as a tourist entrepôt; even the Taj Corridor scheme faltered. The Samajwadi Party supporters celebrate Mughal Agra as the ‘Pride of India (Hindustan ka Naaz)’. Agra’s propaganda value aside, the city’s transformation from a bastion of the Bahujan Samaj Party into a Hindu nationalist stronghold vividly reveals the state of politics in UP today. The Yogi Adityanath government utilized Agra’s Mughal heritage as a backdrop for its flagship metro rail project inaugurated in 2020 that would connect the Taj Mahal’s East Gate to Sikandra, an enchanting monument complex, which hosts the mausoleum of the Mughal emperor, Akbar. The state government’s sponsorship of metro rail projects in Agra, Kanpur as well as the Aqua Line metro in Gautam Buddh Nagar at Delhi’s doorstep signals the rise of influential interest groups of urban voters whose politics have changed one of India’s largest states. Agra’s Dalit citizens have always been more empowered and assertive than their rural counterparts. They may have benefited from empowerment but they remained deprived of public-works projects, tarred roads and reliable electricity despite decades of the regional politics of caste assertion, which effectively ended Congress rule. It is now nearly five years since Uttar Pradesh became a State-sponsored laboratory for Hindutva politics. At first glance, it would appear that Narendra Modi’s popularity and charisma convinced UP’s voters to abandon two decades of caste-identity assertion in favour of a Hindu nationalist politics that is acceptable to traditional elite, urban, upper-caste voters. Agra’s political identity was transformed dramatically over this time period. Agra, a bastion of the BSP’s Dalit politics, became a Hindu nationalist stronghold. Agra’s voters articulated unhappiness with crony capitalism, which they blamed for urban blight and environmental disasters. Agra’s erstwhile mayor, Inderjit Arya, a Bharatiya Janata Party politician with a history of working for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, advocated ‘municipal Hindu nationalism’, incorporating the Hindutva ideology of the traditional elite as well as championing Hindutva Dalit assertion within municipal settings. Regional politicians, whose assertion eroded the Congress in its heartland bastion of Uttar Pradesh, no longer impressed voters for whom economic change increasingly indicated the blurred boundaries between the preferences of urban and rural voters. Modi capitalized on these altered allegiances, using demonetization as a wedge issue, gaining control over the news agenda just ahead of the crucial 2017 state polls. He was particularly adept at appealing to voters once swayed by the identity politics of the SP and the BSP. The militant agitation championing the destruction of the Babri Masjid shaped a political coalition of the urban, traditional elite with historically marginalized social groups united under the umbrella of Hindutva. Municipal politics in Agra, Ghaziabad, and Lucknow as well as in the pilgrimage centres of Varanasi and Ayodhya shaped religious solidarities, thereby creating urban bastions for the BJP over the past two decades. This systematic political incorporation of elected representatives from marginalized castes at the city, state and national levels transformed the BJP. However, Adityanath’s ability to hold together an electoral coalition under the saffron umbrella will be tested. This is on account of, first, the rampage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and, two, the inherent volatility of electoral politics in India’s most populous state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Poisoned fruits||There is a difference between lying and making bad decisions, but the two are often intimately connected, especially in public life. As children, almost all of us have been told that lying is bad, that we must always tell the truth. But there often is a gap between what we are told and what we are taught: as we grow from infancy to childhood, we start to see that people around us — of all ages — lie all the time; when a child brings this up, she or he is immediately told that lying is still a bad thing but, occasionally, there are exceptions, acceptable transgressions, which are to be decided by people older, wiser and smarter than you. Soon you realize that the full form of the ‘don’t ever lie’ rule actually goes ‘don’t ever lie to me but I may need to lie to you and others from time to time, and that’s alright’. Sooner or later we all learn to lie, in the same way we blink to keep the dust from getting into our eyes or swat away insects from biting us. The grown-ups around us understand this and, sometimes, even reward our lying. Every upbringing is partly shaped by what level and what kinds of lying are tolerated by parents and immediate circles, and where the two overlapping red lines are drawn: this kind of lying is not acceptable between us; this kind of lying is not acceptable in any situation whatsoever, period. If an individual has been fortunate during the formative years, they would have witnessed people who’ve had the courage to recognize and admit the mistakes they have made, people who, without hiding behind dissimulation, simply say: “This was my decision. It was the wrong one. I take responsibility for the damage it has caused. I will now do whatever I can to contain and repair the damage.” More often, what a child sees while growing up is the opposite: adults shying away from the consequences of their choices and actions. Soon we begin to notice the connection between lying and bad decisions; falsehoods following in the wake of some sort of mistake; rather than owning up to a blunder or wrongdoing, the person responsible makes up a fictional backstory that justifies or minimizes the act; parents, teachers and others with power and authority fabricate stories, mixing half-truths and full whoppers to give themselves moral or situational alibis. At other times, concocting and telling an untruth is itself the bad decision. Often, a first lie gathers ancillary lies around itself, one or two of which can grow bigger than the initial falsehood, each gathering its own entourage of new lies, spawning and multiplying all the way to disaster. As children, we first see these patterns in our own families, our schools and friend circles; as we grow older, we begin to recognize the signs in larger contexts, the dirty dancing between default and deceit sometimes affecting the lives of millions of people. For example, watching the tragedy play out in Afghanistan, it is useful to, once again, trace the family tree of the mendacities that have brought us here. The parent lies were put in place in the late 1970s when the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was seen by the United States of America as ‘an opportunity’ to drag the Russians into a ‘Vietnam-type quagmire’. This meant turning a blind eye to the brutal regime of General Zia-ul-Haq in Pakistan and arming and supporting Islamic fundamentalists, all in the name of ‘freedom and democracy’. When the American objective of a costly defeat for the Soviets was achieved, a new lie about ‘not interfering with the internal affairs of another country’ was put in place to enable the Americans to cut and run. As we know, this backfired badly with the Pakistan-backed Taliban first taking over Afghanistan and then providing a safe base to the terrorists of al Qaida and other Islamist groups; simultaneously, a decade of Zia’s rule also saw deep and enormous space being created in Pakistan for Islamist fundamentalism. When these factors and others led to 9/11, the US and allies invaded Afghanistan with two claims: first, they wanted to rid the country of the Taliban and all terrorist groups; second, they were there for ‘nation building’. The first claim was truthful, the second claim was a lie — the Americans and allies didn’t really give a flying fig about the people of Afghanistan (or Pakistan, or India). A bad decision, which was also a whopping lie, soon fed into this toxic genealogy: instead of working to fully rid Afghanistan of the Taliban (which required more far more than military might and mountain-busting bombs), the shady firm of Bush, Rumsfeld & Cheney decided to turn on Iraq with a completely fake claim that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. This spreading miasma of lies and subterfuge then turned the Middle East into the massive hell it is today and led to the humiliating withdrawal of the Americans from Kabul. Naturally, even this withdrawal sprouted its own set of new obfuscations and dissimulations, chief among them being the claim by President Joe Biden that he was locked into the pull-out by Donald Trump’s deal with the Taliban (by which logic Biden should also have been locked into staying out of the Paris Accord by Trump’s withdrawal). For us in India, there are many things to be learnt from this, and not only to do with the international arena. The first thing to note is the lessons our own political leaders have learnt from watching how George Bush and his associates operated, from what Barack Obama couldn’t or didn’t do, and from the spectacularly shameless circus of falsification and disinformation that Trump then set in motion. Let us make our own family trees of various politicians’ lies and the poisonous fruits with which those branches are now bombarding us. On its 20th anniversary, let us look at how 9/11 and the American reaction were helpful in setting up the Gujarat killings of 2002. Let us see how the United Progressive Alliance government’s misuse of the security agencies in its campaign against real and supposed Maoists became a prototype which the current regime expanded and ‘improved upon’. Let us look at how truthful the claims were — around demonetization, around the Pulwama attack and the ‘surgical retaliatory strikes’, around the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, with the farm laws, with the response to the Covid pandemic. When we are children, we can’t do anything about the adults who lie to us. As a society of thinking people, we have a choice whether to order from the menu of falsehoods being offered to us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP demands 30-minute Hanuman Chalisa in Jharkhand House amid Namaz room row||Unrelenting BJP MLAs disrupted Jharkhand Assembly proceedings on Tuesday for the third consecutive day as they protested against the allotment of a Namaz room by the speaker and demanded allocation of 30 minutes every week for reciting the Hanuman Chalisa. The BJP members chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' and snatches of the Hanuman Chalisa. Many lawmakers of the party, which is the main opposition in Jharkhand, sported saffron outfits and saffron angavastram with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ printed on them. The protest against the allotment of a room in the Assembly for Namaz began even before the House assembled for the day's proceedings. BJP MLAs sat on the stairs at the entrance of the Assembly and chanted the Hanuman Chalisa and party MLA Narayan Das was seen wearing a garland made of 'belpatra' (wood apple leaves). As soon as the House assembled, they began to vociferously protest against the allotment of the namaz room and the state's employment policy even as Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto repeatedly urged them to allow the House to function. The unrelenting opposition members, however, continued to shout slogans during the question hour which lead to the adjournment of the House till 12.30 pm. “No disrespect would be tolerated to the Chair. Beat me if you are angry, but don't disrupt the proceedings,” Mahto was heard telling the protesting MLAs. “Please go back to your seats ... I am pained. The Chair is not a subject of mockery. Yesterday you behaved badly ...This is the question of the faith of 3.5 crore people and your conduct gives pain,” he added. In reply, BJP MLA CP Singh said though the Business Advisory Committee had decided to take up the employment policy issue it was changed. “This (speaker's statement) is an emotional statement. We are also sad. Speaker is supreme in the assembly but it hurts when we see that your behaviour is not impartial,” he told Mahto. Amid the din, the speaker asked BJP MLA Bhanu Pratap Shahi to respect Hanuman Chalisa and not to use it for political gains. He said may ‘Bajrang Bali’ grant wisdom to the agitating MLAs. When the House reassembled after the adjournment, BJP members trooped into the well of the house and Singh demanded allocation of 30 minutes every Tuesday for recitation of Hanuman Chalisa. “If a room can be alloted for Namaz, why can't 30 minutes be allotted for Hanuman Chalisa? I take pride in being a Hindu,” Singh said. Jharkhand Minister Mithlesh Thakur was heard voicing his protest and ruling JMM MLA Pradeep Yadav said that there should not be any politics in the name of God. He demanded to know why BJP did not do so when it was in power in the state. Mahto said the demand should come from majority of the speakers to which Singh immediately demanded to know which majority gave permission for a Namaz room in the Assembly. The protest by BJP continued when the House reassembled at 2 pm. Its members again stormed into the well of the house chanting slogans. The House, however, took up the debate on the supplementary budget for 2021-22 amidst the din. Ruckus by BJP over the allotment of a room for offering namaz in the assembly had disrupted proceedings on Monday as well. The BJP is demanding the recall of the order pertaining to the allotment of the namaz room. The speaker has allotted room number TW 348 for offering namaz, prompting demand from the BJP to build a Hanuman temple and places of worship of other religions in the assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Bill to reserve 75% jobs in private sector for locals cleared ||The select committee formed by Jharkhand Assembly speaker to review the proposed law to reserve 75 per cent of existing jobs in the private sector for locals on Tuesday submitted its report in the House with some key changes in the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, which originally tabled in the budget session, paving way for the Act to be notified soon. Once notified, the Act would reserve 75 per cent of existing jobs with monthly salary up to ₹40,000 for the locals. Andhra Pradesh and Haryana have earlier passed similar laws reserving jobs for locals in the private sector. During the budget session this year, the government had decided to send the Bill to the select committee after several members sought amendments in it. The Speaker had formed the six-member select committee chaired by the state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta, who tabled the committee report with amendments in the Bill on Tuesday. The bill with amendments will be taken up for adoption by the House on Thursday. “The government would form the related rules and regulations to implement it. This is a landmark law as people, especially for those who are displaced for setting up industry and are often forced to protest and hit the streets for jobs. At present, they are often threatened with cases for raising their voice. With increasing privatization and the Centre pushing for NMP (national monetisation pipeline), this law would prove to be a boon for the locals,” said CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, one of the members of the select committee. BJP legislator and former health minister Ramchandra Chandrvanshi, who was also a member of the select committee, said they cleared the Bill as it is in the interest of the state. Few key changes made in the original Bill includes adding “Private Sector” in the amended Bill, now named “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021”. The Bill also increased the salary cut-off from ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 besides including a new clause vis-à-vis the public sector undertakings. The original Bill had kept these firms out of the purview of this law. “The central government of the state government shall not be included but the provisions of this Act shall apply on the organizations providing services through outsourcing to the central government or the state government organistaion/undertakings,” reads section 2(e) of the amended Bill. While the new law does not fix quota for any vulnerable group, including the displaced or social groups, as done in government jobs as affirmative action, the amended bill adds a new clause saying attention will be given for their representation. The amended Bill has also expanded the monitoring committee for implementation and addressing complaints. Now, deputy commissioner in each district would chair the committee which will have local MLAs, employment and labour department officers. Earlier, the deputy commissioner was given the sole right to settle disputes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||CII donates medical equipment to East Singhbhum||The Jharkhand state council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Tuesday donated medical equipments worth several lakhs to the East Singhbhum district administration for combating Covid-19. The consignment comprised 20 oxygen concentrators of 10 litre each, five oxygen concentrators of five litre each, oxygen cylinders (A - Type) with flowmeters and 15 pieces of oxygen masks and oxygen cylinders (B-Type) with flowmeters and 15 pieces of oxygen masks. A CII team handed these over at a modest function organised on the premises of the district collectorate in Sakchi to East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar. The CII delegation was headed by Tapas Sahu, vice- chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council, and Vijay Bhuller, state head, CII. The second wave of Coronavirus had tremendous strain on healthcare infrastructure as the number of patients rose rapidly. Hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators and other necessary medical equipment and facilities were in short supply and people were often travelling great distances in the hope of getting medical support. While the government was taking several steps to increase and strengthen existing healthcare infrastructure, CII, CII Foundation, and its affiliates stepped in to augment existing Covid-care facilities. "CII has been proactively engaging itself to support the government both in Centre and state in combating the second wave of COVID-19," said Sahu. State head Vijay Bhuller said, "We need to be very cautious and follow Covid appropriate behaviour while getting vaccinated to carry on with our livelihoods and put growth back on track." He explained that there is also an urgent need to augment the healthcare infrastructure in the state and this was the best time for CII members to step in and help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad restricts number of autos to ease traffic in town||The Dhanbad district administration has decided to allow only 2,500 auto-rickshaws to ply within the town as a part of a comprehensive plan to decongest traffic in the coal capital. At a meeting with auto-rickshaw associations here on Tuesday, it was agreed that the movement of three-wheelers _ there are over 20,000 operating in Dhanbad district _ would be regulated according to a set of norms, discussions on which were on with drivers over the last two months. As per the new rules, auto drivers would have to adhere to a dress code and carry valid licences as well all requisite vehicle papers. Autos would operate within 15 routes and stop only at designated pick-up and drop points in Dhanbad. Each route would have a designated code which will have to be displayed prominently on the three-wheeler, namely, on the windscreen and in the side. The new rules will come into effect  from September 16. The district administration's move comes less than four day after the imposition of a ban on the entry of all passenger buses and other heavy vehicles in to the town. Talking to the media after Tuesday's meeting, district transport officer of Dhanbad Om Prakash Yadav said, “We have taken several crucial decisions as per which the number of autos entering  Dhanbad town from different routes has been restricted to 2,500 only from existing 8,000.” To achieve this, he said,  each route had been  divided  into several parts. For example,  an auto till now running between Patherdih and  Dhanbad would have to turn back from Jharia instead of coming all the way to Dhanbad. "There will be other autos to transport  passengers from Jharia to Dhanbad," he explained. Yadav said that the process of identifying designated  auto stops was also launched on Tuesday in the presence of officials of the motor vehicle department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Volleyball melas planned across Jharkhand from October||Volleyball melas are being organised across Jharkhand from October onwards to promote the game. Jharkhand Volleyball Association (JVA) has asked all 24 district affiliates to organise melas, that can be in the form of training camps or tournaments, in their respective areas at intervals of three months. The East Singhbhum District Volleyball Association (ESDVA) has planned a training camp in mid-October. "We and other district affiliates have been asked by the state association to organise a mela. We have planned a training camp in mid-October which will conclude in two-three days. The Covid-19 pandemic has kept our spikers indoors for a year now," said association secretary Rajeev Mishra. According to him, since the   Covid  situation is under control in Jharkhand, they would soon identify a venue for conducting the training camp for sub-junior, junior and senior players. It is a good step taken by  JVA as melas will help in promoting and popularising volleyball across the state," Mishra added. The East Singhbhum district association holds training camps and tournaments at JRD Tata Sports Complex and R.D. Bhatta Community Centre at Bistupur. District volleyball outfits have come up with impressive performances in state championships. Some spikers regularly earn berths in state teams for national competitions. It started with a separate tournament for girls over two years back. The tournament received a good response. "We have serious plans to promote girls and the tournament we hosted two years back was intended to development interest for volleyball among girls," Mishra said The district association also plans to host the state youth (Under-21) tournament in January-February next year. "The pandemic has affected all our programmes. Otherwise we organise tournaments at regular intervals. The game is popular in the steel city and there is no dearth of facilities," the ESDVA secretary added. Chatra District Volleyball Association is organising an open tournament to mark the mela. "The tournament will be for different age groups. The dates are yet to be finalised but the tournament will be organised sometime in the third week of October," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Decision on reopening temples, schools likely on Wednesday||Jharkhand is likely to take a decision on reopening of places of worship at a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) to be chaired by Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday, highly placed government sources said on Tuesday. “Covid cases have dropped in the state, so the SDMA is likely to take a call on reopening places of worship at its next meeting,” an official from the disaster management department said. “We also need to consider the effect of keeping temples closed on the livelihood of shopkeepers who are entirely dependent on worshippers for generating income,” he added. Various religious bodies from across the state have been pressing for reopening temples citing the rapidly dwindling financial condition of small-time businessmen solely dependent on worshippers who visit temples, gurdwaras and other religious places  regularly. Last week, members of the Pahari Mandir committee and shop owners in the vicinity of the temple had jointly asked the government to reopen the  place of pilgrimage. Besides, the Opposition BJP has also been criticising the government for keeping temples closed but allowing places of entertainment resume services. The SDMA meeting, which will also be attended by disaster management minister Banna Gupta, is also likely to come up with a decision on reopening  schools for students of class 5 and above, sources from Gupta’s office said. Schools as well as places of worship have remained mostly closed since the Covid-19 pandemic hit Jharkhand in March 2020. While online classes were arranged for students, the government tried to gradually resume in-person classes earlier this year but had to stop the process due to the second wave of Covid-19. The state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and more than 98 per cent of patients have recovered. As per government data, there were 126 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand as on Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates a record 2.10 lakh residents in a day||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated a record 2.10 lakh residents against Covid-19 as nearly 2,000 session sites remained operational across the state from morning to evening, figures shared by health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday night, the state administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,58,303 residents, while the second dose was administered to as many as 52,256 beneficiaries. Almost 1.50 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44. With more than 27,000 doses administered, East Singhbhum topped among the 24 districts in vaccinating residents. About 15,000 residents got vaccinated in Ranchi. As per figures shared by the health department on Monday evening, the state has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to over 1.10 crore residents and over 28 lakh of them have also got the second jab. Jharkhand reported at least 24 Covid recoveries against 18 fresh cases and the active caseload dropped to 126, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone reported eight of 24 cases, while West Singhbhum reported six cases. At least 21 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases on Monday. The state tested swab samples of 51,067 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The state has so far reported 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 98.48 per cent of patients have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly disrupted following ruckus over namaz room||The monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly on Monday was disrupted following ruckus created by the Opposition over allotment of a room for offering namaz in the House. BJP lawmakers chanted slogans of Jai Shri Ram and Har Har Mahadev to protest over the room allotment. Amid the constant disruptions, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon tabled the first supplementary budget of Rs 4,684.93 crore for fiscal 2021-22. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato adjourned the House at around 3.00pm on Monday to 11am on Tuesday. A maximum allocation of Rs 1,786.05 crore has been made to the energy department followed by Rs 1,000.30 crore for the mines and geology department while home jail and disaster management department  Rs  337.32 crore, rural development department Rs 284.34 crore and Rs 279.29 crore to the health department. Earlier, all the BJP MLAs performed bhajan kirtan outside the Assembly with traditional musical instruments like dhol and jhal and sung religious songs. They chanted slogans of Jai Shri Ram to protest the decision of the Speaker for allocating the room for performing namaz inside the Assembly. Later, as soon as the proceedings of the House commenced the BJP MLAs welcomed speakers with chants of Jai Shri Ram and Har Har Mahadev.  As the MLAs were not relenting to repeated requests the Speaker was forced to adjourn the house from 11.30am to 12.45pm in the first half of the day. After the House was reassembled, the MLAs continued with their slogans and demanded that the recruitment policy excluding Hindi, Sanskrit and English for Classes III and IV vacancies is cancelled. After the lunch break, the BJP MLAs once again stormed in the well of the House and indulged in slogan shouting. MLAs Randhir Singh, Bhanu Pratap Sahi and Kishun Das stood on the reporting chair and shouted slogans. On the other hand, BJP MLA Manish Jaiswal sat on the reporting table and kept tapping with his hands while MLAs Raj Sinha and Amar Bauri sat on the Secretary’s table. The act of the MLAs drew sharp reactions from the Speaker who said that the chair was not weak and the acts of the MLAs were against the parliamentary norms. During the question hours, Congress MLA Amba Prasad and Alamgir Alam raised the issue of inflation and the need for change in recruitment policies.  However, the BJP MLAs continued to disrupt the proceedings by dancing in the well of the House forcing the Speaker to adjourn the House till Tuesday. Speaking to reporters outside the Assembly, chief minister Hemant Soren termed the ruckus as unfortunate. “They could have put their question during the question hours and we would have answered. But it seems they were keen on disturbing. It is unfortunate that Opposition parties instead of raising issues on government policies is causing disruption,” said Soren. BJP Rajya Sabha MP and state president Deepak Prakash addressing party workers at Dumka warned that if the government does not withdraw the order of allotment of a room in the Assembly building for offering namaz, BJP workers would stage a dharna outside the House on September 8. The monsoon session is scheduled till September 9. BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das has also written to the Speaker on Monday to withdraw the decision of allotment of the hall for offering namaz within 48 hours or else he would sit on a dharna in front of the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
