08-09-2021||Business||Markets end flat after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Wednesday, tracking losses in market heavyweights Infosys, Reliance Industries and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. After swinging over 400 points in a volatile session, the 30-share Sensex ended 29.22 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 58,250.26. Similarly, the NSE Nifty slipped 8.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 17,353.50. Nestle was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, TCS and L&T. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Titan, NTPC and Sun Pharma were among the gainers. "Domestic bourses witnessed modest contraction mainly led by profit booking in IT and auto stocks. Further, weak cues from global equities also weighed on investors' sentiment," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Textile stocks were in focus as government approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme worth Rs 10,683 crore for the sector. Buying was seen in midcap and smallcap stocks as recent contraction in this space made risk reward proposition favourable for a number of stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with losses while Tokyo closed on a positive note. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.98 per cent to USD 72.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Centre hikes minimum support price of wheat as farmers continue to protest||The government on Wednesday hiked the minimum support price for wheat by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal and for mustard seed by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal for the current crop year in order to boost crop area as well as income of farmers. The decision to increase the MSPs (Minimum Support Prices) was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. MSP is the rate at which the government buys grain from farmers. Currently, the government fixes MSPs for 23 crops grown in both kharif and rabi seasons. Sowing of rabi (winter) crops begins from October immediately after the harvest of kharif (summer) crops. Wheat and mustard are major rabi crops. According to an official release, the CCEA has approved increase in MSPs for six rabi crops for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) and 2022-23 marketing season. Wheat MSP has been increased by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal for this crop year from Rs 1,975 per quintal in the 2020-21 crop year. The cost of production of wheat is estimated at Rs 1,008 per quintal, the release said. The government has procured a record of over 43 million tonnes of wheat during 2021-22 rabi marketing season, as per official data. The support price of barley has been hiked by Rs 35 to Rs 1,635 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year from Rs 1,600 per quintal in the previous year. Among pulses, the MSP for gram has been increased by Rs 130 to Rs 5,230 per quintal from Rs 5,100 per quintal while that for lentil (masur) has been hiked by Rs 400 to Rs 5,500 per quintal from Rs 5,100 per quintal. In the case of oilseeds, the government has increased the MSP for mustard seed by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year from Rs 4,650 per quintal in the previous year. The MSP for safflower has been raised by Rs 114 to Rs 5,441 per quintal from Rs 5,327 per quintal. "Government has increased the MSP of rabi crops for the 2022-23 rabi marketing season to ensure remunerative prices to the growers for their produce," the release said. The government said the increase in MSPs for of rabi crops for the 2022-23 marketing season is in line with the Union Budget 2018-19 announcement of fixing the MSPs at a level of at least 1.5 times of the average cost of production, aiming a reasonably fair remuneration for farmers "The expected returns to farmers over their cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of wheat and mustard seed (100 per cent each), followed by lentil (79 per cent), gram (74 per cent ); barley (60 per cent) and safflower (50 per cent)," it added. The government also said that concerted efforts were made over the last few years to realign the MSPs in favour of oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals to encourage farmers to shift to larger area under these crops and adopt best technologies and farm practices, to correct the demand-supply imbalance. Additionally, a central scheme -- National Mission on Edible Oils-Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) -- recently announced by the government will help in increasing the domestic production of edible oils and reduce import dependency. With the total outlay of Rs 11,040 crore for NMEO-OP, the scheme will not only aid in expanding area and productivity of the sector but also benefit the farmers by increasing their income and generation of additional employment, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on choppy note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Wednesday, led by weakness in index-heavyweight IT stocks amid tepid cues from global markets. Despite opening with mild gains, the 30-share Sensex turned volatile to trade 41.84 points or 0.07 per cent lower at 58,237.64. Similarly, Nifty slipped 15.35 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,346.75 in initial deals. Infosys was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, HCL Tech, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Maruti and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Axis Bank, ITC, ICICI Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 17.43 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 58,279.48, the broader NSE Nifty fell 15.70 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,362.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 145.45 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. "By all matrices of valuations markets are richly valued, even overvalued, and ripe for a correction. But unmindful of valuation concerns, the market driven by liquidity and retail investor exuberance, is setting record after records," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. He further noted that India is one of the best performing markets in the world. Consequently, valuations have become excessive. "Corrections are imminent but we don't know when that will happen," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Hong Kong were in the red. US equities ended mixed in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.10 per cent to USD 71.62 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||US digital currency exchange CrossTower sets up India local unit||US-based digital currency exchange CrossTower has set up a local unit in India and launched a trading platform to capture the growing domestic crypto market even though the fate of cryptocurrency in India is still unclear. CrossTower India has already hired 35 people and plans to increase headcount to 100 in six to nine months, the company said. The company is following in the footsteps of market leader Binance, which entered India in 2019. India’s digital currency market has grown from $923 million in April 2020 to $6.6 billion in May 2021, according to Chainalysis, a blockchain data platform. Among 154 nations, India ranks 11th in cryptocurrency adoption, it said. “India will play a pivotal role and we plan to use the country as a hub to expand into other geographies,” Kapil Rathi, co-founder and chief executive officer of CrossTower, told Reuters. As a late entrant to India, the company plans to increase its market share by providing competitive pricing and relying on advanced technology infrastructure, Rathi added. Several other global exchanges are considering coming to India despite the lack of regulations on crypto and concerns about an unfavourable regulatory environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Treat crypto currencies as just another asset: Ex-RBI official||Crypto currencies such as bitcoins need to be considered as assets and not legal tender, a former RBI official said, in remarks that stand in sharp contrast to the central bank’s attempts to treat it as a digital currency. Former RBI deputy-governor R. Gandhi on Tuesday made a case for treating and regulating crypto currencies as a separate asset class with a view to enabling governments around the world to effectively deal with illegal activities associated with virtual currencies. He was speaking at an event organised by the Internet and Mobile Association of India on Tuesday. If crypto currencies are accepted as assets, the rules governing commodity exchanges could apply and the coins could be used to pay for goods and services, Gandhi said. “Then automatically people can start buying, selling and holding.” After quite a lot of debate over the years, he said, people have fully understood that crypto cannot be a currency because the fundamental element of a currency — that it should be a legal tender — is missing in this case. The general consensus among many policymakers is that it should be deemed as an asset, not as a currency, not as a payment instrument and not as a financial instrument as there is no clear identified issuer, he said. “So once we have an understanding and acceptance, that it is an asset (not a currency), then it becomes relatively little easier to have regulation around it,” he said. Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the proposed legislation regarding cryptocurrency is pending before the cabinet. Gandhi said the regulators should have access to information on how much crypto currencies individuals hold for income tax purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Gold jewellers vying for internet investment gold||Gold jewellers with physical stores are vying for a piece of the internet investment gold (IIG) market amid changing consumer purchase preferences and rising smartphone adoption. Till now digital wallets and e-commerce platforms have been the key enablers for low ticket purchases of gold with PhonePe, AmazonPay, Google Pay, Paytm among the companies that offered this service. Through these channels gold can be bought and sold at spot rates or bought and converted into coins. While jewellers have strengthened their online presence through their own e-commerce platforms to keep sales buoyant during the Covid pandemic when stores were shut, they are now looking to expand their sales channels. Tata’s jewellery brand Tanishq and Senco Gold and Diamonds on Tuesday announced their foray into digital gold. Tanishq has partnered online digital gold platform SafeGold . “Tanishq Digital Gold powered by SafeGold is virtually bought and comes with a flexibility to convert into physical gold in the form of jewellery at the time of redemption at 360 plus Tanishq retail stores across the country or Tanishq’s official website,” the company said in a statement. The jeweller said that consumers can even purchase Rs 100 worth of 24-carat pure gold. “Tanishq in partnership with SafeGold is providing an opportunity to new age digital savvy consumers who may not have an immediate need to buy gold jewellery but may be inclined to purchase it in the near future,” said Ajoy Chawla, CEO, jewellery division, at Titan Company Ltd. Senco Gold and Diamonds launched its online gold transaction platform — DG Gold. The retail jewellery chain said consumers with valid PAN card/Form 61 and a bank account would be eligible for purchase of gold starting as low as Rs 250. The purchased gold can be converted into physical gold in the form of jewellery at 116 plus retail outlets of Senco or sold online through the DG Gold portal at prevailing rates. “The new platform gives our consumers the flexibility to create value and wealth which is secure and simple,” said Suvankar Sen, CEO, Senco Gold and Diamonds. Last year, the World Gold Council had estimated the online gold market in India at around 2 per cent of overall gold sales by value. “Smartphone penetration and increasing financial inclusion will give a vast swathe of Indian investors the ability to invest in IIG with the swipe of a finger, using mobile wallets/apps or a bank’s digital platform,” World Council said in its report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||RBI permits card issuers to act as token service providers||In a bid to ensure security of card data, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has enhanced the scope of tokenisation and permitted card issuers to act as token service providers. Under tokenisation services, a unique alternative code is generated to facilitate transactions through cards. The RBI on Tuesday extended the device-based tokenisation to card-on-file tokenisation services, a move that will bar the merchants from storing actual card data. Card-on-file refers to card information stored by payment gateway and merchants to process future transactions. “...card issuers have been permitted to offer card tokenisation services as token service providers. The tokenisation of card data shall be done with explicit customer consent requiring additional factor of authentication,” the RBI said in a statement while extending device-based tokenisation framework to CoFT services. It said the decision will reinforce the safety and security of card data while continuing the convenience in card transactions. The RBI said many entities in the payment transaction chain store actual card details citing the convenience and comfort factor for users while undertaking card transactions online. Some merchants force their customers to store card details. Availability of such details with a large number of merchants substantially increases the risk of card data being stolen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Sebi introduces T+1 settlement cycle for share transactions||Capital markets regulator Sebi on Tuesday introduced T+1 settlement cycle for the completion of share transactions on an optional basis in a move to enhance market liquidity. At present, trades on stock exchanges are settled in two working days after the transaction is done (T+2). The regulator has decided to provide flexibility to offer either T+1 or T+2 settlement cycle for the completion of share transactions, according to a Sebi circular. The stock exchange may choose to offer T+1 settlement cycle on any of the scrips, after giving an advance notice of at least one month, regarding change in the settlement cycle, to all stakeholders, including the public at large, and also disseminating the same on its website. After opting for T+1 settlement cycle, the stock exchange will have to mandatorily continue with the same for at least six months. Thereafter, in case the stock exchange intends to switch back to T+2 settlement cycle, it will do so by giving one-month advance notice to the market. Any subsequent switch (from T+1 to T+2 or vice-versa) will be subject to a minimum period and notice period as mentioned by the regulator.   The decision has been taken based on discussions with market infrastructure institutions such as stock exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories. “There shall be no netting between T+1 and T+2 settlements,” Sebi said. The settlement option for security will be applicable to all types of transactions in the security on that stock exchange. For example, if a security is placed under T+1 settlement on a stock exchange, the regular market deals as well as block deals will follow the T+1 settlement cycle on that bourse. The new framework will come into force with effect from January 1, 2022, the regulator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||India Post Payments Bank and LIC Housing Finance to provide home loans||India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and LIC Housing Finance (LICHFL) on Tuesday announced a strategic partnership to provide home loans to over 4.5 crore customers of the postal bank through its network of 650 branches and around 136,000 post offices. The postal bank also plans to leverage the network of 2 lakh postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks. The announcement resulted in a spike in LIC Housing Finance scrips which at Rs 424.20 ended 4.81 per cent up from the previous close at the Bombay Stock Exchange. LIC Housing Finance said it would handle credit underwriting, processing and disbursement of all loans, with the postal bank responsible for sourcing. The alliance is part of the postal bank’s strategy to expand its range of products and services and to cater to the banking and financial needs of diverse customers, especially the unbanked and underserved, across the country. At present, the postal bank sells insurance products in partnership with insurance companies. LIC Housing Finance, promoted by the country’s largest life insurer, said that it offers interest starting from 6.66 per cent for loans up to Rs 60 lakh to salaried individuals. Most banks and NBFCs are offering home loans at interest rates starting from around 6.6-7 per cent. Besides its traditional home loan product, the housing finance company is offering Griha Varishtha — designed for retired or serving employees of PSU companies, government, defence and banks. The age of the borrower at the time of taking the loan can be up to 65 years and the loan tenure is till the attainment of 80 years or maximum up to 30 years, whichever is earlier. LIC Housing also offers upto six EMI waivers during the tenure of the loan. “The partnership with LICHFL is a significant tie-up in IPPB’s journey to become one of the largest platforms for availing credit products by our customers for meeting various needs, in line with our focus on providing comprehensive customer-centric, convenient and digital solutions to our customers,” said J. Venkatramu, MD and CEO, India Post Payments Bank. “We see this strategic partnership as a significant step that will help our long-term business growth and improve our market share. This is in line with the company’s objective to increase business contribution from tier 2 markets and beyond,” said Y. Viswanatha Gowd, MD and CEO, LIC Housing Finance. The housing loan market in India had a portfolio outstanding of Rs 22.26 lakh crore till December 2020. Public sector banks retained the largest market share in housing loans with a near 45 per cent share over the last 3 years according to a report of CRIF High Mark. Housing Finance Companies in comparison have an overall market share of nearly 37 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea looks to Centre for viability||Vodafone Idea has flagged the industry’s “unsustainable financial duress” in its latest annual report and hoped that the government would provide the necessary support to address the issues. In the chairman’s letter to shareholders, Himanshu Kapania cited persistent challenges in the operating environment, amid “unsustainable pricing” and “hyper-competition” during FY21. Kapania expressed hope that the government will support efforts to generate reasonable returns on massive investments. “As the industry continues to remain under unsustainable financial duress, your company is hopeful that the government will provide the necessary support to address all structural issues faced by the sector,” said Kapania who was elected by the VIL board as non-executive chairman after Kumar Mangalam Birla stepped down from the position in early August. While the operating challenges remain, increasing digital penetration that has got a further boost during the pandemic remains a massive opportunity for the telecom industry especially when the pricing revives in future, said the company. VIL “believes the government recognises the criticality of the sector and the importance of retaining healthy competition amongst private sector operators”. “...while the company awaits the government’s final decision, it will continue to remain focused on providing quality service to the customers,” Kapania added. The longer-term prospects for the Indian economy continue to be robust, as initiatives such as privatisation of PSUs, monetisation of assets, implementation of National Infrastructure Pipeline are expected to spur a virtuous cycle of investments and growth in the medium-term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Air India bids sought without fixing reserve price||The much delayed privatisation of Air India (AI) is gathering pace but unlike in the auction of telecom spectrum there are no reserve prices yet for the beleaguered national carrier. Finance ministry officials said they expected to receive the financial bids from the prospective bidders by September 15. The reserve price would be decided after the “financial bids were received and not opened”. The decision to do away with the reserve price beforehand and wait till the financial bids come would give a fair chance to all who are in the race for AI, the officials said. The government is hopeful of completing the strategic sale by December and hand Air India  over to the new owners before the end of this calendar year. Consultant RBSA Advisors will come up with a formal indicative price but it is not known whether it will be known to the bidders. The final reserve price, officials said, will be decided by a group of ministers after all the financial bids are received. The Centre has not revealed the names of qualified interested bidders as yet. After the consortium of Air India employees, backed by NRI businessman Laxmi Prasad and his New York-based Interups Fund was disqualified, the Tata group and SpiceJet are the two buyers reportedly left in the race. According to the terms of the Expression of Interest, the new owner will have to take up nearly 40 per cent of the company's total debt of Rs 60,074 crore, while the rest will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The EoIs were made public in January 2020. The last date of submission of EoIs — after multiple extensions because of the Covid-19 pandemic — was December 14, 2020. The Centre had announced in October 2020 that the bidding would be done based on enterprise value instead of equity value. Enterprise value includes equity value, debt as well as cash with the company. Equity value measures the value of a company's shares. A minimum 15 per cent of the enterprise value has to be given in cash to the government, while remaining sums has to be taken as debt along with Air India. After its unsuccessful attempt to sell Air India in 2018, the government in January last year restarted the divestment process. In 2018, the government had proposed to offload 76 per cent of equity as well as transfer management control. However, the offer failed to attract any bidder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
08-09-2021||Business||Cairn Energy accepts Modi govt's offer to refund Rs 7,900 crore||Cairn Energy on Tuesday said it has accepted the Modi government’s offer to refund the company Rs 7,900 crore (or $ 1.06 billion) to settle the retrospective tax dispute but did not categorically say whether it was prepared to drop its suits against the government in courts abroad before securing its refund. Cairn Energy CEO Simon Thomson said the Edinburgh-based oil explorer was prepared to end the litigation against the Government of India — a precondition that the Modi regime has insisted on before a final resolution of the tax dispute. “We are prepared to do this quickly as part of the final resolution process. We can do this in a very short period of time... perhaps in a couple of days,” Thomson said but chose not to amplify on what sort of a mechanism Cairn Energy was prepared to accept to secure the Modi government's assurances of a prompt payout. The Modi government had said it would refund the tax “provided the litigant withdraws, or furnishes an undertaking to withdraw, cases and claims filed with courts and arbitration tribunals in the country and abroad”. Thomson said Cairn’s shareholders are in agreement with accepting the offer and moving on. “Some of our core shareholders like BlackRock and Franklin Templeton agree (to this). Our view is supported by our core shareholders (that) on balance it is better to accept and move on and be pragmatic. Rather than continue with something negative for all parties which could last for many years,” he said. In its half-yearly report, Cairn said : “The Group is considering entering into statutory undertakings with the government of India in respect of new legislation, which would enable the refund of retrospective taxes collected from Cairn in India by way of asset seizures since 2014.” “The final form of these statutory undertakings has yet to be published by the government of India, but it is anticipated that the principal condition that they prescribe will be the withdrawal of Cairn’s rights under the international arbitration award. As the Group has not yet entered into any such undertakings, Cairn’s receivable under the award of the international arbitration remained classified as a contingent asset at the  June 30 balance sheet date,” the  report said. Addressing investors, the Cairn CEO said it will return up to $700 million out of the $1.06 billion it is supposed to get from the Indian government, to “shareholders via special dividend and buyback”. “Payment of the tax refund would enable a proposed return to shareholders of up to $700 million, via a special dividend of $500 million and a share buyback programme of up to $200 million. The remainder of the proceeds would be allocated to further expansion of the low-cost, sustainable production base,” it said. Thomson said Cairn has had a “good, open and transparent line of communications with the government of India” on finding a resolution to the retro tax issue. “Our aim was to get to a resolution... something which would be acceptable to our shareholders.” “We were pleased when the government of India made what we thought was a pretty bold move, in terms of enactment of the legislation,” he said. “The intention of the government, we are obviously aligned with it, is to get this resolved as quickly as possible. Hopefully, that means within the next few weeks. It is good not only for us and our shareholders but also importantly for India.” The draft rules for the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, which would end the retrospective tax disputes with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc, commits to refund the principal sum within a 30-day time period after compliance of all formalities. The companies concerned have to give an “irrevocable” undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any in future. The Parliament during the Monsoon session passed the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeking to nullify controversial retrospective tax provision introduced in 2012 during the UPA government. The move is aimed at ending tax disputes with Vodafone, Cairn Energy and over a dozen other companies besides facilitating fresh foreign investment. Subsequent to the amendment in Income Tax Act in 2012 applying the provision retrospectively, income-tax demand had been raised in 17 cases. In two cases assessments are pending due to stay granted by the High Court. Out of the 17 cases, arbitration under the Bilateral Investment Protection Treaty with the United Kingdom and Netherlands had been invoked in four cases. In two cases, the Arbitration Tribunal ruled in favour of the taxpayer and against the Income Tax Department. Finance Secretary T V Somanathan said a total of Rs 8,100 crore was collected using the retrospective tax legislation. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore was from Cairn Energy alone. This money will be repaid. As much as Rs 1.10 lakh crore in back taxes was sought from 17 entities that were levied taxes using the 2012 legislation. Of these, major recoveries were made only from Cairn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
08-09-2021||India||In this era of OTT Platforms, how this Bangalore-based platform is bridging the gap between a good story idea and its execution||Writing a script or a book requires ideas that are crafted with precision but are also thought of with a lot of dedication and love. With ideas being penned down, it deems to be a waste if they are not put to action. Realizing that it is not easy to get on board with a publication or have authorized screenwriting partners, Script A Hit, a first-of-its-kind platform in screenwriting and publishing was launched in April 2021. The platform headquartered in Bangalore is founded by Jaishankar Krishnamurthy that helps young minds who have ideas but not the proficiencies, time, or resources to turn their thoughts into a novel to be published or into scripts for audio-visual content production. The founder through some light about the impeccable journey of his brand and the details involved in acing the industry with his thoughtful strategies. 1.         When was Script A Hit launched and how did you get the idea to start the brand? Is the company funded or bootstrapped? We launched Script A Hit’s website amidst the pandemic in April 2021.Launching the platform was my idea as I was aspiring to write a novel for 4 decades but somehow could never complete penning a single book. Being married to a successful writer, Krishna Udayasankar, who is also the co-founder and who has published many bestsellers, I pitched to her a plot, which she then worked on using her exceptional skills. Now, my first book, FARSIDE, co-authored with Krishna is forthcoming from Penguin Random House in October 2021. I have also completed my second novel in collaboration with another writer. The book, MIND GAMES, is currently being pitched to various publishers by the reputed Redink Literary Agency. For my third book, I engaged a writer to bring to life his concept of an intriguing financial thriller to life. He now has three complete manuscripts, with a fourth in the works, in a span of less than two years. As a result of these experiences, I realized that there are several individuals like me who may not have the time or skills to write, or the resources to convert their unique ideas into novels. Script A Hit is a unique platform for such individual to realize their dreams of becoming an author or the creative mind behind an audio-visual production – be it a movie or an OTT series. Currently it is being funded by investment from friends and relatives. 2.What is the concept of Script A Hit. And how is it different from a publishing company? Script a Hit does not aim to publish manuscripts, rather, our aim is to help people transform their ideas into manuscripts that can then be submitted to leading publishers, to be published as books. As a result, what we look for in terms of submissions is not the entire manuscript, but a concept note - the seed of what can be a spectacular novel. Many people may have amazing ideas but do not have the skills, time or resources to turn that idea into a complete novel. We cater to these individuals by helping bridge the process between idea and manuscript. As a result, once we accept the submitted idea, we employ professional writers to convert the idea into a novel. We then will approach reputed publishing companies to publish the novel. In short, we see ourselves as adding value by serving as a bridge between the ideator and publishing houses, thereby serving both their needs  3.         Who is the target audience of Script A Hit Our target audience is any person who has an idea for a story. The person could be a homemaker with an untold story of challenges and emotions, a police force member who has seen the best and darkest of criminal minds, a migrant worker whose trials and difficulties the world needs to hear about, a single parent struggling against a society full of expectations, a daily laboureror a billionaire. We target an ordinary person with a great idea. At Script a Hit, we believe that art imitates life, and that fiction comes from reality.  4.         How does the idea work? Any person who has an idea can submit a detailed synopsis of their idea by registering at the website. If the idea is selected by the Script A Hit team, we enter into a legal contract with the submitter acquiring the idea with initial payment of INR 10,000. We then employ professional writers, chosen with care to fit the particular genre and proceed to write out the entire manuscript. We will then pitch the manuscript to reputed publishers. Depending upon the idea, we will also simultaneously present a detailed pitch to (audio-visual) content producers. 5.         How many entries have we received till now? Please explain the kind of entries you receive and where are they majorly from? We have received over 200 registrations and have received 100 story ideas. Right now we are accepting submissions in English, Hindi and Tamil. Except for one submission in Hindi, two in Tamil, the rest have been in English. The genre of stories range from romance, science fiction and fantasy to crime and thrillers.  6.         How do you think your platform is providing a great opportunity to people who have ideas in their minds and would like to sell their ideas to OTT platforms? Also, how the brand generates revenue through this The demand for content, especially in the form of webseries available on OTT platforms is growing at an exponential rate, supported also by a change in lifestyles in recent times. A recent PriceWaterhouseCoopers report projects India to become the sixth largest OTT market by 2024, with the OTTvideo segment’s share in the overall entertainment and media sectordoubling from what it was in 2019. The report says that “Subscription VOD will be the prime driver of revenue, increasing at a 30.7 per cent CAGR from $708 million in 2019 to $2.7 billion in 2024.” We have unique advantage of having on board an accomplished writer, Krishna Udayasankar, who has optioned all of her novels to date to content producers, including the likes of Disney Hotstar and Phantom Films. She has also been engaged to write screenplays for web series, which are currently being pitched to leading OTT Platforms. Also on board is Neha Lamba Grover, formerly of Star TV and now working with HCL Technologies in their Media Telecom sector in the US, dealing with a broad content-production client base. She brings both her contacts and considerable expertise in the audio-visual content production to the table. These, combined with our vision unique vision, make us a game-changer brand in the world of literary and audio-visual entertainment. We get a portion of the royalties from the publishers and amounts paid by content producers and that is the source of our revenue. 7.         How can a person submit an idea on the website? All an author has to do is submit an idea in the form of a synopsis on the official ‘Script A Hit’ website. Signing up is free. Submissions in English, Hindi, and Tamil are currently accepted. If a person's idea is shortlisted, that person signs a co-development agreement and receives a signing fee of Rs 10,000. When the company gets into the process of manuscript development with a team of professional writers. Once the manuscript is ready, we pitch it to established publishers and entertainment platforms. Finally, if the manuscript gets published, the original idea submitter will receive co-author or concept credits and also a share of the advances and royalties 8.         What is Script a Hit's expansion plan or anything else you want to share Our aim is to sign up for 10 stories in FY22 which we hope to increase to 25 in FY 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||CCS clears purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft ||India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday. The deal is expected to be worth $2.5 billion. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL. The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. “Sixteen aircraft will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing of the contract and 40 aircraft will be manufactured in India by Tata consortium within ten years of signing of the contract. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company,” the ministry said in a statement. While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 transport planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes. The aircraft can operate from short, unprepared airstrips and carry out a variety of missions in all-weather conditions. “We have made good progress with the light combat aircraft and a variety of helicopters. But transport aircraft is one area where a lot needs to be done. The C-295 project will help create an ecosystem for building transport aircraft in India,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement. “All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite. The project will give a boost to aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” the statement said. The programme will allow the Indian private sector to enter into the technology intensive and highly competitive aviation industry and will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced imports and expected increase in exports, it said. “The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities…It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway,” it said. The project will involve setting up servicing facilities for the C-295 in India. “It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft,” it added. The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. “The original equipment manufacturer (Airbus) will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners giving further boost to economy,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||India's criticism of Infosys, Tata worries businesses||A public diatribe against two Indian business giants by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's officials and his ideological allies has unnerved the business community, several industry executives told Reuters. Over the weekend, a magazine run by members of the Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) launched an attack on Indian tech giant Infosys for failing to resolve glitches in the income tax website it manages. The group, which is the ideological parent of Modi's ruling party, called Infosys "anti-national" for letting down the tax system, sending a chill through Indian industry wary of falling on the wrong side of the Modi government. Just last month, the finance ministry "summoned" Infosys' CEO over the tech issues and in an unusual step took to Twitter to announce the summoning, heightening a media frenzy around a company that has been the face of India's IT's prowess. And in August, the commerce minister publicly lashed out at the $106 billion Tata Group for criticizing proposed stringent rules for e-commerce and said local companies should not only think about profits. In India, safeguarding domestic businesses has been Modi's priority. While government or RSS criticism of foreign businesses like Amazon and Monsanto is common, local businesses are rarely caught in the crossfire. But the latest events have raised concerns among business leaders about whether Modi is now taking a hardline approach towards domestic giants as well, five industry sources said. One venture-capital executive said the criticism was akin to "harassment" of businesses and risks souring investor sentiment. Another executive working at a global consultancy said "everyone is scared" as businesses don't want to run foul of the government. "The frontal attack on iconic elements of Indian businesses have only buttressed the need for companies to ensure they are conforming, not just with tax issues, but with other government initiatives," said Dilip Cherian, an image guru and co-founder of leading Indian PR firm Perfect Relations. R.C. Bhargava, chairman of Maruti Suzuki, defended Infosys, saying it had played a key role in building India's software reputation globally. "It needs to explain the glitches, but it doesn't mean there is a conspiracy to damage the country," he told Reuters. A senior member of RSS, however, said there's nothing wrong in the way the companies have been criticized, saying they must be thick skinned and held accountable. "Why should questions not be raised, have corporates become a holy cow?" said the RSS official who declined to be identified. Infosys and Tata didn't respond to a request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||Farmers continue sit-in outside Karnal secretariat as another round of talks fails||Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over a police lathi-charge last month failed Wednesday and the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters here.  Into the second day of the dharna, farm leaders said they will stay put at the gate of the complex but will not stop officials and the public from entering it.  Their demands centre around the suspension of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to break heads of farmers if they cross the line during their August 28 protest.  About 10 farmers were hurt that day when police used force to stop them from marching to the venue of a BJP event in Karnal.  The sit-in outside the Karnal mini-secretariat, following a mahapanchayat in the same city, began Tuesday evening after talks between district officials and the farm leaders failed .  The farmers then began marching towards the office complex. Along with some Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, many spent the night outside its main entrance.  In the morning, volunteers at the protest site were seen preparing tea and serving breakfast, including 'langar' from the nearby gurdwaras.  The district administration invited a delegation of SKM leaders -- including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni -- for a meeting at 2 pm in another bid to end the standoff. But the standoff continued.  We have to say this with regret that the talks failed completely because the government is adopting an adamant and insensitive attitude, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav told reporters after the three-hour meeting.  There is no change in their attitude from what was witnessed yesterday, he charged.  Yadav said the deputy commissioner and the superintendent of police were at the meeting, joined later by the Karnal divisional commissioner.  He and Tikait claimed that the local administration was taking directions from Chandigarh , a reference to the BJP-led Haryana government.  Yadav said the farmers had earlier demanded the registration of a murder charge against the IAS officer.  Leave alone registering a case against him despite sufficient video evidence, the government is not even ready to suspend him, he said.  This indicated, Yadav claimed, that he was not giving instructions to policemen on his own but had directions from the government.  Karnal is Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's home constituency.  Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait too charged that the state government is trying to save the officer.  So we have decided that our dharna will continue here at the same site. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Punjab will also keep joining the dharna site here, he said.  He said the protest will continue until the government agrees to the demands or the issue is resolved.  The western Uttar Pradesh-based leader said the farmers will take care that work at the secretariat is not disturbed and the public is not inconvenienced because of their protest. He said farmers are putting up tents at the dharna site.  Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said the dharna will continue indefinitely round the clock.  The protest leaders had also claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration.  Sub Divisional Magistrate Sinha was transferred days after the controversy over his break heads remark, but the move was part of a larger bureaucratic shuffle in Haryana.  Meanwhile, the movement of traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National Highway-44 remained normal.  Security had been beefed up on Monday, a day before the mahapanchayat at Karnal's New Anaj Mandi where farmers arrived, riding tractors and motorcycles.  From there, in the evening, they marched on foot to the mini-secretariat about five kilometres away.  The Haryana Home Department had extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal until Wednesday midnight as the situation was "still volatile".  Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning gathering of people had been imposed in the district on Monday.  For month now, farmers have been sitting on dharnas at Delhi's borders demanding that the three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre should be withdrawn. Union leaders claim the law will lead to the dilution of the minimum support price (MSP) at which farmers sell their crops to government agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi a 'pseudo expert', says education minister in jibe on NEET postponement ||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for demanding the postponement of medical entrance exam NEET, saying the Congress leader was a "pseudo expert" with an "overflowing vanity and a misplaced sense of entitlement". Criticising Gandhi for "questioning the wisdom" of the Supreme Court and experts on the NEET schedule, Pradhan said that "yuvraj (prince)" should stick to "his expertise of concocting lies than issuing statements on matters he has no understanding of". The minister's response came after the former Congress President called for the postponement of the NEET examination as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. Alleging that the government is "blind" to students' distress, Gandhi had urged the Centre to let students "have a fair chance" in the exams. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. "Rahul Gandhi perceives himself to be an expert on everything without having an iota of knowledge. Overflowing vanity & misplaced sense of entitlement of a failed crown prince is no alibi to meddle into the schedule of examinations, give undue stress & make the students suffer," Pradhan tweeted. "Even the Hon'ble Supreme Court has not entertained the plea to reschedule the #NEET examination citing the deferment as being unfair to a large number of students. "What makes @RahulGandhi the pseudo expert' question the collective wisdom of the bench and actual experts?" he added. A section of medical aspirants has been demanding postponement of the exam citing the schedule of NEET closely clashing with several other exams. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 improvement and compartment exams are set to be held between August 25 to September 15. The next day after the medical exam is the mathematics exam on September 13. Other state-level entrance tests such as Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MHT CET) 2021, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Karnataka CoMEDK, Odisha JEE are also scheduled around the same time. While ICAR is scheduled to be held on September 13, MHT CET 2021 will be held from September 4 to 10 and from September 14 to 20 and CoMEDK will be on September 14. "Yuvraj should stick to his expertise of concocting lies, peddling half-truths and being the antagonist to anything progressive, rather than issuing sweeping statements on matters he has no understanding of," Pradhan further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||Chirag Paswan and Tejashwi Yadav meet raises political temperature in Bihar||Bihar's political temperature rose by a few notches on Wednesday as Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan met RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna to invite the latter to an event marking his father Ram Vilas Paswan's first death anniversary a few days later. While politicians and pundits speculate a strong possibility of their coming together, the two young leaders, however, told prying journalists their meeting was a result of "family relations" that went back to ties shared by their fathers. "I still remember having learned some of my early lessons in managing an election campaign from late Ram Vilas Paswan in the assembly polls of 2010 which he had fought along with my father Lalu Prasad," Yadav said. "Chirag said that he is scheduled to meet Lalu ji at Delhi tomorrow. If father's health permits, he may even come down to Patna to attend the barkhi (function held upon one year of death)," the RJD leader said. He said that Lalu Prasad's imprisonment, besides poor health, prevented him from attending Paswan's funeral last year. Convicted in several fodder scam cases, Prasad was released from jail earlier this year upon obtaining bail from the Jharkhand High Court. He has since been convalescing in the national capital, occasionally interacting with party workers here through video conferencing. Yadav was also asked about his contention that Chirag, who has been cornered in his own party following a split engineered by uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, should consider crossing over to the Grand Alliance headed by the RJD. "Nothing remains to be said by me when Lalu ji himself has expressed the wish that both of us come together," quipped Yadav, while Chirag smiled cryptically. "I must make it clear that today's meeting between me and Tejashwi bhai has nothing to do with politics. Had my father been alive, he would have certainly liked Lalu ji and his family to be a part of any function taking place in my family. I am just carrying forward the tradition," said the Jamui MP who has been left cornered in the party floated by his father even as his rebellious uncle has landed a Union cabinet berth. Chirag was asked whether he has also extended an invitation to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, towards whom his hostile stance has become a part of contemporary political folklore. "I have sought an appointment with the chief minister. Making a demand on his time is tough, especially when it involves me," the LJP leader remarked sarcastically. Yadav, who is the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, indirectly referred to the matter and said, "On such occasions, one must not hesitate in taking some time off to meet people." Paswan's 'barkhi' is to be held at the late Union minister's residence in the city on September 12. Chirag had on Tuesday shared screenshots of the invitation cards printed for the occasion. The names of Paras and cousin Prince Raj, both of whom have turned their backs on him and sought to remain in the NDA, figured among the RSVP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Move high court to quash FIRs, SC tells journalists||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it does not want freedom of press to be muzzled or stifled but it cannot create a separate avenue for journalists to approach it directly for quashing of FIRs lodged against them. The apex court stated this while hearing a plea filed by Foundation for Independent Journalism, which publishes digital news portal The Wire, and its three journalists seeking quashing of three FIRs lodged against them in Uttar Pradesh. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao asked the petitioners to approach the Allahabad High Court to seek the quashing of FIRs and granted them protection for two months. "You go to the high court and argue for quashing. We will protect you in the interim," said the bench, also comprising justices B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna. "We cannot create a separate avenue for journalists to directly come to this court under Article 32 for quashing of FIRs," the bench observed. The top court said it understands the importance of right of free speech and "doesn't want freedom of press to be muzzled". The apex court told the counsel appearing for the petitioners that it will grant protection and they can approach the high court on the issue. The plea was filed by Foundation for Independent Journalism and three journalists -- Seraj Ali, Mukul Singh Chauhan and Ismat Ara -- who have sought quashing of three FIRs lodged against them at Rampur, Ghaziabad and Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh as well as the proceedings arising out of them. The petition, filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, said these FIRs have been filed solely on account of journalistic reporting of various events and occurrences of public relevance. It said FIR at Rampur was lodged in January this year while the other two FIRs were registered in June. "No part of the matter published is even remotely an offence, although it may be unpalatable to the government or some people, it said, adding that FIRs have been lodged against the portal and its scribes in Uttar Pradesh. The plea said that FIR lodged in Barabanki was in connection with a news story on the demolition of a mosque in the area in May 2021 by the police on the orders of the district administration. "A news story is entitled to record and convey the aspirations, anguish, and perspective of the people, even if these are not in accord with the thinking of the State or its agents. This is precisely what the media in a democratic country is meant to do," it said. Besides seeking quashing of the three FIRs, the plea had also sought a direction restraining UP Police from taking any coercive action against the petitioners in connection with these cases. It had also urged the apex court to lay down guidelines to prevent the alleged misuse of Indian Penal Code provisions, including sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief), particularly against media houses and journalists exercising their constitutionally protected right to free speech and expression while reporting. The plea said it is not for the police to "sit in judgment" over the media for its reports. "The media is meant to ventilate the problems of ordinary people, the nature and effect of administrative policy, and differing world views," it said. It alleged that relevant IPC provisions which deals with actual offences against communal harmony are presently being "subverted and misused" and used to "gag any media reportage" on incidents that may have a communal, religious or political angle. It said role of media reflects the citizen's right to know and ensure accountability in governance and if this routine duty becomes easily vulnerable to criminal process, democratic institutions will suffer. "The petitioners also pray for appropriate guidelines to prevent this manner of use of the criminal process, which has a chilling effect on media freedoms and the right of the people to be informed," it said. The plea has also referred to the May 31 order of the apex court which had granted protection to two news channels which were booked under the sedition law. "We are of the view that the ambit and parameters of the provisions of sections 124A (sedition), 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation," the apex court had said in its May 31 order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly passes resolution urging Centre to repeal CAA||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the Centre to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act 2019 to protect and ensure unity and communal harmony and uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution. The resolution moved by Chief Minister M K Stalin said the CAA passed by the Parliament in 2019 "is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India." As per established democratic principles, a nation should be governed taking into consideration the aspirations and concerns of the people belonging to all sections of the society. "But it is clearly seen that the CAA was passed in such a way that it does not accord a warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminate them according to their religion and their country of origin." Hence, to "protect and ensure the unity and communal harmony in this country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, this August House resolves to urge the Union government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019." The Bill was adopted. The main opposition AIADMK's members were not in the House during its passage. They staged a walkout over issues they tried to raise during the zero hour. Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami told reporters that they could not raise key issues in the House as they did not get the nod from Speaker M Appavu and even some views expressed by them -the following permission for a brief while- were later expunged. Condemning this, Palaniswami said, his party staged a walkout. Listing schemes like two-wheeler scheme for women beneficiaries, he said the DMK government has "given up" this scheme and one after the other, such welfare schemes of the AIADMK regime were being scuttled, he claimed. Opposing the resolution, the BJP MLAs staged a walkout and later speaking to the media, the party's legislature party leader Nainar Nagendran said the CAA has absolutely nothing against Muslim people. "The CM today speaks of communal harmony, but does not even greet people for Hindu festivals including Ganesh Chaturthi and Deepavali," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Women will be able to join NDA, Centre informs Supreme Court||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the armed forces have decided to induct women into the National Defence Academy (NDA). Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Justice S K Kaul that a decision has been taken at the highest level of the armed forces as also the government that females will be inducted for permanent commission through the NDA. The ASG sought apex court's permission to place the details on record through affidavit and sought status quo in this year's exams as this needs procedure and infrastructural changes. The top court said it has been periodically nudging the authorities to do it themselves and it believes that they are best suited to evolve the whole. "The idea is when nothing happens, the court steps in. Let me assure you it's not a happy situation to step in and we would like the armed services to do it themselves. They are very respected forces of the country but on gender equality they have to do more and sometimes the resistance does not come out well," said the bench, also comprising Justice M M Sundresh. "I am happy that the heads of armed forces have taken a positive decision. Put on record, we will take up the matter. We are happy with the stand. let us hear the matter next week. Reforms cannot happen in a day. We are also conscious of that," it said. The ASG told the bench that the thought was already there in their minds but it was only in the seeding stage. The matter is listed after two weeks. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Kush Kalra raising the issue of exclusion of eligible and willing female candidates from joining the prestigious NDA solely on the ground of sex which allegedly is a violation of fundamental right of equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Courts cannot presume that every Covid-19 death during second wave is due to negligence, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that courts cannot presume that all deaths due to Covid-19 in the second wave of the pandemic were due to negligence as it refused to entertain a plea seeking compensation for the kin of the victims by treating it as medical negligence. A bench of Justices DY Chandrudach, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli asked the petitioner Deepak Raj Singh to approach the competent authorities with his suggestions. The bench said, "To assume that each death due to Covid-19 took place due to negligence is too much. The second wave had such an impact across the country that it cannot be presumed that all deaths happened due to negligence. Courts cannot have a presumption that all Covid deaths happened due to medical negligence, which your petition does." The top court referred to a recent verdict of June 30, in which it had directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons, who died due to Covid-19. It said, "In that verdict, the court has taken a view with regard to humanity and not due to negligence. The government is yet to come out with the policy. If you have any suggestion with regard to implementation of that policy, you can approach the competent authority." At the outset, advocate Sriram Parakat, appearing for the petitioner, said that his petition is different as it brings into account an element of negligence and compensation for the deaths which have happened due to medical negligence. The bench noted that since the petition was filed in the month of May, a lot of developments have taken place. "We have taken suo motu cognizance on Covid preparedness and a National Task Force has been constituted by this court which is looking into several aspects," the bench said. The bench further told Parakat that, It was such a wave that it affected the entire country and the court cannot make a general presumption of medical negligence. The top court, while disposing of the petition, asked the petitioner to withdraw his plea and amend it and if any suggestions are there, then the petitioner can approach the competent authority. The government, during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, had however told the Rajya Sabha that it had not received any report of patients dying because of shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities during the second wave of the pandemic from any state or Union Territory. The matter-of-fact statement aimed at tamping down the widespread despair over lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 had the opposite effect as it brought back to mind the stark images of patients gasping for breath in ambulances, hospital corridors and cars. The government was technically correct as the states were never asked by the Union health ministry to compile data on oxygen deaths. The state governments were only asked to tabulate Covid deaths and not register them as cardiac or nephrology case if the deceased person had tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Congress leader and former Bihar Assembly speaker Sadanand Singh passes away||Former Bihar Assembly speaker and veteran Congress leader Sadanand Singh died here on Wednesday after a prolonged illness, party sources said. He was 76. Singh breathed his last at a hospital here where he had been admitted for more than a month. A die-hard Congressman, Singh made his debut in 1972 winning the Kahalgaon assembly segment which he came to represent a number of times during his five-decade-long political career. An OBC leader in a party which has been associated mostly with the upper castes, he was chosen for the speaker's chair by the party leadership in 2000 when it was seeking to reinvent itself by projecting a pro-backward image in alliance with the RJD. Later, he also served as the leader of the Congress legislature party in the state but gave up electoral politics ahead of the assembly polls last year when his seat went to his son Shubhanand Mukesh. The party, however, lost the seat to the BJP. Condolences have been pouring in from across the political spectrum for Singh. Those who have expressed grief over the demise include Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Jitan Ram Manjhi besides leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds order to extend ED director's tenure||Observing that reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate completion of cases of ongoing investigations, the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea challenging retrospective change in the 2018 appointment order of Sanjay Kumar Mishra as director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Upholding the Centre's decision, a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, however, made it clear that extension of tenure of officers who have attained age of superannuation should be done in rare and exceptional cases. The court made it clear that no further extension can be given to Mishra. The top court said that a reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate the completion of cases of ongoing investigations only after recording reasons by the committee constituted under section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act. "Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of director of ED after attaining age of superannuation should be for a short period. We do not wish to interfere with the post of second respondent in the instant case as the tenure is coming to end in November 2021. We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second respondent," the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai, said. The judgement came on a plea filed by NGO Common Cause challenging retrospective change in the 2018 appointment order of Mishra as director of the ED. Mishra, an Indian Revenue Service officer was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years by an order of November 19, 2018 and later by an order of November 13, 2020, the appointment letter was modified retrospectively by the Central government and his term of two years was replaced by three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at public places in Delhi disallowed in view of Covid-19 ||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has said that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at public places will not be allowed in the national capital in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In an order issued on Tuesday, the DDMA said that district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police will ensure that idols of Lord Ganesha are not set up in a tent or pandal. Further, it should be ensured that crowds do not gather at any religious or social place. Permission will also not be granted for any procession, it said. The DDMA advised people to celebrate the festival at home. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated this month and considering the prevailing restrictions on gatherings and congregations and the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the celebrations of the festival may not be allowed in public places, the order stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Farmers stay put outside Karnal district headquarters, demand action against IAS officer||A large number of farmers stayed put outside the gates of the district headquarters here on Wednesday as they remained firm on their demand for action against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who ordered a police lathi-charge on a group of peasants last month. Locked in a showdown with the Haryana government over the lathi-charge, the farmers squatted at the gates of the mini-secretariat on Tuesday evening after talks with the local administration failed. Many spent the night outside the mini-secretariat. The protesters are demanding action over the police lathi-charge here on August 28. Their main demand centres around Sinha, former Karnal SDM. He was later transferred out as part of a larger bureaucratic shuffle. The officer, whose suspension farmers' union leaders are demanding, was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" if the protesters crossed the line. About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police as they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Their leaders also claimed that a farmer died later, an allegation rejected by the administration. A number of farmers along with many leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) spent the night outside the main entry of the mini-secretariat. In the morning, volunteers at the protest site were seen preparing tea and serving breakfast. "We are not going anywhere from here until our demands are met," Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni told reporters on Wednesday. On the demand for Sinha's suspension, he said, "First, we are saying transferring him is not a punishment. We are also saying when farmers are booked for even road blockade, why not take action against the officer who ordered (police) to break heads. Is there any law under which such an order can be given?" The movement of traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala NH-44 remained normal. Security had been beefed up here on Monday, a day before farmers' mahapanchayat, and central forces deployed. The gherao began on Tuesday evening, several hours after farmers from Haryana and neighbouring states reached Karnal's New Anaj Mandi for the mahapanchayat, riding tractors and motorcycles. They marched on foot from the mahapanchayat venue to the mini-secretariat about five km away. Protest leaders Rakesh Tikait and Yogendra Yadav are also at the gherao site. Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav had on Tuesday said that the administration had invited the farm leaders for another round of talks and that it was hopeful of resolving the issue. The Home Department has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal until Wednesday midnight as the situation is "still volatile". Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning gathering of people have been imposed in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Pakistan continues to foment culture of violence across nations, says India at UN||Slamming Pakistan, India said the country continues to foment a "culture of violence" at home and across its borders as it hit out at Islamabad for using the platform of the United Nations for hate speech against it. "A Culture of Peace is not just an abstract value or principle to be discussed and celebrated in conferences, but needs to be actively built into global relationships between and among member states," First Secretary in India's Permanent Mission to the UN Vidisha Maitra said in the UN General Assembly Tuesday during the high-level forum on the Culture of Peace 'Transformative role of the Culture of Peace: Promoting Resilience and Inclusion in Post-COVID Recovery'. "We have witnessed yet another attempt today by the delegation of Pakistan to exploit a UN platform for hate speech against India, even as it continues to foment a 'culture of violence' at home and across its borders. We dismiss and condemn all such efforts," she said. India's strong response came after Islamabad's envoy to the UN Munir Akram raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and spoke about the late pro-Pakistan leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani in his remarks in the General Assembly hall that focussed almost entirely on India and not on the forum's theme. Maitra said there can be no doubt that terrorism, which is a manifestation of intolerance and violence, is the antithesis of all religions and cultures. "The world should be concerned by terrorists who use religion to justify these acts and those who support them in this quest," she said. Underlining that India will continue to spread the message of humanity, democracy and non-violence, she said India reiterates its call for the application of the principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions in the United Nations especially on the issue of religion. "The United Nations including UN Alliance of Civilizations and Member States should refrain from selectivity on such issues which hinders a Culture of Peace," she said. While noting that the COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the interconnectedness and interdependence of humankind like never before, she said even during the pandemic, "we have witnessed an upsurge in intolerance, violence, and terrorism. "Even in the midst of the pandemic, we face the 'infodemic' challenge which has been responsible for a rise in hate speech and in seeding hatred within communities," she said. Last year in June, India along with 12 countries had co-sponsored the Cross-Regional Statement on "Infodemic" in the Context of COVID-19 a first of its kind statement by UN Member States. Maitra told the high-level forum that the principles of democracy, pluralism, compassion, cultural diversity, dialogue and understanding form the basis of the Culture of Peace. "India is called a country of 'unity in diversity'. Our concept of pluralism is based on our ancient ethos of 'Sarva Dharma Sambhav' which means 'equal respect for all faiths'," she said, as she referred to the 1893 speech by India's great philosopher Swami Vivekananda at the Parliament of World Religions in Chicago where he had impressed upon India's civilisational ethos of accepting the greatness of all religions. "India is not just the birthplace of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism, but is also the land where the teachings of Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Zoroastrianism have taken strong root," she said. "Culture of Peace is the cornerstone of any global order to build inclusive and tolerant societies. Since the adoption of the UN Declaration and Programme of Action in 1999 at Bangladesh's behest, the Culture of Peace aPakistagenda has provided an effective blueprint for multilateral action to promote solidarity and understanding," she said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||India records over 37,000 Covid-19 cases in a day as active cases further decline||India logged 37,875 new cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,30,96,718, while the active cases declined to 3,91,256, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,41,411 with 369 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,608 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,53,745 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,49,43,093. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.16 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last nine days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.49 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 75 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,22,64,051, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 70.75 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 369 new fatalities include 189 from Kerala, and 86 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,411 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,897 from Maharashtra, 37,441 from Karnataka, 35,055 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,820 from Kerala and 18,522 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Nipah: Test results of 30 people comes back negative, says Kerala health minister||Test results of 30 people, who had come in close contact with the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah, have been negative, till now, for the virus infection, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Wednesday. The minister, speaking to media persons here, said with negative test results of 20 more people being reported in the morning, the total number of people who are in the clear was 30. On Tuesday, 10 had tested negative. Samples of 21 others have been sent for testing and the results of the same are awaited. The minister further said that presently 68 people were under observation and their health condition was stable. A team from the National Institute of Virology, Bhopal would be coming here to collect samples of bats and other animals for ascertaining the source of the virus. Intensive tracing, surveillance and awareness campaigns were being conducted to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Plea to Chief Justice of India to make farm report public||The farmers’ representative in the Supreme Court-appointed committee on the contentious farm laws on Tuesday urged the Chief Justice of India to make the panel’s report public as the “recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation”. Anil Ghanwat, the president of the Sangathana that is in favour of the three farm laws whose scrapping the farmers have been demanding for over a year now, made the request in a letter to CJI N.V. Ramana dated September 1. The committee was set up by the Supreme Court in the first fortnight of January while staying the implementation of the three farm laws. The panel was given two months to submit its report, which it did on March 19. Since all four members of the committee were in favour of the three farm laws, which the farmers believe would rob them of their land and livelihood and allow corporate houses to take over agriculture, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha decided not to participate in its deliberations. The SKM, an umbrella outfit of over 40 farm unions, has been spearheading the peasants’ protests since November. Stating that the four-member committee had consulted a large number of farmers and several other stakeholders, Ghanwat claimed that the committee’s report submitted to the Supreme Court on March 19 had addressed all the apprehensions of the farmers. “The committee was confident that the recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” he wrote. Ghanwat explained why he was reaching out to the CJI at this juncture. “As a member of the committee, especially representing the farmers’ community, I am pained that the issue raised by the farmers aren’t yet resolved and the agitation is continuing. I feel that the report has not been given any attention by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” Ghanwat wrote. Ghanwat told The Telegraph that the committee report should be made public so that there was a proper debate on the subject. “We reached out to the SKM and its members also, asking them to send in their views on the subject. Every conversation we had with different stakeholders has been videographed. We had a questionnaire and got written submissions. All of this is recorded. Let it be in the public domain so that people realise there are various viewpoints on this subject. The farmers sitting at Delhi’s borders are not the only farmers in the country. There are others also who have views.” About the SKM’s criticism of him and the other three members in the committee being in favour of the laws, Ghanwat said: “ The Shetkari Sangathana has been in favour of such laws from its very inception. It is not a case of us supporting the government’s position, but the government finally supporting what we have been demanding for years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Covaxin doses administered lower than health ministry expectations||Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, says all is well, but the count of Covaxin doses administered is lower than what the Union health ministry had expected would be available eight months into the vaccination campaign. The campaign that started on January 16 had up to September 6 administered around 84 million doses of Covaxin, compared with 616 million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and 8,00,000 doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V. The health ministry had told the Supreme Court in an affidavit in early May that Bharat Biotech has increased production of Covaxin from 9 million doses per month to 20 million doses per month and a further increase to 55 million doses per month was expected by July. In early January before the start of India’s vaccination campaign, a Bharat Biotech official had said the company had already stockpiled 20 million doses. If the company’s Covaxin production capacity was 9 million doses from January through April and 20 million doses from May through August, it should have released 116 million doses by August-end. With the doses stockpiled by January, the count of doses by August-end should have been 136 million. Health ministry officials and Bharat Biotech executives have independently asserted that the vaccine production and release process involves a lag of some weeks during which samples from each batch get tested in central drug testing labs. “We are on track, there is no problem,” a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said on Tuesday, responding to a query from The Telegraph asking about the difference between the 84 million doses administered and the 136 million doses expected as indicated in the affidavit and the company’s January statement. The company did not respond to a query about the current production per month. Two Covaxin doses administered 28 days apart are required for full immunisation. A senior health official had earlier this year indicated that supply constraint was the only reason why the count of Covaxin doses administered is 10 to 13 per cent of the Covishield doses administered. Health experts tracking Covid-19 vaccination initiatives in different countries and vaccine industry executives have said the current limited supplies in India are primarily the result of lack of advance investments by the Centre in vaccine production last year. Covaxin relies on a traditional platform that uses inactivated (killed) virus to produce vaccines and requires sophisticated so-called BSL3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) facilities earmarked for lethal microbes that can cause potentially life-threatening diseases through inhalation route. “The production of the inactivated vaccine is challenging and would require a large BSL3 facility as part of infrastructure that would need to grow the virus in large amounts,” a senior executive in the vaccine industry not associated with Bharat Biotech told this newspaper. Bharat Biotech had said earlier this year that the “sheer complexity” of Covaxin’s production process should be evident from the fact that it requires about 10,000sqm area to manufacture around 200 million doses of the vaccine annually. The same amount of live virus vaccines can be made in 1,500sqm. “Due to the highly contagious nature of the live virus, the stringent BSL3 containment facilities are required for Covaxin manufacture,” the company had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Atal-beater royal drives Modi's hope in UP Jat belt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation of a university in Uttar Pradesh in the name of a Jat king who had defeated Atal Bihari Vajpayee in an election over half a century ago. The decision to flag off the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh on September 14 is being seen as an attempt to mollify the Jats, who are among those driving the ongoing farmers’ protest against three farm laws of the Centre. Jats make up a significant portion of the population of western Uttar Pradesh, where Aligarh is located and which has over 150 Assembly seats. The community can sway elections in 120 constituencies. Constructing a university in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap also complements the BJP’s campaign that Aligarh Muslim University does not recognise his donation of land for setting up the institution. Raja Mahendra Pratap had contested the Lok Sabha election from Mathura in 1957 as an Independent and won. Vajpayee, the BJP veteran who later went on to become Prime Minister, had also contested on a Bharatiya Jan Sangh ticket and come fourth. The move to build the state university comes at a time the farmers’ struggle has brought together the Jats and the Muslims ahead of next year’s Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The long-standing amity between the two communities was sundered during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, which helped the BJP make gains in Uttar Pradesh with the Jats siding with the party. The Uttar Pradesh unit of the BJP tweeted on Tuesday evening: “There will be a university in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, who had formed an interim government of India from Afghanistan.” The Raja, whose memory the BJP is trying to revive, had challenged the British and on December 1, 1915, declared the formation of an “interim government of India” from Afghanistan. The BJP has unveiled a poster of the Raja and Modi. Raja Mahendra Pratap was a Jat king of the Mursan principality of Hathras district. The BJP alleges that despite his donation of land, AMU didn’t give him due respect. An AMU official said the university remembered all those who had contributed to its formation on its foundation day every year and wondered what more could be done. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said in 2019 that he would establish a state university in the name of the king. The Raja, who was popular in the area as Aryan Peshwa, had also formed an army known as the Azad Hind Fauj, not related to the one founded by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Disregarding Raja Mahendra Pratap’s secular credentials, a BJP leader told this newspaper in Lucknow: “The king was famously known as Jat Raja. AMU didn’t remember him but now our government is restoring his honour as a real hero of the freedom struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SKM opens front near Karnal mini-secretariat||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday evening opened a new front near the Karnal mini-secretariat after the Haryana government refused to initiate disciplinary action against the then sub-divisional magistrate for ordering the police to break the heads of protesting farmers on August 28. The farmers began picketing near the Karnal mini-secretariat only by evening after talks between the farmers’ leaders and the administration broke down and peasants walking towards the mini-secretariat after a mahapanchayat faced police water cannons. The SKM, the umbrella organisation of 40-odd farm unions leading the peasants’ struggle against the Centre’s contentious farm laws, had given a call for gherao of the mini-secretariat. As the protesters appeared to settle in for the night, their leaders said the gherao would continue until their demands were met. When the mahapanchayat began on Tuesday morning, the local administration invited 11 farm leaders for talks. Over three hours later, SKM leaders announced that the administration had refused to give in to even their watered-down demand of suspending the then SDM Ayush Sinha pending an inquiry, prompting the farmers to proceed towards the mini-secretariat. Sinha was on Wednesday transferred as an additional secretary to Chandigarh after the Haryana chief minister himself had supported him. The administration, which had ordered an Internet shutdown in not just Karnal but also four adjoining districts for the day, had in the morning allowed the farmers to congregate at the local grain market amid tight security in an apparent bid to avoid a face-off given the number of participants. Several SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and P. Krishnaprasad, had reached Karnal in the morning. The administration refused to allow them to march towards the mini-secretariat and, instead, invited a delegation of 11 farmers for talks. Since the SKM has always maintained that it is open to talks, the farmers went to the session but there was no meeting point. Once the talks failed, the union leaders decided to proceed with the gherao and the farmers began marching towards the mini-secretariat. Tikait and Yadav were briefly detained by the police but were eventually released. The police water-cannoned the farmers as they forced their way through the barricades and reached close to the mini-secretariat. The leaders told the farmers not to get into any confrontation with the police. They were asked to squat on the road wherever they were stopped. “The gherao of the mini-secretariat has started. We will sit here peacefully. Despite all obstacles, we have gheraoed the mini-secretariat,” SKM leader Yadav said later. “We don’t have to enter the mini-secretariat. We will only gherao it from outside,” he told reporters. Once the farmers breached the barricades and got close to the complex, appeals were sent across to the farming community and supporters for supply of drinking water and food to the protest site. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Communal campaign targets idli-dosa batter maker in Bangalore||A city-based food start-up that sells packaged idli and dosa batter across  India and abroad is the latest target of a communal campaign that has accused the company of using cattle bones and calf rennet in its products and urged “every single Hindu” not to use them. The campaign, started by Chennai-based Twitter user Srinivasa S.G., who proclaims to be a “proud Hindu/Indian” on the social media platform, also referred to the religious identity of the company promoters and employees. The claims about the Bangalore-headquartered start-up iD Fresh Food (India) Ltd, which were not backed up with proof, were shared widely, commented upon and also circulated on WhatsApp. iD Fresh Food called the allegations “baseless and fake propaganda” aimed at undermining the trust of millions of customers. “We would like to clearly specify that iD uses only vegetarian ingredients to make its products. iD Idli-Dosa Batter is made from rice, urad dal, fenugreek and RO-water only, which are 100% natural and vegetarian agri-commodities. There are no animal extracts used in any of our products,” the firm said in a Facebook message. Srinivasa SG, who identifies himself on Twitter also as an “Indian Air Force veteran”, “a soldier always” and “entrepreneur”, had tweeted on September 4: “All the Chennai stores or supermarkets are selling the Idli/Dosa paste produced and marketed by iD Foods!! Do you know they mix Cows Bones & Calf Rennet to make Volume of the Batter? How many really know that this company employs only Muslims and it is Halal certified?” “Every single Hindu should refrain from iD batter & products…,” Srinivasa said in another tweet. In another tweet, Srinivasa wrote: “iD Fresh Food, a private limited company, was founded in 2005 by P.C. Mustafa and his four cousins — Abdul Nazer, Shamsudeen T.K., Jafar T.K., and Noushad T.A….” iD Fresh Food, which has units in multiple Indian cities including Calcutta, West Asia, the Far East and the US, was founded by P.C. Mustafa, who is the CEO. The company offers a wide range of ready-to-cook products like idli-dosa batter, Malabar parotta, curd and paneer, vada and filter coffee decoction. “We proudly manufacture healthy and authentic Indian products — with no chemicals or preservatives inside our world-class, state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities that fully comply with the Food Safety Management System. Such baseless and fake propaganda is unfortunate and it undermines the trust of millions of iD customers,” the company said. The communal campaign against iD has broadened a disturbing trend of attacks based on religious identity that has now permeated into the most basic of human services. Last month, a Muslim bangle-seller in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal and two Muslim brothers selling dosa in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura were assaulted by groups whose sole grouse was their religious identity. The Bhopal youth was accused of “posing as a Hindu” while the Agra brothers were roughed up as their stall was named Srinath Dosa Corner. iD founder and CEO Mustafa’s is a rags-to-riches story. The son of a coolie at a village in Kerala’s Wayanad district, Mustafa made it to the National Institute of Technology-Calicut, where he graduated in computer science, and IIM Bangalore. He started the venture with four of his cousins from a 50sqft establishment in Bangalore with just one grinder and Rs 25,000 in 2005. iD Food raised Rs 35 crore from its first round of funding from Helion Venture Partners in 2014, by when the Bangalore-based firm had become a popular brand in south India. iD Food raised another $25 million (Rs 170 crore) from Premji Invest headed by Wipro founder Azim Premji. ID Food had clocked revenues of Rs 100 crore in 2015-16 and never looked back. It has plants in half a dozen countries. While the hate campaign did receive a lot of support through WhatsApp shares, many questioned the motive of the propaganda by Srinivasa against a hugely successful company. “Could you please share the source of this information? You, sir, are spreading hate and I hope @Twitter takes cognisance of this and blocks the account for spreading false news,” Twitter user Arvind Krishna Murthy responded to Srinivasa’s tweet. “No, there is nothing like adding additives or animal fat. It’s only rice & dal. I have visited the plant and seen myself the process,” tweeted Pandurangavittal V.N. But there were others who declared they would not buy iD products. “Will never purchase such items…. N inform others too,” tweeted Pranaw Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Pegasus: Solicitor-general seeks time on govt's affidavit decision||The solicitor-general has sought time to submit before the Supreme Court whether the Centre wanted to file a fresh affidavit on the Pegasus snooping controversy. “Your Lordships, there is some difficulty regarding the affidavit. I could not ensure the stand so far…,” solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna while pleading for a brief adjournment on the hearing of petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the Pegasus question. The Supreme Court then adjourned the hearing till September 13. CJI Ramana reminded Mehta that the Centre had already filed an affidavit during the last hearing on August 16. Mehta replied that the court had then suggested that if the Centre wanted to file an additional affidavit, it could do so. “Your Lordships had enquired if we would like to file a further affidavit. But for some reasons our officers were not there. I couldn’t meet them…,” he told the bench. The law officer, however, did not make any commitment on whether at all a fresh affidavit would be filed. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, said the lawyers had no objection to a short adjournment. The bench said it was posting the matter for further hearing to September 13 (Monday). At the last hearing on August 16, the court had told the Centre to decide if it wanted to file a fresh affidavit on the Pegasus snooping row as the petitioners had rejected outright the two-page affidavit of the government in which it “unequivocally” denied the allegations of spying, dubbing them mere “conjectures and surmises”. The apex court and the batch of petitioners had also turned down the government’s plea for appointing an “experts committee” to inquire into the allegations. Justice Ramana had wondered how the committee would go into the various constitutional and legal issues. Justice Ramana had also told senior advocates Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi and others appearing for the petitioners that the court could not compel the government to file a new affidavit but would certainly pass orders on the petitions. The bench had said that the petitioners wanted the Centre to answer whether the government had ever bought or used the Israeli spyware Pegasus, and if not what steps had it taken to inquire into the allegations of snooping on judges, politicians, activists, journalists and others. “If you want to file a detailed affidavit, you can take time and do so,” CJI Ramana had told the government. On August 5, the Supreme Court had orally observed that the allegations of surveillance on Indian citizens were “serious” and that the “truth has to come out”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Odisha Assembly lauds hockey teams||Odisha legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution congratulating the Indian Women and Men’s Hockey Teams  for their spectacular performance at the Tokyo Olympics. The Indian Men’s team won the Bronze medal. Moving the resolution on the floor of the House, Odisha sports minister Tusharkanti Behera said: “The Indian women’s team performance was beyond all expectations and showed great fighting spirit.” The resolution said the game brought together the whole country and made Indians across the world feel proud of the achievement at Tokyo. “It’s a matter of pride for all of us that Odisha has been recognised as the force behind the success of the Indian teams,” Behera said. The resolution said, “Never before in the history of the state, Odisha was praised so much across the country.   It’s the result of the vision of chief minister Naveen Patnaik to support the revival of hockey in India. The decision of the chief minister to partner with Hockey India and sponsor the Indian Teams and organise all major tournaments in Odisha including the Hockey World Cup 2018, led to this great success for the country.” Odisha is organising the Men’s Hockey World Cup in January 2023. “Chief minister has taken another historic step by announcing the support to Indian Hockey for 10 more years (till 2033). Odisha will be the home of Indian Hockey and will continue to support the game towards making India the World Champion,” the resolution said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Odisha: Manda buffalo gets recognition as unique breed||The Manda buffalo found in the Eastern Ghats and the Koraput plateau region of Odisha has got national recognition as a unique breed. The National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) has declared it as the 19th unique breed of buffaloes found in  the country. “With national recognition of Manda buffalo, all efforts will be made by the government of Odisha and Government of India to conserve this unique buffalo genetic resource of Odisha, efforts will be made to enhance their productivity through breeding strategy and market the produce — milk, curd, ghee — at a premium price resulting improvement of stakeholders in the native tract,” said a media release issued by the Odisha government. Manda buffaloes are small-sized, sturdy animals and both male and female are used for ploughing agricultural land in the native tracts of Koraput, Malkangiri and Nabarangpur districts in southern Odisha. “The buffalo germplasm was first identified and a detailed survey conducted by the animal resources development department in collaboration with Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology under the leadership of then director Bishnupada Sethi (now working as principal secretary, revenue and information and public relations) and Sushant Kumar Das, an animal geneticist. “The finding of the project was put to NBAGR for recognition of the indigenous unique buffalo Manda at the national level. Now it has been declared as the 19th breed of buffalo in the country,” an official said. The buffalo has ash grey and grey coat with copper colour hair. The lower part of the legs upto elbow is light coloured with copper colour hair at the knee. Some animals are silver white in colour, the release said. There are around 100,000 buffaloes of this breed in the native tracts mostly contributing to the family nutrition of the households and all the agricultural operations in the undulating landscape of the hilly terrain of Koraput. “Average milk yield of these buffaloes is 2 to 2.5 litres in single milking with more than 8 per cent fat. However, a few of those yield upto four litres. Manda buffaloes mature at around 3 years and drop the first calf at around 4 years. Every 1.5 to 2 years they give birth to a calf for the whole life of around 20 years,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Pure water might hold back certain flavours of tea: Study||Pure water might hold back certain flavours of tea, a study has found. Scientists have discovered that water hardness caused by minerals such as calcium or magnesium carbonates or bicarbonates can influence the formation of so-called thin films on the surface of tea and change its flavour. The researchers at ETH Zurich, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, studied the brittle or elastic nature of the thin films that often form on the surface of tea at the air-liquid interface and measured how water hardness changes the film’s strength. “Thin films on tea may appear unsightly but it can also alter surface phenomenon which can change evaporation and aromatics in the tea’s scent,” Caroline Giacomin, the study’s co-author, told The Telegraph. A thin film on the surface means that for evaporation to occur and for aromatics to be released into the air, they must transfer across the film or around the islands of film if the film is already cracked or patchy. “The scent would be the same scent, but less strong with a thick film present, especially when not broken up yet,” she said. Giacomin and her colleagues assessed the mechanical properties of thin films on tea which the scientists knew from earlier research is affected by water hardness, acidity, sugar or milk, the concentration of tea and brewing temperature. The earlier studies had established that calcium carbonate in water contributes to the formation of the thin films on the surface of tea. Many households use water purifiers or softeners that significantly reduce such minerals in drinking water. “If you were to make a cup of tea in perfectly pure water, it would not form a thin film at all, but the tea would taste quite bitter,” Giacomin said. “The bitterness of very pure water is called astringency and has to do with the saliva-water interaction.” The formation of thin films does not eliminate the bitterness but is an indicator that the water has sufficient ions to avoid the bitterness caused by the astringency. The astringency, she said, explains why tea from de-mineralised water might not be ideal. “There is a nice middle range of water that is not too pure and not too hard to balance the bitterness and the film formation.” The idea for the study, she said, came through her observations during travel to several places that the same brand of tea formed thin films in some locations but didn’t form thin films in other locations. She also noticed a change in tea flavour. The researchers found that chemically hardened water — that contributes to the formation of the strongest thin films — may be industrially useful in packaged tea beverages for prolonged shelf life. But less hardened water that forms weak films would be useful for dried tea mixes. The study’s findings were published on Tuesday in the research journal Physics of Fluids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Modi sees 'easy' online study switch||Narendra Modi on Tuesday waxed eloquent on how “easily (sehejta se)” students, teachers and parents had taken to online learning amid the pandemic, prompting an academic to say that the Prime Minister “is either unaware of the schooling crisis or is in denial of it”. A survey released on Monday had revealed that children from the marginalised sections had been largely excluded from Internet education, with students from Classes III to V unable to even read a simple sentence in Hindi or their mother tongue after a year of schools remaining shut. “Friends, in these times of corona, you all have shown how robust our education system is. There were a lot of challenges, but all of you swiftly got around them. Online classes, group video calls, online projects, online exams — earlier many people had not even heard these words. But our teachers, parents and our youth easily made all these a part of our daily life,” Modi told the education ministry-organised Shikshak Parv conclave attended by teachers and students. When The Telegraph reached out to academic Jean Drèze, one of those behind the survey whose findings were released on Monday, he said via email: “The PM’s statement today suggests that he is either unaware of the schooling crisis, or (is) in denial of it. Both ways, it is very worrying.” The Prime Minister stressed on taking online education forward. “Now is the time to take these capabilities forward and give a new direction to what we have learned in this difficult time. Fortunately, on one hand, the country now has an environment for change and at the same time there is a modern and futuristic policy like the new National Education Policy,” Modi said. Multiple surveys point to how online education has failed to reach the marginalised and impoverished sections and how they had fallen behind. Erratic or non-existent Internet in India’s vast hinterland and lack of devices to participate in online classes have together kept millions of children out of the ambit of online learning. The SCHOOL study released on Monday, guided by academics Nirali Bakhla, Drèze, Vipul Paikra and Reetika Khera, found that about 42 per cent rural children and 35 per cent urban kids of Classes III to V were unable to read a single word of a simple sentence. The survey pointed out that the reach of online education was extremely limited. The proportions of surveyed children who were studying online “regularly” were just 24 per cent and 8 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. One reason for this was that 49 per cent rural households and 23 per cent urban households surveyed had no smartphones. The parliamentary standing committee on education headed by BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has quoted several surveys to underline the limited reach of online education and the learning loss due to school closure since March 2020. Prof. N.K. Ambastha, former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, said certain improvements had been noticed in the past one-and-a-half years in the expansion of the reach of online education, but there was still ground to cover. “There is no concrete data on the percentage of pupils unable to access online education. The reach of online education has increased no doubt. Yet there are some villages that may not have sufficient facilities for online education. It is not all success or all failure,” Ambastha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Bihar: JDU  versus BJP over petrol raid||A senior leader of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to remove BJP MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal from the standing committee on petroleum and natural gas, accusing him of using the position to get his petrol pump raided multiple times. Kameshwar Singh, 70,is a member of the advisory committee of the JDU and was a vice-president and general secretary of the party earlier. He alleged that Sigriwal had cheated him of his SUV and retaliated with raids when he pressurised him to return it. “Sigriwal has been very close to me and my family. He requested me for a SUV so that he could tour various areas during Assembly elections held in October–November 2020. My son bought one and gave it to him for use. We demanded it back once the elections were over. He (Sigriwal) kept making excuses and did not return the vehicle,” Singh wrote in the letter to Birla. “We turned up the heat on Sigriwal so that he would return the vehicle. Instead, our petrol pump located on Chhapra–Marhaura road in Saran district was raided thrice. “The officials with the raiding teams confided that the action was taken on the request of Sigriwal, who is a member of the Lok Sabha standing committee on petroleum and natural gas. He should be removed from it so that he does not mentally or financially exploit or trouble others due to his position,” Singh added. The JDU leader also asserted that he and his son were in danger from Sigriwal, who could either get them killed or get the petrol pump closed. The SUV was bought on EMI from an automobile dealer in Chhapra on August 17 last year and allegedly given to Sigriwal on the same day in the run-up to the Assembly elections. The polls got over in November and Singh started demanding the vehicle back. The raids on his petrol pump were conducted on December 29 last year and February 8 and 14 this year. “No other Indian Oil Corporation Limited petrol pump was raided in the area. The officials found nothing wrong at our petrol pump. We later came to know that Sigriwal was boasting about the raids saying that they were vengeance for our gall to demand the vehicle back,” Singh told The Telegraph. Meanwhile, the SUV surfaced at a servicing centre in Bangalore last month for repair and Singh’s son received a message on his mobile about it. The family contacted the police about the development and registered an FIR about the missing vehicle on August 22. A team was sent to bring it back. Sources in the Bihar police said that they found out that a doctor, Sachin Kundra, had brought the vehicle to the servicing centre. He said that Sigriwal’s son Raj, who is enrolled in a medical course in a Bangalore college, had given the vehicle to him to get it repaired. The SUV is currently kept at Mashrakh police station in Saran district. When contacted by this newspaper, Sigriwal termed the allegations as baseless. “All the allegations against me are false and baseless. If Singh gave me the vehicle to use, I must have used it at some point of time. He must furnish evidence about it. As far as raids on the petrol pump are concerned, it must have happened due to complaints from the public about adulteration in fuel,” Sigriwal said. The Maharajganj MP added that Singh wanted to contest the Assembly elections, but did not get the ticket because the Baniapur seat he wanted went to NDA partner Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) instead of the JDU. “Singh thinks that all this happened because of me and is accusing me of various things,” Sigriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen shield for third wave||As Covid-19 cases and deaths exploded in India in April and May, New Delhi’s premier Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and several others ran so short of oxygen that many patients in the capital suffocated. Hospitals have learned from the bitter experience during the second Covid wave, when funeral pyres burned non-stop and bodies littered the banks of the Ganga. Ganga Ram is raising its oxygen storage capacity by 50 per cent, has laid a one-kilometre-long pipeline carrying the gas directly to Covid ICUs, and is installing equipment to keep the oxygen flow high. It has also ordered an onsite oxygen-generation plant, which are mostly made in Europe. “In light of the possibility of the emergence of coronavirus mutants, with higher transmissibility and immune escape, the hospital continues to prepare for the worst,” said Satendra Katoch, medical director of the hospital. The crowded private hospital, however, said it had no scope to add more beds. During the peak of India’s second wave, Ganga Ram expanded its capacity by nearly 50 per cent to about 600 beds, but even so, some 500 patients per day had to be put on a waitlist for admission, according to physician Varun Prakash, who managed its war-room during the crisis. Nationally, India has  imported more than 100 oxygen carriers to raise the total to about 1,250. Companies such as Linde are planning to lift the country’s overall output of oxygen by 50 per cent to 15,000 tonnes a day. Linde told Reuters it had retained 60 of some 80 cryogenic containers — meant to hold super-cooled oxygen — it had brought in from the company’s overseas operations, in case demand shot up again. “The distribution infrastructure and logistics fell short during the second wave,” Linde South Asia head, Moloy Banerjee, said. Almost all states are readying special paediatric wards as some experts warn unvaccinated children could be vulnerable to any new virus mutations. But with a government survey estimating as many as two-thirds of Indians already have Covid-fighting antibodies through natural infection, and 57 per cent of its adults with at least an initial vaccine dose, many health experts believe any new outbreak could be less devastating than the second wave. “The number of susceptible persons will be less now, as many persons have been infected or vaccinated,” said epidemiologist and cardiologist K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022: AIMIM to field 100 candidates||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said that his All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen will field 100 candidates in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections scheduled to be held in March 2022. “We will fight and win in Uttar Pradesh. Our target is to defeat the BJP,” Owaisi told the media in Lucknow on Tuesday, the first of his three-day tour of the state. Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim leader of Ayodhya, said: “Owaisi is team B of the BJP. I call on the Muslims of the state to ask Owaisi to stay in Hyderabad and spare Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Chirag Paswan faces eviction from a Lutyens’ bungalow||Chirag Paswan, who had proclaimed himself to be Narendra Modi’s “Hanuman”, faces eviction from a Lutyens’ bungalow that had become synonymous with his late father, veteran Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan. Chirag, struggling to survive a coup by his uncle Pashupati Paras, who walked away with five of the six party MPs and is now trying to take over the Lok Janshakti Party formed by Ram Vilas, has been asked to hurry up and vacate the bungalow on 12 Janpath. The young Paswan, who had declared himself Prime Minister Modi’s “Hanuman” and gone solo in the Bihar elections late last year to defeat chief minister Nitish Kumar, is now requesting that he be given some more time. Chirag has sought the time to be able to observe the first death anniversary of his father early next month at the address that shaped the Dalit leader’s politics for over three decades. But this concession too appears to be difficult to get from the Modi government. A bust of Ram Vilas has now come up in the front lawns of the bungalow with party leaders indicating it was aimed to thwart an eviction amid silence from Chirag. “We don’t intend to occupy the bungalow permanently but the government has to give us some more months,” one party leader close to Chirag said. “12 Janpath has been associated with Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy and the government can’t just throw us out,” the leader added. The installation of Paswan’s bust has put the government in a tricky situation. “Chirag could demand that 12 Janpath be turned into a memorial for Ram Vilas Paswan,” a BJP leader said. The Dalit issue being politically sensitive, the bust is worrying the BJP, particularly before the Uttar Pradesh polls. The BJP had appeared to be fully behind Chirag’s solo drive in Bihar to undercut its ally Nitish. After the Bihar poll results that saw the JDU-BJP return to power, the party changed track. The BJP has now aligned with Paras, who has been made a minister in the Modi government. “Hanuman did everything possible for his Ram. I did everything possible for my PM.… I was expecting my PM to stand by me,” Chirag had said, upset that the BJP didn’t back him against his uncle. On the eviction issue, he is silent. 12 Janpath shares its boundary wall with 10 Janpath, the official residence of Sonia Gandhi, and has been allotted to railway and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Ram Vilas had stayed at 12 Janpath since 1989. In early 2004, Sonia had walked up to his house and sought his support in building the UPA. Ram Vilas had quit the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government over the 2002 Gujarat riots. In 2009, he dumped the Congress and lost badly. Ahead of 2014, Paswan aligned with the BJP on the insistence of his son, according to insiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India|| 150 citizens back Naseeruddin Shah and Javed Akhtar||Over 150 eminent citizens have come out in support of actor Naseeruddin Shah and lyricist Javed Akhtar who have faced vitriolic criticism for standing up to extreme elements in religions while speaking on the Taliban. The 152 signatories “strongly disagreed” with the trolling and pointed out that “Right-wingers — be they Hindu, Muslim, Sikh or Christians — share a common majoritarian worldview”. In an interview to NDTV last week, Akhtar had said: “I think people who support organisations like the RSS, VHP or the Bajrang Dal need to do some introspection. Of course, the Taliban are reprehensible…. They are barbarians. But the people whom you are supporting, how are they different from them?” Besides online abuse, Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam threatened to prevent the release of films featuring Akhtar in the credits until he apologised. A video of Shah that was last week widely shared on social media showed the veteran actor saying: “Even as the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan is a cause for concern for the whole world, celebrations of the barbarians in some sections of Indian Muslims is no less dangerous. Every Indian Muslim should ask themselves if they want reform and modernity in Islam or the barbarian values of the past centuries.” Shah was slammed by fundamentalist Muslim trolls. The signatories to the letter in their support include former navy chief L. Ramdas, academics Zoya Hasan, Shamshul Islam, Prabhat Patnaik, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan and activists Lalita Ramdas and Teesta Setalvad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP targetting TMC leaders as soon as EC announced bypoll dates, says Mamata||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the BJP of using Central agencies to target Trinamul Congress leaders in pursuance of its vendetta politics as soon as the Assembly by-poll dates were announced. The TMC supremo, who launched her poll campaign from the Bhawanipore seat on Wednesday by addressing Party workers from Chetla, also alleged that the saffron party was targeting party general secretary and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee for political reasons, claiming there is no valid case against him. Mamata’s victory from the seat that she has represented twice in the Assembly is beyond doubt, with only the victory margin column to be filled on October 3 when the results are announced. That would wipe out the ignominy of her electoral defeat coming three decades apart at the hands of Trinamul turncoat and now BJP leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikary at Nandigram. “I have to contest again because of their conspiracy. I am happy that I could return to my home,” said Mamata. “I was a victim of conspiracy.” Mamata accused the BJP of using central law enforcing agencies against her party leaders. “They (Enforcement Directorate) interrogated Abhishek for nine hours and they have summoned him again. Why was the case transferred from Calcutta to Delhi? The BJP uses agencies against Congress, Sharad Pawar, Mulayam Singh Yadav,” she said. “There is no case against Subrata Mukherjee, Bobby Hakim. Why is the real thief being shielded?” she asked. Abhishek Banerjee was questioned for about nine hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi on Monday in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in Bengal. "We only know how we fought against all odds to win the Assembly polls. The BJP brought in goons from other states during the Assembly elections,” she said. Mamata is standing tall in Bhowanipore with none from any of the rival camps in sight. The Congress, as per its high command, has already withdrawn itself from the fray, while its alliance partner, CPM, is likely to field advocate Shrijeeb Biswas from the seat. Despite the presence of over 40 per cent non-Bengali Hindus in the constituency, Mamata’s replacement, Sobhnadeb Chattopadhyay, won the seat by a margin of 28,719 votes. Even the fledgling BJP, the only elected Opposition in the state, is in disarray with some of its newly elected legislators, most of whom who had come from Trinamul, have returned to their former party. Others who are still with the party but had tasted defeat in the March-April elections are reluctant to contest against the incumbent chief minister. “Lots of names are floating around but many of them are reluctant to contest against the chief minister. Many of them when approached by the central leadership have refused,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. The BJP had considered fielding a well-known face like Mithun Chakraborty, who moved to BJP from Trinamul before the Assembly polls. Actor Rudranil Ghosh, who was also with the Trinamul earlier, had contested and lost in the summer polls against Chattopadhyay. And although Ghosh had expressed his desire to contest against Mamata, the BJP leadership is not keen on fielding him again. The BJP central leadership is likely to announce the name of the candidate in a day or two. Among the names being considered are former president Pratap Banerjee, ward 86 councillor Teesta Biswas Das and Priyanka Tibrewal, advocate and losing nominee from Entally who had filed the case on  post-poll violence in the state which has led to a court-monitored CBI probe. Trinamul’s well-oiled machinery was put into action from Wednesday itself. Prominent South Calcutta leaders and ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Bakshi and Madan Mitra have been given responsibility to micro-manage the wards. Mamata will file her nomination on Friday, though the last day for doing so is Monday. Bhowanipore, along with Assembly seats of Shamshergunj and Jangipur, will go to the polls on September 30. The results of all the three bypolls would be announced on October 3, just about a week before Durga Puja, Bengal’s grandest festival. According to the notification of the Election Commission, the poll process will be completed before October 5, a month to spare before the deadline for Mamata to  become an elected MLA expires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows expelled Visva-Bharati students to rejoin classes||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday allowed three students of Visva-Bharati University who were rusticated for alleged misconduct to rejoin classes, paving the way for the return of normalcy at the institution, which has been witnessing demonstrations over the issue. Passing an interim order, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha observed that the rustication of the students for three years was harsh and excessive. The court directed the expulsion order by the varsity be kept in abeyance and allowed the students to rejoin classes. In another interim order on September 3, the high court had said no demonstration would be conducted within 50 metres of any portion or part of the institution. It had directed the police to forthwith remove all demonstrations, banners, barricades and obstruction outside the official residence of Vice Chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty. The court also ordered immediate restoration of normal functioning of the central varsity. Meanwhile, agitating students withdrew their relay fast following the Calcutta High Court order. One of the three rusticated students, Somnath Sow, told PTI, "We are happy, but our movement against the undemocratic and anti-liberal activities of the VC will continue in other forms. "Our career is saved, thanks to the judiciary," he added. Office-bearer of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association Sudipto Bhattacharya, who was also participating in the relay fast, over 60 metres away from the VC'S official residence, broke his fast along with a student of the music department. The three students - two from the economics department and another from the music department - were expelled on August 23 for disorderly conduct during a protest meeting inside the campus on January 9. The varsity has been witnessing demonstrations since August 27. Sow, an SFI member, said the students will do whatever is stipulated in the court order with regard to the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Crude bombs hurled at BJP MP Arjun Singh's residence, few injured||At least three crude bombs were hurled by miscreants at BJP MP Arjun Singh's residence in Bengal's North 24 Parganas early on Wednesday, following which the police initiated a probe, an officer said. A few people suffered minor injuries in the incident that occurred around 3 am, the police officer said. The explosions have partially damaged the gate outside the house. "An investigation is underway. We are checking CCTV footages and talking to eyewitnesses and locals. No arrest has been made thus far," he said. The MP, who was in Delhi during the time of the incident, claimed that TMC men carried out the attack on his Bhatpara home following the saffron party's decision to make him an observer of the Bhabanipur Assembly seat for the upcoming bypolls. He returned from the national capital later in the day. "This is not for the first time that TMC workers have hurled bombs at my residence. They are trying to kill me. It was just last night that my party decided to make me an observer for Bhabanipur constituency and this morning the bombs were hurled. "I have heard that a few people were injured in the attack. I want an NIA probe into the incident as I do not have faith in the state police," Singh told PTI, adding that he would "fight till the end". Criticising the incident, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said "wanton violence" in West Bengal shows no sign of abating. "Bomb explosions as this morning outside residence of Member Parliament @ArjunsinghWB is worrisome on law and order. Expect prompt action @WBPolice. As regards his security the issue has been earlier been flagged @MamataOfficial (sic)," Dhankhar wrote on Twitter. BJP MLA from Nandigram and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, stated that the attack would in no way intimidate Singh. "Hurling bombs at MP @ArjunsinghWB's residence validates our allegation that the perpetrators have been assured of impunity by their handlers within WB Administration. Otherwise they won't dare to execute such act. However, @ArjunsinghWB is made of steel, won't be intimidated," Adhikari tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Burglary at elderly couple’s house in Jalpaiguri||An elderly couple was attacked and cash and gold worth around Rs 6 lakh was looted from them by a group of burglars in the Debnagar area of Jalpaiguri town early on Tuesday. Dilip Bose, the owner of the house, said he felt that somebody was trying to break the iron grill at the entrance of his house around 2.30am. “As I went out, a youth hit my head with a stick. I staggered but somehow managed to control myself. Meanwhile, another youth came and held me at the nose of a dagger,” said Bose, a retired government employee who is in his early 70s. “Hearing the commotion, my wife Dipali, in early 60s, also came out. This time, a third miscreant assaulted her and demanded gold and cash and held her at the tip of a sharp weapon. We had no other alternative but to hand over the cash and gold to them. Within 15 minutes, they fled the spot in a car,” Bose added. According to him, the miscreants fled with Rs 4.5 lakh in cash and gold worth around Rs 1.5 lakh. Police suspect that those involved in the crime were aware that Bose had such an amount of cash at home. “We have come to know that Bose had plans to go to Siliguri for post-Covid complications treatment which is why he had withdrawn the cash from the bank,” said an officer. The police said a probe was on and were on to trace the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Duare pinnacle and pitfall||Duare Sarkar, the scheme that takes the Mamata Banerjee government almost to the doorstep of homes in Bengal, had clocked 2.67 crore footfalls by Monday, less than a month after its second edition was flagged on August 16. Officials are estimating the count to touch 3 crore next week, making it the biggest government outreach programme anywhere in the country. The unparalleled response carries with it not only the heart-warming glow of having been able to connect directly with such a multitude in the state government’s effort to deliver welfare but also daunting challenges. Duare Sarkar is an outreach programme under which government officials set up camps in a locality to receive applications from the residents of the neighbourhood who wish to enrol themselves to access welfare schemes or get corrected caste certificates and documents linked to land. The first edition of the programme is also credited with helping the Trinamul government storm back to power. “The second round is a huge success if we compare it with the first edition of the Duare Sarkar camps earlier this year when 1.75 crore footfalls were recorded. It is the biggest public outreach programme organised by any government in the country,” said a senior government official. Officials said the maximum number of applications had been attracted by four schemes: the direct benefit transfer programme Lakshmir Bhandar (1.49 crore applications), the health insurance scheme Swasthya Sathi (48.4 lakh), caste certificates (18.3 lakh) and the cheap foodgrain scheme Khadya Sathi (18.3 lakh). According to the officials, the massive reach of the programme makes it a unique model that is likely to be followed in other parts of the country. “In India, public outreach initiatives have been limited to immunisation programmes like Pulse Polio drops. The Bengal model of Duare Sarkar is indeed an experiment that has recorded unprecedented success.… There is little doubt that it will be replicated in other states,” said a bureaucrat. It is expected that the scale and scope of the welfare drive, which is perceived to have helped the Mamata government neutralise anti-incumbency in the Assembly elections, will be expanded in the coming days, the officials said. “The ruling party is set to make this reach out a hallmark of its governance ahead of the 2023 panchayat elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls by taking government services to the localities,” a source said. While the initiative has given the state government a chance to showcase its human face in the time of the pandemic, the huge turnout has also thrown up challenges that the Mamata government has to address in the coming days. Sources said the number of applications through the camps suggested that the initiative would saddle the state exchequer with an additional expenditure of at least Rs 25,000 crore. “The government will have to shoulder a burden of Rs 17,000 crore under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. Another Rs 8,000 crore is estimated to be required to run schemes like the enhanced Krishak Bandhu programme (direct benefit transfer to farmers) and other pension plans, beneficiaries of which would be much more than the initial estimates,” an official said. According to him, unless the state government takes measures to augment its revenue generation, the initiative — likely to be repeated in the coming years — cannot be pursued in its existing format. The other challenge is the continuous delivery of the promise of services, which is the main objective of these camps. A section of the officials said that people had started lodging complaints that the Swasthya Sathi cards were not being accepted by some private hospitals and nursing homes. “The health department is flooded with complaints of Swasthya Sathi cards being refused. It has been found that bills under the scheme are being cleared after a few months and the private hospitals are not ready to accept the delay in payment. This does not send a good message about the pet project of the state government,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC youth leader shot dead in East Burdwan’s Ausgram||A youth leader of the Trinamul Congress in East Burdwan’s Ausgram was shot dead by four armed men while he was on his way home with his elderly father on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said Chanchal Bakshi, 42, was the youth leader of Debshala and was riding a bike to his home with his father Shyamal, who is also the chief of a gram panchayat. Trinamul blamed the BJP for the murder, citing that Chanchal was a very active leader and his efforts contributed to Trinamul’s win in the Assembly polls. “BJP-backed goons killed our popular leader in a bid to weaken our organisation here,” said Syed Haider Ali, chief of Ausgram 2 panchayat samiti. BJP leaders in Burdwan denied the charge and alleged that the murder was the fallout of rivalry between two Trinamul factions. “Trinamul’s internal feud has resulted in the murder,” said a BJP leader in Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Timber worth Rs 50 lakh seized||The foresters of Sarugara range of Baikunthapur forest division seized illegal timber worth around Rs 50 lakh from NH27, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Saturday. “Our team intercepted a truck ferrying bamboo at Ghoshpukur and took it to the forest range office. As we searched it, we recovered Burmese teak concealed under piles of bamboo. The driver has been arrested,” said a forest official. “We are keeping a close watch across north Bengal as Burmese teak is available in the forests of Northeast. We suspect Siliguri is being used as a corridor to smuggle the timber to other parts of the country.” Sources said Burmese teak is used to make costly furniture and has a huge demand in India and in West Asia. The consignment was en route to Rajasthan from Manipur. In another incident, a BSF team seized three crystal jars containing suspected cobra venom from Dongi village in South Dinajpur. “The cost of the seized venom is around Rs 57 crore in the international grey market,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 601 more contract virus, seven die in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday recorded a fall in total active Covid-19 cases for 79 successive days, with 601 new infections, 687 recoveries and seven deaths. The total of active cases fell by 93 to 8,387. Bengal has 2.18 per cent of the total active patients at the national level and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 105 new infections, the only district of the state’s 23 with a three-digit figure of fresh cases. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.27 per cent, which is the highest during the pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.46. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.67 per cent on Tuesday. Nineteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.53 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.26 lakh recoveries and 18,522 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Civil society members seek caste enumeration in forthcoming census||Prominent civil society members in Bengal have written to Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee, demanding a caste-based enumeration in the forthcoming census for the socio-economic development of backward classes. The demand for the caste-based census had already been raised in states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. “The Union government recently told the Lok Sabha that it would not enumerate caste-wise population as a matter of policy.... We are against this and believe that for the socio-economic development of the backward classes, it is important to have a caste census. Hence, we have written to the Prime Minister, urging him to ensure a full caste enumeration in the census. We wrote a similar letter to the Bengal chief minister as well,” said Prasenjit Bose, the convenor of the Joint Forum Against NRC and one of the 16 signatories to the letters. Addressing a news conference in Calcutta on Tuesday, Bose said they had also demanded that the NPR process — which according to the signatories is the first step towards the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act — be de-linked from the census. Although the demand for the caste-based census has been heard from different parts of the country for years, the matter assumed seriousness before the 2019 general election when the then Union home minister, Rajnath Singh, told Parliament that the 2021 census would carry data on the Other Backward Classes. The promise, however, is unlikely to be fulfilled as the Narendra Modi government has expressed its reluctance on the exercise. The issue of counting of backward classes in the forthcoming census was recently pushed by an all-party delegation from Bihar, which included representatives of the RJD and BJP ally JD(U), which met Modi. Another delegation led by Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also met the Prime Minister and demanded counting of the OBC groups. Against this backdrop, the letter from the civil society members — belonging to groups like Dalits, Pasmanda Muslims and Adivasis — shows that the demand is getting momentum even in a state like Bengal, where discussions on class had kept caste issues under the wraps during over three decades of Left rule. The civil society members said the class-based inequality in the country couldn’t be understood without properly identifying the caste composition of the demography. They also said they would intensify their demand in the coming days. “Our society is divided between the haves and the have-nots. The enumeration of castes will help the have-nots get a better life, which is why the haves are against it...,” said Avik Saha of Swaraj Abhiyan’s Bengal unit. According to one of the signatories, who spoke to this correspondent on condition of anonymity on the sidelines of the news conference, the objection of the BJP government at the Centre to the caste-based census has its roots in the party’s fear that such an exercise would dent its carefully constructed caste alliances in several states under the dominance of upper castes. “The saffron ecosystem functions on the caste divisions rooted in our society. A caste-based census will disturb this vote-yielding environment for them,” this person said before adding that if more states and political parties joined the chorus, the Centre would find it difficult to wish away the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government challenges breather for Suvendu in five criminal cases||The Bengal government on Tuesday moved a petition before a division bench of Calcutta High Court to challenge an order issued by a single bench which had restrained investigators from taking any further action against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari in five criminal cases. On Monday, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha had directed the investigators not to take coercive measures against Adhikari or arrest him in the cases lodged by the state authorities since his defection from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP in December last year. The division bench on Tuesday accepted the state’s petition. One of the five cases dealt with the alleged murder of a former security guard of Adhikari. The CID had been probing the murder case on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s wife. In its petition before the division bench, the state claimed that proceedings of murder cases could not be stopped and Justice Mantha had issued the order without giving proper hearing to the government. In the past few months, five criminal cases were initiated against Adhikari, at Contai, Nandigram, Panskura and Tamluk in East Midnapore and Maniktala in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Binay Tamang hints at new party launch||Binay Tamang on Tuesday dropped enough hints of floating a new political party and even released a blue print of the issues that his outfit would take up with the central and state governments. Tamang’s statement comes two days before Anit Thapa is set to launch a new party from Darjeeling. Tamang said it was absolutely necessary to work closely with the state government and Trinamul if issues related to the hills were to be solved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Rain, high tides wreak havoc in Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur||A bout of heavy rainfall early on Tuesday left parts of coastal East Midnapore heavily inundated, with activities in the tourist towns of Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur being brought to a standstill. Several barrages at Jaldah which had recently been repaired were breached. Many motorboats broke down in North 24-Parganas because of the downpour and high tides. “In one particular instance, a broken-down motorboat hailing from Namkhana almost capsized while drawing close to Digha for shelter. Fortunately, our civic volunteers were able to rescue four fishermen who fell off the boat,” said an East Midnapore district official. Two of the fishermen were admitted to Digha State General Hospital with pneumonic symptoms. Sources said officials had imposed total restrictions on tourist activities at Old Digha and New Digha through late on Wednesday when the new moon tides are predicted to abate. “We did not even allow people near the beach today. The high tides are owing to the Kousiki Amavasya,” said Ramnagar I block development officer, Bishnupada Ray. The lone death recorded during the squall was at Moyna, where pedestrian Manas Dhara, 45, succumbed to head injuries from a falling tree trunk. “Tides today went as high as 30 feet. We cannot afford further risks in this regard. So, we are keeping a very close watch till Thursday. Outdoor tourism activities will remain suspended,” Ray said. The sources said several seaside hotels, especially those at Old Digha, were damaged on Tuesday morning. “Fewer tourists came in the past weekend, apprehending bad weather. Today’s damage is much more extensive than what has been reported across the district till now,” said East Midnapore district disaster management official, Mrityunjay Haldar. In South 24-Parganas, over 50 villages were flooded when several barrages, particularly those at Namkhana, which had not been repaired after Cyclone Yaas, were breached by rushing water from the high tide and continuous rain. Sagar Island, Kakdwip and Gosaba were particularly affected. “There is a risk of further flooding until Thursday. We have started marking out the embankments that are at particular risk,” said an irrigation department official. Irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra admitted that the overtopping of the embankment had contributed to flooding and said work would be taken up on a priority basis once the weather improved. “We are yet to receive reports of breached embankments on a massive scale. We have told irrigation department officials to keep us posted on all developments,” he said. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh: None in BJP ready to fight Bengal CM in bypoll||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday publicly accepted that his party was struggling to find a candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the bypoll in Bhowanipore. “We will send a few names to Delhi, for them (the central leadership) to finalise.… We have asked a lot of people to contest the bypoll, but none is willing,” said Ghosh at a news conference in the headquarters of the state BJP. BJP sources said Ghosh’s statement further laid bare the “worst-kept secret” of how dilapidated the party’s organisation had become in the wake of its Assembly election debacle. They also asked that if the state BJP chief sounded so pessimistic in public, how he would lift the morale of the workers at the grassroots. “It is very true that nobody in our party is willing or capable for contesting against Mamata in Bhowanipore in a bypoll, months after she led her party to a statewide sweep. But is it becoming of a state president to admit it in a news conference? What message does it send out for those down the line?” asked a state BJP functionary. He added that the hype over mulling legal options against the Election Commission of India’s decision to hold the September 30 bypoll in Bhowanipore was only a diversionary tactic, to draw eyeballs away from the fact that the BJP was unable to find a candidate. Ghosh, who had said even on Monday that his party was taking legal advice, was conspicuous in his silence regarding it on Tuesday. Another section in the BJP, however, said Ghosh’s comment was aimed at leaders like former state chief Tathagata Roy, who had been publicly critical of Ghosh’s leadership and the choice of candidates in the Assembly election, but turned down the offer to contest from Bhowanipore. Hours after the news conference, Ghosh met BJP workers from Bhowanipore at a meeting chaired by the party’s Bengal co-minder Amit Malviya to decide on a probable list of candidates for the seat. Sources said a list of three names was sent to the party’s election committee in Delhi. The AICC has decided to not contest the Bhowanipore bypoll, state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Tuesday. “We don’t want to help the BJP by contesting against Mamata Banerjee,” said Chowdhury, a day after he threw his weight firmly in favour of fielding a candidate in Bhowanipore. Sources in the Bidhan Bhavan said it was also decided that the Congress wouldn’t take part in the campaign either, should its alliance partner, the Left, decide to field a candidate in the bypoll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati forum to oust VC Bidyut Chakrabarty||At least nine different organisations, including those of teachers, students, traders and old-timers, on Tuesday night formed Visva-Bharati-Santiniketan Bachao Joutha Mancha (a joint forum to save Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan) to intensify the movement for the resignation of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. “Students and a section of teachers had already started the movement following the rustication of three students. Nine different organisations of Santiniketan, including the very old Alapini Mahila Samity and Santiniketan Ashramik Sangha, have joined the forum. We are expecting that others, including non-teaching employees, would join us with the major demand of resignation of the VC who harassed people from all sections during his two-and-a-half years of tenure,” said Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a suspended professor and the president of a teachers’ body at Visva-Bharati. A section of the students had first started gheraoing VC Chakrabarty’s residence on August 27 and it was withdrawn on September 4 following an order by Calcutta High Court. However, the students continued with the protest, keeping a distance of 50 meters from the residence of Chakrabarty. On Tuesday night, members of all nine organisations stood on the dais of the protesting students and announced that they would continue their movement till the last to oust Chakrabarty. “It is very significant to intensify the movement against the VC now as people from all sections have joined the movement. Traders who used to put up stalls at Pous Mela and even elderly women of Alapini Mahila Samity — an association of Tagore’s time — suffered because of the VC’s whimsical decisions,” said Aminul Huda, an office-bearer of Kabiguru Hastashilpa Unnayan Samity — a platform of artisans whom the VC allegedly wants to evict from their present location. Old-timers of Santiniketan said Chakrabarty had targeted them also. “The VC put up boundary walls and targeted several old-timers, including Amartya Sen, which was unprecedented in the history of Visva-Bharati. This person is not capable of running a university like Visva-Bharati and so, we joined hands to intensify the movement,” said Subir Banerjee, an old-timer. On Tuesday afternoon, the VC’s official car suddenly passed by the dais of the protesting students who allegedly stopped the vehicle for a while. Varsity officials said few students even searched the empty car, which the students denied. The protesters said they stopped the car as they thought the VC had come to talk to them about their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
08-09-2021||West Bengal||Scan on Siliguri water crisis today||A three-member team of experts from the state public health engineering  department reached Siliguri on Tuesday to check out the problem in supplying drinking water across the city from the water treatment plant at Fulbari. Since August 30, water supply across Siliguri civic area has become erratic and in the past three-four days, the crisis has deepened, leaving around a million people at inconvenience. This is because of excess silt deposits at the intake point — the point from where the water of Mahananda canal is drawn into the plant — adequate water could not be drawn for treatment and supply. “The PHE has cleared the silt deposits but even then, water supply has not yet become regular. In some places, water is coming out of the stand-posts like a thin thread,” said a source in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Alok Chakraborty, a member of the BoA who is in charge of the water supply, confirmed arrival of the team and said on Wednesday, they would visit the treatment plant. “We will have a meeting with them after inspecting the plant. We would then place their recommendations before the board of administrators for further moves,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
08-09-2021||North East||Violent clashes erupt between BJP and CPI(M) activists in Tripura||Violent clashes erupted between activists of the ruling BJP and the principal opposition, CPI(M), in different parts of Tripura on Wednesday.  Trouble started at Udaipur town in Gomati district of Tripura after CPI(M)'s youth wing Democratic Youth Federation of India took out a procession and a few activists from the rally allegedly attacked a ruling BJP activist who was passing by, injuring him seriously.  Police said a group of BJP activists, who were camping nearby, retaliated by attacking the DYFI procession. Police said two to three persons were injured but their political affiliation was not known.  According to sources, CPI(M) party offices in Agartala, Bishalgarh and Kathalia, were also vandalized and set on fire, after the Udaipur clash.  The clashes follow an earlier round of violence on Monday between workers of the two parties, when former Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar was allegedly prevented from proceeding to Dhanpur.  Police said the injured BJP activist from Udaipur, who was in a critical condition, was shifted to G.B Pant hospital in Agartala.  A large contingent of police had to be deployed to disperse the mob and avoid further rioting. Officers also said a group of unidentified miscreants also vandalized CPI(M)'s Udaipur party office, while a vehicle belonging to the former Left Front Minister Ratan Bhowmick was set ablaze.  Agriculture minister Pranajit Singha Roy rushed to the spot soon after the clash and took stock of the situation.  Later speaking to the media, the minister said that the youth wing of the CPI(M) had brought out a rally without seeking prior permission from police.  When police tried to stop the CPI(M) rally, they indulged in violence, injuring several people. A BJP activist- Mofiz Miah, who was passing by, was attacked and critically injured. Besides, a hotel was vandalized and some houses were ransacked, Singha Roy told the media.  He said the government would take legal action against those involved in the violence. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State Pratima Bhowmik led a protest march at Dhanpur in Sonamura sub-division protesting the Monday's violence.  Later in the evening, BJP Sadar district unit also held a protest rally in the capital city- Agartala. The CPI(M) state party office at Melarmath was set on fire and a newspaper office near the main road was also vandalized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
08-09-2021||North East||Boat capsizes in Brahmaputra river in Assam after colliding with ferry, several feared dead||A boat with over 120 people on board sank in the Brahmaputra river after colliding with a ferry steamer near Nimati Ghat in Jorhat district of Assam on Wednesday and there could be "many casualties", officials said.  The accident occurred when the private boat 'Ma Kamala' was headed to Majuli from Nimati Ghat and the government-owned ferry 'Tripkai' was coming from the riverine island.  "The boat capsized and sank. We do not have much detail at this moment," an official of the Inland Water Transport (IWT) Department said. Another IWT official said more than 120 passengers were on board the boat but many of them were rescued by lifeguards on 'Tripkai'.  Jorhat Deputy Commissioner Ashok Barman told PTI that 41 people have been rescued so far and bodies of people suspected to have died in the crash are yet to be recovered.  "We cannot say right now how many people have died," a senior official of Jorhat district administration said. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF have started a search and rescue operation.  The boat was also carrying vehicles.  Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed concern over the accident and directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake a rescue mission earnestly with the help of NDRF and SDRF. He also asked minister Bimal Bora to rush to the site of the accident. Sarma asked Principal Secretary to the chief minister Samir Kumar Sinha to monitor the developments "round-the-clock". He will visit Nimati Ghat tomorrow to take stock of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
08-09-2021||North East||AJP, TIPRA join hands to unite other regional parties of Northeast||The Assam Jatiya Parishad and the Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance joined hands on Tuesday to unite the other regional parties of the Northeast so that they could work together to ensure the cultural, political and economic rights of the indigenous communities of the region. The decision to this effect was announced at the AJP workers meet held here in presence of Tipra chairman and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, the chief guest of the event, who said that it was the time to come together for one last fight to secure the future of the indigenous people of the region. While the AJP was formed in September 2020, the TIPRA was formed in February 2021, their formation triggered by the contentious CAA whose rules are yet to be framed. Both the fledgling parties see it as a threat to the culture, identity and language of the indigenous people of the northeast. The AJP had made it its key poll plank in the Assembly polls held in March-April but could win only a single seat. The TIPRA, however, made a stunning debut in the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) elections held in April by emerging as the single largest party at the expense of the ruling BJP-IPFT alliance. It also ended the Left’s 15-year reign in the TTAADC, sending a strong message that regional parties can survive without compromising their ideology or support of the national parties. “This is the objective behind our move to unite the regional parties of the Northeast because our problems and demand are similar. Our goal is to ensure the survival of the indigenous population and give them a life of dignity,” AJP general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan told The Telegraph after the meeting. Both Debbarma and AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi in their respective speeches said they were not bothered about winning or losing but nobody should accuse them of not trying to secure the future of the indigenous population of their states and the Northeast. Debbarma said the indigenous tribal population of Tripura has been reduced to a minority in their own state because of influx while Assam is also moving in that direction. “What we need is a united movement so that we can speak in one voice before Delhi to ensure the constitutional rights of my people and that of the Northeast. We will talk to PPA, NPP and UDP... I am already in touch with IPFT, an ally of the BJP,” Debbarma said. The imposition of CAA, both Debbarma and Gogoi said, poses a huge threat to the culture, identity and language of the Northeast and this can be prevented only by ensuring the rights of the affected population. Thanking the AJP for inviting him to their meeting, Debbarma said he would install the statue of legendary Ahom general Lachit Barphukan in the TTAADC  because it was important that the people of other Northeast states are also aware of his exploits just like mainland India. On his part, Gogoi extended AJP’s support to the TIPRA’s demand of Greater Tipraland/Tipraland envisaging the constitutional rights of the indigenous people of Tripura. Gogoi also used the opportunity to reveal his party’s plan to hold a protest against CAA in the district headquarters on September 14 and a week-long programme across the state seeking the repeal of CAA and implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord. The accord, which brought an end to the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal influx, provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
08-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Heartless||Ignorance and the prejudice it begets need not be blissful. They almost cost a life recently when an organ transplant authorization committee in Kerala rejected the application for a kidney transplant because of the alleged ‘criminal antecedents’ of the donor. As always, it was the judiciary that came to the rescue. The Kerala High Court intervened in favour of the recipient, observing that there is no “criminal kidney, liver or heart” in the human body. Unfortunately, the regressive mindset of the committee is far from an aberration — it is commonplace for discrimination and bias to supplant scientific outlook in New India. In this particular case, the incident revealed two problematic aspects. First, criminality has come to be regarded as akin to a contagion, capable of ‘contaminating’ the human body through transmission. This can be attributed to India’s complex socio-cultural approach towards the body — it has, over the years, been a site of conflict given the history of targeting the bodies of certain social groups based on caste and religion. These embedded notions of purity and pollution cannot be rooted out without inculcating a scientific temperament. Second — this is an attendant challenge — is the shocking absence of public awareness about organ donation in India even though decades have passed since the Transplantation of the Human Organ Act came into existence. The status of organ donation is grim to say the least — around five lakh people die annually in India waiting for a transplant. The infrastructure for facilitating donation and transplant remains far from adequate. Given the short life-span of harvested organs, the lack of efficient delivery mechanisms and storage facilities poses a major hurdle. The administrative will to confront and resolve these challenges is also lacking — only 13 states and Union territories currently contribute to the deceased donor transplantation programme, which aims to harvest functional organs from cadavers. Little wonder then that India has the poorest deceased donation rate in the world. The existing bottlenecks have led to the emergence of a thriving, illicit trade in organ donation. The way forward is evident. There is an urgent need to streamline procedures, implement a centralized, transparent online registration system for recipients, and encourage voluntary organ donation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  India beat England by 157 runs at The Oval||Magnificent win Sir — The manner in which India beat England by 157 runs at The Oval in the fourth Test match of the ongoing series must be lauded (“Captain takes pride in team’s character”, Sep 7). As a result of this victory, India has now taken a 2-1 lead in the five-match series. Every single day of the match was spectacular. The scintillating performance of the Indian bowling unit restricted the runs made by the English batsmen in their first innings; at the same time, the England pacers made the most of the situation as well. In this crucial match, the assertive thinking of the captain, Virat Kohli, inspired his team-mates. Rohit Sharma’s swashbuckling innings of 127 runs — he made his first overseas Test century — put India in a strong position. Adding to this were the performances of Jasprit Bumrah, Umesh Yadav and Shardul Thakur, who cemented our victory by a wide margin. Sharma was adjudged the Player of the Match for scoring 138 runs overall. If India can keep up this performance, it will win the Pataudi Trophy. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — Virat Kohli and his team must be congratulated for their remarkable comeback at The Oval after being crushed in the third Test at Headingley. The match that concluded on Monday was a display of teamwork — everyone, with the exception of Ajinkya Rahane, chipped in on their way to script the historic victory. Rohit Sharma’s patient century and the healthy opening partnership of 83 runs in the second innings laid a firm foundation for India to score a mammoth total of 466. Later on, the 100-run partnership between Shardul Thakur and Rishabh Pant took the wind out of the sails of Joe Root and his men. After setting a stiff target of 368, the Indian bowlers took over. They worked in tandem to decimate the English batting line-up, that too on a flat, docile wicket that was favouring batsmen. This victory should definitely boost the morale of Team India to go in for the kill in the final Test at Manchester. Although Kohli might be tempted to play the final Test with the winning combination from the fourth match, I believe that Rahane ought to be rested. In his place, Kohli could either take a batsman or even finally pick Ravichandran Ashwin who, apart from his bowling heroics, is capable of scoring at least 50 runs in a Test. It was unfortunate that the head coach of Team India, Ravi Shastri, tested positive for Covid-19 and has been isolated along with three other members of the support staff. However, when the secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, Jay Shah, reportedly wrote to every team member before the series asking them to be cautious and refrain from attending crowded events, why did the head coach attend the launch of his book — even Kohli went to the event — at the team’s hotel? The BCCI is likely to ask Kohli and Shastri for an explanation. One hopes that appropriate action will be taken. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — History repeated itself after 50 years at The Oval with India winning the thrilling fourth Test against England with 157 runs. The victory can be attributed to the unprecedented century of Rohit Sharma and the phenomenal bowling of Shardul Thakur, Umesh Yadav and Jasprit Bumrah. This match did not merely create history but also witnessed the making and breaking of records: Virat Kohli became the fastest player to cross 23,000 runs and Bumrah became the fastest Indian pacer to take 100 Test wickets. Indians ought to be proud of this team. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — After a dramatic fifth-day finish at The Oval, India ended its 50-year wait for a win at the venue with a 157-run victory against England on Monday. The last time that India won at the iconic cricket ground was way back in 1971 when, under the leadership of Ajit Wadekar, it stunned the hosts by beating them by four wickets to clinch its first series triumph in England. India first played at The Oval — the oldest international stadium in England — in 1936 and lost the Test by nine wickets. India has drawn a Test at the venue on seven occasions in 1946, 1952, 1979, 1982, 1990, 2002 and 2007. It had also lost on its three previous tours in 2011, 2014 and 2018. Virat Kohli’s men went into the fourth Test on the back of a crushing innings defeat at Headingley. Put in to bat by England, India were all out for 191. England took a 99-run lead on Day Two before Rohit Sharma’s magnificent century put India back in the contest. His 127 was aided by Cheteshwar Pujara’s 61 and Kohli’s 44 before a lower-order surge from Rishabh Pant (50) and Shardul Thakur (60) helped the visitors set a 368-run target. England began the final day needing 291 to win with the openers, Haseeb Hameed and Rory Burns, at the crease. However, India chipped away at England on a flat wicket to wrap up a convincing win and take a 2-1 lead in the series. The team truly outplayed England in every department of the game. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Hammer blow Sir — The totalitarian actions of the Chinese government seem to know no bounds. After banning children from playing video games on weekdays and restricting their access to the activity to just three hours on weekends, Xi Jinping’s regime has now targeted “effeminate men” and all things “overly entertaining” in the entertainment industry. While the propaganda department of the Communist Party of China accused some figures in the industry of having a ‘bad influence’ on young people, this crackdown amounts to more than just an impingement on the freedom of expression; it is a direct, bigoted attack on arts and culture. Does the Chinese government want to mirror the Taliban in its actions? Debalina S. Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Soft target||Once may be a coincidence; twice, however, cannot be happenstance. Panchajanya, a publication associated with the sangh parivar, recently targeted Infosys, hurling insensitive, flimsy charges at one of the pioneers of India’s information technology revolution. Infosys was accused of being complicit, along with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang” — the favourite terms used by a thuggish political ecosystem — in destabilizing the Indian economy. The reason sighted for the slight is astounding: technical glitches have affected the functioning of the income tax digital portal that the IT company has developed. No less than the Union commerce minister has also been on record making disparaging remarks about indigenous industrial behemoths. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is now trying to wriggle out of the sticky situation but a worrying pattern is evident. After the sustained vilification campaign against critics and dissenters — students, activists, political opponents — aided and abetted by a supine media and toxic social media platforms, the metaphorical dog whistle has now been blown to malign India Inc. Several vexing issues merit attention in this context. Be it Infosys or the Tatas, the contribution of Indian domestic industry to the cause of economic regeneration of the country is indisputable. In fact, their role in shepherding India’s growth story — the tale is imploding under the watch of the Narendra Modi government — as well as supporting innumerable philanthropic missions dedicated to public welfare reiterates their passion for and commitment to the national cause. What is worrying, however, is that Indian industry has been found wanting in its response to such viciousness. The captains of the industry must speak up against the opprobrium and, indeed, against the bullish economic policies pursued by the Centre. The Indian economy is in doldrums. At a time of deep slump and rising unemployment, the signals emanating from the government towards Indian businesses are deeply worrying. India’s prominent entrepreneurs have amassed enough public goodwill to resist this vilification fearlessly. An additional issue pertains to Mr Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat rhetoric. It seems that instead of making India self-dependent, the slogan is increasingly being used to take India back to an era of government control and protectionism. Those resisting this ploy are being marked out. An even playing field for big business seems to be shrinking with the government patronizing a few at the expense of others. There is also the — philosophical — matter concerning slander. Engineered hate is all-consuming. It needs new sacrificial lambs to feed itself. Would some of India’s most domestic businesses — the pride of the nation — be forsaken at this macabre altar?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||A world under watch||The Pegasus scandal is, by no means, the first and it certainly won’t be the last in which a political entity has been accused of surveilling rivals and critics. Although it has been termed as ‘India’s Watergate’, it is unclear how the controversy would change either legislations regarding data protection or provide an incentive for entities — political or private — to refrain from such transgressions. Furthermore, NSO, the Israeli company which owns Pegasus, has shown that there is a lucrative market for firms whose goal is to infringe upon user-privacy. Pegasus has claimed that it sells its spyware to governments only — such as those of India, Hungary, Azerbaijan — to combat terrorism and criminal activities. Such a statement does not assuage concerns about firms like NSO selling spyware to high net worth individuals or corporations for profit. Edward Snowden, the privacy crusader, has stated that to stop the spyware industry from thriving, there must be a global moratorium on the same, much like the one on nuclear trade. Even though this technology is being selectively used to allegedly target certain political figures, its scale, Snowden argues, is such that every citizen can be put under surveillance soon enough. To ensure that the non-proliferation of spyware comes to fruition, there is an urgent need to reframe privacy as an issue so that it strikes a chord with one and all. When the Supreme Court was adjudicating whether the right to privacy was a facet of the right to life, the government had argued that privacy is an elitist concern and, thus, cannot be declared a fundamental right. This argument — it was not accepted by the Supreme Court — is one of the two principal reasons why Snowden’s suggestion of a ban on spyware trade will, possibly, remain a forlorn hope. Unlike the idea of a nuclear Armageddon, which conveys an existential threat to humanity, the invasion of privacy is met with apathy at best and ignorance at worst. As consumers, we are habituated to the idea of trading our privacy for services. This leads to a culture that normalizes infringements on privacy and, subsequently, surveillance. The ordinary citizen is not concerned with the differences in the manner a tech company — Facebook, Google and so on — harvests data against that by the State. This is a dangerous slippery slope, but one which needs meaningful engagement so that privacy is taken seriously at the grassroot level. The list of high-profile names released by Amnesty International who were potential targets of surveillance do not resonate with the common man. Privacy — especially digital privacy — unlike other fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement or the freedom to practise one’s religion, does not have a tangible value attached to it. Consequently, we do not perceive any real harm from its violation. Lastly, and possibly most worryingly, at least in the Indian context, the public has tacitly and, at times, actively encouraged the invasion of privacy by the State. This usually occurs when the police selectively leak private WhatsApp conversations and emails of people accused of crimes to create a certain narrative about the alleged criminals. Cumulatively, these factors result in weakening a broad-based demand for the preservation of privacy. Governments, too, do not have any reason to push for stronger data protection legislations. A national legislation would, anyway, not be of much help as surveillance cuts across borders. Secondly, the development of surveillance tools does not come with the caveat of mutually assured destruction. Preserving privacy and attempts to stop a surveillance State require an ambience in which privacy is valued by people. The public’s first brush with privacy is through tech companies that harvest users’ data. Any resistance has to begin with a strong pushback against unchecked data collection by such companies. Once the idea that some kinds of data are absolutely sacrosanct and cannot be collected takes root, only then would the larger populace take offence at the idea of a surveillance State. There is also the need to protect whistleblowers so that people such as Snowden do not have their lives upended for bringing the surveillance by the State to light.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||The new abnormal||Kashmir has become a raging disquiet in stolid resolve to spurn any plumbing of the depth of it, like a malignancy that has chosen to mask its potential for peril. There likely isn’t a geography more reduced, relegated and rampaged over in this country than the Valley. There likely isn’t a populace so choked in the carotids with grievance and grief. Grievance that has been tossed out on its ears as illicit. Grief that has mostly been rejoiced over. They’d rather not bare wounds if salt it is that will fall on the baring. They’d rather their sullenness say it all. I spent a week in Kashmir last month, my first visit since I extracted myself from the executive blitzkrieg that sundered Jammu and Kashmir and left the Valley guillotined under lockdown in the August of 2019. Does it say something that the preponderant majority of Kashmiris I spoke to upon returning — politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen, doctors, journalists, friends — either said it was futile talking or requested anonymity: don’t quote me, don’t put my name to anything I have said. A former minister had me over for breakfast and spoke bitterly and at length about the “demolition” of the Kashmiri sense of being, of an “enslavement” he saw no way out of. As I prepared to say my goodbyes, the elderly man put his palm gently on my back and pleaded: “Please do nothing that will send me back into lockup, you know there wouldn’t be any point in doing that. I have said what I had to say in good faith, but there exists no good faith between us and New Delhi.” What he was most broken for was this: Kashmiris expected an apology for what has been wreaked upon us following August 2019, but all we have heard is applause around our beating. People I have known for decades politely begged off, or agreed to a meeting and then said sorry, best to avoid it. Within a couple of days of arriving, I got used to the difference between an appointment made and an appointment not made good. Venues were shifted last minute, often not just once: “Let me think of a place... no not my office and not home, and not a public place, not a good idea.” For quite a while now, Srinagar has boasted a Press Club located down an alley off the tony Polo View bazaar. It is the last place a journalist might wish to meet you. They are wary of ‘farishtas’, or angels, the local euphemism for plainclothesmen and informers. They watch who meets who and says what. Journalists know. They have come to learn the hard way. It is routine for a journalist on the job to be spanked and abused, routine for equipment to be smashed or seized, routine to be summoned to the police station and threatened, routine to be charged with sedition, routine to be booked under the UAPA. The list of those ‘under watch’ or officially charged runs into dozens, it is long enough a list to fashion a handy muzzle. “Initially we kept such intimidation under wraps because talking about it made things worse,” a senior Kashmiri scribe told me — he had picked out a small bakery in the suburbs for our assignation — “But then some of us said we should talk, otherwise we will end up normalizing such tactics. I know of colleagues who have been called in and coldly told they either mend their ways or be prepared to be shot.” Kashmir is normal, Kashmir has been fully integrated, there should be no other story for a good journalist to tell. Tourists have become an insurrection on the street, milling belly loads of them disgorging at the Humhama airport, the portal to paradise. The Valley’s famed nooks of idyll are exploding with the click-and-roll of cameras, leisure has become a diesel-fumed scurry, bumper to bumper, from one destination to the other — Sonmarg today, Gulmarg tomorrow, Pahalgam the day after, shoot and scoot, load your cameras, feed your Instagrams and be gone before ‘something happens’. The gardens of Nishat and Shalimar are under footfall that would have shuddered the Mughals. The Dal boulevard is a mad toss of ‘shikaras’ and, by twilight, a flaming parade of roasted corn and kebab vends. The pictures are all paradisal, nobody wants darkness in their albums. Sun-swept lakes, meadows gone teal in curtains of distant rain, a riot of tulips, caravans of cuddly sheep, conifered slopes gazing down adolescent streams, a melting glacier, an iridescent sunset, a solitary woodbridge, a padded copse, a rippled houseboat. Kashmir is captivating at the moment, never mind the capturing siege descended on it. Those cameras wouldn’t be lying. But if cameras snap, they shut out too. Each frame means two images, what’s captured, what’s left out. Within stone-shot of the hectic holiday revelry being unpacked in Srinagar sits a city of ashen aspect. Its habitations lie denuded by time and violent tide, crumbled masonry and boarded timberwork, witness to recurrent paroxysms between disputed ambitions of State and subject. Rubble roads and manic dogs run through its warren habitations. A river weaves along, so slowed by its burden of sewage it does not seem to run at all. Its banks are piled with garbage on which kites swoop to snatch what they can in their skirmish with dogs. Slowly but inexorably, commerce has begun to relieve this dreariness — a spanking mall, a glass-front corner café, a snooker dive, not a bar yet but yes a sheesha joint, a shimmering SUV squeezing through lanes that weren’t cut for vehicles of such girth. Some of the cash rolling off the tourism turnstiles has begun to wash up and put a shine on this dilapidated town. But above the daily humdrum floats a pensive, unassuaged air so insistent it makes prayer sound like a dirge. By twilight, it has risen from the houses of god and become a shroud that defies cameras as well as it defies banishment. If Kashmir has indeed become ‘normal’ under the ministrations of August 5, 2019 and the sustained post-operative care, here is a fine example of it. When a nonagenarian adversary of the State dies, rendered frail beyond measure by chronic illness, his mortal remains are shoddily confiscated in a late-night jackboot raid and consigned to a grave not of the choosing of the departed man or the family. The last rites, filmed as a PR effort under as much light as cellphones can cast, recall all the antonyms to dignified as might exist. Severe restrictions on movement are imposed, communications are disabled, another flowering of concertina ordered for the streets, so Syed Ali Shah Geelani can be hustled six feet under. Such is the peace that has come to descend upon Kashmir, the peace of the commandeered grave. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||CBI doubles reward to Rs 10 lakh in Dhanbad judge death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) led by Superintendent of Police (UC) Vijay Kumar Shukla doubled its reward money to Rs 10 lakh on the death of Dhanbad-based additional district and session judge Uttam Anand. The probe agency had earlier announced reward money worth Rs 5 lakh for providing worthwhile information in connection with the murder case. Posters in this regard have been put up at different nooks and corners in the district on Wednesday. The posters mentioned phone numbers - 7827728856, 011-24368640, 011-24368641 - on which information can be shared. It also had the permanent address of CBI’s Special Crime 1 cell, New Delhi and its camp office address – CSIR Satkar Guest House – mentioned. “Shri Uttam Anand, Additional Session Judge of Dhanbad was allegedly murdered on 28.07.2021 at around 5 am after being knocked down by auto near Randheer Prasad Verma Chowk, Dhanbad, Jharkhand. The investigation of the case is being conducted by CBI at Dhanbad,” the posters read in Hindi and English. “If any person is having any kind of knowledge/information of importance related to this murder he/she may kindly inform CBI’s Special Crime 1 cell, New Delhi, Camp CSIR Satkar Guest House on the phone numbers given below,” it said. “Cash reward of Rs 10,00,000 will be given to the person who will furnish worthwhile information relating to the crime. The name of the informant will be kept secret,” the posters read. The CBI had on August 15 put up posters announcing a reward of Rs 5 lakh for anyone sharing information of importance on the death of the 49-year-old additional district judge and after a gap of around 23 days, another set of posters mentioning the double reward money were spotted on Wednesday. The CBI has been investigating the case since August 4. They have sent the two main accused including the auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma to jail. The CBI conducted narco-analysis on two accused and used various scientific tests on the accused in its bid to solve the mystery. CBI registers two more FIRs The CBI team investigating the Dhanbad judge murder case registered two more FIRs. One FIR relates to an alleged theft of three mobile phones from the home of one Purnendu Vishwakarma while the other is for the theft of a three-wheeler of Sugnu Devi which was allegedly involved in the incident. Notably, the theft of the auto-rickshaw took place days before the incident but was reported to the police only on July 29. The second FIR was registered with regard to the theft of three mobile phones from the temporary accommodation of Purnendu Vishwakarma, a staff of a railway contractor at Hill Colony based railway outhouse. The mobile theft, however, was carried out two-three days ahead of the auto theft. The two accused are also involved in several other mobile theft incidents earlier. These cases were reported as isolated incidents by the state police. Going by the procedure, the agency has taken over these FIRs as its own cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||Police thwart BJP march to Assembly over namaz room row||Police used water cannons and resorted to lathicharge to disperse an unruly crowd of thousands of BJP supporters who were marching to the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday to protest against Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto’s decision to allocate a room for namaz within the assembly premises in Dhurwa. There was commotion on the roads leading to the Assembly through the day. Despite prohibitory orders, in addition to the curbs on political procession in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, over 7,000 BJP workers joined the march forcing police to resort to lathicharge after a group of protestors broke a barricade near Jagannath temple, about 2km from the Assembly. Before that, police used water cannons to try and disperse the crowd. But the BJP supporters turned even more violent and uprooted barricades, prompting cops to wield lathis. Later, the BJP issued a statement claiming that at least a dozen of its supporters suffered serious injuries, while many others sustained injuries of varying degrees. At night, the BJP announced its decision to observe Thursday as "Black Day" across the state. Party MLAs will also wear black badges to the Assembly on the last day of the monsoon session. Ranchi district administration defended the police action, pointing out that BJP did not take permission for such a large gathering. SDO Deepak Kumar Dubey said, "No one took any permission, especially when such things are banned as per Covid-19 norms. Thousands of BJP workers attempted to break the security barricades forcing police to use water cannons and resort to mild lathicharge. There are prohibitory orders in force around a radius of 750 meter from the Assembly.” Around 12 noon, scores of party workers, drawn from all 24 districts of the state, assembled at Ranchi’s Harmu ground and began a 10km-long padhyatra towards the Assembly chanting "Jai Shree Ram", "Har har mahadev" and shouting slogans against chief minister Hemant Soren. A large posse of policemen were deployed on roads leading to the Assembly, but traffic went haywire due to the sheer number of protesters. Former chief minister Raghubar Das, state unit president Deepak Prakash, Ranchi MLA Sanjay Seth and several other leaders were part of the protest. Around 2pm, protesters broke barricades near the Jagannathpur temple despite repeated pleas by police to maintain order. Police were left with no option but to use water canons and then resort to lathicharge to disperse the unruly crowd. After that, several BJP leaders, including Das and Prakash, sat on dharna for hours, accusing the Hemant Soren government of attempting to muzzle democratic protest. BJP MLAs, led by its legislature party leader Babulal Marandi, also raised slogans against the government for the lathicharge and joined the dharna. Prakash announced that the BJP would intensify its fight against the "unconstitutional" decision of the Assembly Speaker to "appease a particular community" at the behest of state government.  “We are not going to sit silently no matter how many lathis the Hemant government uses on our workers. BJP will not allow the Assembly to be used for polarisation at any cost," he said. Former chief minister Das also condemned the Hemant government for using force against BJP protestors. “Our fight is not against any community or faith, but against the state government’s attempt to polarise people," he said. Both the ruling JMM and Congress criticized the BJP for trying to promote unrest at the time of pandemic. Congress MLA Irfan Ansari said, “It is the BJP’s plan to rake up unrest and violence in the city and state over a non-issue. But, the state government will deflate all such attempts.” Three Bills passed The state Assembly passed the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, along with two other bills on Wednesday amid protests by the Opposition BJP in and outside the House against the allocation of a namaz room in the assembly. After the formal notification of the law on employment of local candidates, 75 per cent jobs in private sector for employees earning up to Rs 40,000 will have to be reserved for local persons. Two other bills which were rushed through the House include Jharkhand Municipal (Amendment) Bill 2021 and Jharkhand Goods and Service Bill 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant cites SC order, to decide on reopening shrines next week ||Chief Minister Hemant Soren directed the state disaster management secretary on Wednesday to follow Supreme Court's latest order and prepare accordingly for reopening the historic Baba Baidyanath Temple in Deoghar, thereby deferring any decision on reopening places of worship till the next week. Chairing a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) at the Vidhan Sabha building on Wednesday, Hemant was informed about the latest order of the apex court in response to a plea seeking a direction to the Jharkhand government to consider opening the centuries-old old temple. “Please get a copy of the Supreme Court’s order and act accordingly,” the chief minister was quoted as saying in a press communique from his office. As per this communique, Hemant has directed state disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal to get all the details of the SC orders regarding reopening of temples and meet next week to take a decision on the issue keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation in the state. The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected an urgent hearing of the plea to the direct reopening of the Baba Baidyanath Dham for worshippers, claiming that there was no need for urgency. A three-bench observed that people were suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic across the country and the matter of reopening temples did not require immediate attention. "People are suffering from Covid-19 and you want the temple to open?" Chief Justice N.V Ramana said. In the petitioner’s defence, lawyer Prashant Kumar told the court that cases of Covid-19 have dropped significantly in Jharkhand. The Baba Baidyanath temple, one of the 12 jyotirlings of Lord Shiva, sees hundreds of devotees daily through the year. It has been closed for the public since the second wave of Covid-19 hit Jharkhand. Rituals at this temple are, however, performed daily by priests. Various religious bodies from across the state have been pressing for reopening temples citing the rapidly dwindling financial condition of small-time businessmen solely dependent on worshippers who visit temples, gurudwaras and other religious places on a regular basis. It was expected that the government would take a favourable decision regarding reopening places of worship at Wednesday's meet. But, no announcements regarding any further relaxations in Covid-induced restrictions were made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant seeks time from Modi to press for caste based census||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has announced that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for a caste based census, throwing his weight behind his counterparts in several Opposition-ruled states that have voiced a similar demand. Hemant has writtent to Modi seeking an appointment, his office said on Wednesday afternoon. Chief minister of neighbouring Bihar  Nitish Kumar, who is heading a coalition government of the JDU and BJP, also favours caste based census and led an all-party delegation to meet the Prime Minister on August 23. Now weeks later, Hemant too is gearing up to lead a delegation to pressure the Union government even though the BJP has so far remained non-committal on the issue. In his brief letter dated September 7, Hemant wrote: "A nine-member delegation under me wants to meet you to demand and discuss caste based census. Requesting you to give your appointment at the earliest.” The chief minister's office has not elaborated on the composition of the delegation. But sources in the JMM, the party heading the ruling coalition government,  said the nature of the delegation would be announced soon but it waqs unlikely that representatives from all parties would join the team. “While AJSU-P, which is part of the NDA in the state, has supported caste based census in the past, the state unit of the BJP is yet to air its views. If any proposal comes from it to join the delegation, we will be happy to accommodate," said a JMM leader, adding that the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government will certainly try to take everyone along to make a strong representation to the Prime Minister. The JMM leader said they would also press for inclusion of the Sarna code in the nationwide census to provide a distinct identity to tribals. “Last year, the state government had passed an Assembly resolution for inclusion of the Sarna code and sent a proposal to the Union government,” he said. Several rights and social outfits too have been demanding a caste based census. On August 27, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), a conglomeration of civil and tribal rights organisations, appealed to the Union government to accept the growing demands from across different parts of the country for a caste based census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
