09-09-2021||Business||Govt extends ITR filing deadline for individuals to December 31||The government on Thursday extended the deadline till December 31 for filing of income tax returns by individuals for the financial year 2021, amid the coronavirus pandemic and technical glitches in the IT portal. Earlier, the deadline was extended to September 30, 2021. Usually, the last date for filing the ITR (Income Tax Returns) for the individual taxpayers is July 31. "On consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in filing of Income Tax Returns and various reports of audit for the Assessment Year 2021-22 under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has decided to further extend the due dates for filing of Income Tax Returns and various reports of audit for the Assessment Year 2021-22," the finance ministry said in a statement. The CBDT has also extended the ITR filing deadline for companies till February 15, 2022 from November 30, 2021. The due date for filing the tax audit report and transfer pricing certificate has been extended to January 15, 2022 and January 31, 2022, respectively, from the existing deadline of October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the last date has been extended by another two months to March 31, 2022. With regard to resolution of glitches in the tax portal, the finance ministry on Wednesday said it is continuously engaging with Infosys to ensure a smooth filing experience for taxpayers. On April 1, the CBDT notified the forms for filing I-T returns for 2020-21 fiscal. For the 2020-21 fiscal, the government had given taxpayers the option to choose a new tax regime under section 115BAC of the I-T Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||RBI hopeful of 9.5% GDP growth for 2021-22, says Shaktikanta Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday said many fast indicators are showing an uptick in economic activity and the Reserve Bank is quite optimistic about its 9.5 per cent GDP growth estimate for FY2021-22 at present. He said the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 has waned by August, and economic growth will be better from the second quarter onwards on a sequential basis. Speaking at an event organised by The Indian Express and Financial Times, Das said the RBI has decided to give more emphasis on growth because of the pandemic and operate in the 2-6 per cent inflation band set by the government for it. The central bank will seek to gradually move towards achieving the 4 per cent target over a period of time, he said, adding that the possibility of a sustained increase in inflation is unlikely. Easy liquidity conditions in the global markets are among the conditions which are leading to a surge in markets domestically, he said, making it clear that there is no evidence of the high asset prices affecting the inflation situation. A call on continuing with the accommodative stance or not will be taken by the rate-setting panel of the RBI, he said, replying to a question and added that it does not see high inflation getting generalised. The banking system’s gross non-performing assets ratio stood at 7.5 per cent as of the end of June quarter, and the same is “manageable” as of now, Das said, underlining that lenders also have adequate capital buffers. To a question on high haircuts taken by banks in debt resolutions, he said there is scope for improvement in the functioning of IBC which can include legislative changes and also time taken for a case by the bankruptcy courts. On cryptocurrencies, Das said the RBI has conveyed its ''serious and major concerns'' about cryptocurrencies to the government and now the government will have to decide on how to deal with the proliferation of such platforms. Das said that we need “credible answers” on contribution of private cryptocurrencies to the Indian economy going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Ford pulls out of India, takes $2 billion charge, blames  ‘demand much weaker than forecast’   ||Some 4,000 Indian employees will be hit by the closure. Instead of focusing on India, the company is going to doubledown on China where it sells more of its luxury Lincoln brand than in the US. The closure is another blow to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Make in India” drive and bid to create manufacturing jobs. The world’s fifth-largest automaker was one of the early foreign players to enter the Indian market 25 years ago but even though it had a strong stable of vehicles it never managed to crack the price-conscious Indian market with bestselling models. “We are taking difficult but necessary actions to deliver a sustainably profitable business longer-term and allocate our capital to grow and create value in the right areas,” Ford Chief Executive Officer Jim Farley said in a statement.  In January, Ford exited Brazil where it had manufacturing operations for more than a century. Ford becomes the second US automobile giant to pull out of India. General Motors, the world’s fourth-largest automaker, exited the country in 2017. Cult motorcycle company Harley Davidson also stopped manufacturing bikes in India last year. Ford India said it had built up losses of $2 billion in the last decade and wrote down the value of its business by nearly $1 billion two years ago. Ford said it had no alternative but to shut down its two plants in Gujarat and outside Chennai. It will continue to manufacture engines for export at its Chennai plant. “Demand for new vehicles (in India) has been much weaker than forecast,” said the company, which had a paltry market share of 1.4 per cent in August. Maruti and Hyundai hold more than 60 per cent of the market. Ford's sales in greater China — the world's largest auto market and a leader in adoption of electric vehicles — climbed 24 per cent year-over-year in the first half of 2021 from a year earlier. Ford India CEO Anurag Mehrotra said the shutdown came because of, “increasingly challenging market conditions including the extended slowdown of India’s auto industry as well as cumulative losses of about $2 billion.” It has become increasingly clear over the last couple of years that Ford would be unable to turn around its domestic market situation in any meaningful way. In 2019, Mahindra and Ford ended the joint venture they had formed to make a new thrust in the market and for exports but it was shut down after a short time. In July, Ford’s plants were operating at only 20 per cent capacity. The Sanand plant is likely to close by year end and the Chennai plant next year. In 2019 Ford India was the largest automobile exporter from India, narrowly beating Hyundai for the top spot. Interestingly, the largest chunk of Ford’s exports went to the US. The company exported to 37 countries from India. Ford has invested in large facilities in India and its Chennai plant could produce 2 lakh vehicles annually and 3.4 lakh engines. At Sanand it could produce 2.4 lakh vehicles and 2.7 engines annually. It manufactured several models in India that were successful abroad like the EcoSport, the Figo and the Aspire. The company says it will continue to import iconic models like the Mustang and the Endeavour. It will also maintain spare parts in several cities including Calcutta for the million or so Ford vehicles that are on the road in this country. It will also continue alliances with components suppliers for its engine manufacturing operations. GM is still embroiled in disputes with its workforce. It had hoped to sell its Talegaon plant to the Chinese Great Wall Motors. However, in the wake of the Ladakh standoff, Great Wall has put off its plans to enter the Indian market. The Ford and GM pullouts have come after a few disappointing years for the Indian auto industry, especially in the wake of the pandemic which hit sales hard. However, even before the pandemic, sales growth had begun to slow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher after range-bound trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Thursday led by gains in Bharti Airtel, Nestle India and TCS despite negative cues from global markets. After trading in a range through the day, the 30-share Sensex ended 54.81 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 58,305.07 -- its all-time closing high. The NSE Nifty rose 15.75 points or 0.09 per cent to settle at 17,369.25. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping around 3 per cent, followed by Nestle India, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech and ITC. On the other hand, Titan, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "There is slight risk-off mode in global markets during the last few days and this has impacted the bullish sentiments in India too," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Many experts feel that there can be a correction in the large caps that have been leading the rally this year. So part of the fresh money is now moving into new areas like PSU banks. But this is likely to be a short-term trend, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.29 per cent to USD 72.81 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Ford to stop manufacturing cars in India, says report||Ford Motor Co will stop manufacturing cars in India and shut down its plants in the country, two sources told Reuters, becoming the latest automaker to quit a market still dominated by Asian rivals. The U.S. automaker made the decision because it was not profitable for it to continue, said one of the sources, adding that the process is expected to take about a year to complete. Ford is the latest vehicle maker to cease production in India, following U.S. companies such as General Motors and Harley Davidson, which have already left a market that had once promised exponential growth. Ford has struggled to win over India's frugal buyers and turn a profit in a market dominated by mainly low-cost cars made by Suzuki Motor Corp and Hyundai Motor. The U.S. automaker will continue to sell some of its cars in India through imports of fully-built vehicles and knocked-down units, said the second person, adding that it would also provide support to dealers to service existing customers. Ford did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. It has previously said it would decide on a capital allocation plan for India in the second half of 2021. Ford will allocate capital consistent with its plan to generate consistently strong cash flow and achieve an 8% company adjusted EBIT (earnings before interest and tax) margin, the company has previously told Reuters. The decision to cease local production came after Ford ended its partnership with domestic carmaker Mahindra & Mahindra a move that would have ended most of Ford's independent operations in India but allowed it to launch new vehicles faster, at a reduced cost and with lower investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Supreme Court stays Delhi High Court order on Reliance-Amazon deal||The Supreme Court Thursday stayed all the proceedings before the Delhi High Court for four weeks related to the implementation of an award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead its Rs 24,731 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, in a consent order, also directed the statutory authorities like National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Competition Commission of India (CCI) and market regulator Sebi not to pass any final order related to the merger deal for next four weeks. It considered the statements of senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for FRL and Future Coupons Private Ltd (FCPL) respectively, that the arbitrator has reserved the final verdict in the case after hearing both sides. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for US-based e-commerce giant Amazon which has challenged the merger, said that it was not interested in any punitive action against FRL, FCPL and their Directors and consented to passing of the order staying the proceedings before the Delhi High Court. The FRL and FCPL have moved the top court against the Delhi High Court order of August 17 which said that it would implement the earlier order by its single-judge restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal in pursuance of the EA's award. The High Court had also ordered attachment of properties. Amazon dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court gave the verdict in favour of Amazon and held that Singapore EA's award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore FRL-Reliance Retail merger deal, is valid and enforceable under the Indian arbitration laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on flat note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a tepid note on Thursday amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 46.4 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 58,203.86. Similarly, Nifty slipped 5.85 points or 0.03 per cent to 17,347.65 in initial deals. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by M&M, Dr Reddy's, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Titan and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, SBI, Bajaj Finserv and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 29.22 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 58,250.26, and Nifty slipped 8.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 17,353.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 802.51 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic bourses appeared to be fatigued in recent trades after witnessing record highs in the last few weeks, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive. US equities ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.22 per cent to USD 72.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds investment declines 61.6 per cent in August||Investments in equity mutual funds declined 61.6 per cent in August at a time when the equity benchmark indices are rising to new peaks. Inflows into equity mutual funds fell to Rs 8,666.68 crore from Rs 22,583.52 crore in July according to data of industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi). However, it is a sixth straight month when the mutual fund industry has reported inflows into equity schemes after eight months of outflow between July 2020 and February 2021. According to market observers, there has been a change in the investment pattern in August with SBI Mutual Fund collecting around Rs 13,000 crore from NFO (New Fund Offer) of a balanced advantage fund. Overall net inflows in the balanced advantage category in August were Rs 16,570.97 crore compared to Rs 2,453.59 crore in July. “A granular look at the data of equity and balanced/balanced advantage category suggests that the gross flow, the redemption and the net flow of July and August remains to be at the same elevated level. But, there is a significant shrinkage in the net inflow for equity category and corresponding bump up in net inflow of the balanced advantage category. This leads one to believe that on an aggregate industry level large balanced advantage NFO has garnered a lot of traction by way of switches from equity to balanced advantage category,” said Aashish Somaiyaa, CEO, White Oak Capital “From a retail investors perspective in the short term, it may not be a bad development given the elevated market levels and the generally lower risk perception of balanced advantage funds,” he added. Benchmark index Nifty scaled a new milestone of 17,000 in August, but analysts remain cautious. “Since mid & small cap indices are trading close to resistance levels despite Nifty making new highs, overall market sentiment remains cautious and the market advance is still dominated by a handful of stocks,” said S Hariharan, head, sales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services. “Big is certainly getting better  in spite of a very severe second wave, large companies were able to control costs while maintaining pricing power to increase EBITDA margins and profitability. EPS growth over the next two years will eventually determine whether markets should sustain these valuations going forward,” said Umang Thaker, head of products, Motilal Oswal AMC. Debt funds on the other hand saw an extremely steep fall in their monthly inflows, falling to merely Rs 1074.44 crore in August from Rs 73,694.04 crore in July when there was significant influx in liquid and money market schemes. ETFs however saw a marginal rise in net inflows in August, peaking at Rs 11,591.72 crores from Rs 10,084.16 crores last month. “SIP assets under management (AUM) reached a record high of Rs 5.26 lakh crores, which now forms a third of retail AUM. There was a healthy rise in SIP accounts at 4.32 crores and monthly SIP contribution was at an all time high at Rs 9923.15 crore,” said N.S. Venkatesh, CEO, AMFI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Cabinet takes no decision on telecom relief package||The Union cabinet on Wednesday did not take up for discussion the much awaited relief package for the beleaguered telecom sector, sources said. The cabinet was widely expected to take a decision on the relief package, which would have thrown a lifeline at the embattled Vodafone Idea. The source did not specify why the proposal was not discussed. Information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said there was no call taken on anything related to telecom relief. “There was nothing like that,” he told reporters at the cabinet briefing. The telecom sector was disrupted by Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Jio Infocomm when it entered the market in late 2016 with free voice and cut-price data plans. Jio is set to launch its affordable smartphone in collaboration with Google on Friday on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, which is expected to foment another churn in the market. The telecom sector has been keenly watching out for the relief package, which sources said could include the redefinition of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) to exclude non-telecom items, cut in levies such as spectrum usage charges and easier terms and conditions for surrendering radiowaves to the government. Sources said the telecom department has been actively pushing for the relief measures for the sector, and is hopeful that the proposals will be taken up for consideration in the coming 1-2 weeks. It could not be immediately ascertained why the relief package was not taken up on Wednesday, or whether any fresh clarifications will be sought from the telecom department before the same are taken up for detailed discussion in coming days. In anticipation of a package, the Bharti Airtel share price rose 2 per cent to hit a new high of Rs 684 in intraday trades. The Vodafone Idea shares also surged 7.5 per cent to Rs 8.90 apiece ahead of the meet. As the news of the cabinet not taking up the issue trickled down to the bourses, VIL’s shares slipped and closed at Rs 8.07, down 2.54 per cent from the previous close on the BSE. Airtel’s shares were also down 0.43 per cent at Rs 667.80 apiece.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Centre approves Rs 10,683 crore PLI scheme for textiles||The Union cabinet on Wednesday cleared the production-linked incentive scheme (PLI) for textiles worth Rs 10,683 crore but the focus is exclusively on high-value man-made fibres and technical textiles leaving nothing for labour-intensive cotton and other natural fibre-based textiles such as jute. Analysts said the scheme would help only big players to a certain extent and the incentives appeared like a knee-jerk reaction to increased shipments from China. Union textiles minister Piyush Goyal said the incentives will encourage the industry to invest in fresh capacities in man-made fibres and technical textiles. It will complement the efforts of cotton and other natural fibre-based textile industries in generating new opportunities for employment and trade, he said. Under the scheme, the government is offering incentives between 3 per cent and 11 per cent on incremental production. Trade analyst Biswajit Dhar of the JNU said: “The PLI scheme is part of the government’s Make in India programme, which emerged to counter increased dependence on Chinese imports. The scheme does not focus on increasing competitiveness and productivity but confines itself to production numbers.” “In the past, the industry has pitched for protectionist measures from the government whenever they have failed to compete in the global market. Given that the scheme encourages specialised textiles, it would benefit big corporate and the factories would employ highly skilled manpower and automated production lines.” Poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are expected to benefit from the scheme. Goyal said states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana, Gujarat and Odisha will also benefit . Blow to auto The government is believed to have slashed the outlay for the automobile sector under the PLI scheme to about Rs 26,000 crore and the proposal is expected to be approved by the cabinet soon, sources said. Last year, the government had announced a PLI scheme for the automobile and auto components sector with an outlay of Rs 57,043 crore, earmarked for five years. The sources did not disclose the reason for the revision, but said the focus is now more on battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Centre hikes minimum support price for Rabi crops||The Centre on Wednesday announced the minimum support prices (MSP) for rabi crops way ahead of schedule amid poll preparations in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and a raging farmer's agitation that is on its nine month and has assurances on MSP as one of its demands. A bigger surprise is the measly hike of Rs 40 in wheat MSP compared with increases up to Rs 400 per quintal for oil seeds and pulses. Farm leaders said the hike in wheat is at a decade low and does not take into account increased input cost because of a rise in diesel price. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh are the major pulse growing states. Punjab and Haryana have also taken it up in a big way with increased acreage under pulses over the years. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra are the big players in oil seeds. MSP for mustard seeds has been increased by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal in the current crop year. MSP of barley has been hiked Rs 35 to Rs 1,635 per quintal from Rs 1,600 per quintal in the previous year. Among pulses, MSP for gram has been increased Rs 130 to Rs 5,230 per quintal and lentil (masur) Rs 400 to Rs 5,550 per quintal. MSP for safflower has been raised Rs 114 to Rs 5,441 per quintal from Rs 5,327 per quintal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India removes curbs on Uco bank operations||The Reserve Bank of India has decided to take Uco Bank out of the prompt corrective action (PCA) framework. The move announced by the regulator on Wednesday comes on the back of an improved performance by the Calcutta-based lender. PCA is a structured early intervention and resolution initiated by the RBI for banks that become undercapitalised because of poor asset quality or vulnerable due to loss of profitability. The framework entails restrictions on dividend distribution or remittance of profits, requirement on promoters to bring in more capital, restrictions on branch expansion, higher provisioning requirement and restrictions on management compensation. The RBI in March had taken IDBI Bank out of the PCA framework. With Uco Bank coming out, only two public sector banks — Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank — remain under the RBI’s PCA framework Uco Bank was put under the PCA framework in May 2017 on account of high net non-performing assets and a negative return on assets. The RBI, in a statement, said the performance of Uco Bank, currently under the PCA framework, was reviewed by the board for financial supervision. It was noted that according to its published results for the year ended March 31, 2021, the bank is not in breach of PCA parameters. “The bank has provided a written commitment that it will comply with the norms of minimum regulatory capital, net NPA, and leverage ratio on an ongoing basis and has apprised the RBI of the structural and systemic improvements it has put in place which would help the bank in continuing to meet these commitments,” the central bank said. Uco Bank managing director and CEO A.K. Goel, who got a two-year extension last month, said the bank had approached the regulator to lift the restrictions on account of the good performance of the bank on PCA parameters. Uco Bank’s net NPA was at 3.94 per cent as of March 31, 2021 and has improved to 3.85 per cent as of June 30, 2021. The bank’s net NPA was at 8.94 per cent as of March 31, 2017. Return on assets was also positive for the year ended March 31, 2021. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said on August 6 that it has been taking banks out of the restrictive framework based on assessments. “We keep on reviewing that position. Recently, we removed one public sector bank from the PCA tag. And as and when required requests are received, we analyse it, if it meets RBI’s regulatory requirements and if in our assessment, we feel confident that it’s a fit case, the RBI will do the needful. So, we have been taking banks out of PCA,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||India to post strong GDP growth in coming quarters: S&P||India is expected to post strong economic growth in the coming quarters, even as inflation, led by food prices, is likely to remain elevated, S&P Global Ratings said on Wednesday. The economy is expected to clock 9.5 per cent growth in the current fiscal, followed by 7 per cent expansion in the next year, it said, adding high nominal GDP growth was key to ensure fiscal consolidation. “Given India’s weak fiscal settings and high stock of debt around 90 per cent of GDP, the nominal GDP growth is going to be important to prevent further erosion of fiscal settings in the country,” S&P global ratings director (sovereign) Andrew Wood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Amazon Pay set to help customers book deposits||Amazon Pay India, the American e-commerce major’s payments app, is set to offer deposit booking services to its customers even as rival Google Pay’s similar facility has invited regulatory attention within days of its launch. Amazon Pay India on Wednesday announced a tie-up with investment platform Kuvera.in through which the former’s customers will be able to invest in mutual funds and fixed deposits, a statement said. “Kuvera will provide its services, products and technology know how to create an exclusive experience for Amazon Pay’s users to facilitate investments into mutual funds, fixed deposits, and more over time,” it said. Google Pay has tied up with Equitas Small Finance Bank to allow its users to book deposits. Details surrounding the banks where Amazon Pay customers’ deposits will be made were not immediately known. After the Google Pay announcement, there have been reports that the deal between the big tech company and the bank is under the RBI’s watch for its implication on the broader financial landscape. In the past, the RBI had made it clear that it was wary of Big Tech firms like Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft, and flagged it as among the risk factors for financial stability in the half-yearly Financial Stability Report released in July. “At Amazon Pay, our vision is to simplify lives and fulfil aspirations by solving the payment and financial needs of every Indian. For our most engaged customers, growing their wealth and investments is a large need, here is where, we think Kuvera can help our customers with their unique offering,” Amazon Pay India’s director Vikas Bansal was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Cognizant to pay $95m to settle suit||Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp has reached a $95 million settlement to resolve a lawsuit accusing the information technology services company of defrauding shareholders by concealing bribes to officials in India. A preliminary settlement of the proposed class action was filed on Tuesday with the federal court in Newark, New Jersey, and requires a judge's approval. Shareholders accused Cognizant of failing to disclose payments made to obtain permits for facilities in “special economic zones”, including its Indian headquarters in Chennai, where it could enjoy tax and other benefits. Cognizant’s share price fell 13.3 per cent on September 30, 2016, after the Teaneck, New Jersey-based company said it was looking into bribery allegations, and whether there were violations of the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The defendants, including former president Gordon Coburn and former chief legal officer Steven Schwartz, denied wrongdoing in agreeing to settle. Cognizant said it expected insurers to cover a substantial majority of the settlement payment. In February 2019, Cognizant agreed to pay $25 million to settle a related US Securities and Exchange Commission civil probe. US prosecutors also charged Coburn and Schwartz that month with FCPA and other violations. Those criminal cases remain pending. Lawyers for Coburn and Schwartz did not immediately respond on Wednesday to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||India||CCS clears Rs 11,000 cr DRDO project to develop six new early warning jets for IAF||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared a nearly Rs 11,000 crore project of the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) to develop six new Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) aircraft for the Indian Air Force, reported various agencies. This is in addition to the nearly $3 billion deal for procuring 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the IAF, which was also cleared by the Committee, to replace the ageing fleet of Avro 748 transport aircraft that first flew in 1961. The IAF inducted its first indigenously developed AEW&C system, mounted on a Brazilian Embraer-145 jet, in February 2017, beefing up its capability to detect enemy aircraft and missiles. The Netra AEW&C system was developed by the DRDO and has a range of around 200 km. The new AEW&C system, most likely to be mounted on the Airbus A321 aircraft, is expected to be more advanced than the Netra system, the official said. Currently, two Netra systems are in service. While the CCS decision on the C-295 was the budgetary clearance for the actual signing of the contract, the Committee has cleared the “Acceptance of Necessity” (AoN) for the DRDO project, sources in the defence and security establishment familiar with the development said. This means that the DRDO will now be able to issue a “Request for Proposal” (RFP) for further work on the aircraft. The six will be taken from the Air India fleet, which means they will be A-319s and A-321 variants, according to the plan. The original plan, which had also got an AON clearance, was to procure two larger A-330 jets, which were then to be modified and fitted with the AEW&C systems. However, now the six Airbus aircraft will be modified and the indigenous Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) radar will be mounted on them. The DRDO will now issue RFP seeking bids for modification for the six passenger aircraft. Since Airbus is the original equipment manufacturer (OEM), the firm is the frontrunner to bag the contract. The actual cost of the aircraft is less and would come to about Rs 1,100 crore for the six since this is a book transfer within the government itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
09-09-2021||India||No pandal visits, no processions: Prohibitory orders in Mumbai during Ganesh festival||Citing the COVID-19 situation, police on Thursday imposed orders under CrPC section 144 in Mumbai, prohibiting assembly of five or more persons during the Ganesh festival between September 10 to 19.  No processions of any kind would be allowed in the city during this period and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals either, an official statement said.  All prominent Ganesh mandals would be offering the online 'darshan' facility, police said. Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure empowers the authorities to issue prohibitory orders for preventive purposes.  The Maharashtra home department had issued a circular the day before banning visits to pandals so as to prevent the spread of the viral infection.  Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 530 new coronavirus cases, the highest since mid-July.  The order issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police S Chaitanya referred to the directives of the home department as well as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).  People can have `darshan' of Ganesh idols installed in pandals through the online mode or through other electronic media (such as TV), the police release said.  Any person violating the orders would face action under IPC section 188 (disobeying order lawfully promulgated by public servant) and other relevant laws, it said. City police commissioner Hemant Nagrale also issued a video message, appealing Mumbaikars to observe safety precautions during the festival. A surge in COVID-19 cases has been observed in Mumbai and neighbouring areas in the last few days, he pointed out. All prominent Ganesh mandals in the city have made arrangements to offer online darshan facility, and the permission for `mukh darshan' (seeing idols by visiting pandals in person) is not given anywhere, Nagrale added. Also, no public cultural events should be organized during the festival, the police commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Afghan territory must not be used for carrying out terror activities in other countries: BRICS||The territory of Afghanistan must not be used to carry out terror attacks against other countries, the five-nation influential grouping BRICS said on Thursday and strongly called for combating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including the cross-border movement of terrorists. The grouping held extensive deliberations on pressing issues including the situation in Afghanistan at a virtual summit chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The summit, hosted by India, was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil's Jair Bolsanaro. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade. In a declaration issued at the end of the summit, the grouping called for refraining from violence and settling the situation in Afghanistan by peaceful means. "We call for refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means. We stress the need to contribute to fostering an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue so as to ensure stability, civil peace, law and order in the country," the BRICS said. The grouping also condemned in strongest terms the terrorist attacks near Kabul Airport recently that resulted in a large number of deaths and injuries. "We underscore the priority of fighting terrorism, including preventing attempts by terrorist organisations to use Afghan territory as a terrorist sanctuary and to carry out attacks against other countries, as well as drug trade within Afghanistan," the BRICS said. "We emphasise the need to address the humanitarian situation and to uphold human rights, including those of women, children and minorities," it said. Referring to the threat of terrorism, the BRICS said it is committed to combating the menace in all its forms and manifestations, including the cross-border movement of terrorists. The summit also endorsed the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan for implementing the grouping's Counter-Terrorism Strategy that was adopted by the NSAs of the member nations of the grouping. "We express strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations whenever, wherever and by whomsoever committed. We recognize the threat emanating from terrorism, extremism conducive to terrorism and radicalisation," it said. Reiterating that terrorism should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group, the leaders said, "We reaffirm our unwavering commitment to contribute further to the global efforts of preventing and countering the threat of terrorism on the basis of respect for international law". "We reject double standards in countering terrorism and extremism conducive to terrorism. We call for expeditious finalisation and adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism within the UN framework," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||lmlibenla Wati Nienu - A model turned into a Social activist||Imlibenla Wati Nienu has been dealing with numerous fronts to forestall the spread of Coronavirus and guarantee admittance to administrations, for example, teletherapy. Being a Social specialist it is an exceptional situation to advance illness anticipation endeavours and to assist with tending to nervousness and different worries that are emerging because of this general wellbeing emergency. She is working day and night to assist individuals with the best of her insight. Imlibenla is a much popular model who turned into a social activist during the pandemic to help the people in need. She is a person who works beautifully for the public welfare. She tries to fulfil all the needs of patients. Being a model and a social worker on the other hand it is a tough job that is perfectly played by her without any wrong. During the Covid-19 crisis, people ran out of everything not only luxury but also all the basic needs of a person. Covid-19 pandemic has thought us to live with all the types of possibilities. Post Pandemic period is a new life with all the new normals. As health centre has told about the third wave. Imlibenla Wati Nienu is all set to put her hands on the work for the betterment of people. Working hard with constant efforts is something which she never fails. She sponsored many front line workers from various towns and villages with the many PPE kits, N95 masks, gloves, sanitisers and all the things which one needs to protect their selves during working hours. She also worked on providing food for the patients as well as workers. Providing them with all the necessities is what one can do as a social activist and here lmlibenla proved that working for the public benefit gives you more calm and happiness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Centre: No scientific unit suggests vaccinating kids a condition to reopen schools||The Union government on Thursday said no scientific body suggests that vaccination of children against Covid-19 should be a condition for reopening schools, but inoculation of teachers, school employees and parents is desirable. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said whether children have to be vaccinated and who among them should get the jabs is an evolving scientific and public health discourse. Only a limited number of nations have introduced vaccination of children so far, he said. Besides the aspect of vaccination, the overall epidemiological situation has to be safe for opening schools, he said. Most importantly, following standard operating procedures about ventilation, seating arrangements, staggered classes and wearing masks among others will be critical when schools reopen, Paul stressed. "No scientific body, epidemiology, no evidence suggests that vaccination against Covid-19 should be a condition to reopen schools. However, inoculation of teachers, other school employees and parents is desirable," he told the press conference. "There is no WHO recommendation also that we should move in that direction for reasons such as low mortality and high incidence of asymptomatic infection. We as a nation and government are working actively in the direction of scientific validation of our vaccines for potential use in children." Paul said that Zydus vaccine has also already been licenced for children. How and when it will be administered is being discussed by scientific bodies, Paul said, adding that the trial of Covaxin on children is nearing completion. Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited has been given permission to conduct the phase two/three clinical trial of its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine on children and adolescents aged between five and 18 years with certain conditions. In July, India's Drug Regulator also granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase two/three trials of its Covovax vaccine on children aged two to 17 years with certain conditions. "One vaccine (Zydus) has been made available for potential use in children and we are waiting for a decision from NTAGI in this regard," Paul said. According to sources, NTAGI will chalk out a roadmap for introducing the three-dose ZyCoV-D vaccine in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive and will also develop a priority list with the focus being on adolescents aged 12-18 years with comorbidities. NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||BRICS adopted a counter-terrorism action plan, says Modi at summit||The BRICS has adopted a counter-terrorism action plan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while chairing a virtual summit of the five-nation grouping. The summit, which was hosted by India, was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil's Jair Bolsanaro. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade. In his opening remarks, Modi said India has received full cooperation from all BRICS partners during its chairmanship and listed various achievements of the grouping. "Today we are an influential voice for the emerging economies of the world. This platform has also been useful for focusing attention on the priorities of developing nations as well," he said. The BRICS has created strong institutions like the New Development Bank, the Contingency Reserve Arrangement and the Energy Research Cooperation Platform, he noted. "These are all very strong institutions," he added. "However, it is also important that we do not become too self-satisfied and we must ensure that BRICS is even more result-oriented in the next 15 years," he said. The Prime Minister said the grouping has achieved several "firsts" and referred to the holding of the first-ever BRICS digital summit recently. "This is an innovative step to increase health access with the help of technology. In November, our Water Resources Ministers will be meeting for the first time under the BRICS format. It is also the first time that BRICS has taken a collective position on 'Strengthening and Reforming Multilateral Systems'," Modi said. "We have also adopted the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan," he said. The Prime Minister said with cooperation between the customs departments, intra- BRICS trade will become easier. "There has also been a consensus with regards to starting a virtual BRICS vaccination research and development centre. BRICS Alliance on green tourism is also another new initiative," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews Jammu and Kashmir sitution amid Taliban concerns||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and development projects being implemented there, official sources said. His meeting with top functionaries of the central government and the Union Territory administration came two days after the Taliban announced its interim government in Afghanistan. There have been reports that Pakistan-based terror groups Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba -- both active in Jammu and Kashmir and involved in a large number of terror attacks in the past -- have shifted their bases to Afghanistan with a friendly Taliban regime in place. The home minister reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and steps being taken to check infiltration from across the border and maintain peace in the union territory, official sources said. Sirajuddin Haqqani, the new acting interior minister of Afghanistan, is the head of the terror group Haqqani network, which was responsible for attacks on Indian assets, including the Indian embassy in Kabul, in the past. Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen last week had said "As Muslims, we also have a right to raise our voice for Muslims in Kashmir, India or any other country". Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, NSA Ajit Doval, Army Chief General M M Naravane, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Director of Intelligence Bureau Arvinda Kumar, R&AW chief Samant Goel, BSF DG Pankaj Singh and CRPF chief Kuldip Singh attended the meeting. The meeting is believed to have discussed about the political and security implications in the Kashmir valley following the death of hardline Hurriyat Conference chairman Syed Ali Shah Geelani. The group has already elected Masarat Alam Bhat, currently in jail, as its chairman. Shah also reviewed various development initiatives being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir, including the Rs 80,000 crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. Shah had said in the past that all-round development and welfare of the people of the Union Territory are on top priority list of the Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Uncertainty has spread across the world, Afghanistan one such example: Rajnath||Uncertainty has spread in everywhere in the world and the current developments in Afghanistan is one such example, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. "Whether it is South China Sea, Indian Ocean region, Indo-Pacific region or Central Asia, we can see uncertainty everywhere. The current developments in Afghanistan is one such example," he said at an event here where medium range surface-to-air missile MRSAM was inducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF). The global scenario is changing very quickly and in an unexpected way, he stated. "Amid this changing global scenario, the equations between the nations are also changing quickly as per their interests," Singh said. He also said that the changing geopolitics is affecting trade, economy, as well as the current security scenario. "In such a situation, the strength of our security and our self-reliance is not an achievement, but a necessity," he noted. The Taliban seized control of Afghanistan in mid-August, ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. An interim Cabinet was formed comprising high-profile members of the insurgent group. In his speech, Singh also said that from being tagged as number one defence importer in the world, India today is supplying defence systems and sub-systems to foreign countries and it is something worth to be proud of. "We are taking all such measures that will help our defence sector to stand on its legs," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Over 58 per cent of India's adult population got least one dose of Covid vaccine: Govt||The government on Thursday said 58 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 18 per cent got both the shots as the total number of jabs administered in the country crossed 72 crores. Addressing a press conference, officials said India is still going through the second wave of coronavirus infections and it is not over yet. They said 35 districts in the country are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent while in 30 districts it is between five to 10 per cent. Providing data about the number of COVID-19 cases reported from different parts of the country, officials said 68.59 per cent of the total infection reported in the country last week was from Kerala. About the vaccination drive, the government said in Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Himachal Pradesh all people above 18 years got at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. "Eighteen per cent of India's adult population received both the doses of anti-coronavirus vaccine while 58 per cent were administered at least one dose," an official said. The cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in India crossed 72 crore on Thursday, he said. About resuming physical classes in schools, the government officials said no scientific body or evidence suggests that vaccination of children should be a condition for reopening schools. However, vaccination of teachers, school employees and parents is desirable, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Farmers at fault should face action as well, says Haryana minister||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the government is ready for a probe into last month's clash between farmers and police but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they're found to be at fault. Vij offered an "impartial" inquiry into the "entire Karnal episode" as farmers continued their dharna outside the Karnal district headquarters for the third day demanding action over the August 28 lathicharge. Their main demands centres around the suspension of then SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of farmers if they cross the line. The minister made it clear that "nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it". "We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to (former Karnal) SDM (Ayush Sinha), but the entire Karnal episode. In this (probe), if farmers or their leaders are found guilty, then whatever action is deemed fit will be taken," Vij told reporters in Ambala. The minister, however, said, "Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted." "We cannot hang anyone because someone says so... Is the country's IPC (Indian Penal Code) different and the farmers' IPC different? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted," said Vij referring to their demand of suspending the IAS officer. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks to policemen. About the farmers protesting in Karnal, he said anyone has the right to hold a protest in a peaceful manner. "Farmers are holding an agitation in Karnal which is their democratic right," said Vij, while adding "our officials are regularly holding talks with them. Dialogue is an integral part of any democracy". The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by state Home Department said. "Mobile Internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 07:00 hours till 23:59 hours of September 9," said the order issued on Thursday. Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over the police lathicharge had failed on Wednesday after which the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters. Meanwhile, into the third day of the dharna, protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal, though farm union leaders have said officials and the public won't be stopped from entering it. A mahapanchayat was held in the city and then the dharna began on Tuesday evening after an earlier round of talks between district officials and the farm leaders had also "failed". Farmer union leaders had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge in Karnal. The protest leaders had also claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration. The farm leaders had demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of the deceased farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Govt unveils 100-day plan for civil aviation sector||Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday announced a 100-day plan for the country's civil aviation sector, including policy measures and development of airports as well as heliports. The civil aviation minister said the plan would focus on 16 areas. Addressing a press conference here, Scindia said the plan has been prepared after "combined consultations". Out of the 16 areas, 8 relate to policy and 4 pertain to reforms. Among others, six heliports would be developed in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand under the regional air connectivity scheme UDAN. A new policy for Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) activities has also been announced. The civil aviation sector has been adversely impacted by the coronavirus pandemic and is slowly coming on the recovery path.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||My statement on Taliban deliberately distorted, says Mehbooba Mufti||Stating that most countries claiming to uphold the Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said her statement on the Taliban is being deliberately distorted and used as clickbait' because Muslims are always expected to prove they don't stand for violence. On Wednesday, she had said the Taliban has come to the fore as a reality and advised them to follow the true Sharia law that guarantees rights to women, children and the elderly if they want to govern Afghanistan. The comments led to criticism in sections of the media as well as social media platforms. A day later, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said she was not surprised her statement on the Sharia had been deliberately distorted. "Can't point fingers since most countries that claim to uphold Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values. They are only fixated with restricting women through do's & don't's, dress codes etc," Mehbooba wrote on Twitter. She said the real Medina Charter stipulates equal rights for men, women and minorities. "In fact, women have been granted property, social, legal & marriage rights. Non-Muslims have the same rights inc religious freedom & equality of law which is the essence of secularism," she said. "Islamic history, Mehbooba said, is full of examples of emancipated and empowered women. Hazrat Khadija Tul Kubra, Prophet SWA first wife was an independent & successful businesswoman. Hazrat Ayesha Siddique led the Battle of Camel & headed a force of 13000 soldiers (sic)," she added. "However, at a time when India has become so polarised, there is increasing Islamophobia and Afghanistan crisis has only worsened it," she said. "Muslims are always expected to prove that they don't stand for violence. I can see why my statement is being used as clickbait to further this impression," the PDP chief said. On Wednesday, she told reporters that the Taliban should shun the hardline interpretation of Islam and Sharia if they want to do business with the international community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court discharges man, cites common sense||Discharging a man of an offence in the northeast Delhi riots last year, a court here said that even though communal riots cases have to be considered with the utmost sensitivity, common sense should not be given a go-by. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav discharged 22-year-old Javed for the offence of causing "mischief by fire or explosive substance", after noting that the complainant's statements do not show that the particular act was committed. The judge said, "This court is conscious of the fact that cases of communal riots have to be considered with utmost sensitivity, but that does not mean that common sense should be given go-by; the mind has to be applied even at this stage with regard to the material available on record." Accused Javed was arrested in April 2020 based on complaints filed by four people who claimed that their house, godown and shops were vandalised and looted by a riotous mob on February 25, 2020. The judge observed however that there were no eyewitnesses, CCTV footage or photographs of the incident. He also took note of the fact that the complainant did not state a single word regarding mischief by fire or explosive substance by the mob. "I'm afraid that the investigating agency cannot cover up the said flaw by way of recording the supplementary statements of complainants, if the ingredient(s) of section 436 IPC [mischief by fire] was not there in their initial written complaints made to the police, ASJ Yadav said. "I am of the considered view that ingredients of Section 436 IPC are not at all made out from the material produced on record by the investigating agency. Except Section 436 IPC, all the offences invoked in the matter are exclusively triable by the court of learned Magistrate," he added. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||IIT Madras ranked best institution in India: NRIF ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained the top spot among institutes in the country, while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru ranked the best among research institutions, according to the Ministry of Education's NIRF ranking announced on Thursday. In the sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by Union Education Dharmendra Pradhan, eight IITs and two national Institutes of Technology (NITs) figured in the top ten engineering institutions in the country. The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad ranked as the best B-School, while Jamia Hamdard was declared the top institution for pharmacy studies. In the colleges category, Miranda House in Delhi bagged the first rank followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women, Delhi and Loyola College, Chennai. As per the NIRF ranking, AIIMS Delhi has bagged the top spot among medical colleges followed by PGIMER Chandigarh and Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||EC declares bypolls to seven Rajya Sabha seats in six states||The Election Commission (EC) on Thursday announced dates for bypolls to seven Rajya Sabha seats that have fallen vacant due to various reasons like resignations, death and end of tenure of members. According to a notification issued by the EC, there are two such seats in Tamil Nadu and one each in West Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh. The Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sabha (RS) seat got vacant after BJP leader and former Union cabinet minister Thaawarchand Gehlot was elevated as the Karnataka Governor in July. The polls to all these seven seats will take place on October 4, the EC said. The two seats in Tamil Nadu fell vacant due to the resignation of AIADMK leaders K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam who are now members of the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly. The West Bengal Rajya Sabha seat fell vacant after the resignation of TMC leader and cabinet minister in West Bengal government Manas Ranjan Bhunia. In Assam, the seat held by assembly speaker Biswajit Daimary fell vacant after he resigned from the membership of the upper house of Parliament and his earlier party, the Bodoland People's Front, and joined the BJP before the recent polls in the state. The BJP may field Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal from the Assam seat as he is yet to become a member of either house of Parliament. The Maharashtra seat got vacant due to the death of Congress leader Rajeev Satav in May this year due to COVID-19 infection. In Puducherry, the RS seat will fall vacant soon as the term of incumbent member N Gokulakrishnan ends on October 6. The EC said in its order that all "broad guidelines of COVID-19" have to be followed during the election process, that is from the time of issue of notification to the counting of votes. "The chief secretaries of states concerned are being directed to depute a senior officer from the state to ensure that the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the election," the poll panel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Modi hosts India Paralympic contingent||India's Paralympians presented Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an autographed stole on Thursday during a breakfast hosted by him to felicitate the contingent at his residence here. The Indian para-athletes returned from Tokyo on the back of a sensational campaign that saw them win an unparalleled 19 medals, including five gold, eight silver and six bronze. This was the country's best-ever Paralympics campaign as it finished 24th in the overall tally. The PM was presented with a white stole signed by all the medal winners, which he was seen wearing around his neck. Modi, who has been the first to congratulate the para-athletes on call after their medal winning feats, was seen talking to shuttlers Suhas Yathiraj, the District Magistrate of Noida, who won a silver, gold medallist Krishna Nagar (badminton) and young Palak Kohli (badminton). Indian shuttlers bagged four medals including two gold, in para-badminton, which made its debut in the Paralympics. Shooters Avani Lekhara and Singhraj Adana, who both won two medals each in the Tokyo Games, also chatted with the PM. Lekhara, who was paralysed waist down after being involved in an accident, had scripted history by becoming the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic gold before adding a bronze to her kitty. The 39-year-old Adana, who is afflicted with polio, clinched a silver and a bronze. The PM also interacted with veteran javelin thrower Davendra Jhajharia and high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu, who won gold medals in 2016 Rio Games. The duo finished on podium again, this time with silver medals. Also present were table tennis player Bhavina Patel, who won a silver, and bronze medallist recurve archer Harvinder Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||SC dismisses plea seeking directions to fill vacant posts in NHRC||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea seeking directions to fill vacant posts at the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao noted that former apex court judge Justice Arun Mishra has been appointed as the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission. "In view of subsequent events of appointment of chairman and members this petition has become infructuous," the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said. During the brief hearing, the petitioner told the bench that chairperson and members have been appointed and only two posts are lying vacant. The apex court then asked, "Chairperson has been appointed, why should we keep it pending. The matter has become infructuous." The top court was hearing a plea filed by lawyer Radhakant Tripathi seeking a direction to fill vacant posts at the National Human Rights Commission. Justice Mishra is also the first non-CJI to be appointed to the NHRC chief post since the amendment of the Protection of Human Rights Act in 2019. The post of NHRC chairperson was lying vacant after Justice H L Dattu, a former Chief Justice of India (CJI), completed his tenure in December last year. Rajiv Jain, former director of the Intelligence Bureau, and justice M M Kumar, former chief justice of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court have also joined as members of the commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Rajnath, Gadkari inaugurate emergency landing strip for IAF planes||Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari inaugurated an emergency landing strip at Satta-Gandhav stretch on National Highway 925 here on Thursday for Indian Air Force (IAF) planes. A Hercules C-130J plane of the IAF, carrying the two ministers and Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, conducted a mock emergency landing on the national highway on Thursday. NH-925 is India's first national highway to be used for emergency landing of IAF aircraft. The two ministers also witnessed multiple aircraft operations on the emergency landing facility (ELF) of NH-295 on Thursday. Sukhoi-30MKI fighter jet also conducted a mock emergency landing at the ELF in front of the two ministers. An-32 military transport aircraft and Mi-17v5 helicopter of the IAF also landed at the ELF, showing its complete operational readiness to act as an auxiliary military airbase. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has developed the 3-km section of Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925 as an ELF for the IAF. In October 2017, fighter jets and transport planes of the IAF had conducted mock landings on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway to show that such highways can be used by the IAF planes for landing in case of an emergency. The Lucknow-Agra Expressway, which is not a national highway, comes under the Uttar Pradesh government. Officials told PTI a total of 27 other highways, apart from the one in Barmer, are being currently studied jointly by the IAF and the NHAI to see if emergency landing strips can be developed on them. The emergency landing strip, which was inaugurated on Thursday, is part of newly developed two-lane paved shoulder of Gagariya-Bakhasar and Satta-Gandhav section having total length of 196.97 km and costing Rs 765.52 crore under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. This highway project will improve connectivity between villages of Barmer and Jalore districts located on the international border. Apart from the emergency landing strip, three helipads (size 100x30 metres each) have been constructed in Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages under this project, according to the requirements of the IAF and the Indian Army. The ELF and three helipads have been developed so as to strengthen the security network on the western international border of the country. During normal time, the ELF will be used for smooth flow of road traffic and during the operations of ELF for the IAF, the service road will be used for smooth flow of road traffic. The ELF was constructed in 19 months. The work commenced in July 2019 and was completed in January 2021. The work was carried out by GHV India Pvt Ltd under the supervision of the IAF and the NHAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||HC dismisses Kangana's plea seeking quashing of defamation case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed the plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of the criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by a court here based on lyricist Javed Akhtar's complaint. High court judge, Justice Revati Mohite Dere, who had on September 1 reserved her order on the plea, said the applicant's (Ranaut's) petition "stands dismissed". Ranaut, through her counsel Rizwan Siddiquee, had challenged the defamation proceedings that were initiated by the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate's court earlier this year, saying that the court had failed to apply its mind to the case. Akhtar's counsel Jay Bharadwaj, however, told the high court that the magistrate had directed for the police inquiry after going through the lyricist's complaint and excerpts of Ranaut's interview, in which she had made the alleged defamatory comments. Akhtar had filed the criminal complaint against Ranaut in November last year before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview given to journalist Arnab Goswami. In December 2020, the court directed the Juhu police to conduct an inquiry into Akhtar's complaint against Ranaut and then initiated criminal proceedings against her and issued summons to her in February this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||India logs over 43,000 fresh Covid cases, 338 casualties in a day ||India recorded 43,263 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,31,39,981, while the active cases increased to 3,93,614, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,41,749 with 338 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.19 per cent of the total infections and the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,358 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 74 consecutive days. As many as 18,17,639 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 53,68,17,243. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.38 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 10 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.43 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 76 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,04,618, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 71.65 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 338 new fatalities include 181 from Kerala, and 65 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,749 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,962 from Maharashtra, 37,458 from Karnataka, 35,073 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,001 from Kerala and 18,531 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC notice to Facebook, Centre on cyber blackmailing||The Uttarakhand High Court has sent notices to Facebook, the Centre and the state government on a PIL filed by an advocate alleging that he was a victim of cyber blackmailing. Hearing the petition on Wednesday, Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma directed Facebook India Head and central and state governments to file their replies within three weeks. The Uttarakhand DGP and the Haridwar additional superintendent of police have also been sent notices by the division bench of the high court. The PIL was related to obscene videos on Internet made using pictures from hacked Facebook IDs and by fraudsters having fake Facebook IDs. These videos and accounts were being used to blackmail people and extort lakhs of rupees from them. The petitioner, an advocate based in Haridwar, said in the petition that friend requests are sent from fake Facebook IDs and once these requests are accepted the photos are edited into obscene videos. After this people are blackmailed for money, he said, adding a similar video was sent to him. He filed a complaint before the SSP Haridwar, DGP and the home secretary but no action was taken, the petitioner said. He, then, filed an application under RTI, asking the police department about the number of FIRs registered in such cases. Forty-five victims have lodged complaints in similar cases so far and their complaints are under consideration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Light to moderate rainfall likely in Delhi||Another spell of rain is set to commence over Delhi starting with light precipitation towards the afternoon on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department said. Light to moderate rainfall is expected in Delhi-NCR over the next three days, when the monsoon trough will shift slightly towards the north, an IMD official said. The precipitation is likely to bring the maximum temperature down to 30 degrees Celsius. The capital recorded a minimum of 27.2 degrees Celsius this morning. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. The capital has already recorded 243.5 mm rainfall this month so far, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin.Usually, it gauges only 58.3 mm rainfall on the first nine days of the month. Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on September 2, the highest on a day in the month in 19 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||BJP claims Centre set up 2 colleges a day since 2014, devil lies in detail||The BJP’s claim that the “Modi government set up two colleges every day since 2014” is not borne out by data published by Narendra Modi’s own administration. That is, unless one counts all the colleges set up by the state governments and private players too and credits the Narendra Modi government for their establishment. “Focusing on higher education, Modi government set up two colleges every day since 2014. First ever forensic university and Rail & Transport University also established,” the BJP tweeted on Tuesday. A survey by the Union education ministry shows the Centre set up only 72 higher education institutions — five central universities and 67 Institutions of National Importance (INIs) — between September 30, 2013, and September 30, 2019, a period the country spent mostly under Modi’s rule. (The All India Survey on Higher Education or Aishe is conducted annually and gives figures up to September 30 for a particular year. The figures for the year 2013-14, for instance, describe the situation up to September 30, 2013.) There were 1,953 days between May 26, 2014, when Modi formally assumed office, and September 30, 2019. At the rate of two colleges a day, the Modi government would have had to set up 3,906 colleges within this period. Instead, it established 72 institutions — assuming for argument’s sake that the UPA did not set up even one in the period between October 1, 2013, and May 26, 2014. This is less than 1.84 per cent or a fifty-fourth of the two-a-day figure. The survey seems to have somehow missed the “forensic university” mentioned in the tweet while the “Rail & Transport University” came into being after September 30, 2019, when the survey period ends. The BJP seems to have arrived at the two-a-day ratio by attributing to the central government the credit for all the institutions set up between September 30, 2013, and September 30, 2019. A graphic showing the findings of the relevant Aishe surveys was attached to the tweet. It shows there were 36,634 colleges on September 30, 2013, and 42,343 on September 30, 2019 — a difference of 5,709 that meets the target of 3,906 comfortably. Not every college provided data, including that on whether it was a private or government college. Data was shared by 29,330 colleges in 2013 and 39,955 colleges in 2019. From the available data, the survey counted an increase of 1,335 government colleges during the six-year period. However, an education ministry official clarified to The Telegraph that each of these colleges had been established by a state government. “Some of them get funds from the University Grants Commission for certain infrastructural facilities but they are largely managed by the states,” the official said. Even adding these 1,335 colleges to the 72 new central institutions raises the figure just above one-third of the six-year target of 3,906. It’s clear, therefore, that the BJP counted the new private colleges too. According to the available data, the number of private colleges went up from 22,100 on September 30, 2013, to 31,390 on September 30, 2019 — an increase of 9,290 colleges. Educationists said the Centre could claim no credit for the market-driven boom in private colleges, and added that most of these institutions were substandard, anyway. “These days, every school board records a 90 per cent pass rate in Class XII. So there’s a huge pool of candidates looking for higher education opportunities. The private sector has come up with institutions to fill this gap,” said G.R.C. Reddy, former director of NIT Warangal. “The quality of education in most private institutions is substandard,” he added. S.S. Mantha, former chairperson of the All India Council for Technical Education, said: “There’s been a sharp increase in the number of colleges because of initiatives by the private sector and the state governments. They must be given equal credit.” He expressed concern at the steady decline in the Centre’s spending on higher education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Ajit Doval holds talks with CIA chief, intelligence head of Russia||National security adviser Ajit Doval is reported to have held unacknowledged talks with the CIA chief and followed it up with an announced meeting with the intelligence head of Russia. Much of the back-to-back deliberations in New Delhi apparently revolved around Afghanistan where a Pakistan-midwifed interim government has been set up with a number of UN-blacklisted terrorists, including Prime Minister Mullah Muhammad Hassan Akhund. The purported visit by CIA chief William Burns, who was en route to Pakistan, was kept hush-hush by both India and the US. But the meeting with the secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation, Gen. Nikolay Patrushev, was announced in advance by the Indian external affairs ministry. Burns is reported to have met Doval on Tuesday. Neither country confirmed the visit but news reports on the visit were not denied either. The visit comes close on the heels of Pakistan spy chief Lt Gen. Faiz Hameed’s very public visit to Kabul over the weekend, after which there was a full-scale assault on the Panjshir resistance groups whose representatives alleged that Pakistani aircraft were used against them. Within a day of the Taliban claiming control over Panjshir — a claim contested by the National Resistance Front (NRF) of Afghanistan -— the insurgents announced their caretaker government, in which most senior positions have gone to the old guard. The new ruling arrangement has four members from the Haqqani network, which has close ties with the Pakistani deep state and has targeted both the US and India in the past. Acting Prime Minister Hassan Akhund is a UN-blacklisted terrorist, as are several other government seniors. During the Doval-Patrushev meeting, the two sides discussed the prospects of a Russian-Indian joint effort at creating conditions for the launch of a peaceful settlement process on the basis of an intra-Afghan dialogue. According to a statement from the Russian embassy, the two delegations agreed to coordinate the approaches of Russia and India in multilateral formats on an Afghan settlement. “The importance of defining parameters of the future state structure of Afghanistan by the Afghans themselves, as well as the need to prevent the escalation of violence, social, ethnic and confessional contradictions in the country, were emphasised,” the statement said. From the Indian side, representatives of the external affairs ministry, the defence ministry and security agencies participated in the meeting. Later, Patrushev — who has been secretary of the Security Council since 2008 — met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar. In a tweet, Jaishankar said he held “very useful discussions on Afghanistan” with Patrushev. Addressing a conference on Afghanistan jointly convened by the foreign ministers of the US and Germany, Jaishankar said: “Resumption of travel out of Kabul is a priority. Use of Afghan soil to promote terrorism in any manner by any country is unacceptable. The Taliban must live up to its declarations to that effect. “The world should not countenance interference by external players, especially those intensifying violence at this difficult time. Our collective approach should be guided by UNSC resolution 2593.” Resolution 2593 -- adopted by the UNSC late last month under India’s rotating presidency – calls for ensuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used for terrorism against any country, enhancing efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, and upholding human rights. Russia and China had abstained as their concerns, especially about terrorist groups directed against them, were not taken on board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Cloud on Mamata's Rome peace conference trip||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said she would be unable to travel to Rome to attend an international event on peace next month as she had taken Covaxin, which is yet to get WHO approval for emergency use listing (EUL). “I was invited to Rome. But I am not able to visit as I have been administered two doses of Covaxin. Will the Prime Minister care to explain?” asked the chief minister. EUL is a procedure that WHO uses to assess the safety, efficacy and risk factors associated with a vaccine. If WHO clears it, people inoculated with the home-grown vaccine can travel abroad without any restrictions. Sources said the chief minister’s office had got to know that those administered two doses of Covaxin would have to go through a two-week quarantine on landing in Rome. They added that Mamata, who had not spoken about her vaccination till now, had raised the issue to highlight a problem faced by those vaccinated with Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||SC grants ED officers extension only in 'rare and exceptional cases'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that the government can extend the tenure of retired Enforcement Directorate officers only in “rare and exceptional cases” to complete investigations or other pressing commitments as it upheld the Centre’s decision to grant one-year extension retrospectively to ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra. The apex court also said that Mishra shall not be granted any further extension beyond his present tenure which comes to an end in November this year. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai passed the judgment while dismissing an appeal filed by the NGO Common Cause challenging the appointment of Mishra as being illegal and contrary to the rules prescribed under the CVC Act relating to the appointment of senior ED officials. “This Writ Petition has been filed in public interest under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for quashing the order dated 13.11.2020 issued by Respondent No. 1 (the Centre), which extended the tenure of the Respondent No. 2 as Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement and for consequential direction to Respondent No. 1 to appoint the Director of Enforcement in accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (CVC Act). “The justification given by the Union of India for extension of the tenure of second Respondent (Mishra) is that important investigations are at a crucial stage in trans-border crimes. The decision to extend the tenure of the second Respondent is pursuant to the recommendation made by the high-powered committee. “Though we have upheld the power of the Union of India to extend the tenure of Director of Enforcement beyond the period of two years, we should make it clear that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases. “Reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate the completion of ongoing investigations only after reasons are recorded by the Committee constituted under Section 25 (a) of the CVC Act. Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of Enforcement after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period. We do not intend to interfere with the extension of tenure of the second Respondent in the instant case for the reason that his tenure is coming to an end in November 2021. We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second Respondent,” the apex court said. The NGO had contended that Mishra, vide an order dated November 19, 2018, was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The two-year tenure came to an end on November 19, 2020. Mishra has already reached the retirement age of 60 years in May 2020. However, vide the impugned office order dated November 13, 2020, it was notified that the President has been pleased to approve the modification in the earlier order dated November 19, 2018, appointing Mishra as ED director for a period of “three years”. Hence, the petitioner had sought quashing of the order granting him an extension of one year. Rejecting the argument, Justice Rao, who authored the judgment, while interpreting the various rules, including the CVC Act, said: “…there is no fetter on the power of the Central Government in appointing the Director of Enforcement beyond a period of two years. “Having examined the report of the independent review committee and the judgment of this Court in Vineet Narain’s case (1998), it is clear that the minimum period of two years provided in Section 25 (d) is to prevent extraneous pressure.” “Prescription of a minimum period of two years is to ensure that the Director of Enforcement is not transferred or shifted from the said post during the course of investigation of serious offences. There is no ambiguity in Section 25 (d) of CVC Act and the words ‘not less than two years’ simply mean a minimum of two years.” Justice Rao said while upholding the extension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||IAF: CCS approves procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft||The cabinet committee on security on Wednesday approved the procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Ltd will jointly execute the project to equip the force with the transport aircraft under the Make in India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing the contract. The remaining 40 will be manufactured in India by the Tatas within 10 years of signing the contract. C-295MW aircraft is a transport plane of 5-10-tonne capacity with contemporary technology that will replace the ageing Avro fleet of the IAF. The C-295MW has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para-dropping of troops and cargo. “This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company. All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite,” the Press Information Bureau, the government’s publicity arm, said in a statement. “The project will give a boost to the aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft.” A large number of detail parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies of aero structure is scheduled to be manufactured in India. “The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation in the aerospace ecosystem of the country and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium-skill employment opportunities with more than 42.5 lakh man hours of work,” the PIB statement said. It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiways, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Women can go to National Defence Academy, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Wednesday admitted that it was “nudged” by the Supreme Court into agreeing to induct women into the prestigious National Defence Academy for the post of permanent commissioned officers from next year. The government also informed the apex court that it might not be possible to allow female candidates to appear for this year’s NDA exams in November as the necessary infrastructure was not in place. Appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh, additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati admitted that the latest decision was prompted by the Supreme Court’s nudge. “Your Lordship’s nudge, persuading and pushing us through had made a difference. The decision has been taken at the highest level of the forces and the government last (Tuesday) evening that girls will be inducted for permanent commission through NDA. Please permit us time to place this on record,” Bhati told the court while seeking a short adjournment. During the earlier round of hearing, the apex court had questioned the logic behind not allowing women officers the status of permanent commissioned officers and entry into the NDA as it amounted to gender discrimination. However, it did not pass any order because the issue was related to the country’s defence forces. “We were only nudging the authorities to do certain things themselves. We know that they (defence forces) are best suited to evolve such changes. The court steps in only when nothing happens. It is not a very happy situation for us either to intervene in such matter,” Justice Kaul told Bhati. On Bhati’s request, the court adjourned the matter to September 22 to enable the government file a detailed affidavit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Bangalore Idli-batter maker complains against communal hate||iD Fresh Food (India) Ltd, the Bangalore-based company that produces batter for idli and dosa, has complained to the cyber crime wing of the city police and WhatsApp’s grievance cell about a communal campaign on social media against its products. Messages have been circulated on social media platforms making the unsubstantiated claim that iD Fresh Food uses cow bones and calf rennet in its idli and dosa batter. Rennet is curdled milk from the stomach of an unweaned calf. “We, at iD Fresh Food India Pvt Ltd, have filed a complaint with the WhatsApp Grievance Cell and Cybercrime, Bangalore, against the misleading and false information being spread about our company and its products,” the firm said in a statement on Wednesday. “We would like to reiterate that iD uses only vegetarian ingredients to make its products,” stated the company that has a range of products including ready-to-cook Malabar porota, curd and south Indian filter coffee decoction. The campaign was apparently started by Chennai-based Twitter user Srinivasa S.G, who had highlighted the religious identity of the company’s founders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||India needs to enhance indigenous defence technology: IAF chief||Indian Air Force chief R.K.S. Bhadauria on Wednesday said the country needed to enhance indigenous defence technology in view of the growing threat from China. “Keeping in mind our northern neighbour, we need a niche technology in the defence sector that is built in-house. This will give us maximum results and spring surprises on the adversary in the next conflict. We have to make our own sensors, weapons, etc,” he said. The IAF chief was speaking at a seminar in Delhi on “Energising Indian Aerospace Industry: Challenges for Atmanirbhar Bharat”, organised by the Society for Indian Defence Manufacturers. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Chinese army is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Bhadauria said the IAF was looking at having 350 fighter aircraft from local industry, including 83 light combat Tejas jets. He said Tejas had already generated confidence among the forces. “Self-reliance has to become the strongest pillar of national security,” he said. Last month defence minister Rajnath Singh had said India would emerge as the defence-manufacturing hub of the world under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, prompting some military veterans to point to the nascent defence production capabilities of the country. In August last year the defence ministry had announced that it would stop importing items, including weaponry, in a phased manner to strengthen the country’s defence production under Atmanirbhar Bharat. A veteran said India did not have enough indigenous capabilities to produce artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars. He added that India first needed to develop robust indigenous manufacturing capabilities as importing critical components and assembling in the country would defeat the purpose of self-reliance. Artillery, guns, sonar systems and light combat helicopter radars are still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The IAF chief on Wednesday also spoke about drone warfare and the challenges ahead in the wake of a drone attack at an air force base in Jammu in July. “We have placed a lot of orders, including (for) drones, counter-drone systems and jammers,” Bhadauria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly passes resolution opposing CAA||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday passed a resolution calling upon the BJP-led Centre to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act as it was against the Constitution and communal harmony. Moving the resolution, chief minister M.K. Stalin said: “This august House considers that the Citizenship Amendment Act passed by Parliament in the year 2019 is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India.” The resolution said: “…the Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in such a way that it does not accord warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminates against them according to their religion and their country of origin.” “To uphold the unity and communal harmony in the country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, the House resolves to urge the Union government to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act,” DMK leader Stalin said. The chief minister pointed out in his opening remarks that in the original Citizenship Act of 1965, religion was not a criterion for getting Indian citizenship. “But this amendment act brought by the current Union government has effected a fundamental change in making religion a criterion for citizenship,” he said. As secularism is a basic feature of the Constitution, religion cannot be the bedrock of a legal enactment, Stalin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||WHO urges India to enhance routine children’s immunisation||The World Health Organisation on Wednesday urged India and other Southeast Asian countries to enhance routine children’s immunisation, flagging the need to repair damage caused by Covid-19, amid estimates that millions of kids haven’t received due vaccines. The Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted essential immunisation and surveillance, increasing the region’s vulnerability to vaccine preventable diseases, the chief of WHO South East Asia office said, calling for enhanced routine immunisation without affecting efforts to increase coronavirus vaccination rates. “There is an urgent need to repair the damage caused by Covid-19… and to protect infants, young people and adults with life-saving vaccines,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO South East Asia regional director, said at the regional committee meeting. Her remarks come amid concerns that disruptions in routine childhood vaccinations during Covid-19 have left millions of children across South Asia without appropriate counts of prescribed vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis or other infections. India, which had the largest count of partially-vaccinated children — 3.5 million, or a 66 per cent increase over the previous year — is among 10 countries that accounted for 62 per cent of under-vaccinated children worldwide, the Unicef had estimated earlier this year. “Though efforts are being made, much more needs to be done, specially at the sub-national levels and to reach the un-reached and underserved population,” Singh said. The number of unvaccinated or partially vaccinated children in Southeast Asia increased from 3 million in 2019 to 4.9 million in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||UP Assembly polls: BJP appoints 5 Union ministers on election duty||The BJP on Wednesday appointed a team of eight leaders, including five Union ministers, to micro-manage poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, underscoring the importance of the upcoming elections in the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation, price rise and joblessness. Education minister Dharmendra Pradhan was made the principal election in-charge. The other Union ministers in the team are Anurag Thakur, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Shobha Karandlaje and Annapurna Devi. In addition to the eight-member team, six party leaders were appointed and tasked with specific regions of the state, including a Haryana MP assigned to western Uttar Pradesh. Over five lakh farmers had assembled in western Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar last Sunday and vowed to defeat the BJP in the coming elections if it didn’t repeal the  “anti-farmer” farm laws. The mismanagement of the second Covid wave, rising prices of essential commodities and shrinking job opportunities for the youth have made matters difficult for the BJP. Internally, there is concern with preliminary feedback from the ground indicating anger even among those regarded as natural backers of the party. The BJP will bank heavily on polarisation to counter anti-incumbency. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to celebrate Diwali in Ayodhya, where a Ram temple is being built that would be used in an attempt to sway the majority community voters. Modi is also scheduled to lay the foundation stone of a university named after a Jat king in Aligarh, in an attempt to mollify the community and also stress the Hindutva plank. The Jat community has been spearheading the farmers’ protest. The proposed university would be located in the same region as the Aligarh Muslim University, which faces repeated attacks from the saffron ecosystem. The BJP has been propagating how the Jat king Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh had formed an interim government of India from Afghanistan, another focus of the party to polarise with the rise of the Taliban. Apart from Uttar Pradesh, the BJP also appointed poll in-charges for four other states — Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi was made in-charge of Uttarakhand with Bengal MP Locket Chatterjee as co-in-charge. Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was tasked with Punjab. Out of the five states, four are ruled by the BJP. The party is determined to retain all to neutralise the defeat in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||Central University of Kerala bans anti-national lectures||The Central University of Kerala has threatened teachers and employees with disciplinary action for any “anti-national” lectures or statements. “The faculty members/employees should abstain from giving any type of provoking lectures/statements that are anti-national and will be against the interest of the nation. Strict disciplinary action will be taken against those who indulge in such activities in future,” a circular, issued by the Kasaragod-based university last week, said. The diktat comes months after assistant professor Gilbert Sebastian of the department of international relations and politics was suspended in May for allegedly saying, in an online class on “fascism and Nazism”, that the RSS-BJP could be considered “proto-fascist”. In the same class, for MA first-year students, Sebastian is alleged to have also criticised the Union government for exporting Covid vaccines at a time there weren’t enough doses for Indians. While student organisations such as the CPM-backed SFI and the Congress-backed Kerala Students Union had supported Sebastian, RSS student arm ABVP had threatened an agitation if the university failed to act against him. A three-member inquiry committee ruled that Sebastian had exceeded his brief but did not describe his remarks as anti-national. Following this, Sebastian was reinstated on June 10. But a university executive committee meeting on June 24 termed Sebastian’s remarks “anti-national” and objected to the vice-chancellor’s “unilateral” decision of revoking his suspension. “EC (executive committee) observed that Dr Gilbert Sebastian’s statements in the class was (sic) anti-national. However the members expressed their concern over the unilateral decision of Hon’ble VC to revoke the suspension based on regret and withdrawal letter submitted by Dr Gilbert Sebastian,” the minutes of the meeting say. Sebastian clarified in an August 5 letter to the vice-chancellor that he had neither regretted nor withdrawn his remarks. He urged the vice-chancellor to expunge from the minutes the mention of regret and withdrawal, saying he had only offered the university cooperation. In the letter, of which this newspaper has a copy, Sebastian wrote that the executive committee’s label of “anti-national” on his statements in the class was “uncalled for and regrettable as it is an unfounded allegation”. A teacher at the university told The Telegraph that the executive committee’s observation on Sebastian’s remarks was the main reason for the recent gag order on “anti-national” comments. “The administration has created an atmosphere of fear on the campus with such decisions, although most of us are against curtailing academic freedom,” the teacher, who declined to be named, said. Earlier in 2018, the university had suspended Prasad Pannian, an associate professor in the department of English and comparative literature, for supporting a Dalit student who had been arrested on the charge of breaking the glass pane of a fire alarm cabinet at the university hostel. Ganthoti Nagaraju, the student, had apparently acted under mental strain caused by his mother’s death. He was later released on bail. Pannian was suspended for writing a Facebook post that said it was “deeply disturbing” that a minor misdemeanour had been “criminalised” and urged the university to get the police to release Nagaraju from custody. “As far as I understand, this is a minor offence that should have been settled on the campus itself. Mr Nagaraju lost his mother a few months back and has been going through severe mental stress and agony for the past few months,” Pannian wrote. Pannian, who remains suspended, has challenged his suspension in court, where the matter is pending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||Odisha govt to give Rs 6 crore cash prize to Pramod Bhagat||The Odisha government will give Rs 6 crore  cash prize to Pramod Bhagat, who won a gold medal in badminton in the recently concluded paralympics in Tokyo. A formal announcement in this regard will be made after Bhagat meets chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday, sources said. “Besides Rs 6 crore, many more awards will be given to Bhagat who made the state proud at the international level,” said a senior official. Sources said he will be offered a Group A government job. Officials said Naveen had earlier announced that the state government will award gold medalists of Tokyo Olympics with Rs 6 crore, silver medalist with Rs 4 crore and bronze medalist Rs 2.5 crore. Besides Rs 15 lakh will be given to athletes for participating in the Olympics. “That announcement stands for the winner of the paralympics,” said an official. After being felicitated by the Government of India in New Delhi, Bhagat told The Telegraph: “I am indebted to the people of Odisha for their love and the chief minister for his constant support to the players and above all the sports. My achievement will certainly kindle a ray of hope among lakhs of differently abled persons to see dreams and translate them into reality.” Bhagat said: “Union sports minister Anurag Thakur felicitated all the medalists of the paralympics on Wednesday in New Delhi. The Government of India would also share the cash prize as per the government guidelines.” Bhagat said after he meets the chief minister in Bhubaneswar, he would go to Puri to offer his prayers at the lotus feet of Lord Jagannath. The 33-year old Bhagat said: “So far I have been concentrating on a medal in the Olympics. Now I am settled and will share the good news of my marriage in the coming days.” He said: “I have seen poverty at very close quarters. I remembered my parents on the day I won the gold medal. Had they been alive, they would have been the happiest persons at this moment. Now these are things of the past. Now I will buy a house in Bhubaneswar and another in my town Attabira in Bargarh district.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh cooked at a dinner hosted by him on Wednesday in honour of the participants of the Olympic Games from the state . The dinner was hosted at Amarinder’s farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali. On the menu were Mutton Khara Pishori, Long Ellachi Chicken, Aloo Korma, Dal Masri, Murg Korma,  Dugani Biryani and  Zarda Rice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||Odisha House witness ruckus from Opposition over mining scam  ||The Odisha legislative Assembly on Wednesday, the penultimate day of the monsoon session, witnessed ruckus as the Opposition demanded that its adjournment motion on the mining scam be taken up for discussion. Both BJP and Congress MLAs gheraoed Speaker Surjya Naryan Patro in his chamber on the Assembly premises. However, the Speaker did not budge, maintaining that the issue of rejection of the adjournment motion could be raised during the Zero Hour and not in the Question Hour. As soon as the Assembly commenced for the day, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra urged the Speaker to accept the adjournment notice for a discussion on the mining scam in the state. When the Speaker refused to entertain the Oppositions’ demand, the Opposition members stormed into the well of the House and raised anti-government slogans. As the bedlam continued, the Speaker adjourned the House till 11.30am. However, the Opposition was not in a mood to relent. Later, they gheraoed the Speaker in his official chamber. The Speaker maintained that the Opposition members came to his chamber and insisted on allowing the discussion on the mining issue. “I told them why I have rejected their demand to admit the adjournment motion,” Patro said. For the entire day in the morning session, the Assembly could not take up any business as the chaos continued and the House had to be adjourned. Ruling party BJD MLA Pratap Keshari Deb said: “The Opposition is trying to divert public attention from various important issues. The entire state is worried about the farmer’s issues. But the Opposition which is doing politics on the issue, has totally failed to take up the farmers’ issues. “The state government is not afraid of facing any issues and is open for all discussion. They are experts in shifting goal posts to suit their political ambitions.” BJP MLA Mohan Majhi said: “The adjournment motion had been given but the Speaker refused to entertain it. We gheraoed him at his chamber. With this it has been proved that the state government is hand in glove with the mine owners. ” Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said: “We are not changing the goalposts. We had discussed the farmers’ issue for two days in the assembly. The government is scared of taking up the issue for discussion.” However, in the afternoon, the House resumed. Amid the hullabolla, the treasury bench passed a number of bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta University ranks fourth in NIRF ranking, Jadavpur bags sixth position||The University of Calcutta has secured the fourth position in the National Institute Ranking Framework, and topped the chart among all state-run varsities of the country. Above Calcutta University (CU) stands the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University, all central institutions. Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee, the vice-chancellor of CU, said students and faculty members should be credited for this achievement. "It makes me immensely happy that CU has ranked fourth in the entire country in terms of composite performance. We will strive harder in the days to come," she said. The Jadavpur University (JU), another government-aided institute in Bengal, came eighth on the list. A senior official at JU said, "The university has always tried its best to provide an ideal academic and research work environment for its students, teachers and staff members. We will set our goals higher in the future." Seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) -- IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Kanpur, IIT Guwahati and IIT Roorkee -- figured in the top 10 in the overall rankings. The NIRF is the authoritative national system for ranking of educational institutions. The ranking framework evaluates institutions on five broad generic groups of parameters of Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RP), Graduation Outcomes (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI) and Perception (PR). Ranks are assigned based on the total sum of marks assigned for each of these five broad groups of parameters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Special court grants interim bail to Kunal Ghosh in Saradha scam||Trinamool Congress West Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh was on Thursday granted interim bail by a special court here following his surrender before it in connection a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate in the Saradha chit fund scam. The special CBI court directed Ghosh to furnish a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with two sureties of Rs 10,000 each, and to assist the investigating officer in the PMLA case. The court had on August 27 issued summons to the TMC leader and two others to appear before it on September 20 on a prayer by the ED, which is investigating allegations of money laundering in the Saradha case. Ghosh's lawyer claimed that he surrendered before the court on Thursday soon after getting information about the summons issued by it. He submitted that he is a law-abiding citizen and innocent. Opposing the bail prayer, ED special public prosecutor Abhijit Bhadra told the court that the accused is an influential person and there is every scope of his evading trial in the case. Ghosh has been charged with assisting main accused Sudipta Sen in acquisition of the proceeds of crime and money laundering. Observing that the ED's investigation into the Saradha case in respect of Ghosh, who was the editor of the company's publications, has been completed, Special CBI Judge Anupam Mukherjee said there is no reason for detaining him behind bars. The Saradha group allegedly defrauded lakhs of people in West Bengal through several ponzi schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Nusrat Jahan shuts down queries on her baby's father at first public appearence since childbirth||Trinamul Congress MP and actor Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday firmly shut down questions on her newborn's father and said she is responsible to her voters and "ready to face questions" coming her way. In an interview with NDTV, the actor-turned-politician, who recently gave birth to a baby boy as a single mother, said that she will be soon back to work. "It feels great, it's a new life. It seems like a new beginning. The spectacle of life is what...struck me and it struck me as beautiful," she told the media organisation at the launch of a salon in Calcutta on Wednesday. "The father knows who the father is. We are having a great parenthood at the moment. Myself and Yash (Dasgupta, actor)... we are having a good time," the MP told NDTV as she tackled the questions on the baby's father, whose identity she has refused to reveal. She added that she would be back in the Parliament Winter Session "for sure", after having missed the previous session. "I have responsibilities that I need to cater to. I have responsibilities towards me, my family and towards people who voted for me. So I'm back to work. I am dividing my time pretty well so I balance as a mother too. I am asking people to make it a little fast as I have a little one at home waiting..." the Basirhat MP said on returning to work after just 12 days of givingbirth. People who have known Nusrat say there were indications of a change in her for some time. Over a year, she has replaced her staff _ her driver, makeup man and hair artiste, household staff, social media team, till she replaced the man in her life, Nikhil Jain, whom she had met in 2018, the same time when her film life had hit a rough patch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal|| Most Bengal BJP MLAs lose central security||The Union ministry of home affairs has quite literally left 61 BJP MLAs in Bengal to the mercy of the Trinamul government. For, according to sources, late on Wednesday night the ministry headed by Amit Shah informed the Bengal government that it had decided to withdraw central security provided to all of them. It would now be the prerogative of the state government to provide security cover to the 61 out of 71 remaining BJP legislators who were granted protection by central forces because of their party affiliation and not threat perception. That is however not to say that the Opposition MLAs, or any political leader, in Bengal do not face any threat to their lives. A couple of days ago, bombs were hurled at the house of  BJP Barrackpore MP   Arjun Singh, who was with the Trinamul earlier. According to sources, some of the most prominent BJP legislators like leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari will continue to be under central protection. Suvendu had earlier refused state security cover. The spate of defections before the Assembly polls from the Trinamul to the BJP had sparked genuine scare among the turncoats of a possible backlash from their former party supporters. Before the elections close to 168 Bengal BJP leaders irrespective of their status within the party were granted central security, which became a talking point for the ruling Trinamul in the run up to the polls. After the poll results, only the 77 elected MLAs were included in the protection programme. A section of the newly elected BJP MLAs, too, were uncomfortable moving around with gun-totting security personnel. In the four months since the elections concluded, around four MLAs have reversed their course of action and switched to the Trinamul from the BJP. The home ministry had earlier withdrawn security provided to the first defector, Mukul Roy, and his son, Subhrangshu. On Monday, the Trinamul’s All India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee had claimed in Delhi that at least 25 more BJP MLAs were  keen on switching to the Trinamul. Sources feel the central BJP leadership does not want the burden of possible turncoats on the state exchequer and has, therefore, left them to their own devices till the next elections. However, what exactly led to the withdrawal is not clear. Sources said on September 1, Abhishek and state minister Moloy Ghatak had a meeting with the Union minister and RSS’s most trusted man in the government Nitin Gadkari. The two flew to Delhi from Andal in a chartered flight and returned the same way. “What exactly transpired at the meeting is not known. But whatever has happened since, including the delay in announcing the party nominee for Bhowanipore and this decision to withdraw central forces for BJP MLAs, comes after that meeting,” said a source. Interestingly, Adhikari himself was in Delhi on Wednesday and also met Gadkari among other leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: West Bengal records 751 new cases, nine deaths||Bengal on Wednesday recorded 80 successive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases, with 751 new infections, 841 recoveries and nine deaths. The total active cases fell by 99 to reach 8,288. Calcutta logged 128 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 116, the only two districts in the state with three-digit figures of fresh cases. Seventeen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Rain and tides flood Mousuni island ||A spring tide, coupled with incessant rain, caused breaches to numerous earthen dykes and contributed to widespread flooding for the second consecutive day on Wednesday in and around Mousuni Island. Residents of South 24-Parganas’s Namkhana, within which Mousuni lies, alleged that most of the embankments had been recently repaired by the irrigation department, albeit in a “substandard manner”. “They used muddy soil in the repairs, as we can see now. It defeats the purpose of having a dyke, as they failed to provide any resistance in the face of these strong tides,” said a local resident, adding “extensive damage” from Cyclone Yaas in May had left a downbeat mood among people. “On top of that, when we see such substandard efforts, it is quite upsetting,” the resident added. The people, however, admitted that district officials had conducted evacuation operations in vulnerable locations throughout this week’s flooding and had also opened a temporary control centre at the Kakdwip subdivisional office. On Wednesday morning, a 500m stretch of an earthen dyke in Baliara was collapsed by a strong wave out of the Chinai river. “The water level suddenly rose owing to the spring tide and soon, began overflowing the dyke, washing it away completely in the end,” said local resident Sankar Doloi. “Only a part of the dyke was damaged yesterday (Tuesday), but now, the entire village has been flooded by the Chinai. The embankment was weak and being repaired with muddy soil: a repeated and unfortunate style of maintenance work against which we have been protesting for long,” Doloi added. The fresh inundation has reportedly also spoiled crop and horticulture in the area, sparking fresh worries in the agriculture-based work force. “Officials from the block development office came to shift us and provide dry food items, but we reiterated our appeal for a proper dam if they really want to save us and Mousuni island as well,” said Sachin Kumar Patra, another resident of the area. River water flooded several areas of the Nadavanga area, also on the island. Similar breaches were reported from Ishwaripur and Dwariknagar as well. In several spots, villagers were seen repairing vulnerable stretches of the dams on an ad hoc basis in a last-ditch effort to save their property. “Several earthen dykes have been damaged, particularly in Mousuni, owing to heavy tidal waves similar to those during Yaas. In May, we had undertaken repairs on the dykes, which, however, could not be strengthened enough. As a result, fresh breaches occurred. We have alerted irrigation officials, who will take up fresh repairs once the water level recedes,” said block development officer of Namkhana, Santanu Sinha Thakur. Speaking to The Telegraph, subdivisional officer Kakdwip, Aranya Bandopadhyay, added: “The situation is under control. The impact of the tide on Wednesday was not as strong as we expected. There has been no loss of lives as we had shifted people to safer places well in advance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC stays rustication of Visva-Bharati students||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty suffered a setback on Wednesday when Calcutta High Court issued an interim order staying the operation of the varsity’s August 23 decision to rusticate three students for three years on charges of impropriety and terming the university’s move as “excessive and disproportionate”. In the interim order, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also restrained students from holding any kind of agitation on the university campus or in the surroundings. The judge said in the order: “The court is of the prima facie view that the punishment of rustication for a period of three years is excessive and disproportionate to the charge against the students. The said order of rustication shall be kept in abeyance.” The court allowed the three rusticated students — Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty — to participate in academic activities. Justice Mantha’s Wednesday’s order comes after the judge had on September 3 banned all kinds of agitation in and around the Visva-Bharati campus. The students had been staging a sit-in demonstration demanding the withdrawal of the rustication decision. In his Wednesday order, Justice Mantha again restrained the students from holding any kind of agitation on the university campus or in the surrounding areas and asked them to withdraw their protest with immediate effect. The order also stated that agitation “inside or beyond” the university campus should be withdrawn. “All demonstrations, mass-protests, dharna, strikes and/or agitations by students or on their behalf inside or beyond the university campus shall cease forthwith,” the order added. The court said the matter would come up for hearing again on September 15. After the students had begun their agitation against the rustication order, the Visva-Bharati authorities had declared closure of classes and administrative business. The court on Wednesday asked the authorities to resume classes with immediate effect and allowed the students to join their studies. The court also referred to the grievances of varsity “professors and teachers” against the “alleged high handedness of the Vice Chancellor of the University”. The order went on to state: “The professors may institute appropriate proceedings challenging the orders of suspension in accordance with law.” Mukul case A division bench of Calcutta High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Wednesday postponed the hearing of a petition moved by BJP MLA Ambika Roy challenging the decision to appoint Mukul Roy as chairman of Public Accounts Committee. Advocate general Kishore Datta informed that Roy was seriously ill and not in a position to give instructions to lawyers. The case will be heard on September 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Bombs hurled at Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence||Unidentified people allegedly hurled at least three crude bombs at Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence at Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday morning, prompting him to blame the Trinamul Congress for the attack. The bombs exploded on the gate of the MP’s home and close to a camp of Central Reserve Paramilitary Force personnel, who are deployed to ensure round-the-clock security for Singh. The MP was in Delhi when the attack took place. After preliminary investigation, the police claimed the incident was apparently a retaliation of an incident that occurred outside Singh’s home on Tuesday night. A group of boys had beaten up another group before going to the MP’s residence on Tuesday night, a police officer said. Singh, however, rejected the claim of the police and accused Trinamul of trying to terrorise him over his selection as the party’s observer for the Bhawanipore byelection. “The attack was carried out barely within a few hours of my appointment as the observer for the Bhawanipore bypoll. It is clear to me that the attackers had planned to kill me,” Singh said. Jagaddal’s Trinamul MLA Somnath Shyam, however, alleged that Singh had plotted the “fake attack”. The Left Front on Wednesday announced young lawyer and CPM member Shrijeeb Biswas as its candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore bypoll. Mohd. Modassar Hossain (CPM) has been fielded from Samsherganj and Jane Alam Mian (RSP) from Jangipur. Bypolls to all the three Assembly seats are scheduled for September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP harassing Abhishek Banerjee to teach me a lesson: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the BJP was harassing the Trinamul Congress’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in order to teach her a lesson. “Please try to understand that they are harassing Abhishek only to teach me a lesson…. There is no evidence, no case against him.… If it wasn’t intentional why was he told to appear before the investigators a day after he was interrogated for nine hours? Why was the case shifted from Calcutta to Delhi?” asked Mamata at a workers’ meeting at Chetla in Calcutta where she launched her campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll scheduled for September 30. The Enforcement Directorate had questioned the Diamond Harbour MP for nine hours in New Delhi on Monday in connection with a money laundering case over alleged coal pilferage. However, it was not clear if Abhishek was summoned again as claimed by Mamata in her speech On Wednesday, the chief minister said: “The Trinamul Congress is fighting today. This is why they want to shut us up…. They cannot fight politically.… They have silenced the Congress with agencies. They have silenced Mulayam Singh with agencies. They have silenced Sharad Pawar with agencies.” “There is no democracy in the country. They have also put the judiciary on the sidelines,” she added. She repeatedly questioned the “political intention” behind summoning Abhishek to Delhi in spite of the ED having an office in Calcutta. Then, she tried to explain how Trinamul leaders were facing persecution while BJP leaders like Suvendu Adhikari — albeit without naming him — were being allowed to bypass the law enforcing agencies. “If you call our people as witnesses, they’ll be interrogated for 10 hours…and if our agencies call your people, in spite of enough evidence, in spite of a murder case, then you will get an order (from the court) that one cannot even lodge an FIR against him. Why? Is he the Lord’s eldest son?” Mamata said. “Remember the law is the same for all,” she said. Referring to the chargesheet recently submitted by the ED in connection with the Narada sting case — where Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee were named,Mamata asked why BJP leader Adhikari had been spared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Didi attacks BJP's 'double standard' over Puja dole controversy||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the BJP of following a “double standard”, referring to the controversy the party has kicked up over her meeting with Puja committees ahead of the September 30 by-election in Bhowanipore that she will be contesting. Meetings with Puja committees have been an annual feature for Mamata since she became chief minister in 2011. “They (the BJP) say, ‘She doesn’t allow Durga Puja’. And if I meet (Puja committees), they go and lodge a complaint asking why they (Puja committees) are being helped,” she told a Trinamul workers’ meeting with which she launched her by-election campaign. “They (the BJP) have complained against me and against you all. But these people also say I don’t allow Lakshmi Puja, I don’t allow Saraswati Puja, I don’t allow Durga Puja. What double standard and hypocrisy! Sometimes I even feel the urge to beat the (Puja) drum — then they’ll know.” Mamata had on Monday attended a Puja coordination meeting with several clubs that organise Durga Puja. There, chief secretary Harikrishna Dwivedi announced that each of the 36,000 Puja committees in Bengal would receive a cash donation of Rs 50,000 from the government. Similar incentives had been given in previous years too, with the Puja committees receiving Rs 25,000 in 2019 and Rs 50,000 in 2020. But the BJP on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the state chief electoral officer saying Mamata had violated the model code of conduct by offering the donation after the by-election had been announced. Mamata said the announcement of the donation hadn’t violated election norms since it was the chief secretary who had made it. “The BJP people are always waiting for an opportunity to lodge complaints against me. They have complained asking why I went to the Puja meeting yesterday. They don’t know me,” she said. Mamata added: “Why would I announce new projects? Am I a fool? These are ongoing projects. The CS (chief secretary) announced it and he can speak as a government officer. There has to be coordination (between all Puja stakeholders and the government), so I went to a coordination meeting. How will the Puja committees prepare if they are not informed beforehand?” During a polarising campaign for the April-May Bengal Assembly polls, leader after BJP leader — including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah — had accused Mamata of resisting the celebration of Hindu festivals such as Durga Puja and Saraswati Puja. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s charge of “double standard” would have stumped the BJP, already in disarray after the Assembly poll debacle. Mamata’s speech was live-streamed across Trinamul’s social media platforms. Although she mostly spoke in Bengali, her occasional Hindi sentences made it clear she was looking at an audience beyond Bengal and that her focus was not just on the Bhowanipore by-election. “When this (by-election) is over, we will have to win the by-elections that follow, we’ll have to win the civic polls, then the 2024 polls,” Mamata said. She went on to refer to national issues such as the rise in fuel prices, the farmers’ protest and the vaccine shortage. The chief minister also accused the central agencies of harassing her party colleagues — including her nephew and Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee — at the behest of the BJP leadership. She referred to the violence against Trinamul leaders and workers in Tripura, and described the BJP as worse than “Duryodhan and Duhshasan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Students, teachers celebrate Calcutta HC order||Students and teachers of Visva-Bharati celebrated Calcutta High Court’s interim stay on the varsity’s decision to rusticate three protesting students by breaking their hunger strike and smearing each other with colours and distributing sweets in Santiniketan on Wednesday. While keeping the varsity’ decision to rusticate the three students — Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty — in abeyance, the court on Wednesday termed the varsity’s move as “excessive and disproportionate”. After the news of the high court’s interim order reached Santiniketan on Wednesday, Rupa and suspended economics department professor Sudipta Bhattacharya broke their hunger strike by drinking fruit juice. After offering fruit juice to Bhattacharya and Rupa to end the fast they had begun on September 5 afternoon, the students brought a few bags of abir and smeared themselves with colours to celebrate what they termed as their “victory”. A group of students also went to the gate of Purbita, which is the official residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, and offered sweets to those present there but it was refused. Reacting to the ruling, SFI leader and one of the rusticated students Somnath Sow said: “The (interim) order of Calcutta High Court has proved that we are on the right track. It also proved that the punishment was vindictive in nature as the court held it excessive. Now we want to see when the VC implements the order.” Asked about the court’s order directing students or anyone on their behalf from holding protests “in or beyond” the campus, a protester said they would temporarily withdraw their movement but would decide on their future course of action depending on how the varsity authorities react to the interim order. While putting the varsity’s rustication decision on abeyance, the court asked Visva-Bharati to allow the three students to resume academic activities. “We are yet to dismantle our tent as we are waiting for Visva-Bharati’s order. If the varsity does not comply with the order, we will continue with our movement,” the protesting student added. After the court issued its interim order, the officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and two other officials attempted to go to the VC’s residence in a car but was stopped by the students. “The officials were on their way to meet the VC to discuss the further course of action,” said a varsity official. Some insiders in the Visva-Bharati said the varsity would implement the court’s order. "Officiating register Asok Mahato has sent the court’s order to proctor Shankar Majumder to take action and implement it. An order to that effect might be issued soon," said a varsity official. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to a text message when he was asked about varsity’s course of action after the court’s order. Apart from the students, the teachers, old-timers and traders of Santiniketan who formed a joint forum to intensify the movement said that they were happy with the court order but they wanted to see the VC removed for his partisan and vindictive decisions. “We are happy with the order but there are many  wrongdoings of the VC and he should be punished,” said Manisha Banerjee, an alumni and assistant secretary of Alapini Mahila Samity. The samity is an association of women in Santiniketan and dates back to the time of Rabindranath Tagore. Aminul Huda, an office-bearer of handicrafts artisans’ society in Santiniketan, said: “We welcome the order but our movement against the VC will go on.” The Calcutta-based Platform Bengal Against Fascist RSS and BJP also issued a news release welcoming the court’s order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda: Police rescue two abducted youths, arrest two kidnappers||Police rescued two abducted youths and arrested two kidnappers from a village in Malda district on Tuesday night. The police sources said Jahangir Alam and Mabud Mottakin, both residents of Balutola under Manikchak police station, used to speak with unknown female callers frequently. On September 5, both had left their homes apparently to meet the callers. “It was nothing but a trap into which these youths had walked in. Both Alam and Mottakin, who are farmers and in their early 30s, were abducted for ransom,” said a police officer. “Later at night, their families received phone calls demanding a ransom of Rs 3 lakh each,” the police officer added. On September 6, the families lodged a police complaint following which Akshay Pal, the inspectorincharge of Manikchak police station, formed a team which was led by Bhanjan Ghosh, an assistant subinspector, to probe the case. The team traced the number through which the ransom call was made. The phone was located at Malahar, situated under Chanchal police station of the district. “The police team communicated with the abductors and it was decided that they would deliver the ransom at Malahar. The team members, dressed in plainclothes, reached the spot on Tuesday night,” said a police source. “As two people came to collect the money, the cops arrested them. The arrest was made within 24 hours after the complaint was lodged. During interrogation, they shared details about the whereabouts of the abducted youths and soon the youths were rescued,” the police source added. The kidnapers have been identified as Saddam Hossain and Abdul Ali, both residents of Malahar. “We are continuing the probe to find out who else was involved in the crime. The arrested duo will be interrogated to obtain more details. We will also speak with the abducted youths in due course,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Experts moot overhaul of Siliguri water plant||A team of three experts who represent a private consultancy firm engaged by the state public health engineering (PHE) department visited the water treatment plant of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation at Fulbari here on Wednesday. After the visit, the team has expressed dissatisfaction over the condition of the plant and recommended a comprehensive overhaul of the entire infrastructure to ensure that drinking water is supplied to the city from the facility in coming days. “The experts from Calcutta said the water treatment plant and its distribution system required a complete overhaul. The plant and its pipelines are in a very poor state, they have observed,” said Alok Chakraborty, a member of the board of administrators (BoA) at the SMC and the incharge of the drinking water supply. Along with the team, Chakraborty was also at the plant. For the past 10 days or so, residents of Siliguri have been facing a drinking water crisis as the civic body’s supply through its distribution network has become erratic. Silt deposit near the intake point from where water is drawn from the Mahananda canal to the treatment plant was to blame for the crisis. “In another threefour days, the experts will submit a report to the PHE department and the SMC. We will go through it and take appropriate steps. On Thursday, I will brief the BoA members on their visit,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid vaccination camps commence in colleges of north Bengal||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation on Wednesday launched Covid-19 vaccination camps at seven colleges, both government and private, to jab students and staff. The drive, first-of-its-kind in north Bengal, is expected to expedite the process of reopening of these institutions, closed in the wake of the pandemic since March last year, for offline classes. The initiative was flagged off by Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators, SMC, at Siliguri College on Wednesday. “The decision was made at a meeting held with the heads of these institutions at the civic body on Tuesday. From today (Wednesday), we have launched the initiative. As per the plan, vaccination camps will be held in each of these seven colleges. Along with the students, the teaching and nonteaching staff who have not yet been vaccinated will also get the jab at these camps,” said Deb. According to him, there is a plan to vaccinate around 15,000 college students, including the students who will take admission this year. Along with Siliguri College, such camps will be organised in Siliguri College of Commerce, Munshi Premchand College, Surya Sen College, Siliguri Government Polytechnic, Siliguri Mahila Mahavidyalaya and in Salesian College, located across the town. Ever since the pandemic has hit the country, education is one of the sectors which have taken a beating. Whether it is a school or a college, Recently, the demand to reopen educational institutions was raised repeatedly as to ensure that every student has access to learning. During this period, academicians have time and again pointed out that like many school students, there are college students who do not have access to online classes which are organized by the educational institutions. Also, online classes are no match to physical classes and students engaged in higher studies in different streams are deprived of practical lab sessionslearning in labs and in the field. Pranab Ghosh, the registrar of North Bengal University, said: “Teachers cannot give their best in online classes. Also, it is difficult for students to understand certain lessons online. A comprehensive vaccination of all students, teaching and nonteaching staff of a college can largely help in resuming classes at the institution.” Last month, a similar initiative was taken in Chennai where vaccination camps are being held in colleges. In Bengal, such camps were held in some colleges of Calcutta. In Siliguri College, a number of students turned up to get them jabbed on Wednesday. Hritankar Basak, a fifthsemester student of B.Sc general course, thanked the authorities for organising the camp. “We are studying science subjects where we need regular practical classes. Though, the teachers have been very supportive, but I feel opening the college for classes is very important for further studies,” he added. The plan drawn up by the civic body to vaccinate college students at their respective institutions has also made The initiative taken by the SMC has prompted the Darjeeling district health department to draw a similar plan to vaccinate students and staff in other colleges of the district located in the hills and outside the Siliguri civic area. There are around 15 government and private colleges situated in the rural areas of Siliguri subdivision and in three hill subdivisions of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik. “We plan to continue the drive of vaccinating the college students in all such institutions located across the district. We are making preparations and such camps will be held soon,” said Pralay Acharya, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Darjeeling. The drive would also make easier for the state government to review its plan to reopen educational institutions after the Durga Puja, pointed out Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of Siliguri College. “The state will have a comprehensive database about each of these colleges as to how many students, teachers and other staff are fully vaccinated. This we believe, would help in making decisions regarding reopening of the colleges,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Summons for Partha from CBI in ICore chit fund case||The CBI has summoned Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee for questioning on September 13 in connection with its ongoing probe into the ICore chit fund case. Chatterjee was allegedly seen at a few public functions organised by ICore, which was accused of duping depositors by offering them abnormally high returns on their investments. The CBI had earlier summoned Chatterjee but the minister had cited the Assembly polls as the reason for not responding. Chatterjee is currently one of the “observers” of the Trinamul Congress for the ensuring bypoll in Bhowanipore where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the candidate. CBI officers said Chatterjee was found to be heaping praise on Anukul Maity, the managing director of ICore, at one of the functions. The CBI had arrested Maity and he later died while in jail custody in Odhisha in November. “We would want to know a few things from Chatterjee, including how long he had known Maity and whether there had been any financial transaction between the two,” said an officer. The CBI has decided to seek the help of constables familiar with Bengali to help its teams which are probing into allegations of rape and murder in the aftermath of the publication of Assembly poll results. Sources have said each of the four teams will have at least six constables who are well versed with Bengal to help understand what the victims have to say during their field visits across the districts of Bengal. The constables have been selected from outside Bengal. The CBI has filed over 25 FIRs in course of its probe into alleged incidences of murder and rapes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||West Bengal||Amar Lama set to join Anit Thapa’s new party||Amar Lama, a veteran in hill politics, along with established names in literature, music, sports and administration, will join Anit Thapa’s new party during its launch in Darjeeling on Thursday. Sources said Lama would also be given “an important position” in the new party. Lama, 58, plunged into politics during his college days with Pranta Parishad and was the general secretary of the Akhil Bhartiya Gorkha League from 1996 to 2000. When Bimal Gurung formed the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2007, Lama was among the top three leaders of the party, who led many important delegations both to the state government and the Centre. The lawyer by profession, however, quit the party when his elder brother Madan Tamang, who was then the president of the ABGL, was hacked to death in broad daylight in 2010 allegedly by Morcha supporters. Since 2016, Lama has been a bureau member of the Jan Andolan Party, which was floated by former Kalimpong MLA Harka Bahadur Chhetri. Sources told The Telegraph that Lama had “verbally” quit the JAP on Monday. “Some JAP members insisted that he stay with the party. But Lama, who had been approached by Thapa, told JAP leaders that he had made up his mind,” a source said. While Lama will be the most prominent political leader to join Thapa’s party, the major surprise would be the induction of apolitical faces who have made a name in their respective fields. “It is an interesting development. Many apolitical people have decided to plunge into fulltime politics,” said the source. Among them is a lead actor of a popular political satire which had made waves across the Darjeeling hills in the past decade. “The actor is of the opinion that instead of satires, he needs to plunge into fulltime politics for the betterment of the place,” said the source. A leading musician and composer from Darjeeling will be joining the drama persons. “A retired bureaucrat, a retired high school teacher who is also into literature, a historian and a sports person, along with many people who have excelled in their professions but never indulged in fulltime politics, will be the surprises,” said the source. Sources said the new party was trying an “image makeover” from the previous party. In 2017, a new faction of the Morcha was formed. Most of the leaders of the breakaway faction are forming a new party on Thursday. “That is why the new party wants an image makeover,” said the source. Most of the breakaway faction leaders were accused of betraying the 2017 statehood agitation. While Thapa will be launching a new party, Bimal Gurung’s supporters have decided to organise a “flag purification ceremony” in Kurseong. The launch of the new party will be beamed live on giant screens in at least 40 locations across the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
09-09-2021||North East||Himanta orders high-level probe in Brahmaputra boat capsize||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday ordered filing of a criminal case over capsizing of a boat plying to Majuli, that claimed one life, while two persons are still missing. Sarma banned all single-engine private boats from plying to Majuli with immediate effect and announced that the construction of a proposed bridge between Jorhat and Majuli will start from November 2021 and will be completed in four years. After visiting the accident site with senior officials, the Chief Minister told reporters that initial probe indicated "mismanagement" to be the prime reason for the accident, which occurred on Wednesday evening. "I have asked the Jorhat Police to file a criminal case. By today evening, we will announce a high-level probe to find out the reasons behind the accident," he said. The chief minister also said that there are 10 private machine boats with single engines that operate between Nimati Ghat in Jorhat on the southern bank of Brahmaputra to Majuli, the world's largest river island. "From today, no single engine boats will be allowed to Majuli. Those engines are not marine engines. However, if an owner wants to transform them into marine engines, we will support them," he added. Sarma said a marine engine costs around Rs 10 lakh, which will be provided to willing private owners by the government immediately after their application. "Out of the total amount, 75 per cent will be government subsidy and 25 per cent will be given as loan. They can start applying from today at the Office of the Deputy Commissioner of Majuli," he said. Talking about the much-delayed bridge between Jorhat and Majuli, Sarma said it was a EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) contract and the drawing of the structure has been submitted to the central government. "Today morning I spoke to the Centre, which will construct the bridge. Once the drawing is approved, construction will start from November. After that, it will take four years to complete. A ministerial group will be formed to monitor its progress," he added. To connect Majuli with the mainland, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had in February 2016 laid the foundation of a bridge over the Brahmaputra connecting Jorhat on the south bank and Lakhimpur on the north bank via the river island. For the same bridge, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February this year again laid the foundation stone for the eight-km long Jorhat-Majuli bridge, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 925 crore, before the Assembly polls. Sarma also said a total of 90 persons were travelling on the ill-fated private boat. Out of them, one person died and two are still missing. Overnight search and rescue operations found 87 persons alive. "We have one person confirmed dead and two persons still missing. We can only hope that these missing persons are alive. A massive joint rescue operation is going on in the area and downstream," he added. Sarma said the deceased was identified as Parimita Das, who hails from Guwahati and was working as a faculty in Rangachahi College in Majuli. "The missing persons have been identified as Indreswar Bora from Lakhimpur and Dr Bikramjit Barua from Jorhat. No tickets were issued or names were noted while boarding the boat. If this figure changes, we will inform," he added. The Chief Minister also said that there are two ropax ferries of the Inland Water Transport (IWT) Department stationed at Nimati Ghat and the state government will find out why these were not in operation. "These vessels need deep water and it is not an issue during this monsoon season. There must be corruption issues involved (in not running the ropax). We will find out and take steps," he added. The Chief Minister said four government ferries are available at Nimati Ghat and two more will be sent from Guwahati, taking the total ferries to six along with the two ropax vessels. He also admitted there are allegations that the government ferries are deliberately run at odd hours, forcing people to commute in the unsafe private boats during the peak hours. "We will correct everything. Now one magistrate each in Jorhat and Majuli will monitor the timings. You will see the situation improving considerably in the next 10-15 days," Sarma said. He also said that 2-3 new ramps will be provided at Nimati Ghat for parking the ferries. Only one ramp is functioning at present as water level in Brahmaputra is high due to monsoon rains. "As only one ramp is operational, any outgoing ferry has to give way to the incoming one. Why the private boat was allowed to leave when the incoming ferry had not reached. There is a serious management issue. A system has to be there," Sarma said. On Wednesday night, three officials of the IWT Department were placed under suspension for negligence of duty, while senior ministers admitted that there were lapses and the "guilty" will be punished. Sarma said he has asked Transport Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary to create a channel for ropax by dredging the Brahmaputra so that these large vessels can ply during winters also. "The fitness and health of the people engaged in these ferries and boats are of prime concern. We will soon issue an SOP regarding this," he said without elaborating. The Chief Minister also said there were allegations that the expert old driver of the private boat was removed a few days ago and an inexperienced young hand was hired at a lower salary. "These issues should have been looked after by field level officers. When field officers fail, the government fails. We missed these small things while looking for the big works, which is the bridge," he added. From Nimati Ghat, Sarma visited Jorhat Medical College and Hospital and enquired about the condition of passengers being treated there. "The patients are more shocked than injured. Some said all their documents were washed away, we will reissue them. Some people said their motorcycles were washed away, we will compensate them," he said at the hospital premises. Sarma later visited Majuli and assessed the situation there. Officials at IWT Department said the private boat 'Ma Kamala' was heading to Majuli from Nimati Ghat on the southern bank with passengers and vehicles, while a government ferry 'MB Tipkai' was coming from the world's largest river island when the two collided. Majuli is the centre of neo-Vaishnavite culture initiated by medieval-age 15th-16th century Srimanta Sankardeva, Assam's famed saint-scholar and socio-religious reformer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
09-09-2021||North East||Assam boat capsize: 84 passengers found alive, 2 missing||Overnight search and rescue operations established contacts with 84 persons, who were travelling on the ill-fated boat that capsized in the Brahmaputra river in Assam, but two persons are still missing, officials said on Thursday morning. One person was confirmed dead after a private boat heading to Majuli sank on Wednesday evening, following a head-on collision with a government-owned ferry near Nimati Ghat in Jorhat district. The wreckage of the boat, which was found overturned around 1.5 km downstream of the mighty Brahmaputra, was cut open from the base by NDRF and SDRF divers, but nobody was found inside it, Jorhat Deputy Commissioner Ashok Barman told PTI. "So far, one person is confirmed dead and two persons are missing. We could do contact tracing of 84 persons to different villages in Jorhat and Majuli districts. This adds up to the presence of 87 passengers on the boat," he added. Jorhat's Superintendent of Police Ankur Jain said the two missing persons hail from Jorhat and Lakhimpur districts, and search operation is still going on with divers from the NDRF and SDRF with backup of the Army. "The divers on Thursday morning also went inside the boat, but could not find any body. Army divers will also search the area. Air Force will carry out an aerial survey downstream to locate the missing persons," he said. Jorhat Medical College and Hospital's Superintendent Purnima Barua said 11 passengers were admitted to the hospital, of whom one died and three were released. "Seven persons are still undergoing treatment, but none of them are critical. More than physical injury, they are in mental trauma," she said. The deceased was identified as Parimita Das, who hailed from Guwahati and was working as a faculty at Rangachahi College in Majuli. Officials of Inland Water Transport (IWT) Department said private boat 'Ma Kamala' was heading to Majuli from Nimati Ghat on the southern bank with passengers and vehicles, while government ferry 'MB Tipkai' was coming from the world's largest river island when the two collided. As 'Ma Kamala' was run by private parties, they did not have any system to give tickets to passengers. So, the initial estimate of the passengers on board varied from 80 to 150 as per eyewitness accounts. Transport Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary, who reached the site at around 3 am, said many heads will roll after the inquiry by Transport Secretary Jadav Saikia is complete. "Already three officials of the IWT are suspended. Besides, 72 more IWT staffers were present at Nimati Ghat when the accident took place. Why was the boat allowed to leave when another ferry was coming at a high speed? There must be some fault of our staff," he said. Along with Patowary, state ministers Bimal Bora and Jogen Mohan were also camping at the site to oversee the search and rescue operations. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited Nimati Ghat and toured the river on a boat to assess the on-ground situation. Officials of the IWT Department said only one ramp of Nimati Ghat is functioning at present as water level in Brahmaputra is high due to monsoon rains. "As only one ramp is operational, any outgoing ferry has to give way to the incoming one. Ma Kamala had to leave the ghat to give way to Tipkai. While it went just a few metres, the two collided," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
09-09-2021||North East||CPM offices vandalised and vehicles set on fire in Tripura||CPM offices were vandalised and vehicles set on fire in Tripura on Wednesday in what is being seen as the fallout of a three-way campaign for supremacy in the Northeast state from where the BJP ousted the once-dominant Left. The flashpoint appears to be an attempt by suspected BJP supporters on Monday to stop Manik Sarkar, the CPM veteran and former chief minister, at his constituency Dhanpur while he was on his way to attend a scheduled meeting. Sarkar is now the Opposition leader. CPM cadres allegedly retaliated, leading to subsequent clashes in three districts — West Tripura where Agartala is located, Sepahijala and Gomati. At least five offices of the CPM, including its state headquarters in Agartala, were vandalised on Wednesday. Six vehicles parked outside the CPM offices in Agartala were set on fire. Eleven BJP activists were injured in the violence. The Trinamul Congress has stepped up its activities in Tripura following the victory in the Bengal Assembly polls and ahead of the next elections in the Northeast state in 2023. The CPM, which has been lying low since its defeat to the BJP-IPFT alliance in the 2018 Assembly polls, has revived its political programmes to ensure that it is not elbowed out by the BJP and Trinamul. Left Front convener and CPM central committee member Bijan Dhar said BJP-backed goons vandalised the party offices. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said CPM cadres attacked women during a protest rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
09-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Diverse noise||A significant contributor to India’s multicultural fabric is the multiplicity of languages spoken by its people. The Constitution of India accords official status to 22 languages. Thousands of others exist — some even flourish — in spite of their unofficial status. An illustration of this was evident in the findings of an analysis of the 2011 census by a Delhi-based academic. The highest number of languages are spoken — no less than 107 — in the district of Bangalore, including 22 scheduled and 84 non-scheduled languages. The two other districts where over 100 languages are spoken lie in the Northeast: Nagaland’s Dimapur and Assam’s Sonitpur. The findings are heartening, not least because the multitude of tongues in a district’s speaking population contributes directly to the longevity of these languages. This longevity and diversity are also crucial when it comes to sustaining the edifice of pluralism — a defining characteristic of the republic. The data, however, also warrant a deeper reflection, especially in the light of the complicated nature of India’s linguistic and political domains. According to the 1961 census, India had 1,100 living languages. In 2017, the findings of a study carried out by the Vadodara-based Bhasha Research and Publication Centre showed a steady and alarming decline: the passage of 56 years since 1961 had witnessed the death of 250 languages, with the study predicting the demise of another 400 in the following 50 years. This would effectively leave India with only about 450 languages from the total recorded in 1961. Several factors play a role in the living and dying of languages, of which economic dominance and policy-based support are particularly important. The languages of economically weaker communities — coastal, nomadic or mountain-dwelling populations who are increasingly being pushed to the periphery of welfare and State imagination — are at risk. The disappearance of local languages is also augmented by children being forced to eschew their mother tongues in favour of learning English or Hindi, the principal languages of communication in educational institutions. There is also an implicit threat from political ideology. For instance, the pursuit of cultural homogeneity has forced the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to patronize Hindi as part of its problematic ‘one language, one India’ formulation. It is true that the imposition of Hindi is being resisted fiercely, especially in the south and the east. There is thus a case for a similar energetic campaign to protect India’s dying languages. Educationists, policymakers, researchers and the people must be stakeholders in this initiative. After all, the future of Indian pluralism depends on the survival of multilingualism in letter and spirit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
09-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Infosys under attack||Biased opinion Sir — Many of us are unable to comprehend what led the right-wing magazine, Panchajanya, to accuse Infosys of working against the interests of the Indian economy (“Soft target”, Sep 8). It is even stranger that such a serious accusation seems to have been made merely because of technical glitches that affected the functioning of the income tax digital portal, which was developed by Infosys. This is simply outrageous. It was only last month that the Union minister of commerce, Piyush Goyal, had gone on a tirade against India Inc, especially the Tata group, accusing the latter of being self-serving and acting against the well-being of the nation. Goyal faced intense criticism which eventually led to the government asking the Confederation of Indian Industry — the remarks were made at its annual meet — to remove the video from YouTube. But it seems like the sangh parivar has learnt nothing from the backlash. The article in Panchajanya not only hurled insensitive accusations at the tech company but also, remarkably, admitted that it does not have any solid evidence to support its claim. Since then, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has tried to distance itself from the publication with the national media and publicity in-charge, Sunil Ambekar, tweeting that Infosys has made a “seminal contribution” to the progress of the country and that Panchajanya is “not [a] mouthpiece of the RSS”. But that is too little too late. It is time that the government and its supporters understood that companies such as the Tata group and Infosys have been contributing to the progress of the nation from long before the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power. These companies have provided employment to generations — in the case of Tata, also helped build townships around its industries — and have led India towards liberalization from the forefront. To call such giants of the industry anti-national is an immense folly. It is becoming increasingly clear that only those companies which cosy up to the sangh parivar will be deemed legitimate in India. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — It is baffling that Panchajanya thought it would be prudent to accuse the Indian tech giant, Infosys, of being anti-national. The prime minister claims to be an advocate for indigenous industries and, yet, said nothing when a magazine affiliated to the sangh parivar vilified Infosys. As is the case with any IT endeavour, technical glitches are bound to occur. Infosys has built its reputation as a stalwart of the industry over decades with quality output and innovation. The publication sought to malign the goodwill and image of Infosys for no valid reason. It is hoped that the magazine will withdraw the editorial and extend its unconditional apology as early as possible. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Nothing can be more injurious to investment than vicious attacks on private companies by those in power. Weeks after Piyush Goyal slammed the Tata group for working against the interests of the Indian economy, the right-wing magazine, Panchajanya, accused Infosys of being in collusion with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang” to destabilize the economy. If the company’s products were facing prolonged technical issues, then it should be held accountable for that. But it is outlandish to label a company anti-national over such glitches. A protracted and unjustified attack on businesses will only create an atmosphere of fear which will harm the country in the long run. Anushka Panwar,Ujjain New trouble Sir — The outbreak of the Nipah virus in Kerala in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic has put everyone on edge (“Nipah easier to contain, say experts”, Sep 7). So far, the death of a 12-year-old boy has been attributed to the virus and at least 32 others have been categorized as high-risk. The chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, and the health minister, Veena George, must remain on their toes from now on. M.R. Jayanthy,Mumbai Sir — As Kerala faces yet another health crisis, we cannot help but remember the contributions of the former health minister, K.K. Shailaja. Hopefully, Veena George will be able to tackle the situation as well as her predecessor. Janani Iyer,Kochi  Ominous signs Sir — After wresting power in Afghanistan, the Taliban had assured that women will be allowed to pursue an education. But when private universities resumed classes, photographs emerged of female students segregated by a curtain from their male counterparts in a classroom. The education authority further mandated that women must wear an abaya and a niqab in universities, that they cannot be taught by male teachers and must use separate entry and exit points. These are ominous signs. The Taliban is likely to prohibit women from occupying public spaces soon. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Foreign hand||The Taliban claimed ‘independence’ after the hasty withdrawal of the troops of the United States of America and its allies from Afghanistan. But is this really the case? It appears that the regime has not been able to sever the umbilical cord that binds it to its patron — Pakistan. The ‘strings attached theory’ has gained further credibility with the announcement of the formation of an interim government in Kabul. A cursory glance at the composition of this dispensation would reveal Rawalpindi’s invisible, but firm, imprint. For instance, New Delhi has detected a disproportionate presence of elements from the Haqqani network and from the faction of the Taliban based in Kandahar in the power hierarchy atop which sits the hardliner, Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund. The segment that negotiated the peace treaty in Doha and with which there has been some contact at New Delhi’s end has, worryingly, been relegated to the sidelines in the course of this jockeying for power. The implications are obvious and ominous. The relative insignificance of those segments in the Taliban that appeared to be willing to engage with the international fraternity raises the prospects of a return to the medieval, theocratic rule in Afghanistan. This regression would deliver cruel blows to such causes as women’s empowerment and civil rights. Little wonder then that Kabul has witnessed courageous demonstrations led by women, both against the Taliban and Pakistan. Islamabad’s firmer grip on Afghanistan would deepen the frown in New Delhi. India has notable development projects in Afghanistan; their future could become uncertain. The more formidable challenge would be on the security front. The Taliban already have made discomfiting noises on Kashmir, and there is a possibility of the Taliban’s handlers encouraging the government in Afghanistan to depute non-State actors to heat up the border with India. The challenge for the global fraternity, including India, would be to wean the Taliban away from its dependence on Pakistan. The carrot and stick policy could be employed in this context. Afghanistan’s survival depends on aid — food, medical supplies, finances, reconstruction. The world must loosen its purse strings and facilitate humanitarian aid but these measures must be made contingent upon the Taliban’s ability to not allow Afghanistan to be transformed into an epicentre of global jihad. But international pressure can only work if the global powers find themselves on the same page. China has adopted a rather placatory position. Beijing should be made to fall in line so that Pakistan and, in turn, the Taliban refrain from adventurism elsewhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Opinion||The war on women’s bodies||The Assam government is planning to bring a “population army” to the Char-Chapori areas. Chars are river islands that are unstable and undergo constant formation and destruction. Mostly inhabited by Assamese Muslims of East Bengal descent, the chars are known as spaces where the fertility rate among the people is high. The high fertility rate is for a variety of reasons, such as low literacy, early marriage of girls, and greater dependence on agriculture that is labour-inducive. What is problematic about this initiative is that birth-control measures are specifically targeted with women in mind, indicating a view that the responsibility of controlling population in these communities rests solely on women. In a speech to the legislative assembly in July, the chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, spoke of the need to induct 10,000 additional Asha workers to provide contraceptives and birth-control measures to women in Char-Chaporis. Why does the State want to make women the engines of this initiative? Why does the intervention not involve men? After all, condoms, unlike oral contraceptives, hardly have any side-effects. In my two years of fieldwork in the char areas of Barpeta district in Assam, it became apparent to me why it was mostly women who would be ‘enlightened’ about the benefits of having a small family. On my numerous trips with the mobile Boat Clinic team members who visit the chars providing basic medical facilities, I witnessed how the monthly camps would be visited mostly by women. Medical staff, more often than not, would distribute oral contraceptives instead of condoms. In fact, the linguistic knowledge around birth-control suggests that for char-dwellers birth-control is equivalent to an oral pill. In the conversations with the medical staff of the Boat Clinic and Asha workers, the char women would use ‘Mala bori’ to refer to birth-control measures. While a condom was an alien idea, the ‘Mala bori’ has become a hushed but household term. Certain terminologies, the ‘Mala bori’ is an example, not only reflect but also shape the mindset of the users, showing how narratives around birth-control in Char-Chaporis are being woven around women’s bodies. This initiative by the Assam government is also an example of the nexus between a corporatized medical sector and a patriarchal State. In 2019, the Narendra Modi government decided to tweak the law and exempt oral contraceptive pills as a Schedule H drug. This meant that they could be sold without a doctor’s prescription. HLL Lifecare Limited, the firm tasked with selling contraceptives, including Mala-D, on behalf of the government, had, in a letter to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, mentioned how their sale had been greatly affected. Is the easy availability of oral contraceptives really a manifestation of freedom of choice and greater control over bodies as far as the women in char areas are concerned? Does not the absence of access to all kinds of contraception and knowledge of birth-control curtail choice and control over women’s bodies? Moreover, the women are unaware of the many side-effects that oral contraceptives can have on their young bodies. Does not the body of a marginalized, ignorant woman then become the site of a profiteering State? The greater availability and use of oral contraception are emblematic of embedded patriarchy. Sex thus becomes a narrative for the display of masculine power in which the woman’s role is limited to being a provider of pleasure. When the State endorses a template of population control by focusing on women as the targets of birth-control measures, it is actively contributing to this deep-seated, patriarchal narrative The womb has always been a site of contention and control by the State, be it France’s Vichy regime or Ireland that passed the anti-abortion laws. In Assam’s char areas, a lop-sided birth-control programme is infringing upon the voices and choices of Muslim women over their bodies. The deployment of 10,000 additional Asha workers will not help because being residents of the areas themselves, they are entrenched in similar notions of shame and fear when it comes to conversations around sex with men. Patriarchy, in the garb of empowerment, therefore, becomes a convenient weapon to target women’s bodies. Bhargabi Das is a Research Scholar at the National University of Ireland and an Irish Research Council Scholar (2019-22)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Opinion||Poor economics||The Narendra Modi government has announced a plan of “asset monetisation” worth 6 lakh crore rupees. This is in addition to its proposed privatization of public sector assets. Asset monetization is supposed to be different from privatization as it involves no transfer of ownership. But if a public asset that was earning Rs 50 crore per year earns Rs 500 crore by being handed over to private management that uses it for unbridled commercial purposes, such as railway platforms becoming advertisement spaces and high-rise malls coming up above roadways, then this move, per se, while squeezing out ordinary users, does not help the government. What matters to the government is the amount it gets for such a handing over, whether on long leases or only for a certain period. Asset monetization is thus analogous to sale, although for varying periods of time. However, what I say below holds, no matter for how long the asset is handed over. My point is that it has absolutely no economic rationale. The claim that it represents an alternative, less harmful, way of financing government spending compared to a fiscal deficit is wholly mistaken. Let us compare three ways of financing, say, Rs 100 of government spending, and assume for simplicity a closed economy (relaxing this assumption would only complicate, not negate, our argument). The first is through a fiscal deficit. Since in a closed economy investment must equal savings, a fiscal deficit, which by definition represents an excess of government investment over government savings, must be matched by a corresponding excess of private savings over private investment. Since private investment, determined by past decisions, remains unchanged during the period, private savings must increase by the amount of the fiscal deficit. A fiscal deficit increases demand, which raises output (if unused capacity exists) or prices relative to money wages (if there is no unused capacity). Private savings increase either way: larger output means more savings as do larger profit margins. A fiscal deficit thus puts into private hands the very extra savings (over the initial level) that the government borrows. Since savings represent addition to wealth, a fiscal deficit invariably puts extra wealth into private hands quite gratuitously. John Maynard Keynes had called this extra wealth a “booty”, which lands on the “lap” of the capitalists. Now, consider a tax on wealth, or on surplus (the source of private savings). The government, whose spending of Rs 100 would otherwise have put extra wealth of Rs 100 into private hands (if financed by a fiscal deficit), now simply takes away this extra wealth through such a tax, which leaves the private sector no worse off than prior to the government’s fiscal intervention. An increase in revenue from a wealth tax or a profit tax to finance larger government spending does not represent any sacrifice on the part of the surplus-earners. It only takes away from them the extra wealth that would have otherwise gratuitously accrued to them if the spending had been financed by a fiscal deficit. Now consider the third option: selling public assets to finance government spending. This is actually no different from the first option, namely, using a fiscal deficit to increase government spending. In the first case, the increase in private wealth corresponding to increased government spending takes the form of an addition to private holding of government IOUs (securities), while, in the third case, it takes the form of private holding of public assets. Thus, only the form in which the increase in private wealth is held changes, otherwise the two cases are identical. In Keynes’s language, the “booty” on the capitalists’ “lap” takes the form of public assets rather than government securities. Two specific aspects in which the cases are identical should be noted. First, the very resources with which public assets are purchased by private surplus-earners are put into their hands by government spending; and this is entirely because of the government’s decision on how to finance spending, not because they have done anything to “earn” them. It represents a gratuitous transfer to their pockets by the government. Second, private savings go up and add to private wealth for precisely that section of the population which does the overwhelming bulk of private savings anyway and hence holds almost the entire private wealth. (In fact, well over half of the population in India has an income so low that it can scarcely afford to save.) This has the effect, therefore, of adding to the wealth of those who already have massive wealth. This entire fiscal exercise engineers a gratuitous increase in the wealth of the already wealthy. This, and not the usual argument advanced against it, is also the problem with financing government spending through a fiscal deficit. The usual argument is that a fiscal deficit causes excess demand and hence inflation. But in an economy characterized by massive foodgrain stocks and unutilized industrial capacity because of insufficient aggregate demand, an increase in the fiscal deficit would have no inflationary consequences of this sort. The inflation that is currently occurring in the Indian economy is caused not by excess demand, but by “cost-push” factors, primarily higher indirect taxes on petro-products and their cascading effect. Hence, the real reason why direct-tax-financed government spending is to be preferred over fiscal-deficit-financed government spending is not that the latter is inflationary, but that the latter puts more wealth in the hands of the already wealthy. This is also true for government spending financed by the sale of public assets. A point must be noted here about the argument that the resources used for buying public assets are handed to the surplus-earners by government spending itself. The resources, amounting in our example to Rs 100, are put into the hands of the private surplus-earners as a whole; but not all of them buy public assets, only some do. Among the surplus-earners, therefore, there is a redistribution of resources whereby those who buy public assets do so by borrowing, directly or indirectly, from others within this surplus-earning class. The buyers of public assets may do so by borrowing from banks, other financial institutions or financial markets, but the resources they borrow are equal to what other surplus-earners have got. A set of complex portfolio adjustments, involving financial intermediaries, are made, through which the Rs 100 that the government obtains from the sale of public assets is actually put into the hands of those who buy them, by the government’s own spending. It may be thought that those who buy public assets, because their debt goes up for doing so, will consume and invest less than if government spending had been financed by a fiscal deficit; that is, our case three will be less expansionary for the economy than our case one. But this is untrue. Investment, determined by past decisions, remains unchanged anyway in the period under discussion; and consumption, typically a given fraction of surplus-earners’ income, has no reason to be different between cases three and one. Selling public assets thus is no less expansionary than running a fiscal deficit. All this has been known for almost nine decades, ever since the Keynesian Revolution, but the Modi government remains unaware of it. Public asset monetization, like public asset sale, for financing government spending betrays as much a poverty of economic thinking as a shamelessly pro-rich bias on its part. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Speaker sets up 7-member committee on namaz room row||Jharkhand Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto constituted a seven-member committee on Thursday, the concluding day of the monsoon session of the Assembly, to evaluate his decision to allocate a separate room for namaz within the Assembly precincts, giving it 45 days to present a report with suggestions on the issue that has snowballed into a major controversy with the Opposition BJP blaming the Hemant Soren government for resorting to "appeasement politics". The members of the committee are Stephen Marandi, Sarfaraz Ahmed (JMM), Vinod Singh (CPI-ML), Lambodar Mahto (Ajsu), Deepika Pandey Singh (Congress), Pradeep Yadav (Independent) and Neelkant Singh Munda (BJP). “Even though the committee has a deadline of 45 days to submit its report but I would welcome it if it gives the report earlier," Mahto said. Earlier in the day, a BJP delegation met governor Ramesh Bais and handed over a memorandum seeking his intervention on the namaz room issue and complained against Wednesday's police lathicharge on its supporters. There was pandemonium in the Assembly over the issue on Thursday too, the conculding day of the monsoon session. Amid the bedlam, the House cleared four more bills, namely, Jharkhand State Open University Bill 2021, Jharkhand Panchayati Raj (Amendment) Bill 2021, Jharkhand State Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill 2021 and Finance Bill- 2021 without any debate or discussion. Speaking to the media in the evening, chief minister Hemant Soren condemned the BJP for creating trouble in the Assembly over anon-issue. “But I thank the Assembly Speaker for the way he conducted the House to maintain the dignity of MLAs of all parties. The state saw how the BJP tried to create social unrest. People will evaluate it. All I want to say is that this is the Assembly, the highest seat of democracy and a temple of people of all faiths, not a ground for gulli-danda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||RSS affiliated trade union protests against price rise||More than 20 activists of the district unit of an RSS affiliated trade union on Thursday staged a day-long Dharna at district headquarters. The agitation by Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh was part of a nationwide protest of the union government on price rise and black marketing of essential goods. The protestors released an eight-point charter of demand addressed to Prime minister Narendra Modi demanding immediate steps to control the rising prices of food items and petroleum products. The protestors also threatened to up the ante if their demands are not met. Talking to the media, KP Singh, former district general Secretary of Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh said,  “Due to the wrong policies of the government at the centre, the inflation is at its peak and everybody right from farmers to the those in services sectors are facing its brunt.” “The hike in prices of petroleum products coupled with the lack of control on the prices of essential products has made the prices of all household items including potato, onion, mustard oil, refined oil, pulses reach an all-time high. The management of house expense has become difficult for one and all,” said Gupta, adding that despite the one nation one tax provision, the oil prices are out of purview of GST due to which both state government and central government are imposing seperate taxes, leading to its skyrocketing prices. “We are staging Dharna in all the district headquarters as part of the nationwide protest against the wrong policies of the central government as we are concerned with the difficulties faced by people across the country during the time of pandemic as they are already facing all kinds of issues due to unemployment owing to the closure of industries, offices etc,” said Gupta. He also accused the central government of closing the public sector industries in name of monetization aggravating the situation of unemployment and price rise and said they would work to dislodge any government that will work against the common people. Echoing sentiments, Bindeshawari Prasad, former state General Secretary of BMS said, “The price rise situation in the country is at its peak and we demand the central government to make provision for mentioning the production cost by producer on each product to solve the issue of black marketing of different products by hoarders.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP delegation meets Governor, calls for withdrawing namaz room decision||A BJP delegation handed over a memorandum to Governor Ramesh Bais on Thursday to seek his intervention in the immediate withdrawal of the Assembly Speaker’s decision of dedicating a room for offering Namaz at the Vidhan Sabha building, terming the move “undemocratic”, “unconstitutional” and “hazardous” to the secular fabric of governance in the country. “The BJP respects all religions and believes in the freedom of practising one’s religion of choice, but the decision taken by the State Assembly Speaker to dedicate a room for members of a particular community is clearly an attempt to polarize the people of the state and appease one particular community for political gains,” the memorandum stated. The delegation was led by state BJP  general secretary Aditya Sahu. State party vice president Gangotri Kujur, treasurer Deepak Banka and senior leader Balmukund Sahay were also part of the team. In the memorandum, the saffron party claimed that the Speaker's September 2 decision of dedicating a room for offering Namaz has resulted in demands by various groups of allotting dedicated places in the Assembly for offering prayers as per their religious beliefs – a trend that dilutes the inherent purpose of the State Assembly, which is to pass legislation for the betterment of the public irrespective of their religious beliefs. The BJP, which is the largest Opposition party in the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, also sought a probe into the lathicharge on its workers and leaders during a protest against the Speaker's decision on Wednesday. In its memorandum to the Governor, the party claimed that police lathicharged BJP workers protesting peacefully and did not even spare women party workers during the “barbaric onslaught”. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash were also attacked, but security personnel deployed for their safety saved them from suffering major injuries, the BJP stated in its memorandum. The Jharkhand Assembly’s decision of allocating a room for offering Namaz in the Vidhan Sabha building has caused ripples in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, with a Bihar legislator demanding a facility for chanting Hanuman Chalisa in the Assembly and a Samajwadi Party MLA asking for a Namaz room in the state Assembly on the lines of Jharkhand. As a mark of protest, BJP lawmakers turned up at the state Assembly in Ranchi dressed as priests and chanted “Jai Sri Ram” on Tuesday during proceedings of the monsoon session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Tatas foray into using electric vehicles to transport finished steel||Tata Steel has introduced  Electric Vehicles (EVs) for transportation of finished steel at its Jamshedpur plant. The steel major, which had launched the initiative at the Sahibabad plant in Uttar Pradesh in July, extended it to Jamshedpur with an inaugural run from the company's Billet Yard to Beekay Steel Plant on Wednesday evening. Tata Steel has tied up with an Indian startup to pursue its aspiration of deploying EVs for the transportation of finished steel. The company has been contracted to deploy 27 EVs with a minimum carrying capacity of 35 tonnes of steel. The company plans to deploy 15 EVs at its Jamshedpur plant and 12 EVs at its Sahibabad plant. Sudhansu Pathak, vice- president, (Steel Manufacturing), Tata Steel, referred to the adoption of this technology as an important initiative to reduce carbon footprint and further the cause of sustainability. "The initiative is a reinforcement of Tata Steel’s commitment as a responsible corporate towards the residents of steel city," he added. Company vice-president ( Supply Chain) Peeyush Gupta said the initiative was aimed at reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and would help protect the environment in the long run. The EVs being deployed comprise a 2.5 ton, 275kWh lithium-ion battery pack with a sophisticated cooling system and a battery management system having the capability to operate at ambient temperatures of up to 60 degrees Celsius. The battery pack is powered by a 160 kWh charger set-up which is able to charge the battery from 0 to 100 % in 95 minutes. With zero tailpipe emission, each EV would reduce the GHG footprint by more than 125-tonne carbon dioxide equivalent every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand vaccinates 1.35 lakh residents amid rise in Covid cases ||Jharkhand on Wednesday vaccinated more than 1.35 lakh residents, while the upward trend of active Covid cases continued for the second day in a row, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 99,848 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 37,046 beneficiaries. About 1 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44 years. The active caseload of Covid-19 jumped further to 139 as Jharkhand reported at least 23 fresh cases of coronavirus infections against only 13 recoveries, a separate bulletin from NHM highlighted. Ranchi alone accounted for 13 of the 23 fresh cases and the count of active cases witnessed a spike here as well. As many as seven patients recovered from Covid-19 in the district and the active caseload jumped to 82. At least 16 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while East Singhbhum reported three cases against two recoveries. Dhanbad, Deoghar, Bokaro, Jamtara and Khunti reported one case each, while two people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 in West Singhbhum. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of at least 50,045 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, more than 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. With nearly 18,000 residents getting vaccinated on Wednesday, Ranchi achieved the best vaccination numbers among the districts. Dhanbad also vaccinated at least 16,000 beneficiaries. In East Singhbhum, about 5000 residents got vaccinated. According to a document shared by the health department on Wednesday evening, Jharkhand had more than 8.43 lakh vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors. More than 7 lakh Covishield doses and 1.34 lakh Covaxin doses were in stock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 500 trap cameras to be used in animal census in Palamau Tiger Reserve||Over 500 trap cameras would be used in the census of animals including tigers in the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), an official said. Altogether 509 trap cameras spread over 1,129 square km will be used in counting the animals including tigers, Director of PTR, Kumar Ashutosh told reporters on Wednesday. He said the process of installing the cameras in identified spots will take place from October to December and 300 trekkers will be pressed into service for the job. Apart from the photographs, the excreta of tigers will be collected and it would be sent to wildlife laboratory in Dehradun for testing, the PTR Director said. Ashutosh said the counting of wildlife would be conducted under the supervision of four expert forest officials. Currently, the reserve has 72 leopards. The results of the counting were expected to come in July next year, he said, adding that the counting would be conducted scientifically. He said a proposal has been sent to the state government to develop Ketchki as a tourist destination. Ketchki is an attractive place of Beta National Park, where several Bollywood stars including Sharmila Tagore and Bimal Roy have filmed their movies, he said. The Betla National Park will be opened for visitors from October 1, Ashutosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly: Ex-speakers decry BJP hoopla over Namaz room||Two former Jharkhand Assembly Speakers and a BJP ally have condemned the BJP’s disruption of the House over the allotment of a room on the premises for MLAs to offer namaz, saying everyone should encourage religious tolerance in these troubled times. “I would have given a place also to them (BJP members) for reciting the Hanuman Chalisa, though I’m sure they wouldn’t do it (recite the Chalisa),” Inder Singh Namdhari, Jharkhand’s first Assembly Speaker, said at a panel discussion on the subject organised by the state-run Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha TV on Tuesday night. “They (BJP members) are pursuing the matter with an attitude of nahle pe dahla marna (a Hindi saying meaning outdoing an adversary),” added Namdhari, who was with the BJP before he left the party and contested and won in 2009 as an Independent candidate. The Jharkhand Assembly has had a namaz room since the state was carved out of Bihar in the year 2000. The BJP suddenly made an issue out of it when on September 2, a day before the current session opened, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato issued an order making the allotment official, perhaps feeling the need to do so because the Assembly had a few months ago shifted to a new building. The BJP picked the matter up as it “does not have any other suitable issue to pursue”, another former Speaker, Shashank Shekhar Bhokta, said at the panel discussion. Since Monday, BJP lawmakers have been in uproar in the Assembly, reciting the Hanuman Chalisa, singing bhajan-kirtans, chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Har Har Mahadev”, and occupying the Well to try and prevent any business until the room allotment is withdrawn. Namdhari said the Assembly of undivided Bihar had a room for members to offer namaz, and Jharkhand had retained this and all other rules and practices of the parent Assembly. He said the Muslim MLAs of undivided Bihar had applied for a place to offer the Friday prayers because there was no mosque near the House. Bhokta, a member of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, said at the panel discussion: “The practice (in Jharkhand) continued even when MLAs from the BJP became Speakers; it never became an issue till now.” “A temple was built within the chief minister’s official residence when (BJP politician) Arjun Munda was chief minister but no one objected.” Bhokta added: “Even Muslim constables never demanded that mosques be built within the premises of police stations although many of those already housed temples.” He said everyone needed to show tolerance. “It’s an old tradition in this country to (give people the) right to observe their respective religious practices,” Lambodar Mahato, an MLA from BJP ally All Jharkhand Students Union, said at the panel discussion with Namdhari and Bhokta. Namdhari said the channel should have also invited “someone sensible” from the BJP to the discussion so that they could be requested “not to fan communal issues”. Congress MLA Deepika Pandey Singh told this newspaper: “Youths are worried about employment, not about who’s offering namaz where.” She expressed frustration that the ruckus was preventing the House from discussing and conducting business. “People are discussing unemployment and price rise outside while the legislators are doing bhajan-kirtan within the House,” CPIML Liberation MLA Vinod Singh told this newspaper. On Wednesday, police used water cannons and then their batons as 1,500-odd BJP workers tried to break barricades about 2km from the Assembly as part of a programme to surround the House. Former BJP chief minister Raghubar Das sat on a dharna outside the Assembly. A PIL has been filed in Jharkhand High Court against the allotment of the room for namaz but is yet to be listed for hearing. Petitioner Bhairav Singh is the prime accused in a mob attack on chief minister Hemant Soren’s convoy in January. He is out on bail. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Two kids killed, four injured in bee attack in Jharkhand||Two children were killed and four others were injured in a bee attack in Giridih district of Jharkhand on Tuesday evening. According to reports, 12-year-old Uttam Bhula and his brother Gautam, 10, sons of Narayan Bhula, had gone to graze goats in Devani forest near Baghjant village on Tuesday evening and had climbed a tree to pluck fruits when they were attacked by a swarm of bees. Hearing their cries, their aunt Malwa Devi, uncle Arjun Bhula and cousin sisters Soni Kumari and Karishma Kumari rushed to the spot only to be attacked by the bees causing injuries to them. However, they managed to bring the two children back with them to the house and opted for treatment by a village quack. When the condition of the children deteriorated in the night, they tried to take them to the nearby primary health centre on Wednesday morning but they succumbed to their injuries on the way. Baghjant falls under Nimadih panchayat of Gawan block in Giridih district, around 240km from Ranchi. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar said that they will verify if the forest department has any provision for compensation. “The incident took place in a forest when the bees attacked them. I have asked the local block officials to submit a report in this connection which would be forwarded to the forest department to explore any possibility of compensation for the bereaved family,” he said. The bodies of the children were handed over to their relatives for the last rites. A week ago, a 10-year-old boy of Singho village under Tisri police station area in Giridih district was killed in a bee attack along with four other members of his family. Vishal, son of Kauleshwari Turi, died while being taken to the hospital. The family members had relied on a village quack for treatment before deciding to take him to hospital. Vishal had also gone to the forest to graze goats with two friends and had climbed a tree when he was attacked by a swarm of bees. The bees attacked the three children and family members who had rushed to the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
