10-09-2021||Business||Calcutta airport picked as plane repair hub||The Calcutta airport has been picked as one of the eight prospective maintenance hubs by the civil aviation ministry. Under the new policy for maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services announced on Thursday, the civil aviation ministry has proposed the leasing of land through open tenders and abolishing royalty charged by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Besides, the land allotment for entities setting up MRO facilities will be done for 30 years instead of the current short-term period of three to five years. Announcing the new policy, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said discussions are on for having military and civil convergence with respect to MRO activities. The aim is to make India a “global MRO hub”, the minister noted. Under the new policy, the rate of lease rental would be decided through bidding instead of the current practice of having pre-determined AAI (Airports Authority of India) rates. Also, the rate of escalation for lease rental would be 15 per cent after every three years. At present, the escalation rate is 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent per annum. The land will be allotted through open tenders instead of the current practice of allotment based on an entity’s request. According to the minister, there will also be changes in the renewal of the contract of existing leaseholders. On the expiry of existing contracts, the land given to these MROs would be allotted on the basis of a bidding process. “The existing MRO would have the right of first refusal if his bid is within 15 per cent of the bid given by the highest bidder, and he agrees to match the rates quoted by the highest bidder. Also, the existing MRO shall settle all disputes and clear all the outstanding dues,” the ministry said in a note. Eight airports The ministry has identified eight airports for attracting investments to set up MRO facilities. The eight airports are those at Begumpet (Telangana), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Chandigarh, Delhi, Juhu (Maharashtra), Calcutta and Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh). D. Anand Bhaskar, MD and chief executive officer, Air Works Group, the country’s largest MRO firm, said “it will boost investment in the sector, especially as leasing will be long-term and royalty to AAI abolished”. The new policy will help the local MRO players secure a greater share of the market in India, he said. At present, they hold just 15 per cent of the Indian market. However, aviation analysts said the fine print of the policy needs to be seen on issues related to customs duty on parts, taxation relief measures which would make the country an attractive destination compared with global competitors. The global market of MRO is worth $80 billion in which India’s share is just 2.5 per cent, approximately Rs 15,000 crore. Scindia said the country has 710 aircraft that needs to be checked at regular intervals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
10-09-2021||Business||JioPhone launch pushed back||The launch of the much-anticipated JioPhone Next may not take place on Friday. Late tonight, the telecom giant put out a press release in which it said that Reliance Jio and partner Google had “made considerable progress” towards launching the device and were “working to make it available more widely in time for the Diwali festive season”. The release added that the two partners had started testing the cheap smartphone device — which is expected  to widen the footprint of the country’s largest telecom company by subscriber base — “with a limited set of users for further refinement”. JioPhone Next is being touted as a first-of-its-kind device that will feature an optimised operating system based on Android and Play Store. The device and the operating system will offer premium capabilities that have until now been associated with more powerful smartphones, including voice-first features that “enable people to consume content and navigate the phone in their own language, deliver a great camera experience, and get the latest Android feature and security updates”, the release added. “The additional time will also help mitigate the current industry-wide global semiconductor shortage,” the company said. Meanwhile, Jio-BP, the fuel and mobility joint venture between RIL and the UK’s BP, has announced a partnership with BluSmart — India’s first and largest all-electric ridehailing platform — to set up a network of commercial EV charging stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
10-09-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank cuts home loan rates||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Thursday announced a 0.15 percentage point cut in its lending rate in the highly competitive segment, offering mortgages from 6.50 per cent. This is the bank’s lowest interest rate in more than a decade and one of the most competitive among rivals, its president for consumer assets, Ambuj Chandna told reporters in a virtual call. The reduced home loan rate is a festive period offer available only for two months till November 8, and the lowest offering is for those having highest credit scores coming from the salaried segment. In the past, its rivals which include HDFC and SBI, have responded to rate cuts by slashing their own offering and it would be interesting to see how they react this time. Demand for the loans is back because of a greater interest in home buying triggered by the pandemic, which has caused both work and education to shift to the homes, and also a downward trend in home prices, Chandna said. The aggressively priced home loans will be available for both fresh home loans and also to balance transfers. There has been an uptrend in the balance transfers, where a home buyer already servicing a loan is shifting to the lender for a lower rate, he said, adding that such transfers are happening for loans taken from both non-bank lenders and also top-tier banks. The bank is able to cut the interest rate despite no rate cut from the policy side because of the excess liquidity in the system, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
10-09-2021||Business||Centre extends deadline for filing income tax returns till December 31||The government on Thursday extended the deadline for filing income tax returns by individuals till December 31 amid the coronavirus pandemic and technical glitches in the IT portal. Earlier, the deadline was extended to September 30, 2021. Usually, the last date for filing the ITR (income tax returns) for individual taxpayers is July 31. The CBDT has also extended the ITR filing deadline for companies till February 15, 2022 from November 30, 2021. Narayan Jain, chairman, DTPA Representation Committee, said, “It was necessary in view of the fact that the income tax portal is still not fully functional. Though the deadline fixed by the finance minister for Infosys was 15th September, it seems the progress is only marginal. The extension is only a temporary solution but the portal has to be functional in the desired manner. The time extended in the case of tax audit cases is not sufficient. It needs to be reviewed.” The due date for filing the tax audit report and transfer pricing certificate has been extended to January 15, 2022 and January 31, 2022, respectively, from the existing deadlines of October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the last date has been extended by another two months to March 31, 2022. Aarti Raote, partner, Deloitte India, said, “This is a welcome move considering the glitches in the website are still to be resolved. However, one needs to note that where taxes are payable, the interest levy for default and deferment in advance taxes would continue till the filing of the tax return. Hence it is ideal that the taxpayers pay taxes and file their returns as soon as feasible.” Refunds for exporters The government on Thursday said it is releasing Rs 56,027 crore against pending tax refunds of exporters under different export inventive schemes. The amount would be disbursed to more than 45,000 exporters. The amount is being released under various export promotion schemes. This amount is over and above the duty remission of Rs 12,454 crore for the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) scheme and Rs 6,946 crore for Rebate of State and Central Levies and Taxes (RoSCTL) scheme already announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||Ford to stop making cars in India, shut down both plants||US car giant Ford will stop making cars in India and shut down both its plants in the country, the company announced in a statement on Thursday. The company will, however, continue to sell imported products and offer services to its existent customers. The Sanand plant in Gujarat that manufactured the Ford Figo, the Figo Aspire along with the Freestyle will be shut by the fourth quarter of 2021. The older plant at Maraimalai Nagar in Chennai that made the Endeavour and the Ecosport will be shut by the second quarter of 2022. It will, however, continue to manufacture engines from its Sanand plant which will be exported to the company’s global operations. The decision will impact over 4,000 employees even as around 500 workers at the Sanand engine plant and about 100 employees in  supporting parts distribution and customer service will continue to support the business. The firm, which was one of the earliest companies to enter the Indian market about 25 years back, is the latest US biggie to leave in recent years. In 2017, General Motors  stopped making cars for the Indian market. Last year, Harley-Davidson stopped manufacturing and massively scaled back its sales operations in what is the world’s biggest motorcycle market. “As part of our Ford+ plan, we are taking difficult but necessary actions to deliver a sustainably profitable business  and allocate our capital to grow and create value in the right areas,” Ford Motor Company’s president and CEO Jim Farley said in a statement. Ford had run up operating losses of more than $2 billion over the past decade in India and demand for its vehicles had weakened, he noted. “Ford will continue to take care of our valued customers in India, working closely with the dealers. India remains strategically important for us and, thanks to our growing Ford Business Solutions team, will continue to be a large and important employee base for Ford globally,” Farley stated. The Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (Fada) voiced its shock and concern over another US auto major quitting production in India. Fada president  Vinkesh Gulati said, “There are about 170 dealers who in turn have about 391 outlets and have invested around Rs 2,000 crore to set up their dealerships.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||SC upholds 2017 arbitration award in favour of Anil Ambani||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld a 2017 arbitration award worth over Rs 2,782 crore along with further interest in favour of Anil Ambani group firm, Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt Ltd (DAMEPL) in a case  against Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. A bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao quashed the Delhi high court order that had set aside the arbitration award in favour of DAMEPL, an arm of Reliance Infrastructure, which had pulled out from running the Airport Express metro line over safety issues. According to Reliance Infrastructure’s latest annual report, the award is worth around $632 million (over Rs 4,600 crore), including the interest. The verdict is a crucial victory for Ambani as his telecom companies have been declared bankrupt and he himself is fighting a personal insolvency case filed by the State Bank of India. The Reliance Infrastructure share on Thursday hit the upper circuit. It jumped 4.95 per cent to end at Rs 74.15 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The arbitral tribunal in its May 2017 award had accepted the airport metro operator’s claim that the running of operations on the line was not viable because of reasons such as structural defects. DAMEPL will use the money to pay lenders. In 2008, the company had entered into a contract with DMRC for running the airport metro line till 2038. As disputes arose between the parties, DAMEPL stopped operating the metro on the airport line and invoked arbitration clause against DMRC alleging violation of contract and sought a termination fee. A single judge of the Delhi high court on March 6, 2018, dismissed the DMRC appeal against the arbitral award, but a division bench of the high court on January 15, 2019, reversed the single judge’s order with certain modifications and tossed the matter back to the arbitral tribunal. Aggrieved, both the parties appealed in the apex court against the division bench order. “As the arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality as well as the quantity of the evidence, the task of being a judge on the evidence before the tribunal does not fall upon the court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 34.8 (Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996),” the apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||Supreme Court stays hearing in FRL-Amazon case||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed for four weeks the proceedings in the dispute between Amazon and Future Retail Limited pending before the Delhi high court. The apex court ordered a stay on the enforcement of the emergency arbitrator’s order by the high court. The order comes as a huge relief for Future Retail Limited (FRL) which is challenging the emergency arbitrator’s order before the Singapore tribunal. The bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna also directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Competition Commission of India (CCI), and Securities and Exchange Board of the India (Sebi) not to pass any final order in relation to the dispute for four weeks. “Nothing will happen in four weeks. Issue notice. Taking into consideration the challenge to Emergency Arbitrator award is pending before tribunal under SIAC Rules,” the court noted. SIAC stands for Singapore International Arbitration Centre. The court was hearing a plea filed by Future Coupons Private Limited against a Delhi high court single judge order which had put on hold Future Group’s deal to sell its retail assets to Reliance Retail in a Rs 24,713-crore deal. Prima facie, agreeing with the arguments of senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for FRL that the impugned order was passed without hearing the company the bench  said “in a matter of this magnitude” both parties ought to be given a fair hearing. However, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium appearing for Amazon countered Salve to argue that the single judge had heard elaborate arguments of the two parties and had only thereafter passed a reasoned judgment on March 18. Salve said the high court’s single-judge order went beyond the scope of EA’s award and had the effect of prejudging the issues which are pending final adjudication before the SIAC. “I have an arbitration pending. I have taken a defence that I have not breached any agreement. The single judge says admittedly the Respondents have breached the agreement,”  he said. Mukul Rohatgi representing Future Coupons Private Limited (FCPL) said the single-judge order was procedurally flawed as the attachment order was passed without affording any opportunity of hearing to FCPL and its directors. Both sides apprised the bench about the chronology of events in the high-profile case. Amazon dragged the Future group to arbitration at the Singapore arbitration centre in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with  the retail arm of rival Reliance  Industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||Tata Steel reclaims profit perch||Tata Steel, a company conceived by the founder of the $106-billion group and built by his sons and cousin, is reasserting its pre-eminence within the Tata empire. Buoyed by an unprecedented rally in steel prices and a quicksilver surge in margins, Tata Steel is looking to roll back the years to once again emerge as the largest company in the Tata Group — with the forecast cushioned by the caveat that such an eventuality will critically depend on whether or not the commodity market stays red hot during the rest of the year. It has made a very bright start in fiscal 2022 in its quest to reclaim its past glory. During the first quarter, Tata Steel’s net profit on a consolidated basis stood at Rs 9,768 crore, rising to the top of the totem pole after eclipsing Tata Consultancy Services for the first time in at least a decade. The software behemoth, long considered as the money-spinner of the over century-old conglomerate founded by Parsi businessman Jamsetji Tata, clocked a profit of Rs 9,031 crore during the same period. The gap between the two iconic institutions from the house of Tatas has been far wider in terms of income. On a consolidated basis, TCS had reported a total income of Rs 46,132 core compared with Tata Steel’s income of Rs 53,534 crore in the first three months of this year. Investors and Tata group observers will be keenly waiting to see whether this trend sustains or is just a mere flash in the pan. Being in the commodity business, steel is often known to fall prey to the vagaries of business cycles that can turn all too quickly. In contrast, TCS has been a consistent performer over the years: barring a few instances, the company has shown a steady uptrend in profit and income every quarter since its listing in 2004. The uphill task that Tata Steel faces would be borne out by a simple number: TCS had made four times more profits than its peer during 2020-21. Market cap Tata Steel, established in 1907 by Dorabji Tata, son of Jamsetji, and his cousin RD Tata, may have clawed back to the top in terms of quarterly profits but the software giant is still the king when it comes to creating investors’ wealth. The stock has given over 3,000 per cent return in the last 17 years and is ranked as the second most valuable company on the Indian bourses after Reliance Industries, with a market cap of over Rs 14 lakh crore. In contrast, Tata Steel is 27th in the pecking order with a market cap of Rs 1.74 lakh crore, after beefing a considerable sum of investor wealth over the past nine months. Leader of the pack Tata Steel has always been considered by many within the Group as the group’s flagship company as it has a special place in the history of India as well as the House of Tatas. It is one of the oldest and largest of the Tata companies which still runs a town named after the founder, which was also conceived by Jamsetji Tata. It has over a million shareholders and employs many fifth and sixth generation employees. Tata Steel’s fortunes were clouded after the 2007 acquisition of Corus with the European steel business starting to feel the strain after the global financial crisis in the following year. TCS, in contrast, soon became the leader of the pack and started to provide the ballast to the rest of the group. Will we see a different script play out in 2021-22? The jury is still out on that tantalising question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 14 districts sign MoU with Hyderabad institute to boost millet production||Fourteen Chhattisgarh districts on Friday signed  MoUs with the Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad for boosting production of ragi, kodo and kutki in the state as chief minister Bhupesh baghel launched the Millet Mission programme. Addressing the event at his Raipur office, Baghel said that Chhattisgarh will become the millet hub of the country in the coming times. He said that under Millet Mission, an initiative has been taken to give the farmers the right price for small cereal crops, provide input assistance, procurement arrangements, processing. "Like minor forest produce, we want to make small grain crops also the strength of Chhattisgarh," he said. Under the programme, the IIMR will help Kanker, Kondagaon, Bastar, Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi,Balrampur, Koriya, Surajpur and Jashpur with technical know-hows, availability of high-quality seeds and establishment of a seed bank in Chhattisgarh. Arrangements will be made for training the farmers of Chhattisgarh through Krishi Vigyan Kendra for spreading the scientific technology developed at the national level related to millet production by IIMR Hyderabad at the field level. "Minor cereal crops like Kodo, Kutki and Ragi are mostly sown in our forest areas.  Crops like Kodo, Kutki and Ragi are rich in nutrition. There is a good demand for these in the country. These are sold at very good prices in urban areas. But Kodo, Kutki and Ragi grown in Chhattisgarh have not been able to come out of Vananchal," Baghel said. "Till now, neither the support price of these crops was fixed, nor was there any arrangement for its purchase. Even after producing such an important and valuable crop, the farmers who grew it remained poor," he added. Baghel said that the purchase of minor cereal crops would be done through the Van Dhan societies of Chhattisgarh Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation. After processing these crops, they will be used in schemes like mid-day meals, public distribution systems and nutrition programmes. With this, arrangements will be ensured to take the finished products to the markets of the metropolitan cities. It has also been decided to manage Rs 170 crore 30 lakh for the next five years of Millet Mission through DMF and other means. He said that under Millet Mission, farmers growing Kodo-Kutki and Ragi crops would be given an input assistance of Rs.9000 per acre and Rs.10,000 per acre for growing Kodo-Kutki and Ragi instead of paddy. The Chief Minister said that like minor forest produce, large-scale employment opportunities would be created at the local level due to value addition of small-grain crops. "Two processing units have been established at Kanker and Durgukondal. Sisters of Self Help Groups are getting employment from this. Like minor forest produce, we also want to make small grain crops the new strength of Chhattisgarh. In the next phase, MoUs will be signed with more such districts, where production of Kodo, Kutki and Ragi is abundant," he said. IIMR  Director Dr. Vilas A. Tonapi said that in the present times, there is a need to increase food diversity in our diet to address the problem of lifestyle diseases and malnutrition. "The Millet Mission starting in Chhattisgarh will prove to be a milestone in this direction. He said that it is a good initiative by the state government to provide input assistance to the farmers engaged in millet production in the state of Chhattisgarh," he said. He added that the year 2023 will be celebrated as the International Year of Millet. Through the Millet Mission, Chhattisgarh will be successful in making a mark as a Millet Hub in the country by the year 2023. The Managing Director of Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation, Mr. Sanjay Shukla said that IIMR specialists will be posted in the districts by the State Government who will guide the farmers to increase the production of millets. Senior consultant will also be appointed at the state level. He will act as a master trainer. He said that seed banks for small grain crops would be established in Bastar, Surguja, Kawardha and Rajnandgaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
10-09-2021||India||Hospitality Placements 2021- A record during the pandemic||NSHM School of Tourism and Hotel Management achieved a record high in their hospitality placements during the ongoing pandemic. The college commenced its yearly placement drive and related Training and Placement activities in November 2019 under the watchful mentorship of Professor Dipnath Mukherjee, Professor Subrata Pal and Professor Nasim Khan. The initiation of the training and placement activity in the pre-pandemic proved immensely beneficial for budding professionals who were set to graduate in July 2020. The college initiated and successfully completed an on-campus interview with ITC Grand Resort Goa on 14th October 2019 where 17 final-year students received job offers. Boosting the confidence of the students and the mentor body, further negotiations for campus recruitment were taken up by eminent brands such as Taj Kovalam and Hyderabad, Grand Hyatt Goa and Ahmedabad, Radisson New Delhi, Ritz Carlton, Pune to name a few. However, with the pandemic spreading rapidly across the globe, the mentor body overseeing the campus placement process, quickly estimated the worst blow hotel industry would face under Covid-19 attack. Anticipating its detrimental effect on the placement prospects of the 130 pass outs, they unanimously decided to speed-up the placement process, exploring new avenues or related industries for placing the students, apart from the conventional industry roles. With a target to place all the 130 students by February 2020, Professor Dipnath Mukherjee, Professor Subrata Pal and Professor Nasim Khan set about exploring avenues for placement beyond hotels. They received wholesome support from Reliance Retail Ltd. and the campus recruitment drive was again held on 12th November, 2019 where several students received offers from the renowned retail brand. In the next three months, final-year students from NSHM School of Tourism and Hotel Management continued to bag recruitment offers from major brands like Taj, Oberoi, Hyatt, JW Marriott, Four Seasons, Renaissance, Sheraton, Ritz Carlton and Park Hyatt to name a few. The placement dashboard reflected 98 per cent of success with few students yet to be placed. However, at the same time China, Europe and America were reeling under Covid-19 and the hospitality sector in those regions were badly affected. The lull started by the end of February 2020 as students were sent back from hotels with early completion certificates for their industrial training. Suddenly, all jobs started drying up and hotels were non-responsive on the job front. By the end of March, the entire Indian hospitality industry went into a long hibernation. Post 9 long months of inactivity, 25 odd students working in the industry, had lost their jobs [during that period]. In the middle of October 2020, the team of Professor Dipnath Mukherjee, Professor Subrata Pal and Professor Nasim Khan had a long list of task – to find re-placement for 25 students; initiate placement cycle for the next batch of 120 final year students and help 86 odd students desperately looking for industrial training opportunities. The bleeding hospitality industry amidst the looming global pandemic brought the team to go for a priority based approach instead of confronting all challenges at once. On priority, the team focussed on helping students looking for industrial training opportunities and get offers for the re-placed students. By December 2020, the team had successfully achieved both the targets. However, the team had to face reluctant parents and students unwilling to go places due to the fear of COVID. Further, different COVID lockdown rules at various parts of the country also proved to be a deterrent. Simultaneously, the team ventured to Gujrat and reached out to Reliance Retail Gujrat division where 19 students got placed. Slowly, the team started placing students across the best brands and by July 2021, achieved a placement figure of 70 per cent. The team aims to place the remaining students in the coming months. Braving the odds and overcoming the struggle, the team continues to work along with students in their placement journey. Keeping an eye on the next 6 months, which can be critical, the team is finding ways to give the best of services and support to NSHM School of Tourism and Hotel Management students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
10-09-2021||India||Punjab govt employees to be sent on compulsory leave upon failure to take Covid jabs||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced on Friday that state government employees failing to take even the first dose of Covid vaccine for any reason other than medical will be compulsorily sent on leave after September 15. This strong measure, an official statement said, was announced by Singh to protect the people of the state from the disease and to ensure that those who are vaccinated do not have to pay the price for continued vaccine hesitancy of those who are not. At a high-level virtual Covid review meeting held on Friday, the chief minister said vaccine effectiveness is evident from the data being analysed. Special efforts were taken to reach out to government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose, he said. In another decision taken in view of the upcoming festival season, Singh ordered extension of the existing Covid restrictions till September 30, with a limit of 300 on all gatherings, including political, and strict enforcement of wearing of masks as well as social distancing. Earlier, the number of people allowed for indoor gatherings was 150 and outdoors was 300. Singh also made it mandatory for organisers, including political parties, to ensure that participants, management and staff at food stalls, etc. in festival-related events are fully vaccinated or at least have had a single dose. The chief minister called for continued vigil in the light of the festivals, and urged all political parties to lead by example, while directing the DGP to ensure compliance of restrictions by all. Punjab goes to polls early next year. Singh, meanwhile, allowed teaching and non-teaching school staff who had taken at least one dose of vaccine more than four weeks ago to resume duties, subject to submission of weekly RT PCR negative test reports. However, all those with co-morbidities shall only be allowed once they are fully vaccinated, he added. School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar earlier pointed out that currently, only fully vaccinated staff members are allowed to come to schools. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu suggested a gap for the second dose to be reduced for the school staff to 28 days, but Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that the Centre had rejected the state's request to allow them to be treated as essential services. Singh noted with satisfaction that with aggressive testing, the situation in schools had remained under control. Samples from 3,21,969 school students, along with 33,854 teaching and non-teaching staff, were taken in August across 5,799 schools and a total of 158 tested positive, which accounts for a positivity rate of only 0.05 per cent, he added. Citing the latest sero-survey, he revealed that for children in the age group of 6-17 years, the positivity was at 60 per cent, and it was higher in the age bracket of 14-17 years. It was spread equally across gender and place of residence, according to the survey, which has confirmed "that our children even though affected by Covid have remained largely safe from serious disease", the chief minister said. Sidhu urged Singh to ensure availability of sufficient vaccines to ensure vaccination of all eligible people before the festivals. Singh said he will pursue the matter with the Union health minister, who had earlier assured him of additional supplies. He directed the Health Department to ensure that all staffers at sweet shops, kiosks, dhabas, etc. are vaccinated with at least one dose. Noting that the state had already vaccinated more than 57 per cent of the eligible population, with the first dose administered to 1.18 crore and second to 37.81 lakh people, Singh ordered further intensification of the vaccination drive. The chief minister directed the Department of Social Security to prepare to open anganwadi centres within this month. In terms of variants of concern, the month wise whole genome sequencing sent to National Centre for Disease Control showed that the delta variant remains predominant, the chief minister said, adding that the whole genome sequencing lab at GMCH hospital in Patiala had started operations, and 67 total samples had been tested already and didn't show presence of any new variant. K K Talwar, head of the state's Covid expert committee, urged the chief minister to appeal to all religious organisations to make regular announcements from temples and gurdwaras for wearing of masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
10-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Australian counterpart hold talks on defence cooperation, other matters||Partnership between India and Australia is based on our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday after holding wide-ranging talks with his Australian counterpart Peter Dutton. Describing the discussions as "fruitful", Singh said bilateral defence cooperation, as well as regional issues, figured in the deliberations. "I have had a very fruitful and wide-ranging discussion with Minister Dutton on our bilateral defence cooperation as well as regional issues," Singh said in a media statement. "Both of us are keen to work jointly to realise the full potential of the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership," he said. The talks took place a day ahead of the inaugural 'two-plus-two' dialogue between foreign and defence ministers of India and Australia. Dutton and Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne arrived here on Friday. Singh said the partnership between the two countries is based on "our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region". "Both, Australia and India have tremendous stakes in peace, development and free flow of trade, rules-based order and economic growth in the region," he said. "Our discussions today focused on our bilateral defence cooperation and expanding military engagements across services, enhancing defence information sharing, cooperation in emerging defence technologies and mutual logistics support," he added. Singh said both sides also noted with happiness that Australia joined the Malabar Exercise in 2020. "In this context we also expressed satisfaction in the continued participation of Australia in Malabar Exercise this year," he added. The Australian Navy was part of the recent Malabar naval exercise that also featured navies of India, the US and Japan. Singh said both sides discussed opportunities to work together in defence science and technology areas. "I invited Australian industry to take advantage of India's liberalised foreign direct investment policies in the defence sector. We both agreed that there are opportunities of bilateral collaboration for co-development and co production," he said. According to diplomatic sources, at the two-plus-two dialogue, both sides are expected to deliberate on further solidifying bilateral defence and strategic ties besides exchanging views on the situation in Afghanistan. The two sides are also expected to discuss ways to boost cooperation in the Indo-Pacific in the face of China's growing military assertiveness in the region, they said. Both Australia and India are part of Quad or Quadrilateral coalition that resolved to work towards ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The other two members of the Quad are the US and Japan. The sources said expanding bilateral cooperation in areas of maritime security is expected to be another area of focus at the two-plus-two dialogue. The dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers was instituted as part of an overall goal to expand strategic cooperation between the two countries. India has such a framework for talks with a very few countries including the US and Japan. Defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||RSS, BJP trying to break J&K's composite culture, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the RSS-BJP combine of trying to break the composite culture of Jammu and Kashmir. "The feeling of love, brotherhood and composite culture exists among you all. I feel sad that the RSS and BJP are trying to break this culture," Gandhi said in his address to Congress office-bearers and workers at a party function here on the second day of his two-day visit to Jammu. "They (RSS, BJP) attack love and brotherhood You got weakened and as result, they took away your statehood," he added. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre. The Congress leader exhorted the gathering to chant 'Jai Mata Di', a day after he paid obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra. "I went to Mata Vaishno Devi shrine yesterday. There are three symbols of mata (pindis) there - Mata Durga, Mata Lakshmi and Mata Saraswati, Gandhi said. "Goddess Durga protects us, Lakshmi is a symbol of power, and Saraswati symbolises education and knowledge," he said. When these three shaktis are in your home and country, your home and country will make progress," he said. However, the BJP government's policies like demonetisation and GST have weakened their powers, he said. Whereas, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Gurantee Act (MGNREGA) and the GDP with a growth rate of 9 per cent under the Congress had increased their powers, he added. Pointing towards his hand, Gandhi co-related the Congress election symbol with Lord Shiva and Guru Nanak Dev, and said it was the symbol of being fearless. "This hand is the symbol that you should not be afraid of anything," Gandhi said, adding that the BJP is afraid of everything".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||I-T department carries out 'surveys' at Newsclick, Newslaundry offices in tax case||The Income Tax department on Friday conducted separate "survey operations" at the premises of online news portals Newsclick and Newslaundry here, officials said. The operations are being conducted to verify certain tax payment details and remittances made by the organisations, they said. Some documents have been found and these are being studied, the officials said. In a survey operation, which is carried out under provisions of section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, tax authorities can seize documents. There was no immediate reaction from the two portals or their promoters, but their social media handles continuously updated news stories and articles. Newsclick and its founders were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in February under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and that investigation is linked to alleged dubious foreign funding received by its registered company, which runs the news portal. The money laundering case arises out of a Delhi Police FIR alleging that PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd received foreign direct investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the 2018-19 financial year. The Delhi High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to Newsclick's editor-in-chief and founder Prabir Purkayastha in connection with the Delhi Police FIR that relates to its probe against the foreign funding of the company. The high court has also granted Purkayastha protection from coercive action in the ED case. Newsclick has argued in its defence in the court that there is no question of siphoning off of funds, as alleged by probe agencies, as the same had been utilised for paying salaries to employees and that there was no loss to the exchequer in the process. The ED had claimed that it is also probing Newsclick and its promoters for alleged transfer of certain funds to activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Elgar Parishad case of Maharashtra. It has also questioned Navlakha, lodged in a Maharashtra jail, in connection with the case. Purkayastha had earlier said in a statement that a smear campaign has been launched against the portal, and "selective leaks" from the ED, whose probe is already under challenge before court, reflect the "inherent weakness" in the investigation and the course that it will take in the courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi stresses on buffer stock of Covid drugs at high-level meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a high-level meeting on the Covid situation and vaccination as the government noted high caseloads in states like Kerala and Maharashtra to say that there can be no room for complacency. Modi reviewed the status of augmentation of bed capacity for pediatric care and of facilities supported under "COVID Emergency Response Package II", and it was noted that states have been advised to redesign and orient primary care and block level health infrastructure in these areas to manage the situation in rural areas, a statement said. States are being asked to maintain a buffer stock for drugs used in management of COVID-19, mucormycosis, MIS-C at the district level, it added. "It was discussed that across the world, there are countries where the number of active Covid cases continues to remain high. In India too, the figures from states like Maharashtra and Kerala indicate that there can be no room for complacency," the statement said. However, the weekly positivity was at less than three per cent for the 10th consecutive week, it added. Modi underscored the need to rapidly augment the entire ecosystem to ensure increased oxygen availability, including oxygen concentrators, cylinders and PSA plants. Efforts are also on to install 961 Liquid Medical Oxygen storage tanks and 1,450 medical gas pipeline systems with an aim to support at least one such unit per district, the government said. The ambulance network is also being augmented to ensure at least one ambulance per block. Modi also reviewed the status of PSA oxygen plants coming up across the country and told that around one lakh oxygen concentrators and three lakh oxygen cylinders have been distributed to states. He was also briefed about the concentration of cases in a few geographies, districts with high test positivity as well as the week on week test positivity rate in the country. On vaccines, the statement noted that around 58 per cent of India's adult population has received the first dose and nearly 18 per cent both doses. Modi was also updated about the vaccine pipeline and increased supply of vaccines. He spoke about the need for constant genome sequencing to monitor emergence of mutants. He was informed that INSACOG (SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium) now consists of 28 labs distributed across the country. The lab network is also linked with a hospital network for clinical correlation. Sewage sampling is also being done for genomic surveillance. States have been requested to share SARS COV2 positive samples with INSACOG regularly. Modi highlighted the need to ensure adequate testing across the country and was told about the support being given to 433 districts to establish RT-PCR lab facility in public health facilities. The principal secretary to the prime minister, cabinet secretary, principal scientific advisor, health secretary, member (health) NITI Aayog and other important officials were present in the meeting. The meeting came a day after Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India is still going through the second wave of COVID-19 and it is not over yet. He had said 35 districts are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent while it is between five and 10 per cent in 30 districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Taliban must adhere to its promise of not using Afghan soil for terrorism, says India at UN||Terming the situation in Afghanistan as very fragile, India has said it is important that the Taliban adheres to its commitment to not allow the use of the Afghan soil for terrorism, including from terror groups designated under Security Council resolution 1267 that lists Pakistan-based outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said at the UN Security Council Debate on Afghanistan Thursday that as Afghanistan's neighbour, India was privileged to preside over the adoption of a substantial and forward-looking product of the Council during its presidency of the 15-nation UN body last month. The resolution on Afghanistan took into account some of our collective concerns, in particular on terrorism, where it has noted the commitment of the Taliban not to allow the use of the Afghan soil for terrorism, including from terrorists and terrorist groups designated under Resolution 1267. The Security Council resolution has underlined that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts. As witnessed from the deplorable terrorist attack at Kabul Airport last month, terrorism continues to pose a serious threat to Afghanistan. It is therefore important that commitments made in this regard are respected and adhered to, Tirumurti said. Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed as well as the Haqqani Network are proscribed terror entities under UNSC resolution 1267 (1999) concerning ISIL (Da'esh), Al-Qaeda, and associated individuals, groups, undertakings and entities. JeM founder Masood Azhar and LeT leader Hafiz Saeed are also listed as global terrorists under the 1267 Sanctions regime. Resolution 2593 also took note of the Taliban statement that Afghans will be able to travel abroad in an unhindered manner. "We hope that these commitments will be adhered to, including regarding the safe, secure, and orderly departure from Afghanistan of Afghans and all foreign nationals, Tirumurti said. India also called on the international community to rise above any partisan interests and stand together with the people of Afghanistan in their desire for peace, stability and security in the country. The situation in Afghanistan continues to be very fragile. As its immediate neighbour and a friend to its people, the current situation is of direct concern to us, Tirumurti said. He said uncertainties abound about the future of the Afghan people, as well as about sustaining and building on the gains achieved over the last two decades. In this context, we reiterate the need for the voices of Afghan women to be heard, aspirations of Afghan children to be realised and the rights of minorities to be protected. We call on humanitarian assistance to be provided urgently and underline the need to provide unhindered access to the UN and other agencies in this regard, he said. Underlining that Afghanistan has already seen enough bloodshed and violence in recent years, Tirumurti said India calls on the international community to come together, rising above any partisan interests, to stand together with the people of Afghanistan in their desire for peace, stability and security in the country. We need to enable all Afghans, including women, children and minorities, to live in peace and dignity. Briefing the Security Council, Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan Deborah Lyons said that the new reality in Afghanistan is that the lives of millions of Afghans will depend on how the Taliban will choose to govern. We are faced, as of two days ago, with a de facto administration announced by the Taliban. Those who hoped for, and urged for, inclusivity will be disappointed. There are no women in the names listed. There are no non-Taliban members, no figures from the past government, nor leaders of minority groups. Instead, it contains many of the same figures who were part of the Taliban leadership from 1996 to 2001, she said. Lyons told the Council that what is of immediate and practical importance to those around this table is that of the 33 names presented, many are on the United Nations sanctions list, including the prime minister, the two deputy prime ministers, and the foreign minister. All of you will need to decide which steps to take regarding the sanctions list, and the impact on future engagement. The Taliban announced a hardline interim government led by Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund, chief of the Taliban's powerful decision-making body 'Rehbari Shura'. He will be the Acting Prime Minister while Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar will be his deputy in the "new Islamic government , Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said at a news conference in Kabul. The announcement of key figures in the caretaker government comes weeks after the Taliban seized control of war-torn Afghanistan, ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. UN-designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani is also part of the interim Taliban government. Haqqani, a specially designated global terrorist and son of the famous anti-Soviet warlord Jalaluddin Haqqani who founded Haqqani Network, is the new acting interior minister in the 33-member Cabinet that has no woman member. Haqqani has been one of two deputy leaders of the Taliban since 2016 and has a USD 10 million US bounty on his head. Khalil Haqqani, Sirajuddin's uncle, was appointed as acting minister for refugees. Two other members of the Haqqani clan were also named to positions in the interim government, indicating the hand of Pakistan in the Taliban-run government. Tirumurti stressed India's call for an inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of Afghan society. A broad-based, inclusive and representative formation attained through an inclusive negotiated political settlement would gain greater international acceptability and legitimacy, he said. He further said that India calls upon all members of the Council that when it decides on the future of the UNAMA (UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan) mandate, we keep our focus centred on Afghan people and their expectations from the international community to stand by them in this hour of crisis. Tirumurti said the world has witnessed dramatic changes in the situation in Afghanistan over the course of the last month. The Security Council met thrice in August under India's Presidency and has collectively pronounced the prevailing situation. In particular, UN Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 2593 on Afghanistan clearly sets out the Council's expectations on a range of critical and immediate issues, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||CoWIN develops new feature to know vaccination status of individual||Co-WIN has developed a new API called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status', or KYC-VS, which will enable a verifying entity to know whether a person has been vaccinated against coronavirus or not, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 72 crore vaccine doses have been administered since the vaccination campaign against COVID-19 was flagged off on January 16 this year in the country. To provide proof of vaccination for each of these individuals, Co-WIN is already issuing a digitally verifiable certificate. This certificate can be saved on a digital device (smartphone, tablet, laptop etc), or stored in Digi Locker from where it can be digitally shared as and when required as proof of vaccination, the ministry said in a statement. Similarly, at entry points where such certificate is required (e.g., in malls, office complexes, public events etc), it may be shown in both digital and physical forms. However, there may be instances where an entity does not need to see the certificate in full and would just need to know whether an individual has been vaccinated or not, the ministry said. An enterprise/employer may like to know the vaccination status of its employees to resume functions in offices, workplaces etc, it added. The Railways may want to get the status of vaccination of the passengers who are getting their seats reserved in the trains. Airlines may want to get the status of vaccination of the passengers who are booking their flight tickets, and/or airports may only want to allow vaccinated passengers to pass through. Hotels may want to know the vaccination status of the residents at the time they are checking into the hotel, or at the time of making online bookings, it further said. "As the socio-economic activities are being gradually revived while maintaining everyone's safety, there is a need for a way to digitally convey the status of individuals' vaccination to entities with whom they may be engaging with for any or all reasons, as employees, passengers, residents etc. "Therefore, there is a need to enable an Aadhaar like authentication service for the status of vaccination through Co-WIN. To take care of these cases and others that may come up, Co-WIN has developed a new API called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status' or KYC-VS," the ministry said in the statement. To use this API, an individual needs to enter his/her mobile number and name. Thereafter, they will get an OTP which they have to enter. In return, Co-WIN will send a response to the verifying entity on the individual's status of vaccination, which will be as follows: -- Person is not vaccinated -- Person is partially vaccinated -- Person is fully vaccinated This response will be digitally signed and can be shared instantly with the verifying entity, the ministry said. The KYC-VS is consent-based and privacy-preserving, it added. Additionally, in order to facilitate quick integration and faster adoption, the Co-WIN Team has prepared a webpage with the API, which may be embedded in any system. This will allow for seamless integration with any system in no time, the statement said. Besides the use cases pointed out, this service may be utilised by any service provider, private or public, for whom verifying an individual's vaccination status is critical for facilitating a service requested, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||August rainfall in India lowest in 19 years, says IMD||Rainfall in August, which recorded 24 per cent deficiency, was the lowest in 19 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. Two major spells of weak monsoon prevailed over the country -- from August 9-16 and August 23-27 -- when northwest, central and adjoining peninsular and west coast of India had subdued rainfall activities. During August 2021, rainfall over the country as a whole was below Long Period Average (LPA) by minus 24 percent. It is also the lowest August rainfall in last 19 years, since 2002, the IMD said. The Southwest Monsoon season officially commences from June 1 and lasts till September 30. The month of June recorded 10 percent more rainfall, but both July and August clocked deficiency of seven and 24 percent respectively, according to the IMD data. The country received 24 percent less than normal rainfall in August. Of the four meteorological divisions of the IMD, the central India division received 39 percent less. The division consists of a large swathe of area from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The deficiency in the northwest India division, which comprises northern Indian states, was 30 percent. The deficiency was 10 percent in the south peninsula whereas the east and northeast divisions received two percent more rainfall than the normal. The IMD had predicted that the rainfall activity was expected to be normal during August. It has now predicted above-normal precipitation in September. The weather forecasting agency said intra-seasonal variation in terms of week by week rainfall variation over India shows that monsoon rainfall activities were largely subdued consecutively for three weeks -- for week ending on August 11, August 18 and August 25 -- when all India weekly cumulative rainfall for the country as a whole was 35 percent, 36 percent and 21 percent, respectively, below its Long Period Average (LPA). The formation of fewer low-pressure systems (PLS) and their lesser number of days compared to the climatology and absence of their longer westward movements during the month of August 2021 contributed to the large deficient rainfall in central India as well as all India, the IMD said. It said negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) over tropical Indian Ocean, unfavourable for Indian monsoon prevailed throughout the month of the August, which also contributed to deficient rainfall over India in the month. A negative IOD is associated with the heating of waters of the Indian Ocean.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||BJP workers to aid vaccination drive on PM's b'day on September 17||BJP workers across the country will run a special campaign on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on September 17 to help maximum people get inoculated against Covid, aiming to break all previous records of vaccination. Announcing the campaign from his residence, BJP president JP Nadda said party workers at booth level across the country will help people get vaccinated on the day. Also, talking about the party's health volunteers' campaign, Nadda said the BJP had pledged to train 4 lakh volunteers in 2 lakh villages to support the healthcare system. So far, the party has trained 6.88 lakh volunteers in 43 days and hopes to touch 8 lakh very soon, he said. Speaking during the event, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said party workers will break all previous records of vaccination on the prime minister's birthday on September 17. Chugh further said nearly 18,000 doctors have been associated with the party's health volunteers' campaign for mitigating any further wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The BJP will also carry out a special course for health volunteers in October, Chugh said. The BJP usually celebrates the Prime Minister Modi's birthday as Sewa Saptah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||HC asks Google, YouTube, Centre to take steps to remove woman's objectionable photos from Internet||The Delhi High Court has asked Google, YouTube and Delhi Police to take steps to remove the sites and links carrying objectionable photos and videos of a married woman from the Internet. Justice Subramonium Prasad made it clear that this was not an adversarial litigation and listed the matter for September 16, while asking Google, YouTube, the Centre and Delhi Police Cyber Cell to file their replies to the woman's plea seeking directions to them to remove the photos and videos. The high court's interim order came on a petition by the woman seeking directions to the Centre to block pornographic sites operating under pseudo names. The plea also sought directions to Google block any nude, sexually explicit or morphed photos of the woman appearing on their sites. It is made clear that this is not an adversarial litigation and it is expected that counsel for Google LLC, YouTube, Centre and Cyber Cell of Delhi Police will take necessary steps to remove the sites and links, carrying objectionable photos and videos of the petitioner, from the Internet before the next date of hearing, the court said. Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia assured the court that the Union of India will take necessary steps for removal of the sites and links from the Internet carrying objectionable photographs and videos of the woman and sought time to file an affidavit. Advocate Mamta Jha, representing Google LLC and YouTube, submitted that all the URLs, which are with the YouTube, have been removed and 10 channels have already been blocked. In order to expedite the process of removing the links and sites from the Internet, the court impleaded the Delhi Police through Cyber Cell as a party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Mutation entry does not create any right in favour of individual title or interest, says SC||Mutation entry does not confer any property right, title or interest in favour of an individual and is only for the fiscal purpose, the Supreme Court has said. Mutation of a property is the transfer or change of title entry in revenue records of the local municipal corporation. A bench comprising Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said it cannot be disputed that the right on the basis of the will can be claimed only after the death of the executant of the will. As per the settled proposition of law, mutation entry does not confer any right, title or interest in favour of the person and the mutation entry in the revenue record is only for the fiscal purpose, the bench said. The apex court said that if there is any dispute with respect to the title and more particularly when the mutation entry is sought to be made on the basis of the will, the party who is claiming title/right has to approach the appropriate court. It said that the applicant's rights can only be crystallised by approaching the court and only thereafter on the basis of the decision before the civil court necessary mutation entry can be made. Referring to its earlier decisions, the top court said that mutation of property in revenue records neither creates nor extinguishes title to the property nor has it any presumptive value on the title. Such entries are relevant only for the purpose of collecting land revenue, it said. Entries in the revenue records or jamabandi have only fiscal purpose, i.e., payment of land revenue, and no ownership is conferred on the basis of such entries. It is further observed that so far as the title of the property is concerned, it can only be decided by a competent civil court, the bench said. The order came while upholding an order of Madhya Pradesh High Court which set aside the order passed by the Additional Commissioner, Rewa Division, Rewa, directing to mutate the name of a person in the revenue records, which was sought to be mutated on the basis of the will.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Mohan Bhagwat on three-day Jharkhand trip||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat reached Dhanbad on Friday morning on a three-day visit to take stock of the organisation in Jharkhand. Bhagwat was given a rousing welcome by state BJP leaders, and ABVP and Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh activists as he reached Dhanbad from Patna on the Ganga-Damodar Express around 4.50 am. The organisers took him to Rajkamal Saraswati Vidyamandir guest house, the main venue for the programmes during his visit. The main focus of Bhagwat's visit is to discuss with activists about spreading RSS to 1,264 mandals and 847 bastis of the state, an official of the organising committee said. "He holds meetings for organisation extension across the country round the year. During the visit to Dhanbad, he will hold such meetings," he said. Bhagwat is scheduled to meet 40 pracharak pramukhs of Jharkhand and Bihar around 2 pm. On Saturday, he would meet officials and members of prantiya karyakarni. On Sunday, he would meet Dhanbad Mahanager RSS shakha chief teachers, shakha karyvah and milan pramukh. During the visit, he would also meet 100 eminent people from different fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra under Covid cloud for 2nd year||Devotees welcomed Lord Ganesh in their homes and public pandals on Friday as the 10-day festival dedicated to the elephant-headed God began in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra with focus on online 'darshan' amid the coronavirus pandemic and looming threat of a third wave. For the second straight year, the pandemic cast a long shadow on festivities with the Maharashtra government placing a slew of restrictions to avoid gathering and processions. The Maharashtra government has banned physical 'darshan' of Lord Ganesh at community pandals (marquees) and said only online 'darshan' or telecast from pandals would be allowed. Citing the COVID-19 situation, the Mumbai police have imposed orders under CrPC section 144 prohibiting assembly of five or more persons during the festival between September 10 to 19. No processions of any kind would be allowed in Mumbai during this period and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals either, an official statement said on Thursday. People can have `darshan' of Ganesh idols installed in pandals through the online mode or through other electronic media (such as TV), it said. The Maharashtra home department has issued a circular banning visits to pandals so as to prevent the spread of the viral infection. Also, the height Lord Ganesh idols to be installed has been restricted. In Mumbai, there are around 12,000 sarvajanik (community) mandals and nearly two lakh homes where idols of the deity are installed. The usual pomp was missing since processions have been banned. Lord Ganesh made a quiet entry into the homes of his devotees. Naresh Dahibavkar, president, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, told PTI that compared to last year, when 90 per cent of the mandals had celebrated the festival in view of the coronavirus outbreak, this year all of them are installing idols of the deity. The samiti is an umbrella body of Ganesh mandals that coordinates the festival between the BMC and government agencies. Last year, Lalbaghcha Raja, Mumbai's most famous mandal, had cancelled the celebration, while Wadala's GSB Sewa Samiti, another well-known mandal, had postponed the celebration to Magh Shudh charturthi in February this year. "The festival will be celebrated with usual fervour and gaiety unlike last year as the COVID-19 vaccination drive is going on and there is awareness among people about the pandemic," Dahibavkar said. "In view of the third wave threat, all government protocols for COVID-19- appropriate behaviour are being observed," he said. Dahibavkar criticised the government for banning physical darshan. "This has been done at the last minute. The stake-holders were not consulted. Physical darshan was banned last year too. We will suffer heavy losses since there will be no devotees to see the banners and posters of our sponsors," he said. Livelihood of people associated with the festival, which generates a turnover of Rs 70 crore to Rs 100 crore (in Mumbai), will continue to be impacted due to the pandemic, Dahibavkar said. He said Ganesh mandals have contributed to the state government's efforts to provide relief to people in flood-affected Konkan region and have also been doing social activities. "The government should have considered our problems too," he said, adding, "The mandals have contributed Rs 40 lakh towards flood relief," he said. The state government has issued an order to ban physical darshan at mandals and said not more than ten people (who have to be fully vaccinated) would be allowed to bring the idol which should not be more than 4 feet in height (at marquees). Home idols should not be more than two feet in height and only 5 people (fully vaccinated) will be allowed to accompany the idol. The administration has put restrictions during immersion of idols as well. In the last two days, markets were overcrowded with people making purchases to welcome the elephant-headed God, raising concerns about the lack of physical distancing. The GSB Sewa Mandal, which installs the idol for five days at Kings Circle in Mumbai, said this year's celebrations will be simple. It said during the last one year, the mandal has distributed food to relatives of patients in government hospitals and was in the forefront of relief and rehabilitation efforts during Konkan floods in July. "We will celebrate the festival religiously like every year but without any devotee visiting the pandal as per government guidelines," the GSB Sewa Mandal said in a statement. Live darshan will be on the mandal's social media platform, it said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray welcomed Lord Ganesh at his official residence 'Varsha' in south Mumbai. Several celebrities and political leaders also installed the deity in their homes. The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, also known as Vinayaka Chaturthi, marks the birth of Lord Ganesh, who is revered as an embodiment of wisdom, prosperity and good fortune.It is celebrated in the month of Bhadrapada (August-September). In India, it is a common practice to invoke and chant the name of Lord Ganesh to remove any obstacles in one's endeavours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Jio to delay roll-out of phone developed with Google to Diwali||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Jio on Friday announced deferring the roll-out of the JioPhone Next - the low-priced smartphone it has developed with Google - to Diwali. The phone was previously to be launched on September 10. Ambani at the shareholder meeting of his flagship Reliance Industries Ltd in June had stated that the JioPhone Next will be available for purchase on September 10. The Jio Phone Next has been designed in partnership with Google and it is for those who are looking to upgrade from 2G to 4G connectivity. Announcing the new timeline, the company, however, did not reveal the pricing of the phone. Reliance Jio and Google "have made considerable progress towards launching the much-awaited JioPhone Next, the made-for-India smartphone being jointly designed by the companies," the statement said. JioPhone Next is a first-of-its-kind device featuring an optimized operating system based on Android and Play Store. "The device and the operating system will offer premium capabilities that have until now been associated with more powerful smartphones, including voice-first features that enable people to consume content and navigate the phone in their own language, deliver a great camera experience, and get the latest Android feature and security updates," it said. Both companies have begun testing the JioPhone Next with a limited set of users for further refinement and are actively working to make it available more widely in time for the Diwali festive season. "This additional time will also help mitigate the current industry-wide, global semiconductor shortages," it said. The JioPhone Next is built with exciting features like the Google Assistant, automatic read-aloud and language translation for any on-screen text, a smart camera with India-centric filters and much more. "The companies remain committed to their vision of opening up new possibilities for millions of Indians, especially those who will experience the internet for the very first time," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||India adds over 34,000 fresh Covid cases, 260 casualties in a day||India logged 34,973 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,31,74,954, while the active cases declined to 3,90,646, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,42,009 with 260 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.49 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 2,968 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,87,611 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 53,86,04,854. The daily positivity rate was recorded 1.96 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 11 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 77 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,42,299, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 72.37 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 260 new fatalities include 125 from Kerala and 55 from Maharashtra. Maharashtra has reconciled the data leading to a decrease in total number of cases and discharges as compared to Thursday. A total of 4,42,009 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,017 from Maharashtra, 37,462 from Karnataka, 35,094 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,126 from Kerala and 18,539 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rainfall||Delhiites woke up to a humid Friday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 25.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year. The humidity was recorded at 82 per cent. The weather office has forecast a generally cloudy sky for the day with the possibility of light to moderate rain or thundershowers. The maximum temperature is likely to be around 32 degrees Celsius. Parts of Delhi recorded light rainfall on Thursday and more precipitation is likely in the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The capital has already recorded 243.5 mm rainfall this month so far, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Usually, it gauges only 58.3 mm rainfall on the first nine days of the month. Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on September 2, the highest on a day in the month in 19 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Covid: Over 250,000 people evicted across India during pandemic||More than 250,000 people were evicted across India during the coronavirus pandemic, and millions more are at risk of being uprooted as authorities eye projects for faster economic growth, housing rights campaigners warned on Thursday. From March 2020 to July 2021, authorities demolished more than 43,000 homes and evicted about 21 people every hour, according to the Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN), an advocacy group in Delhi. In nearly all the cases, the officials failed to follow due process, including giving sufficient notice, and a majority of those evicted did not receive compensation from the government, the HLRN said in an annual report. “During this lethal ÿpandemic — when people are struggling greatly to survive — acts of eviction and demolition of housing have contributed to a grave human rights and humanitarian crisis,” said Shivani Chaudhry, HLRN executive director. “At a time when people were ordered to stay at home, authorities resorted to unlawful demolitions, probably taking advantage of curfew-like conditions when movement of people and access to remedy, including courts, was limited.” There is no official data on evictions in India. In Delhi, where thousands were uprooted over the past year, authorities only demolished “illegal encroachments”, said Amrish Kumar, a director of the land management unit at the Delhi Development Authority, a federal government agency. “They were on government land, which is meant for public purposes,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Kumar added: “Some of the informal settlements were eligible for resettlement and rehabilitation, but not all — and they were dealt with according to due process.” The world over, homeless people and those living in slums have borne the brunt of restrictions to contain the coronavirus and are at heightened risk of infection because of their dire living conditions, housing experts said. Human rights experts at the United Nations in July appealed to the Indian government to end evictions during the pandemic. More than 4 million people in India are homeless, according to official data, with about 75 million living in slums and informal settlements in urban areas. The Indian government’s Housing for All plan aims to create 20 million urban homes and 30 million rural homes by 2022. But implementation has been slow, and activists say it does not address the issue of homelessness. Nearly 16 million people are at risk of being evicted and displaced, according to the HLRN, including about 2 million whose claims to forestland have been rejected. Last year alone, more than 170,000 people were removed from their homes, it said, compared with about 107,000 people the previous year. Nearly half were uprooted for environmental projects, while infrastructure and city beautification schemes made up most of the remainder. Court orders Many evictions were carried out on court orders, including orders from India’s top court, even though several courts directed authorities not to demolish homes during the pandemic. More than 100 cases related to evictions or rehabilitation are pending with Delhi High Court, said Anupradha Singh at the non-profit Human Rights Law Network, which represents slum dwellers in several cases. “Court orders make it easier to carry out evictions, and slum dwellers often have no legal recourse,” she said. “Court orders for eviction during the pandemic are particularly grievous, as these people have already lost their livelihoods, and to lose their homes on top of that is a failure of the courts to recognise their right to housing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Vaccine: Single dose offers same protection as two against death, claims Union health ministry||The Union health ministry on Thursday claimed the Covid-19 vaccines used in India offered nearly the same protective effect against death after the first dose as after the second dose, baffling experts who said the claim contradicted research and observations. At the same time, health officials iterated that people need two doses for full immunisation. An exercise to track deaths among vaccinated and unvaccinated Covid-19 patients nationwide has calculated the vaccine effectiveness levels in preventing mortality at 96.6 per cent after one dose and 97.5 per cent after the second dose, the health ministry said. What this means is that of every 1,000 Covid patients who might have died if they were unvaccinated, 966 would live if they had received one dose of vaccine and 975 would live if they had received two doses. These values have emerged from an exercise to combine three datasets — one of vaccinated people, the second of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19, and the third of Covid-19 patients who have died — linked through mobile numbers and unique identification numbers. Senior health officials said the three datasets had been combined into an online “Covid-19 vaccine tracker” that provided data on vaccination coverage and effectiveness and would be available soon on the health ministry’s website. “The protective effect against death is there in all age groups — 60 years or older, between 45 and 59, and 18 to 44,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the ministry’s apex health research agency. “This was clearly demonstrated when we combined the three databases,” Bhargava said. “If you’re non-vaccinated, death is (relatively) high. If it is first dose and the second dose, the effect is so much that the death rate is nearly zero, or one or two per cent.” The meagre difference in the effectiveness against death after the first dose and the second dose has baffled experts. The experts said the data — one data point showed a higher effectiveness after the first dose than after the second dose — was inconsistent with global experience and observational research from India. “At face value, this data suggests that one dose is almost equally protective as two doses,” a senior health expert who is among the Centre’s advisers on Covid-19 and requested anonymity told The Telegraph. “This flies in the face of existing evidence.” The ICMR’s own peer-reviewed study on over 117,000 vaccinated and unvaccinated police personnel in Tamil Nadu had calculated the vaccine’s effectiveness in preventing death at 82 per cent after a single dose and at 95 per cent after two doses. The tracker is designed to display deaths per million among unvaccinated and vaccinated patients week after week. For instance, it has calculated 17.29 deaths per million among unvaccinated patients, 0.71 in one-dose-recipient patients, and 0.62 among two-dose-recipient patients in the week ending May 30. The tiny differences in the deaths among the one-dose and two-dose recipients, averaged over the period between April 18 and August 15, yield a vaccine effectiveness against death of 96.6 per cent after one dose and 97.5 per cent after the second dose. But the numbers for July 4 are 4.27 deaths per million among unvaccinated patients, 0.12 among one-dose-recipient patients, and 0.15 among two-dose-recipient patients, implying a higher death rate in two-dose recipients than in the one-dose recipients. “This is inconsistent with most other datasets that we have seen,” Jacob John, professor of community health at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told this newspaper. “All suggest that vaccines, both one dose and two doses, protect against death. But one-dose protection against death should be lower than that with two doses.” Another medical expert who requested not to be named said it would be difficult to verify the health ministry’s calculations on the basis of the limited details it had released. A query sent by The Telegraph to senior ICMR officials asking how they would explain the inconsistency between the tracker’s calculations and earlier studies, including the ICMR’s Tamil Nadu study, did not evoke a response. But one official said the tracker was based on an analysis of the health ministry’s accumulated data while the earlier calculations were based on research studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Brawl bares shortage of Covid vaccine in Uttar Pradesh||People from two neighbouring villages in Amroha brawled with each other at a Covid vaccination camp on Wednesday, bringing into focus the shortage of doses and mismanagement blighting the vaccination campaign in Uttar Pradesh. Videos circulating on social media show some 300 men and women punching and kicking one another and pulling each other by the hair. Police said the trouble began when villagers from Lalu Nangla claimed the special one-day camp, held at the village primary school, was meant exclusively for their village and attacked vaccine seekers from adjacent Bagarpur Kalan. The scuffle comes weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s running of the poll-bound state that had earlier in the summer epitomised India’s mismanagement of the Covid second wave, courtesy the pictures of bodies floating down the Ganga or buried on riverbanks. A state government official in Lucknow said a chronic shortage of doses as well as healthcare workers to administer them had created widespread anger across the state, and Wednesday’s violence was just waiting to happen. “There’s tremendous pressure on us to intensify vaccination across the state. There were 91 booths in Amroha district on Wednesday but we didn’t have enough doctors and nurses to vaccinate all those who had turned up at the booths,” he said. “Hundreds returned home in the evening without receiving the jab. Obviously, they would be angry and restless.” He added: “The people who had reached that particular booth in Amroha outnumbered the available vaccines. While a crowd had gathered there since 9am, there were only two health workers to administer the vaccine. We will organise more counters there next week.” Officials said the camp had only 200 doses. By afternoon, only a few doses were left but the crowd was still growing. “Some people in both villages are still agitated. Elders gathered at the same primary school today and resolved to pacify the people of their respective villages,” a Bagarpur Kalan resident told reporters on Thursday. Umar Farooq, the doctor in charge of the local community health centre, 10km away, said: “The villagers fought with each other over some issue. We didn’t register a police complaint because the health officials there were not involved (attacked).” Local station house officer Sunil Kumar said: “We learnt about the incident from a video clip. Some Lalu Nangla residents attacked people from Bagarpur Kalan first and left a youth injured. We have asked the injured person to submit a complaint with us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Allahabad HC stays archaeological survey of Gyanvapi mosque ||Allahabad High Court has stayed a lower court order of an archaeological survey of the areas in and around the Gyanvapi mosque complex in Varanasi city to find out whether it was built after a portion of the original Kashi Vishwanath temple had been destroyed. The single bench of Justice Prakash Pandia of the high court listed the case for October 8 while granting three weeks’ time to the respondents to file a counter-affidavit. “Till the next date of listing, further proceedings of the original suit pending before the (Varanasi civil) court shall remain stayed,” Justice Pandia said. The Sunni Central Waqf Board and the Anjuman Intezamia Masjid, or the Gyanvapi mosque, had challenged in the high court the survey ordered on April 8 by civil judge, senior division, Ashutosh Tiwari. Vijay Shankar Rastogi, the petitioner, had filed the original plea in 1991 claiming that a portion of the Kashi Vishwanath temple lay under the Gyanvapi mosque. Rastogi recently submitted that a survey was necessary to ascertain this. The civil court had asked the Archaeological Survey of India to conduct studies with radar technology. The Gyanvapi mosque shares a compound with the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Sangh parivar outfits claim that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had got a part of the Kashi Vishwanath temple demolished in 1669 and had the mosque built over a well that contained a Shivalinga. Right-wing Hindu groups have long threatened to have the mosque razed to resurrect the supposedly buried temple. The agenda received a boost after the November 2019 Ayodhya verdict of the Supreme Court. The Gyanvapi Anjuman Intezamiya (management) Committee has throughout the pendency of the court case alleged a Right-wing conspiracy to bring the mosque down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Scribe booked for misappropriating funds for Covid, flood victims||Journalist Ayub Rana has been booked by Ghaziabad police on charges of money laundering and misappropriating donations meant for Covid patients and flood victims in some eastern states. The other charges, under the Information Technology Act, are criminal breach of trust and cheating by using computer resources. The FIR was lodged on Tuesday on the complaint of Vinod Pandey, founder of an NGO named Hindu IT Cell. The police will take further action against Ayub only after investigating the case and if there is evidence against her, city superintendent of police Gyanendra Singh said. Ayub’s name also figures in a recent case of circulation of a video in which a 72-year-old Bulandshahr resident had accused four men of beating him up and chopping his beard to force him to chant Jai Shri Ram. The Ghaziabad police had, however, later found out that the communal allegations made by the elderly Muslim man were false and he had made them on the instigation of a Samajwadi Party worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Delhi High Court allows online marriage registration||Delhi High Court on Thursday said the requirement of personal appearance before the authority concerned for registration of marriage would include appearance through videoconferencing. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a plea by a US-based couple seeking registration of their marriage through videoconferencing, stated that the high court had permitted the registration of a marriage through the virtual mode earlier as well — in 2007 when the use of such technology was at a nascent stage. “I find that… (the requirement of) personal appearance would include appearance through videoconferencing,” Justice Palli said, adding that she would “allow the petition” seeking permission for virtual appearance before the registering authority. “You will get the order in a day or two,” the judge said. The US-based couple had said their marriage was solemnised through Hindu rites and rituals before the registration of marriage was made compulsory in 2014. Since the couple had relocated abroad by then, they were unable to get their marriage registered under the Delhi (Compulsory Registration of Marriage) Order, 2014, it was stated. Considering that their application for a green card was not being processed in the US for want of a marriage certificate, the couple had approached the local authority in New Delhi for issuance of a marriage certificate. The local authority maintained that physical presence of the parties was a mandatory requirement. The couple moved the high court after their representation to the sub-divisional magistrate for virtual appearance remained unanswered. The counsel for the couple stated that several high courts have passed orders allowing virtual appearance of parties for registration of marriages. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic and the travel ban imposed by several countries, the lawyer said that virtual presence ought to be allowed. The Delhi government counsel argued that the physical presence of a couple seeking registration of marriage was mandatory and the process could not be undertaken through videoconferencing as it required taking a “live photo”. It was also submitted that physical appearance helped prevent false registrations, unwanted litigation and ascertain the soundness of mind of the parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Stop Tripura violence: Sitaram Yechury to Narendra Modi||CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to stop the “pre-planned” violence targeting party offices in Tripura by “mobs of BJP men”. “In a pre-planned fashion, scores of offices of the CPI(M), including the state headquarters, were attacked by mobs of BJP men. Among the offices which were damaged or burnt down are the Udaipur sub-divisional office, Gomati district committee office, Sepahijala district committee office, Bishalgarh sub-divisional committee office, Santar Bazar sub-divisional office, West Tripura district committee office and the Sadar sub-divisional committee office,” Yechury said. The party chief described the attack on the state committee office in Agartala as the most brazen. “They have ransacked the ground and first floors of the office, burnt two office cars and broken the bust of Dasarath Deb, a revered leader of the people of Tripura,” Yechury said, adding that the houses of many CPM leaders and activists were also attacked, ransacked or set on fire. Yechury claimed police and the CRPF took no action. “The impunity with which the attackers operated shows the connivance of the state government…,” he added. The CPM leader appealed to the Prime Minister: “We strongly urge you to intervene without any delay to stop these violent attacks against the CPI(M) and the Left Front.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||EC announces elections for seven Rajya Sabha seats on October 4||The Election Commission on Thursday announced that elections for seven Rajya Sabha seats and a bypoll to the Bihar Legislative Council would be held on October 4. The Rajya Sabha polls will not significantly alter the balance of power in the Upper House. The polls declared on Thursday are for a seat each from Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry and two seats from Tamil Nadu. The results will be declared on October 4 itself. The Bengal seat fell vacant with the resignation of Manas Ranjan Bhunia who successfully contested the recent Assembly elections. Of the 233 seats occupied in the 245-member Rajya Sabha, the NDA has 116 MPs but is able to pass most bills with the support of or abstentions by parties such as the Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. After the polls, the NDA is expected to increase its tally to 119. The EC is likely to declare polls for a vacant Rajya Sabha seat from Bihar after the by-election for a seat that fell vacant after the death of Janata Dal United MLC Tanveer Akhtar. Of the seven seats, three are expected to go to the NDA — while the Assam and Madhya Pradesh berths will be filled up by the BJP, the Puducherry seat will have a claimant from either the BJP or its ally All India Namathu Rajyam Congress (AINRC). Sources said the BJP is likely to field former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal from Assam. The Congress is expected to get the Maharashtra seat and field former Union minister Mukul Wasnik. Trinamul has the numbers to fill up the Bengal seat, likely to go to Congress defector from Assam, Sushmita Dev.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Back-up CA exam for Covid opt-outs, ICAI tells Supreme Court||Candidates who opted out of the CA exam conducted in July because of Covid-related difficulties will not lose any opportunity, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The apex court, which was hearing an application seeking a direction to the ICAI to conduct a backup examination for opt-out candidates, asked the applicants to make a representation to the institute. The ICAI counsel told a bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar that an appropriate decision would be taken within two weeks. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the institute, told the bench that there would be no loss of opportunity to candidates who had opted out of the July exam. “In July itself we had said those candidates who have opted out… will have their backup in November 2021 along with the main cycle. It will not be treated as an attempt and they will not lose any benefits. They will get the benefit of the same old syllabus,” Srinivasan said. On June 30, the court had said a candidate shall be entitled to exercise the option of opting out of the exam if he or she or any family member has suffered Covid-19 in the recent past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||ASI expert claims discovery of two lost vajrasanas in Bodhgaya||An Archaeological Survey of India expert has claimed to have discovered the two lost vajrasanas or “diamond thrones” of the Buddha in Bodhgaya, one lying broken and unnoticed in the Mahabodhi Temple compound and the other installed in a nearby Hindu shrine. Different emperors and kings had down the centuries installed three so-called diamond thrones or enlightenment thrones — stone slabs with intricate engravings — under the famous Bodhi (peepal) tree in Bodhgaya to mark the Buddha’s attainment of enlightenment at the spot. All three were treated as symbolic relics of the Buddha and together formed a focal point for prayers. Currently, only the first of them — built by Emperor Ashoka around 260 BC — is installed there while the other two have been missing for over a century. The Kushanas are believed to have installed the second throne in the first or second century AD while there’s some dispute over who built the third, which was installed in the seventh century AD. By the time Alexander Cunningham, the first director-general of the ASI, began excavations at the Mahabodhi Temple in 1880-81, all three had gone missing from under the Bodhi tree. Cunningham found them underground during his excavations and reinstalled the one Ashoka had built under the Bodhi tree. What happened to the other two remained a mystery until Shanker Sharma, ASI assistant superintending archaeologist who is in charge of the archaeological museum at Bodh Gaya, claimed to have found them. Sharma told The Telegraph he had stumbled on what he believes are the two missing thrones in February this year, but the second wave of the pandemic soon closed the temple and prevented verification by independent experts. Following the reopening of the Mahabodhi Temple in end-August, Sharma has sent invites to archaeologists and historians specialising in Buddhist matters to come and see the two purported vajrasanas he has found. He is also preparing a report for his ASI seniors and will be presenting his findings at the 20th annual conference of the Indian Society for Buddhist Studies, to be held from October 1 to October 3 in Nalanda. “I was going through Cunningham’s excavation records. While he discovered all three vajrasanas and reinstalled the one that belonged to Ashoka’s time, the other two simply fell off the radar and were forgotten,” Sharma told this newspaper. “This got me thinking about their whereabouts.” He consulted Cunningham’s excavation records, Buddhist texts and the travelogues of Chinese pilgrims Fa Hien or Faxian (AD 399-414) and Hiuen Tsang or Xuanzang (AD 637) for descriptions of the thrones and started scouting for them in and around the Mahabodhi Temple. He says he found the Kushan-era throne “at the Vageshwari Devi (Saraswati) temple, located to the east of the Mahabodhi Temple”. “It’s worshipped by the Hindus and matches the descriptions found in excavation records and travelogues,” Sharma said. “It was carved out of grey stone and is largely intact with some signs of weathering and possible marks of vandalism. It’s circular, with a 173cm diameter and a thickness of 21cm.” The third vajrasana too was made of grey stone. Sharma says he found it abandoned under a tree inside the Mahabodhi Temple complex, bearing signs of vandalism and exposed to the forces of nature that have obliterated the intricate designs on it. “Nearly half of it is broken. The part that remains is 146cm long, 68cm wide and 16cm thick,” Sharma said. The carvings on the second and third thrones included those of lotus petals, other flowers, creepers, vajra (thunderbolt), animals as well as geometrical shapes, dumbbells, concentric garlands, scrolls and pillars. All these have a tradition of being used in Buddhist art and architecture. The Ashoka-installed throne is a rectangular one made of red sandstone and is engraved with geometrical designs including diamond shapes. It is 7 feet and 6 inches long, and 4 feet and 10 inches wide. “They are among the most sacred objects of worship in Buddhism. If they are stolen or damaged, it would be a big loss to the nation,” Sharma said, adding that they should be “immediately moved to safety”. Mahabodhi Temple head priest Bhikku Chalinda said the Ashoka-built vajrasana predated the shrine and was the centre of attraction for pilgrims. Asked about the discovery of the two other vajrasanas, Chalinda said: “Archaeologists are saying this. One of them is at a nearby temple, which is not under our authority. The other is under a tree inside our temple compound. We’ll decide in a few days what to do with it.” He said there was no decision yet on retrieving the other throne from the Hindu temple. “The discovery of the two vajrasanas is very important. Now that Shanker Sharma had brought them to light, there will be discussions and further research on them,” Anant Singh, a professor at the School of Buddhist Studies, Nalanda University, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Haryana govt ready for 'impartial' probe into 'Karnal episode'||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the government was ready for an “impartial” probe into “the entire Karnal episode” but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they were found to be at fault. Farmers continued with their dharna outside the district headquarters for the third day, demanding action over the August 28 lathicharge on protesting peasants. Their main demands centre around the suspension of then sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera telling policemen to “break heads” of farmers. Minister Vij made it clear that “nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it”. “We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to the (former Karnal) SDM. It will include the entire Karnal episode. In this (probe), if farmers or their leaders are found guilty, then whatever action is deemed fit will be taken,” Vij told reporters in Ambala. The minister added: “Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted.” “We cannot hang anyone because someone says so.… Is the country’s IPC (Indian Penal Code) different and the farmers’ IPC different? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted,” Vij said, referring to the peasants’ demand of suspension of Sinha. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit of peasants’ unions leading the protests against three farm laws of the Centre, had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha. About the farmers protesting in Karnal, Vij said anyone had the right to protest in a peaceful manner. “Farmers are holding an agitation in Karnal, which is their democratic right,” the minister said. “Our officials are regularly holding talks with them. Dialogue is an integral part of any democracy.” The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by the state home department said. A second round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over the police lathicharge had failed on Wednesday, after which the protesters said they would continue their sit-in “indefinitely” at the district headquarters. The protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal. Farm union leaders have said officials and the public won’t be stopped from entering the complex. The farm leaders have demanded the registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge in Karnal. The protest leaders have claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration. The farm leaders have demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of the deceased farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||JNU holds on to second spot in govt ranking of universities ||JNU has held on to the second spot in the government’s ranking of universities this year while the Jamia Millia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University have improved their places despite all three facing campus turmoil and government attempts to dilute their character. The Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, has topped the education ministry’s ranking of varsities under the National Institutional Ranking Framework this year. Delhi’s Miranda House has topped the rankings for colleges for the fifth straight year. IIT Madras tops the “overall institution” category, followed by IISc Bangalore, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Roorkee, IIT Guwahati, JNU and Banaras Hindu University (BHU). Among the top universities are BHU (third), Amrita Viswa Vidyapeetham (fifth), Jamia (sixth), Manipal Academy of Higher Education (seventh), Hyderabad University (ninth) and AMU (10th). Jamia was 10th last year while AMU was 17th, while JNU has held on to the second spot for the fifth year. The performances by JNU, Jamia and AMU demonstrate the quality of their research and teaching despite the controversies. JNU students have been stigmatised as the “tukde tukde gang” by the Right-wing ecosystem while the government plans to widely introduce undergraduate courses in the varsity. The Centre has decided not to support Jamia’s minority status and taken a stand against AMU’s minority status in court. Both Jamia and JNU faced assaults on campus — by the police and alleged Right-wing goons, respectively — amid the anti-CAA protests in the winter of 2019-20. Delhi University has dropped one place to 12th but five of its colleges figure among the top 10 colleges, implying DU is the best destination for undergraduates. While Miranda House has topped, Lady Shri Ram College for Women has ranked second. St Stephen’s College, Hindu College and Shri Ram College of Commerce bring up the 8th, 9th and 10th places. Loyola College, Chennai, is third; P.S.G.R. Krishnammal College for Women has ranked 6th and Presidency College, Chennai, 7th. Twelve DU colleges are among the top 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Team IIT Bhubaneswar bags innovation award ||IIT Bhubaneswar has bagged the innovation award at the Green Charcoal Hackathon, a technology challenge organised by the National Thermal Power Plant and Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. The result was announced on September 2 and the award would be given to IIT Bhubaneswar in a separate function to be organised in New Delhi soon, officials said. The Green Charcoal Hackathon event is aimed at bridging the technology gap with the prime objective to clean the air by eliminating farm fire, to produce renewable energy from agro residues, to promote local entrepreneurship, and to increase the income of the farmers. Speaking about the distinctive achievement, Prof. R.V. Raja Kumar, Director, IIT Bhubaneswar, said each faculty member of the institute should strive to foster innovative thinking and creativity among their students, in classrooms, laboratories and beyond. He reiterated that the institute feels proud by constantly raising the standards on all fronts including internationalisation of academic programmes, international collaborations on research of high industrial and societal relevance. The award winning team, Dr Remya Neelancherry, Shardul Narde (MTech student) and Neha Shukla (research scholar) designed a microwave torrifier and pelletizer plant to produce 100kg per day of charcoal from rice straw, one of the agricultural residues. The team presented the complete process and instrumentation of microwave torrifier, torrefaction operation details and business model canvas. The designed technology is capable of converting agro residue to charcoal at a faster rate compared to conventional method. In addition, the charcoal pellets obtained from the process showed heating value comparable to that of coal, a press release issued by the IIT said. Along with this stunning achievement, the team will also receive financial assistance from NTPC for the development of machine prototype on the basis of mutually accepted terms and conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Indian Air Force aircraft lands on national highway in Rajasthan||An Indian Air Force C130J Super Hercules aircraft carrying defence minister Rajnath Singh, roadways minister Nitin Gadkari and chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat conducted a mock emergency landing on a national highway in Rajasthan. The landing — on the SattaGandhav stretch of National Highway 925 near Barmer — was the first time the IAF had used a highway to perform a mock emergency landing. The stretch, which will serve as an emergency landing strip for IAF planes, was inaugurated by the two ministers. “This is the first time that a national highway has been used for the emergency landing of a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force. This landing strip will be able to facilitate the landing of all types of IAF aircraft,” a statement from the defence ministry said. The 3km strip, which is part of the SattaGandhav stretch on NH925 was developed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) specifically for the IAF to conduct emergency landings. The IAF and NHAI are jointly studying 24 other national highways to see if those can also be used in a similar way, sources in the defence ministry said. Singh said the newly inaugurated emergency landing strip near the international border was part of the government’s commitment to protect the unity and sovereignty of the nation. “This highway and landing field will further cement the basic infrastructure along the western border and strengthen national security. Such emergency fields will provide more edge to the operational and civil assistance of our forces. It will also play a crucial role in facing natural calamities,” he said. The NHAI has developed the 3km section as an emergency landing field for the Indian Air Force. It is part of the newly developed twolane paved shoulder of GagariyaBakhasar and SattaGandhav Section having a total length of 196.97km and costing Rs 765.52 crore under Bharatmala Pariyojana. The work started in July 2019 and was completed in January 2021, the the defence ministry statement said. This project will improve connectivity between villages of Barmer and Jalore districts located on the international border. The stretch located in the western border area will facilitate the vigilance of the Indian Army and strengthen the basic infrastructure of the country. During normal times, the facility will be used for smooth flow of road traffic, the statement said. Apart from the emergency landing strip, three helipads have been constructed in Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages under this project as per the requirements of the armed forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee files nomination papers for September 30 bypolls||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee Friday filed her nomination for the September 30 Bhabanipur assembly by-poll winning which is an absolute necessity for her to continue as the chief minister. She will be pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and Left Front's Srijib Biswas. Congress has decided not to field a candidate against her. The votes for Bhabanipur as also Jangipur and Samserganj will be counted on October 3 and results declared the same day. Banerjee was accompanied by the wife of state cabinet minister Firhad Hakim at Survey Building in Alipore where she filed her nomination papers. She was later seen greeting people with folded hands before boarding her car. "The people of Bhabanipur are eagerly waiting to rewrite history by ensuring Mamata Banerjee's victory by a record margin. They are waiting to avenge the conspiracy that was hatched to defeat Mamata di at Nandigram," Firhad Hakim told reporters. TMC supporters lustily cheered their leader with slogans like Bhabanipur Nijer Ghorer Meyekei chai (Bhabanipur wants her own daughter) and Bhabanipur eh Khela Hobe (Game will happen in Bhabanipur). "For us, the challenge is not victory as we are confident about it. The challenge is to ensure Didi's win by a record margin," another TMC worker said. Banerjee, a resident of Bhabanipur, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare her former protege and now a BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on his home turf. Though Banerjee powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, she lost in Nandigram. She now must win Bhabanipur to ensure an unbroken stint as the chief minister. Banerjee is required to win a seat in the state assembly by November 5 in conformity with the constitutional provisions in order to continue as chief minister. The Constitution allows a non-member of a state legislature or Parliament to continue in a ministerial position without getting elected only for six months. After her defeat in Nandigram, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur, vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the assembly from there. Reacting to her nomination, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said she will face the same fate as in Nandigram. The BJP had defeated her in Nandigram. She will be defeated again in Bhabanipur. The people of the constituency will give her a befitting reply for the torture and violence her party unleashed after the assembly polls, he said. Banerjee was first elected to the Assembly in a by-poll from Bhabanipur months after the TMC stormed to power ousting the 34-year-old Left Front dispensation in 2011. She represented the South Kolkata Lok Sabha seat, of which Bhabanipur is a segment, six times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Over 3 crore people visited 'Duare Sarkar' camps, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said over three crore people have visited the ongoing Duare Sarkar camps, a mass outreach drive to help people benefit from state-run schemes. The second edition of the "Duare Sarkar" (government at doorsteps) programme was launched on August 16 and will continue till September 15. She thanked the people of the state for visiting the camps and also congratulated the government officials. "Extremely happy to share that more than 3 crore people have visited the #DuareSarkar camps since 16th August. I congratulate all GoWB officials for making this initiative a huge success. I thank the people of Bengal for coming to the camps and availing all benefits," Banerjee said on Twitter. Two government schemes - ''Lakshmi Bhandar'' and Swasthya Sathi - appeared to be the top picks among the three crore people who have turned up in the month-long camps. The newly launched ''Lakshmi Bhandar'' scheme assures monthly support of Rs 1,000 for women of each SC/ST household and Rs 500 for the general category. ''Swasthya Sathi'' is a cashless basic health cover for secondary and tertiary care up to Rs five lakh per annum per family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP fields young lawyer against Didi in Bhawanipore||Post-poll violence under Mamata Banerjee government’s administration will be the main plank for the Opposition, BJP in the Bhowanipore byelection, which has decided to field lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal against the chief minister. According to BJP sources, the biggest factor that swung the nomination in Tibrewal’s favour was her legal victory on the issue of post-poll violence that came as a major embarrassment for the ruling Trinamul. The 1981-born Tibrewal had unsuccessfully contested the 2021 Assembly polls from Entally on a BJP ticket. Since the elections, she has been busy at Calcutta High Court seeking justice for the victims of post-poll violence in the state, which the administration has denied. Her efforts in the legal ring culminated into a scathing report from the National Human Rights Commission and a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of atrocities committed  women and murder. The Bhowanipore-born president of the state youth front of the BJP  since August 2020, Tibrewal  has been active in the legal field. Her candidature was announced on the day when Mamata is scheduled to file her nomination. The Congress has already decided not to field any candidate against Mamata this time. Since its on-and-off  alliance with the CPM, the Bhowanpore seat was always given to the Congress. The CPM has nominated another lawyer Srijeeb Biswas against Mamata, though the main contest is likely to be between the Trinamul and the BJP, which is banking heavily on the presence of over 40 per cent non-Bengali speaking Hindus in the constituency. Tibrewal was close to the Asansol MP and former central minister Babul Supriyo, who is currently out of favour among the BJP top brass. She also shares a good rapport with state president Dilip Ghosh. Talking to television channels after her candidacy was announced, Tibrewal said she was not an outsider in Bhowanipore. “I was born in Bhowanipore and know every lane and bylane. I have already taken on Mamata Banerjee in court and I proved her wrong on the issue of post-poll violence in Bengal. This is my second challenge to her,” Tibrewal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Assault cry against Bengal BJP leader||A homeguard was allegedly slapped by a BJP leader who arrived at the NRS hospital morgue on Thursday afternoon to claim the body of a party worker. A TV footage shows a man resembling BJP leader Debdutta Majhi pushes a man in khaki uniform and slap him. Majhi denied having hit the home guard intentionally and said police had misbehaved with him. There was some jostling when the police tried to stop us. I did not hit anyone intentionally,” Majhi said. The BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh said the home guard was slapped and it was the right thing to do. A case has been registered at Entally police station against Majhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa floats Darjeeling’s 12th party Bhartiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha||Another party was launched in the Darjeeling hills on Thursday with Anit Thapa as the president and a declaration from a leader that the “politics of one-man-centric party” was coming to an end in the region for the first time since the 1960s. The Bhartiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha is the latest addition to a list which has already 11 parties for mere 8.75 lakh people in the hills. D.K. Pradhan, former Darjeeling MLA and a veteran of hill politics, presided over the programme to launch the new Darjeeling party. “For the first time since the 1960s, the politics of one-man-centric party in the hills is coming to an end. From D.P. Rai (the undisputed ABGL leader till his demise in the early 1980s) to Subash Ghisingh and Bimal Gurung, it had always been one man running the party and taking all decisions,” said Pradhan who claimed that he was a “living witnesses” to the culture of individual-centric hill parties and its failure in hill politics. Anit Thapa, who was appointed as the president of the BGPM, seconded Pradhan’s opinion. “We will work as a team and decisions on any issue will be taken collectively by our party,” said Thapa. The BGPM managed to bring in more than 40-odd apolitical people from different walks of life to showcase that the “the educated and intellectuals” were with the new party. “After a long time in the hills, educated and intellectuals are joining politics. No leader would know everything and experts in different fields must be allowed to work on different issues,” said Thapa. Ajoy Edwards (formerly associated with the Gorkha National Liberation Front) and Binay Tamang (formerly with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) — have dropped broad hints that they will float their own parties. According to the 2011 Census, the hills have a population of 8.75 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation to spend Rs 13 crore on road repair||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to execute multiple infrastructural development projects across Siliguri, ahead of the upcoming festive season. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) of the SMC, said on Thursday that around Rs 13.5 crore would be spent on construction and repair of roads and culverts across the civic area. In Siliguri, the civic area is spread across 47 wards with a population close to a billion. “We have provided Rs 9 crore to the state PWD for repair and renovation of a number of roads in Siliguri which are in dire condition now because of lack of regular maintenance. Also, the urban poverty alleviation wing of the civic body will spend Rs 4.5 crore to build and repair some other roads and culverts in different wards of the town,” Deb said. Also, beautification of 22 parks and renovation of guest houses and community buildings, run by the civic body, has been planned. “We have engaged Rail India Technical & Economic Service to build alternative roads to ease traffic load on Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: First jab for all on Ghoramara island in Bay of Bengal||The entire population of South 24-Parganas’s Ghoramara — a shrinking island in the Bay of Bengal — was administered with at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine with 840 more eligible recipients getting their jab on Thursday. Sources said if a handful of Ghoramara residents still remained outside the vaccination drive, district officials would introduce a helpline from September 12 through which they would be able to contact health authorities for the jab. “The initiative was undertaken as part of a mission to vaccinate the eligible population of Sagar block, particularly Sagar Island, before the commencement of the Gangasagar Mela slated to be held in December,” said an official. Located 92km south of Calcutta, Ghoramara island is spread across 6sqkm and is part of the Sagar block that consists of four gram panchayats and a population of 4,472. “Our primary target was to administer two jabs to the eligible population of the island keeping in view of the Gangasagar Mela. The priority is to avoid the spread of Covid amidst the arrival of a huge number of pilgrims. Although Ghoramara is relatively isolated, we included it in our mission to avoid any possible spread of the disease district-wide,” said Sagar block development officer Sudipto Mondal. The sources said the district administration had identified 2,942 eligible recipients in the 18-plus age group in Ghoramara. During the first phase of vaccination, 2,102 persons had been vaccinated. On Thursday, the district administration arranged a special camp and also a door-step vaccination programme for the remaining 840 residents. A special boat carrying vaccines and health workers had been sent to the island by the administration. They returned to Kochuberia ghat, from where it had left early on Thursday, late in the evening after completing the job. “Our mission in Ghoramara has been accomplished. All eligible residents will now get their second dose after the prescribed gap, but before the commencement of the Gangasagar fair. A special mission undergoing for the remaining parts of the block is expected to be accomplished on Friday,” the BDO added. Our additional objective was to vaccinate potential “super spreaders” like autorickshaw and cab drivers, who work among the public and may come in direct contact with pilgrims during the Gangasagar fair, said Sagar BMOH, Anshuman Roy. A senior official in the district administration explained that the special mission was planned with more vigour so that the residents of Ghoramara island never felt “isolated” owing to their geographical location. “They have been living in distress owing to the deadly erosion that is engulfing the island and creating a serious survival problem,” an official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Students end 13-day-long protest, Visva-Bharati mum||Students on Thursday officially called off their 13-day-long demonstration here against Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and dismantled the pandal at the protest site to comply with Calcutta High Court’s interim order on Wednesday that stayed the varsity’s move to rusticate three dissenting students. Though the court in the same order allowed the three students — Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty — to participate in academic activities, Visva-Bharati, till the filing of this report late on Thursday evening was yet to issue any such notice complying with Justice Rajasekhar Mantha’s ruling. Justice Mantha had ordered students and others to cease all demonstrations or protests inside or beyond the varsity campus immediately. Student leaders said they promptly obeyed the court order. One said the moment the details of the order reached Santiniketan on Wednesday, a student and a teacher on hunger strike broke their fast. Sow said they started taking down posters and banners on Wednesday, but the stage of the protest had to be dismantled by decorators and “that took some time”. “We will approach the court if the varsity does not comply with (their part of) the order,” said Sow. He added that they had completely dismantled the pandal erected for the protest but “Visva-Bharati is yet to allow us to resume classes”. The trio on Wednesday night had sent emails to Visva-Bharati proctor Shankar Majumdar requesting him to allow them to join classes, but had not got a reply, Pan added. On Thursday, vice-chancellor Chakrabarty held a meeting at his residence with senior varsity officials to discuss the future course of action. An insider said the VC spoke to lawyers, too. Neither proctor Majumdar nor varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar took calls or replied to text messages from this paper on the varsity’s current stand. The rustication of the trio was preceded by a nine-month suspension during which they could neither attend classes nor sit for exams. “Rupa (Chakraborty), a postgraduate student, could not take her exams for the last two semesters as she was suspended. I need to clear a fifth semester paper for my undergraduate course. We don’t know if the varsity will allow us to take our exams,” said Sow. On the delay in responding to the emails from the students, varsity officials said the ball was in the proctor’s court. “Under norms, the proctor should issue an order referring to the order from Calcutta High Court and ask heads of the departments concerned to send links of the online classes to the three students,” said a senior varsity official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Pleas in Calcutta High Court against state on ration supply||Three separate petitions challenging the legality of the process adopted by the Bengal government in implementing the “Duare Ration” project were moved before Calcutta High Court on Thursday. All the three petitions were together heard briefly by Justice Amrita Sinha. The court decided to hear the case at 2pm on Friday. Moving the three petitions, advocate Jaydeep Kar said since the food supply system was part of the central list and controlled by the Union government, the state administration did not have any authority in implementing a system on its own. “The central government controls the rationing system. The state cannot introduce a parallel system,” Kar told the court. Appearing for the Bengal government, advocate-general Kishore Datta contested Kar’s claim and said the food supply system was part of the concurrent list. “The state government has introduced its Duare Ration project as a temporary measure for September only to ensure rations reach people’s doorsteps.” Advocate Kalyan Banerjee wanted to submit a petition on behalf of the beneficiaries of the project but the judge said: “Not now. Let me first hear the three petitions. If necessary, then the court will hear you.” Bhawanipore bypoll Calcutta High Court on Thursday decided to hear a petition challenging the authority of Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to request the Election Commission of India to declare the date for bypoll to only one Assembly seat, when byelections were pending in other constituencies. Moving the plea, advocate Sabyasachi Bhattacharya claimed Dwivedi had made the request on behalf of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He said since the election of the chief minister was involved, Dwivedi did not have the legal power to make such a request. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal fixed September 13 for hearing the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Revamp plans for Jaigaon drawn up by Jaigaon Development Authority||The newly formed board of the Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA) held its first meeting on Thursday and drew up plans for infrastructure development of the town on the India-Bhutan border and nearby areas. The JDA is a development agency that functions under the state municipal affairs and urban development department and is tasked with the job of developing Jaigaon and surrounding areas. Located in Alipurduar district, Jaigaon is next to Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of Bhutan. It is also along the most used road route to Bhutan. For years, the demand to develop its infrastructure has been raised by Jaigaon’s business fraternity and residents. “There is a stark difference between both sides of the border, as far as road, sewerage, drinking water, parking and others are concerned. We hope the JDA develops Jaigaon as an ideal border town,” said a senior trader. On Thursday, Gangaprasad Sharma, the new chairman of the JDA, held a meeting with other board members. Surendra Kumar Meena, the Alipurduar DM, also attended the meeting. At the meeting, it was decided that a new truck terminus will be built in Jaigaon through which hundreds of trucks can ply between the neighbouring countries. Also, 55 new rural roads and three new bridges will come up in and around Jaigaon. Gourigaon, a scenic point near Jaigaon from where Bhutan hills and stretches of eastern Dooars can be seen, will be developed to encourage tourism “We want to initiate a solid waste management system to keep Jaigaon clean. The local bus terminus will also be renovated. There are also some plans to beautify the town too,” said Sharma,  who is from Jaigaon. Once the Alipurduar district president of BJP, after Assembly polls, Sharma joined Trinamul owing to differences with MP and Union minister of state John Barla. After he joined Trinamul, he was nominated as the JDA chairman. Political observers said that Sharma has to meet the aspirations of Jaigaon residents through development to draw support for Trinamul, a party that could not win in any of the five Assembly seats of Alipurduar. “Civic and rural polls are ahead and the party is banking on him to revive its support base here,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA in picture war with BJP MP in Raiganj||The BJP MLA of Raiganj, Krishna Kalyani, accused the Raiganj MP of his party, Debasree Chaudhuri, of “conspiring” against him. On Thursday, all photographs of the MP on banners and hoardings at the MLA’s office were covered with white plastic sheets. “I don’t want to keep her photographs in my office,” Kalyani said, alleging the MP opposed his poll candidature and worked against him, and when he won, tried to “malign” him. Kalyani returned from Delhi on Thursday after telling BJP Bengal leaders such as Suvendu Adhikari and Nisith Pramanik about his grouses. The MP, on her part, said she had not asked the MLA to display her photographs. “The MP has been conspiring against me for months. After I was selected as the (Assembly) candidate by the party, the MP opposed me. Ahead of Assembly polls, she used her position and removed Biswajit Lahiri from the district president’s post, which led to tension in the party. During the polls, she tried to ensure my defeat but her plans didn’t work. Now she is trying to throw me out of the party by maligning my image,” added the MLA, who returned from Delhi on Thursday. Earlier this week, Kalyani, now the sole MLA of the saffron party in North Dinajpur after MLA Soumen Roy defected to Trinamul recently, had fumed against Basudeb Sarkar, the district BJP chief, and some of his associates. He announced severing of ties with the district leadership and asserted he would not attend any event organised by them in the district. According to party insiders, Kalyani had been to Delhi where he had met Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, party MP and Union minister of state Nisith Pramanik and some other leaders. There, he reportedly told them how the Raiganj MP, the current district BJP president and some leaders close to the duo were trying to create problems for him. “They heard him out... there had been some recent defections and the party does not want to lose any more MLAs now,” said an insider. MP Chaudhuri said she never asked Kalyani to display her photograph in his office. “After he got elected as MLA, he placed some demands before me that I felt could not be met by any elected representative. My refusal seems to have aggrieved him. State (BJP) leaders are aware of the entire issue,” she said. “I hope they take appropriate steps,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
10-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 724 new cases, 8 more deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded 81 straight days of a fall in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, with 724 new infections, 758 recoveries and eight deaths. The total fell by 42 to 8,246. Bengal has 2.13 per cent of the country’s active Covid-19 infections and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 118 new infections and North 24-Parganas 111, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta logged two. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.46. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.84 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33. The state currently has over 15.54 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.28 lakh recoveries and 18,539 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
10-09-2021||North East||Ferry crash lens on PM promise to build bridge over Brahmaputra ||A ferry mishap in Assam on Wednesday has not only sparked protests in the island district of Majuli but also put the spotlight back on the “unfulfilled promise” made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2016 to build a bridge over the Brahmaputra connecting it with mainland Jorhat. The foundation of the bridge was laid on February 27, 2016, by Union minister Nitin Gadkari and then again by Modi on February 18, 2021 — both before the Assembly polls in the state won by the BJP and its allies. The mishap was the result of a collision between two ferries about 50 metres from the bank of the Brahmaputra at Neematighat in Jorhat district on Wednesday afternoon. A ferry bound for Kamal¬abarighat, 15km from Neema¬tighat, sank after being hit by another ferry coming from the opposite direction, leading to the death of a college teacher, out of the 92 people on board. Two persons, including a doc¬tor, are still missing. With the mishap once aga¬in exposing the lapses in the operation of ferry services, there is considerable anger, resentment and pain at the loss of lives, more so in Majuli district, the first island district and the seat of Vaishnavite culture. A government statement issued on February 18 this year had said a 6.8km twolane bridge was being constructed at a cost of Rs 925.47 crore from Kamalabari to Neematighat to provide easy and alltime ac¬cess to the people living in Ma¬juli town with the rest of Assam to “meet their health, education and other daytoday development activities”. The All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Pa¬rishad (AJYCP) staged a “bl¬ack day” across Majuli in pr¬otest against what their lead¬ers said was an avoidable tr¬agedy had the administration taken steps to streamline the ferry services and built the bridge which they had been demanding for decades. At Garmur in Majuli, a gr¬oup of students staged a pro¬test with similar demands, ev¬en gheraoing state minister Bimal Borah seeking answers for the mishap. Police had to resort to lathicharge to disper¬se the students and local peo¬ple, a move which has been re¬sented. Ajit Hazarika, president, Majuli district unit of AASU, has said they neither have a bridge nor they have a safe and reliable ferry service, a lifeline for about two lakh is¬land residents. During the 2016 prepoll rally, Modi had asserted he would do in five years what the Congress could not do in 60 years. “One bridge is requ¬ired... what has not happened in 60 years, I will do in five years. Give me an opportunity to serve...,” Modi had said. But construction has not yet started, Hazarika said. “Foundation stone has been laid twice in five years. The company which has got the contract has not been able to fence the work site till now. The delay is very unfortunate because the commitment was made by none other than the Prime Minister,” he said. He summed up the overall mood of Majuli. “The delay shows only our votes matter, not our lives and livelihoods. The tragedy has once again underscored the need for a bridge and streamlining the ferry service. We request the Prime Minister to revisit his unfulfilled promise and deliver before another tragedy strikes,” Hazarika said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, after visiting the mishap site, said the construction of the bridge connecting Jorhat with Majuli will start from November and will be completed within four years. A group of ministers (GoM) would be formed to review the progress of construction, he said. The Congress reminded the government about its "negligence and carelessness" that led to loss of lives. "Lessons were not learnt from the unfortunate boat capsize that happened in North Guwahati in September 2018. The precautions that should have been taken by the BJP government all over Assam through the inland water transport department after this incident were simply not visible when the ferry accident happened in Neematighat," the Assam PCC said in a statement. After his visit, Sarma banned private singleengine boats from plying in Majuli but assured to help the owners with a loan to upgrade to marine engines, announced a highlevel inquiry into the accident and improving the ferry service, dredging between Kamalabari and Neematighat for smooth navigation, fixing of ferry timings by Jorhat and Majuli district administrations and health checkups of ferry staff. The state cabinet, after a meeting in the evening, directed Jorhat police to file a criminal case against those responsible for the mishap, entrusted additional chief secretary Maninder Singh to probe the incident and submit his report within a month and asked finance minister Ajanta Neog to constantly monitor the progress of the construction of the JorhatMajuli bridge, among other decisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
10-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Golden grease||Sir — From the crisp corners of a samosa to the lip-puckering, spicy oil in achaars, fat can make or break dishes. But while fat is the great unifier when it comes to delicious food, fat itself can be deeply divisive. While both desi ghee and tallow are animal fat derived from the cow, the two are separated along strict religious lines. Traditional recipes often call for the use of specific kinds of fat. But the urban Indian kitchen has no space for such segregation — given the potent smell of animal fat and growing health concerns, most food is now cooked in tasteless soyabean oil, or worse, olive oil. Barnali Ganguly, Calcutta Sir — It was heartening to learn that Madhya Pradesh recently amended its draconian, colonial-era Excise Act, 1915 to legalize and profit from heritage liquor — another name for local liquor produced by tribal communities. The production and consumption of alcohol is central to the culture, religion and economy of several adivasi as well as nomadic communities, which were originally listed as ‘hereditary criminals’ under the Criminal Tribes Act of 1871. In the eyes of the raj, tribal alcohol consumption was a social ill. Consequently, the Excise Act, 1915, was a product of colonial morality, imposing state monopoly over the production and sale of alcohol, and criminalizing alcohol possession and public drinking. Yet, instead of helping marginalized communities,   the latest amendment has added leverage to the police’s powers over them by introducing the death penalty for producing spurious liquor. Excise policing is steeped in institutionalization of caste prejudice — this is not exclusive to Madhya Pradesh either. It is this that needs to change, along with amendments in legislations. Otherwise, tribal and other marginalized communities will continue to suffer at the hands of the State machinery, while so-called ‘heritage liquor’ lines the state coffers and the pockets of politicians and policemen. Jivya Shyam, Morena, Madhya Pradesh Sir — The Supreme Court judge, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, has highlighted the special duty of public intellectuals to “question the state” and sustain democracy. However, the ability of public intellectuals to raise questions is contingent on the free and fair functioning of certain institutions in a democracy. Given the atmosphere of fear that pervades the country, no one dares speak against the government for there is no assurance of any support in case of wrongful persecution by the state. People’s trust in the justice system has been eroded in the recent past. To make matters worse, privacy concerns have ensured that let alone in public, people are often fearful of speaking up even in private. Merely sounding warning notes is not going to suffice in the current political climate. The judiciary has a huge role to play in ensuring that public intellectuals can indeed speak up without languishing in jail. A.K. Sen, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lopsided||Mahatma Gandhi’s India, which “live[d] in [its] villages”, will cease to be a reality quite soon. New data from the Census office have projected that by 2036, 18 Indian states and Union territories will have at least 50 per cent of their populations residing in urban areas. These are not isolated figures: the data have been borne out by other research initiatives. In 2018, a study by the United Nations’s Department of Economic and Social Affairs said that by 2050, India would have around 416 million urban dwellers. Urbanization and the corresponding emptying out of rural settings are turning out to be a global phenomena. China, for instance, is increasingly becoming a nation of town and city dwellers — by 2016, more than 55 per cent of its population was already living in urban areas. Urbanization is interpreted as a sign of progress. But it merits closer scrutiny. In India, hyper-urbanization would bring with it unique, and serious, challenges. This year marked six years since the Bharatiya Janata Party’s flagship Smart Cities Mission was launched. Its aims were to create 100 smart cities, improve the quality of life for urban residents, and steer India’s rapid urban development with the help of technology and data-driven solutions. And, yet, latest data indicate serious failures in making these cities liveable, economically vibrant and environmentally sustainable. This myopia in policy is likely to lead to the intensification of existing environmental and infrastructural challenges with rural populations moving to urban areas in search of jobs and livelihood. Health, sanitation, housing, employment, water supply and education are some of the sectors that would come under unprecedented pressure. Some of these challenges are visible already — Indore was declared the ‘best’ smart city, but the district witnessed the highest number of Covid deaths in Madhya Pradesh during the second wave. Worse, most large Indian cities, including metropolises, do not have climate resilience plans in place, even though India has been ranked the seventh most climate-vulnerable country by the Climate Risk Index 2021. Finding solutions to these problems will require urgent and targeted planning by governments and city developers. For instance, is there a case to be made for a State-aided redistribution of populations to satellite towns that have been provided better infrastructure? Such a model would reduce the burden on major cities and, crucially, aid uniform development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wordplay||The proverbial shadow falls between the prime minister’s words and deeds with a frightening regularity. Take, for instance, Narendra Modi’s latest utterance on education. In the course of launching several academic initiatives, Mr Modi declared that the modernization of India’s education is the result of policy-based intervention as well as participatory action. None of these claims — ‘modernization’, ‘policy intervention’, ‘participatory action’ — is above scrutiny. For instance, the government’s claim of building two colleges per day has already been proved to be hollow. The paucity of state-of-the-art educational institutions, especially in rural India, is an old ailment. Some of the other fruits of this modernization initiative are equally bitter. Mr Modi’s government has been an enthusiastic endorser of online education, with the National Education Policy giving it special attention. Yet, the attendant problems — loss in learning abilities among students, the massive scale of exclusion that has kept large segments of students from marginalized communities out of e-learning, decline in the standards of education imparted in digital classrooms, an alleged, subtle thrust to reduce the number of teachers and so on — are yet to be addressed. There is also the additional concern of curriculum being given an ideological tint. History, for instance, is being rewritten — this cannot be a measure of a modern educational ethos. Mr Modi’s claim of these transformations being participatory is equally suspect. Changes in curriculum and syllabi are being forced down the throat of teachers by pliant university administrations: the adoption of the four-year course in Delhi University is a case in point. The prime minister’s homilies would do nothing to conceal the bigger problem. The issue is political in nature. Mr Modi leads an authoritarian regime that is fond of unilateral adventurism. Policy decisions, be they on health, education, economy or security, have seldom been representative in the truest sense of the term. The allergy towards deliberation and consultation with stakeholders and political opponents, elements requisite in a democratic set-up, has often led to policy failure. Demonetization — yet another example of the prime minister’s ‘collaborative’ approach? — was an unparalleled disaster, crippling the informal economy. The same holds true for the Centre’s initial response to the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the economic crisis. It is entirely possible that the project to modernize education would replicate similar errors unless the Centre is willing to take along educationists, teachers and students in this venture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||A spectre called reform||The four-year undergraduate programme has returned to the University of Delhi. The memory of the messy, short-lived FYUP, introduced in 2013 and withdrawn in 2014, casts a shadow on this avatar of the programme which, the university authorities claim, is qualitatively different from the earlier version. Before going into the substance of the course, we need to look at the process. In 2012-2013, the then vice-chancellor had rammed the course through the university bodies ignoring protests by the faculty that such a momentous change required a longer deliberation allowing teachers to have their say. This time too, the academic council and the executive council, knowing too well that the faculty have not been allowed to discuss the proposal, decided to bow to the authorities. These bodies thus robbed the teachers, who would be teaching these courses, of their academic right. Before we discuss the substance of the FYUP, what must concern us is that the universities have made it a habit to take crucial decisions which would have far-reaching effects by stealth. The authorities subvert the established processes of deliberation, compromise them by luring a section of the teachers, making them members of committees which supersede the statutory bodies and, thus, corrupt the process of decision-making in academic matters. The committee set up to work out the structure of the FYUP had submitted its report in February, 2021 and the vice-chancellor had shared it with the academic council members, but he did not think it necessary to seek their feedback. How does all this justify the act of bypassing all statutory committees? We must also not ignore that all this was done during a period in which normal life was in complete jeopardy due to the pandemic. This is certainly not the best time to frame policy decisions when everything is being done in an emergency mode. We were told that the Delhi University authorities arbitrarily invited members of the academic council and the rest were asked to connect online. In the meeting, there was hardly any intervention from the members present virtually. The authorities did not even put the proposal to vote. If this is how such huge decisions are taken, then we should forget about finding a respectable place in international academia. More than the authorities who want to please the political power, this is a poor reflection on the professoriate of the university system who do not take their jobs seriously and bend too easily. The new FYUP is being presented as a revolutionary makeover of the undergraduate programmes of Delhi University. The current undergraduate programme does need reform as all programmes do, but what is being proposed as an alternative is worse. It says that its unique feature is the multiple exit and entry points. You get admitted to a four-year programme but now you have the democratic freedom to exit after one or two years as well as the right to a certificate and a diploma, respectively. If you wish to exit after three years, you get an honours degree but the fourth year earns you a BA honours with research. Usually certificate, diploma and honours are three very different programmes and cater to different academic and worldly needs. What is happening here is that there is only one whole programme — the four-year course — and it is being made to answer to four different needs. Fragments of this four-year course constitute the certificate and the diploma programmes. The world over and in India too certificate and diploma programmes are designed separately, as whole units. They are never parts of a different whole. Here, the students are being asked to walk away with some papers of the four-year programme christened as certificate or diploma. Their value would not even be worth the paper on which they are printed. The claims that these programmes have flexibility, are student-centric, that they allow students to earn significant amounts of credit from other universities and transfer them, and permit online platforms like Swayam to make their own degrees need to be examined carefully. The University Grants Commission is pushing universities to take large components from the Massive Open Online Courses or online programmes. The aim, obviously, is to reduce the number of teachers. The argument is, again, democratic: that it gives the students agency and removes the tyranny of teachers. But we need to ask the real question: where is the money for the resources that the additional fourth year would need? We would know the answer if we were to look at the pattern of fund cuts in all higher education institutions. A pauperized university is expected to enrich the intellectual experience of the youth. Here lies the deception of these ‘glamorous’ reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Give women credit||On August 12, the prime minister sanctioned a fund of Rs 1,625 crore towards capitalization of about four lakh women self-help groups under the ‘Atmanirbhar Narishakti se Samvad’ initiative. Indian women score disproportionately low on savings and borrowings. Of the more than three-fourths who have a bank account, less than a fifth — 16.7 per cent — save formally in banks. According to the World Bank’s Findex report (2017), 79.9 per cent of the Indian population had a bank account; among them, 77 per cent were women and 83.4 per cent men. Therefore, a higher number of women are unbanked than men. The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana has been credited with closing the gender gap in bank account ownership, from 20 per cent in 2014 to 6.4 per cent in 2017. According to a recent statement from the finance ministry, the total number of Jan Dhan accounts has reached 43 crore, of which 23.9 crore — 55.5 per cent — belong to women and about 28.7 crore — 66.7 per cent —  have been opened in rural and semi-urban areas. Yet, more than one-third of poor women in India do not have a Jan Dhan account. Two-thirds of India’s population lives in rural areas that contain only 11 per cent of bank branches; rural women of the country are mostly unbanked. Women have to face greater credit-constraints than men although the repayment history of women borrowers is far more satisfactory. Women borrowers make conservative investments and, hence, bear lower hazard risk. Being routed through SHGs, microfinance has made progress in providing credit to women. But unlike Bangladesh, microfinance is yet to create sustainable micro-entrepreneurship, turning the economy around through women. Microcredit in Bangladesh, which was pioneered by the Nobel laureate, Muhammad Yunus, contributes 2 per cent to its GDP. The country’s annual per capita income of US $ 2,227 in the last fiscal was higher than that of India’s US $1,947. Active microcredit borrowers represent just 4.3 per cent of the Indian population, indicating a huge scope for growth. Microfinance institutions in India should look into the untapped market, especially since the Reserve Bank of India, as per its proposal in June 2021, plans to withdraw the cap of 12 per cent over and above the cost of funds for charging interest. Under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, aspiring female entrepreneurs are entitled to avail funds of up to 10 lakh rupees to start a small or micro-enterprise, provided it is a non-corporate or a non-farm business. However mostly ‘Sishu’ loans have been sanctioned that disburse only Rs 50,000 per beneficiary as loan. About 68 per cent of the total Mudra loans had been sanctioned to women entrepreneurs till February 2021. But it is also argued that men in the family are pushing women as borrowers so that loans can be obtained easily. During the initial stages, banks reportedly did not keep records of entrepreneurship formation. Default risk is estimated to be as high as one-fourth of the total in the scheme. Although many banks reportedly have a day in the week earmarked for sanctioning at least one Mudra loan, the euphoria among bankers has been lost. Bankers are not keen on proceeding with the scheme. The pandemic has thrown a new challenge to the poor, particularly women. A global estimate says there will be 118 women aged between 25-34 in extreme poverty in 2021 for every 100 men of the same age. This ratio could rise to 121 poor women for every 100 poor men by 2030. Poverty and patriarchy compel women to be engaged in low wage-work or to be confined to the house. Indian women lost two-thirds of their income according to a survey conducted during October-November, 2020 in 10 states by Dalberg. Credit could have helped them move into better paying self-employment. The prime minister’s latest announcement may provide some relief to SHG members promoted under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission. But what about the rest?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Year of paradoxes||The present moment in our contemporary history is riddled with paradoxes. The year, 2021, marks the commencement of our existence as an independent country for over seven decades. It naturally reminds citizens of India’s epic struggle for freedom, bringing to us the haloed memory of martyrs who laid down their lives dreaming of the freedom to come. It makes us want to revisit the lives and thoughts of the towering leaders who spread the idea of freedom in a country that had gone into a deep slumber and made it aspire to be free. But 2021 is also the year when the prime minister’s Independence Day speech from the Red Fort was delivered without mentioning Mahatma Gandhi even once. The year should remind every Indian that exactly one hundred years ago, Barrister Gandhi took charge of the Congress and became its president at the party’s session in 1921. His leadership gave the Congress an ideological vigour that would rattle the colonial government. Yet, 2021 is also the year when we see the Congress drifting apart week by week without even murmuring to itself what its ideology is. This is the year marking the launch of B.R Ambedkar’s Mooknayak, a journal that provided the foundation for subsequent social rights movements in India through the last one hundred years. It is also, paradoxically, the year when Dalits are being lynched by mobs more frequently than ever before. This is also the time to remember that a century ago, the Afghan War had shown that the Asian people could successfully combat the might of the British military, binding the Afghans and the Indians in a close emotional bond. In contrast, 2021 marks the year of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, a development that has given the Islam-baiters in India a convenient handle to indiscriminately demonize all Muslims of the subcontinent. Fifty years ago, in 1971, India had rushed to help Bangladesh gain its nationhood. In 2021, assembly elections in Bengal were fought as if the leaders of the Central government and those of the Bengal government belong to two different planets. Paradoxes abound. However, the most disturbing of all these for me is that 2021 marks the 150th year of the enactment of the first Criminal Tribes Act in 1871. In the 75th year of India’s Independence, even after a century and half, those who remain the hapless victims of the CTA still cannot see a ray of hope. Let me recount, in brief, the sordid tale. Ordinarily, contemporary Indians do not have a good reason to remember General William Henry Sleeman (1788-1856), a British officer who spent his life from the age of 21 working in the colonial administration for over four decades. That he chanced upon the fossils of the extinct Narmada basin dinosaur interests none outside the small circle of archaeologists. However, he was the one who created an abiding fiction related to a certain class of Indians. During the 1830s, he was appointed the ‘Commissioner for the Suppression of Thugee and Dacoity’. The grand name given to the office suited the colonial narrative perfectly since British authority rested on the idea of creating the rule of law and order. Sleeman took to the task with furious passion. Not only did he list every possible case of clashes and crime taking place in central India but also put them through hurried trials, leading to the hanging of 1,400 individuals during his tenure. One does not know if all or any of them received the benefit of legal aid from the colonial government. Those were still the days of the Company sarkar, and such an expectation would have been unrealistic. The result of the Sleeman mission was the creation and the circulation of numerous stories related to thugs and their criminal mindset; how much of the fact is fiction has not yet been ascertained. The idea that certain communities, not just some of their members, are given to criminal activity as their regular livelihood took root in the minds of the rulers. One of the undeclared intentions of Sleeman’s mission was to disarm the wandering soldiers of the defeated princes in India; therefore, most of the communities under Sleeman’s scanner were nomadic communities. The intent and the myth came together in the letter and spirit of the CTA of 1871. The Act held entire communities to be criminal in inclination. The remedy for the perceived criminality suggested by the CTA was to prevent the communities from continuing their nomadic life. Hence, the communities covered by the CTA included primarily nomadic and pastoral ones. They were kept confined in reformatory settlements — jails of a kind. With this, they became stigmatized forever, irrespective of whether an individual member in such communities had committed any crime. The CTA was revised several times during the colonial regime, its scope expanded each time to include more and more communities. Thousands died in these settlements. They were put to hard and unpaid labour. Several generations passed and the stigma became thicker. India had all but forgotten about them when Independence arrived. These communities continued to rot inside the settlements. It was in 1952 that, thanks to the report of the Iyengar Committee, the CTA was withdrawn and was replaced by the Habitual Offenders Act, aimed at individuals rather than communities. Since the earlier notifications were withdrawn, these communities came to be known as the Denotified Tribes, most of whom were nomadic by habit. The pastoral and semi-nomadic communities came to be abbreviated as SNTs. If a careful count were to be made in all Indian states, these communities would number over 250. And what may be their population? Based on the 1931 census, the estimates made varied between 8-15 crore, although their exact number was not known. Since the process of preparing the lists of the SCs and the STs had begun before the denotification process of the DNTs and SNTs began, many of these communities remained outside the benevolent framework of affirmative action. They were left without land, livelihood and government patronage, hounded out from villages and mob-lynched frequently in cities. Thousands of them are forced into a life of crime by the system that requires scapegoats to cover the big fish in the world of crime. Many are rotting in jails for life; many die in custody without a mention in the media. Over the last several decades, they have been asking for a proper census since getting counted could be the first step towards receiving State benefits. Yet, that has not happened. Will India turn a deaf ear to their pitiful cries during the 2021 census is anybody’s guess in this year of paradoxes. G.N. Devy is founder, Denotified and Nomadic Tribes Rights Action Group||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Dhanbad for 3-day convention||RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat who was in Dhanbad on Friday to participate in the three-day convention of the organisation discussed ways to strengthen it at the grass root level and increase its reach to tribal hinterland of Jharkhand as part of Mission 2024. Bhagwat who arrived here from Patna on Friday morning at around 5.30 am through Ganga Damodar Express was taken straight to Rajkamal Sarwaswati Vidya Mandir of Dhansar, the venue of the programme, amidst strict security. He held two rounds of meetings with 40 pracharaks of RSS from different parts of the state from 2pm to 5pm and again from 6pm to 8pm during which he took stock of the ongoing activities of the organisation from them. Bhagwat who arrived in the district after a gap of three years after participating in the sports wing, Krida Bharati programme of RSS in 2018 will also hold discussion with the pracharaks of Bihar on Saturday during the second day of programme during which some senior leaders of BJP are also expected to participate. In 2014, Bhagwat participated in the programme of Ekal Vidyalaya held in Dhanbad. Notably the three day programme during which organisation members from different parts of Bihar and Jharkhand are expected to participate will deliberate on a wide range of issues and discuss the strategy to increase its reach to various nooks and corners of Jharkhand ahead of 2024 elections. The RSS Chief during his three day stay at Dhanbad will also hold discussions with regional executive committee besides the Mahanagar Sakha Chief teachers, and arond 100 memeber of Buddhidhijivi Prakostha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP cries foul as Ranchi police file FIR against 28 leaders ||Ranchi police lodged an FIR against 28 named BJP leaders,  including two MPs, and at least 1,200 unknowns, for violence during the party's march to  the Vidhan Sabha on September 8 in violation of Covid-19 protocols to protest against the allotment of a namaz room within the Assembly precincts. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash and Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth are among those named in the FIR. A senior officer at Dhurwa police station said, “An FIR was lodged against 28 named and several unnamed people,  numbering over 1,200 from the BJP,  for illegally taking out a  padyatra and resorting to gherao of the  Assembly based on a complaint submitted by city circle officer Amit Bhagat.” Bhagat has confirmed that he  submitted his complaint to the police on Wednesday. Asked about the sections under which the FIR was registered, the Dhurwa police officer said, “Several cases of IPC pertaining to obstructing government officials from performing duties, violence, attempts to communalise, threatening peaceful environment, among others. These apart, relevant charges under the Disaster Management Act were also pressed for holding the protest in violation of the state government’s Covid-19 curbs.” Calls by The TelegraphOnline to Senior SP S.K. Jha and city SP Saurabh went unanswered. Around 7,000 BJP supporters from across  districts, led by the state BJP top brass, began a march to the Assembly from Harmu ground covering a distance of about 10 km on September 8. However, a section of the protestors clashed with police near the Jagannathpur temple after allegedly breaking   security barricades, forcing police to first use   water-cannons and then resort to lathicharge. The BJP claimed  the police action resulted in  serious injuries to at least a dozen of its supporters. On Friday, the BJP criticized  police and the Hemant  Soren government of lodging "false" cases against its  party leaders. It also claimed that the Speaker’s move to form a review panel on the namaz room indicated that the government was on the defensive. Addressing a joint press conference, state  BJP  president Prakash and MLA Amar Kumar Bauri said that under no circumstance would the BJP climb down on the issue. Commenting on the  FIR, Prakash said the state government was  trying to muzzle voices of protest in a democratic country.  “We took out a silent protest on September 8. All our party workers were unarmed and on a silent padyatra. But we have been accused of violence. We were beaten by lathis by police without any provocation.  Let the government file cases, BJP will continue to fight for the people.” Prakash welcomed the  Speaker's move to set up a committee. “We welcome the decision to set up a seven- member panel. It was only because of the BJP’s fight to safeguard constitutional norms that the Speaker was forced to do so. We see it as a step back by the Hemant Soren government.” Bauri warned of more  protests if the namaz room order was not rescinded. “BJP is committed to serve the nation and its constitution and we will not allow Talibanisation of Jharkhand. It will not become second Afghanistan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city observes a low-key Ganesh Chaturthi||Ganesh Chaturthi celebration was a low-key affair in steel city on Friday. For the second year in a row, steel city residents missed the century-old Ganesh Puja fair, one of the most awaited annual events organised at the Ganesh Puja ground at Kadma. Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas, the organisers, cancelled the 17-day long Ganesh Mahotsav for the second consecutive year due to the Covid- 19 pandemic. Only Ganesh Puja rituals were organised in the presence of a few members in a simple manner. This year too, the organisers performed the puja at a small idol of lord Ganesh. The Puja organised by Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas entered its 103rd year. The Ganesh Mahotsav at Kadma is best known for its elaborate pandal and the grand fair, which happens to be the biggest in the state. The puja celebrated its centenary year in 2018. The Ganesh Chaturthi celebration at the G. Town Club ground in Bistupur was cancelled due to the pandemic. The organisers said if the situation improves they will resume the celebration next year. Several puja organisers in Sakchi, Sonari, Kadma and other places skipped the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration due to the pandemic. "We do not want to take chances as the fear of Covid's third wave still persists. Therefore, we decided to skip the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration, said a member of a Ganesh Puja committee at Sonari. Several puja committees appealed to people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at their homes to reduce the risk of spread of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal trader in Dhanbad jail for alleged fraud||Anil Goyal, a Dhansar based coal trader, who was arrested from Calcutta at night on Thursday along with his son Hemant Goyal in connection with a Rs 5.36 forgery case was sent to Dhanbad jail on Friday afternoon after being produced in the court of first class judicial magistrate, M Guin of Dhanbad. The father-son duo are accused of supplying stone and ash mixed waste products in lieu of Australian imported coal after taking Rs 5.36 crore as advance from Ratanji Road, Purana Bazaar, Dhanbad, coal trader Prakash Agarwal, owner of Ayasha Coal trading company, as part of a carefully planned conspiracy. Prakash Agarwal registered a case against Anil Goyal, his son Hemant Goyal and several others including, Dinesh Goyal (Hare Street BBD Bagh Calcutta), Sanjay Kumar Poddar (Bhagalpur, Bihar), Sanjeev Bose (Burdwan), Dharmendra Rai (Gopalganj, Bihar) of forgery of Rs  5.36 and also charged Hemant Agarwal of threatening him in various ways when he demanded return of his money. Talking to media outside the Dhanbad court, Vikash Bhuvania, Agarwal's  lawyer, said, “The duo, who own Nursing Ispat Udyog Pvt Ltd at Calcutta, as a part of a well-planned conspiracy trapped my client, Prakash Agarwal in the name of supply of Australian imported coal and instead supplied stone and ash mixed scrap and also took around Rs 5.5 lakh in advance.” “When my client asked them to take back the waste scrap and instead return back the money Hemant Goyal started threatening them in various ways,” said Bhuvania and added that Hemant Goyal has served a jail term of one and a half months in a GST fraud case. “A case has been registered in this regard by my client Dhansar Police station on August 19 and police after prima facie finding the allegation true arrested them from Calcutta with the help of Calcutta Police,” said Bhuvania.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal India welcomes first woman excavation engineer||Coal India achieved another milestone on Friday after Shivani Meena became the first mining engineer in the excavation cadre to work in an open cast mine weeks after Barkagaon mining engineer Akanksha Kumar became the first woman in the PSU  to work in an underground mine when she joined Churi mines. “Shivani Meena joined the Rajrappa project, a mechanised open cast mine in the Rajrappa area of CCL as an excavation engineer. This is unprecedented as she is the first woman engineer in the excavation cadre to work in an open cast mine. She has been given the responsibility of maintenance and repair of heavy earth moving machinery (HEMM),” the company said in a statement. Rajrappa is an important project of CCL. Recently, it received an award from the coal ministry. Meena is from Bharatpur in Rajasthan. She completed her engineering from IIT-Jodhpur.  “I thank my family and the government for their unwavering support which opened doors for women to venture in hardcore mining work,” she said. Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi  congratulated Shivani. He tweeted: “#NariShakti all the way! Congratulations @CCLRanchi. Hoping that this will open avenues for more female professionals to join the mining sector. @smritiirani.” CCL CMD P.M. Prasad maintained that after underground mines, women engineers have registered their entry in open cast mines, thus giving the required impetus to gender equality and women's empowerment in the coal mining industry. “Until now, the niche work typically has been a foray of men. Girls like Shivani and Akanksha have not merely brought laurels to themselves and their families, but they are a motivation for many others who wish to pursue their leads across the country,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain expected in Jharkhand on Sunday, Monday||The Ranchi Met centre has forecast  heavy rain over Jharkhand on Sunday and Monday (September 12 and 13) due to the impact of a low-pressure system brewing over the Bay of Bengal, expected to intensify into a depression in another 48 hours. Weathermen said a cyclonic circulation over east-central Bay of Bengal was on Friday extending upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. "Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and concentrate into a depression," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Friday passing through Jaisalmer , Tikamgarh, Pendra Road, Paradip and stretched till east-central Bay of Bengal extending upto 1.5km above mean sea level. Weathermen said the intensity of rain will be more in the north-eastern and southern parts of Jharkhand. The Met centre also warned of moderate lightning and thunder in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next 72 hours. Data revealed that light to moderate rain occurred at few places over Jharkhand in the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall of 55.2 mm was recorded at Chandil in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Till now, Jharkhand has received rainfall of 822 mm against a normal of 900.3 mm, a deficit of nine per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) secures its best ranking in Union government list ||IIT (ISM) has secured its best ever ranking among engineering colleges in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday by Union Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan. IIT (ISM) which has been ranked at 11th position with a score of 64.07, improving its ranking by one place as it was ranked 12th last year in the same category. IIT Madras secured the top ranking  in the same category with a score of 90.19 which was followed by IIT Delhi at second position with 88.96 scrore and IIT Bombay at third position with a score of 85.16. All top eight positions in engineering colleges were bagged by different IITs while the 9th position went to NIT Tiruchirappalli with score 66.08 while the 10th position went to NIT Karnataka which has secured a 64.10 score. In management category, Jamshedpur based XLRI however has secured 8th rank with the score of 69.93 while IIT Ranchi secured 21st Position with the score of 58.26.  IIT (ISM) has secured a 30 rank in the management category with the score of 54.54. The first position in Management category was awarded to IIM Ahmedabad with the score of 83.69. The second position among management institutions went to IIM Bangalore with a score of 83.48 while the third position was bagged by IIM Calcutta with 80.04 score. In overall ranking, IIT (ISM) however slipped by one position over the last year as it secured 26th rank with 53.88 score while its rank last year was 25th. The first position in overall ranking went to IIT Madras again with a score of 86.76 while second position went to Indian Institute of Science with a score of 82.67. The third overall ranking was secured by IIT Bombay with a score of 82.52. NIRF has introduced a new Category of ranking of Research this year and IIT (ISM) has secured 20th rank in this category with the score of 52.40. The first rank in the research category went to Indian Institute of Science at Bengaluru with the score of 86.48 while the second position was bagged by  IIT Madras with the score of 86.01. IIT Bombay was ranked 3rd in research Category with the score 80.93.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases continue to rise for third day in a row in Jharkhand ||The active caseload of Covid-19 crossed the 150-mark in Jharkhand on Thursday as fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection outnumbered Covid recoveries in the state for the third day in a row, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. According to a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 27 fresh Covid cases against 12 Covid recoveries took the active Covid caseload in the state to 154. Ranchi alone accounted for 18 cases with the  active caseload jumping to  94 as only six patients recovered from the viral infection in the district. At least 20 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on Thursday. Dhanbad reported four cases against one recovery, while East Sighbhum reported two cases and the same number of recoveries. At least three people were found infected in Deoghar, while no patient recovered from the viral infection there. While the trajectory of active Covid cases witnessed an upward trend, the vaccination numbers in Jharkhand could not cross the 1-lakh-mark on Thursday. The state vaccinated close to 80,000 residents. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 57,539 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 22,200 beneficiaries. Ranchi vaccinated about 11,000 residents on Thursday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, NHM data highlighted. According to a press communique from the health department, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to over 1.14 crore residents and around 30 lakh of them have also received the second jab. The state, as per government records, had at least 15.38 lakh vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on Thursday. As per government data, there were 1.5 lakh Covaxin doses and 13.87 lakh Covishield doses in stock before vaccination began on Thursday. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 49,950 residents and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.48 Jharkhand residents have been infected by Coronavirus so far and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reaches water pact  with Asian Development Bank||A tripartite loan agreement of Rs 1,168 crore was signed between Jharkhand urban development department, Asian Development Bank and the Union government to develop water supply infrastructure and strengthen the capacity of urban local bodies for improved service delivery in four towns in Jharkhand. The signatories to the agreement for Jharkhand Urban Water Supply Improvement Project was ministry of finance’s department of economic affairs additional secretary Rajat Kumar Mishra, who signed for the Government of India, and ADB country director for India Takeo Konishi, who signed for ADB, state urban development authority director Amit Kumar and deputy project manager Juidco, Utkarsh Mishra. “The project is aligned to the Government of Jharkhand’s priority to improve urban services in the state and will ensure continuously, treated piped water supply in the state capital of Ranchi and other three towns of Hussainabad, Jhumri Telaiya, and Medininagar located in economically and socially backward areas,” said Rajat Mishra after signing the agreement. “The project will be ADB’s first urban project in the state and help establish a model for continuous water supply combined with policy reforms for sustainable operation, which can be replicated by other low-income states for providing safe drinking water to urban households as envisaged under national Jal Jeevan Mission,” said Takeo Konishi. Four water treatment plants, with a combined capacity of 275 million litres per day, will be established in the project towns to provide safe drinking water, meeting the national drinking water quality standards. The project will also establish 940km of the water distribution network to provide continuous water supply to about 115,000 households, including those below the poverty line, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe members, and other vulnerable groups. To ensure sustainability, the project will strengthen the capacity of ULBs on urban service delivery and governance through the development of an asset management strategy and training on the design and implementation of urban projects. Innovative technologies will be introduced to minimise water losses in water treatment and distribution. The project also includes the use of supervisory control and data acquisition system for water supply operation and geographic information system-based asset management in Ranchi. The project will provide drinking water to about 5 lakh 85 thousand urban population. In the first phase, a total project of Rs 1,168 crore has been made for water supply in four urban bodies and ADB will give a loan of Rs 817.80 crore under the first phase, while the share of the state government will be around Rs 350.40 crore. In the Ranchi project, 3,04,660 people (60932 houses) will be benefitted while 31,515 people (6303 houses) will be benefitted in Hussainabad urban water supply, 1,25,000 people (25,000 houses) will get water in Jhumritilaiya urban drinking water supply and 1,23,555 people (24,711 houses) will be benefited under Medininagar urban water supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Book on Stan Swamy’s work to be released in New Delhi on Friday||A book on octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who died in judicial custody in July, which aims to highlight he was a “law-abiding”, “peace-loving” and “truth-speaking citizen”, will be released in New Delhi on Friday. Fr Stan Swamy: A Maoist or a Martyr?, written by academic and human rights defender Prakash Louis, is divided into seven chapters which present facts and figures, arguments and counter-arguments, dates and data on the priest’s work. “This book aims at presenting facts and figures, arguments and counter-arguments, dates and data to highlight that Father Stan Swamy, who died in judicial custody after being arrested on the accusation of being a Maoist, was a law-abiding, peace-loving, truth-speaking citizen. The book also examines the fact that he was fundamentally and foundationally connected with the lives and struggles of the Adivasis of central India whose lives, rights and dignity was his primary focus,” said Louis, who has been working and writing on the issues of Dalits, tribals, minorities and all marginalised communities. “Fr Stan also saw, observed, researched, spoke, wrote, and trained the Adivasis to voice their concerns whenever and wherever their rights were violated and trampled upon. Hence, those in power from the dominating caste, class, gender saw him as a threat to their power, position and privileges. So, they named him a friend of the Maoists and called him anti-national, anti-development and anti-peace. This age-old game of naming, blaming and shaming was not enough for them since (Fr) Stan was not the one to be cowed down,” said Louis. He is currently the convener of the Bihar-UP Jesuit Migration Hub, a Jesuit organisation that addresses the issues of distress migration from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, tries to identify the originating points from these states and follows up with the organisations working on migrants in destination states like Maharashtra, Andhra, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Louis, while thanking everyone who contributed to the creation of this book, said: “They incarcerated Fr Stan in false cases and remanded him in custody. Even from Tajola jail, he tried to obtain bail so that he can work towards securing bail for all the political prisoners. But now his martyrdom has raised fundamental questions about the extraordinary laws and unconstitutional way of governance. Fr Stan’s martyrdom liberates every citizen of this country from tyranny.” Fr Stan was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on October 8, 2020, from his Namkum residence near Ranchi in Jharkhand and lodged in Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He died under judicial custody while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai in July. Louis has served as the executive director of the Indian Social Institute, New Delhi and Bangalore and South Asia director of Jesuit Refugee Services, was the co-founder of the South Asian People’s Initiative and initiator of Indian Christians for Democracy. Some of his books are — Extraordinary Laws in India, Peoples Power: Naxalite Movement in Central Bihar, Political Sociology of Dalit Assertion, Indigenous Peoples’ Struggle for Self-Determination, Rights of the Minorities in India and Catholic Social Teachings. He holds a doctorate in sociology on social movements and his thesis was published as People Power: The Naxalite Movement in Central Bihar. Louis was and is part of many organisations, forums, campaigns, networks and movements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||CAG report points out irregularities in construction of bridges||A report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, which was tabled in the Jharkhand Assembly on Wednesday, has pointed out several irregularities by the state government’s rural development department in the construction of bridges. According to the CAG report for 2018-19, the rural development department had neither framed any operational guidelines nor conducted any survey to assess the gaps in rural road network that warranted the construction of bridges. Moreover, the bridges were selected mostly on the recommendations of MPs and MLAs under the Mukhya Mantri Gram Setu Yojana without examining their feasibility, the report stated. The audit team therefore found out that three bridges — all within one-and-a-half kilometres — were built on Kesho river in Koderma for Rs 13.44 crore to cater to the same habitat, suggesting that it was an infructuous expenditure. “The department also didn't have any guidelines for engaging consultants for preparation of detailed project reports (DPRs) (for construction of proposed bridges) and that provided them with an undue benefit of open-ended engagement period,” Indu Agarwal, the state’s principal accountant-general (audit), told the media about the CAG report at her Doranda office in Ranchi on Thursday. “The office of the chief engineer that sanctions these bridges also doesn’t have any design cell, compelling it to accept the DPRs as submitted by the consultants,” she added, indicating that the department had no mechanism to detect and correct any design faults that might creep in during the construction of bridges under MMGSY that was launched in Jharkhand in September 2001. “The consultants didn’t conduct the required geo-technical Investigations and analysis of hydrological and traffic data,” Agarwal said quoting the CAG report. As a result, eight of the test-checked 42 bridges, constructed at an expenditure of Rs 52.12 crore, got fully or partially damaged subsequently, she added. The audit team also found faults in bridge designs as the consultants provided sharp curves up to 90 degrees in approach roads at entry or exit points of 16 bridges and also shortened the width of approach roads to almost half in the case of 28 bridges. According to the report, the tender and agreement documents were loaded in favour of the contractors and no responsibility was fixed for the execution of sub-standard work valued at Rs 52.07 crore for six bridges. “During 2014-19, 571 bridges were tendered in the state. Of these, 57 bridges with a total agreement value of Rs 251.41 crore were awarded to 13 contractors with each one getting two to seven projects,” the report added, citing examples. In the absence of periodic maintenance of completed bridges, scouring in bridge foundations, wear and tear in expansion joints, cracks in RCC (reinforced cement concrete) work and damages of various kinds were noticed during physical verification, the CAG report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
