11-09-2021||Business||Industry output grows 11.5 per cent in July ||Industrial production surged 11.5 per cent in July mainly because of a low-base effect and good performance by the manufacturing, mining and power sectors even as output remained slightly below the pre-pandemic level. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 10.5 per cent in July, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office. Mining sector output rose 19.5 per cent in July while power generation increased 11.1 per cent. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “We may expect a high growth rate in August too as last year there was a decline in growth. However, from September onwards the base effect will get diluted sharply as growth was positive in the next two months. A critical part would be the expected revival in demand especially for consumer goods, which will make firms build up stocks from August onwards.” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said: “The manufacturing index in July 2021 (130.9) was nearly as high as the level in October 2020 (132.0) during last year’s festive season, which offers a glimpse into the strength of the revival after the second wave.” The YoY contraction in consumer non-durables in July 2021 for the second month in a row struck a discordant note, although this was partly driven by an unfavourable base related to restocking after the first wave.” The manufacturing sector had recorded a contraction of 11.4 per cent in July 2020. Mining sector output fell 12.7 per cent in the same month last year. The electricity generation had declined 2.5 per cent in July 2020. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, grew 29.5 per cent in July 2021. It had witnessed a contraction of 22.8 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing increased 20.2 cent in the month under review whereas it was a decline of 23.7 cent in July 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production fell 1.8 per cent in July whereas it had grown 1.8 cent in the year-ago period. In July 2021, the IIP stood at 131.4 points compared to 117.9 points in the same month last year. The index was at 131.8 points in July 2019, as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still slightly below the pre-pandemic level of July 2019. The IIP had contracted by 10.5 per cent in July 2020. Industrial production plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the COVID outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020.b With the resumption of economic activities, factory output rose 1 per cent in September 2020 and grew 4.5 per cent in October. In November 2020, the factory output fell 1.6 per cent and then entered the positive territory with a 2.2 per cent growth in December 2020. The IIP had recorded a contraction of 0.6 per cent in January and 3.2 per cent in February this year. In March, it grew 24.2 per cent. For the month of April, the NSO held back the release of complete IIP data. In May 2021, IIP rose 28.6 per cent and in June, it grew 13.6 per cent. The second wave of the pandemic started in the middle of April this year and many states imposed restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. "The growth rates over corresponding period of previous year are to be interpreted considering the unusual circumstances on account of COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020," NSO said in a statement. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus infections on March 25, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Bengal on AB InBev radar to make non-alcoholic beer||AB InBev — the world’s largest beer maker — is eyeing investment opportunities in Bengal after the state excise department relaxed rules last month permitting breweries to house facilities to produce non-alcoholic beer (NAB). The company, which already has a brewery in the state, is hoping to take advantage of the change in rules in order to make NAB in India. At present, AB InBev imports its NAB brands — Budweiser 0.0 and Hoegaarden 0.0 — to India. Once the the premises here are upgraded, it could be the first in the country to make NAB. India could also become an alternative manufacturing location to China and South Korea in the Asia Pacific region if the market picks up in the country. NAB now attracts a 30 per cent basic custom duty. Once made within the country, the lower duty would make the pricing more competitive. Celebrity Breweries, which makes AB InBev brands at its unit in Hooghly district of Bengal, has made a presentation to the state excise department to upgrade the premises at an estimated investment of Rs 50 crore, including setting up a de-alcoholizer unit and other equipment. The brewery also plans to maintain separate batches of beer and NAB. Vishal Kumar, chief operating officer of Celebrity Breweries, said the introduction of the new rule along with the changes in tax slabs last year and the permission to manufacture NAB in the state has enabled the company to invest more than Rs 100 crore in Bengal to attract global brands. Bengal gains For Bengal, the gains are two-fold, says industry sources. First, the change in policy will attract more investment with other breweries also considering upgrading their units. Second, the state will garner revenue on various fronts, including ancillary. The state will also benefit from a share of the 18 per cent GST applicable on NAB. Heineken with its brand Heineken 0.0 is also present in the NAB segment in India. The overall NAB market in the country was estimated at 15,000 hectolitres in 2019 and is estimated to grow to 4,45,000 hectolitres by 2025. However, a section of the industry remains sceptical. “NAB is aimed at a target consumer base that has competing products in the energy drinks category such as Red Bull and Monster. Unless there is a significant price differential, there would not be a major change. The typical lager and ale consumers will continue with their preferred beer brands,” said an industry source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||IndiGo plans to run domestic flights at full capacity in next few months||India’s largest airline, IndiGo, is expecting to run at full capacity on the domestic routes, a sign of recovery in aviation from the clutches of the pandemic as the number of cases come down in the country. Speaking to Bloomberg Television, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said that “things are improving slowly’’ and that it was not “hard to be bullish as traffic is going up’’. He said the load factor at present for the airline is 70 per cent and that it is targeting just over two-thirds capacity in the international market. His comments come after parent InterGlobe Aviation  reported a net loss of Rs 3,174 crore for the three months ended June 30, 2021, with the second wave of Covid-19 adversely impacting its performance. Losses in the corresponding quarter a year ago were lower at Rs 2,844 crore. During the January-March quarter, the airline had operated at 75 per cent of pre-Covid capacity, which dipped to 44 per cent in April-June 2021. In a conference call with analysts in July, Dutta had said the main aim was to add capacity to get back to pre-Covid levels as quickly as possible. During the second quarter, the airline like the others was restricted to 65 per cent capacity deployment and it provided scheduled services to 66 domestic destinations. The capacity limit was raised to 75.2 per cent from August 12. When the pandemic struck last year, the Centre had lowered capacity to just 33 per cent of the pre-Covid level on domestic routes, which was raised to 80 per cent in January 2021. The second wave led to fresh restrictions: capacity was reduced to 50 per cent from June, which was raised to 65 per cent in July and then 75 per cent in August. The ban on international flight remains and has been extended till the end of this month. Bilateral flights with select countries such as the US and UK under the air bubble arrangement are operational since July 2020. Dutta’s comments also come at a time of a pick-up in domestic traffic. A recent report from credit rating agency Icra said passenger traffic rose 31 per cent to 66 lakh from 51 lakh in the previous month, helped by higher capacity deployment and a downward trend in the pandemic. On a year-on-year basis, the domestic passenger traffic shot up around 131 per cent to over 28.3 lakh in August. The rating agency said capacity deployment in August was up 99 per cent to 57,500 departures against 28,834 departures a year ago while on a sequential basis, it was higher by around 22 per cent. However, there is a continued stress on demand despite a recovery in August, driven by the second wave of the pandemic that has limited travel to only for necessary purposes. Observers said it remains to be seen if the Centre further relaxes the capacity deployment on domestic routes given the concerns of a third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank to raise Rs 6,000 crore through bonds||Punjab National Bank (PNB) is set to raise up to Rs 6,000 crore through bonds. In a regulatory filing, the state-owned lender said that its board on Friday approved raising capital by issuing Basel-III compliant additional tier-1 (AT-1) bonds or tier-II bonds or a combination of both, in one or more tranches up to an amount of Rs 6,000 crore. AT-1 bonds or perpetual bonds were in the spotlight this March when the finance ministry asked Sebi to withdraw its order on asking mutual funds to treat these bonds as 100-year instruments. The department of financial services (DFS) had issued a letter to the market regulator asking it to do away with the valuation rule, saying that it could disrupt the bond market and weaken the efforts of banks to raise additional funds through these bonds to shore up their capital base. After the ministry’s opposition, Sebi relaxed the valuation norms and said that the maturity of these bonds would be 10 years till March 31, 2022. It will rise to 20 years from April 1 that year to September 30, 2022, and to 30 years from October 1, 2022 till March 31, 2023. From April 1, 2023 onwards, they will be considered as 100 years from the date of issuance of the bond. Early this month, the State Bank of India (SBI) had said that it raised Rs 4,000 crore from AT1 bonds, making it the first such issuance after Sebi’s new regulations. Others like Axis Bank and HDFC Bank have also raised capital through these bonds from the overseas markets. PNB was recently in the news when it waived all service charges and processing fee on retail products as part of its festival season offering. The lender now offers an interest rate starting at 6.80 per cent on home loans and 7.15 per cent on car loans. In the festive offer, the bank will waive all service charges/processing fees and documentation charges on its retail products such as home loans, vehicle loans, personal loans, pension loans and gold loans. The bank is also offering personal loans starting at 8.95 per cent, which is one of the lowest in the industry. It also announced offering home loan top-ups at an attractive rate of interest. PNB said customers can avail these offers till December 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Govt provides freight relief for farm exporters||The government on Friday enhanced the scope of the Transport and Marketing Assistance (TMA) scheme for specified agriculture products by including dairy products under its purview and increasing the rates of assistance as shipment costs have spiked multiple times. The scheme has been extended till March 31, 2022, according to an official statement. Enhanced assistance under the revised scheme is expected to help Indian exporters of farm products to meet rising freight and logistics costs. Under the TMA plan, the government reimburses a certain portion of freight charges and provides assistance for the marketing of agricultural produce. The Freightos Baltic Index that tracks the global container freight index saw the rates breaching the $10,000-mark this June and is now hovering at around $11,109. In March 2020, the sea freight rates from Cochin to Melbourne in a 20ft container were $650 and for a 40ft container it was $800. These have now climbed to $5,200 for 20ft and $8,800 for 40ft — a 700 per cent rise in the 20ft and 1000 per cent increase in 40ft container freight rates, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Air India: Govt says past losses of PSUs can be carried forward||Days before the deadline ends for Air India's financial bids, the government on Friday clarified that the past losses of such PSUs can be carried forward to be set off against future profits. Tax analysts said the rule change will make Air India more attractive to bidders. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) issued the clarification regarding the carry-forward of losses in case of a change in shareholding because of strategic disinvestment. The relaxation, it added, will cease to apply from the previous year in which the company, that was the ultimate holding company of such erstwhile public sector company immediately after completion of the strategic disinvestment, ceases to hold 51 per cent of the voting power of the erstwhile company. “It may be noted that such relaxation will be available, only till the strategic investor retains at least 51 per cent in the PSU after it takes over. In case the strategic investor’s shareholding falls below 51 per cent, such relaxation will be withdrawn,” Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP, said. At present such losses must be set forward within eight years. The government has said it will stick to the September 15 deadline for the financial bids for Air India. The CBDT said that Section 79 of the Income Tax Act shall not apply to an erstwhile public sector company which has become so as a result of strategic disinvestment. “Accordingly, loss incurred in any previous year prior to, and including, the previous year of strategic disinvestment shall be carried forward and set off by the erstwhile public sector company,” the CBDT said. Section 79 of the Income Tax Act deals with carry forward and set off of losses in case of companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Amit Mitra writes to Sitharaman on distress in unorganised sector||A day after the Modi government expressed confidence in the economic recovery, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra shot off a letter to Nirmala Sitharaman, calling out the Union finance minister for failing to prevent the widespread distress in the unorganised sector and in the lives of the common man. “Your supply side policies have utterly failed,” Mitra wrote to Sitharaman, asking her to correct course and stimulate demand by putting money in the hands of the people, a policy being followed in Bengal under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. Mitra pointed out that the Modi government’s policy to incentivise banks to lend and corporate tax cuts have failed to spur investment as businesses are unwilling to take a bet because of lack of demand. He listed five parameters to demonstrate that the economy continues to be weak despite the chest thumping 20 per cent growth seen in the first quarter of this year. Quoting government of India data, Mitra pointed out that the unemployment rate has shot up to 8.32 per cent, which implies 3.6 crore people are jobless today. He linked it to the distress in the unorganised sector which contributes 60 per cent of the workers in manufacturing. As there is no work, these workforce are returning back to their rural base leading to a reverse migration. GoI’s periodic labour force survey showed that those who would be lucky to get a job in their village as casual farm labourer are likely to earn half of what they got at the factories. While income is on a downward slide, expenditure is on the rise because of spiralling inflation. Mitra noted that the wholesale price index and consumer price index at 12.3 per cent and 6.06 per cent, respectively, are eating into the meagre income of the common man. It is no surprise, Mitra argued, that private consumption has collapsed and the consumer sentiment has fallen significantly. Private consumption, which is 56 per cent of GDP, has fallen 12 per cent below the pre-pandemic levels of 2019-20 and it is on a par with 2017-18. Consumer sentiment is also progressively falling. The RBI’s current situation index fell to 48.5 per cent in May from 53.1 per cent in March. “The informal sector has collapsed. Large corporations are not investing the surplus generated from the tax cuts. Banks have nobody to lend. We cannot come out of this rut by swamping supply side with cash. We have to boost demand by providing money in the hands of the people. The GoI is just not listening,” Mitra said this evening. Gross fixed capital formation, a proxy for investment, has fallen by Rs 2.1 lakh crore in Q1 to Rs 10.2 lakh crore from Rs 12.3 lakh crore in the Q1 of 2019-20. Mitra argued that Bengal managed to post a positive GDP growth of about 1 per cent in 2020-21 due to its policy. About 85 per cent of planned expenditure of the state is going to schemes like Lakshmi Bhander, which offer money directly to people. “Marginal propensity to consume in this economic segment is 99 per cent, which means the money is coming back to the system, creating demand and spurring economic activities,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||India||Centre to SC: Guidelines issued for 'official document' for Covid deaths by health ministry, ICMR||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that the health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have come out with guidelines for issuing "official document" for Covid-related deaths.  In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Centre also submitted that the Office of the Registrar General of India on September 3 had issued a circular to provide a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death to the next of kin of the deceased.  "It is submitted that the guidelines and circular have been issued in respectful compliance of the judgment dated June 30, 2021, in the Reepak Kansal v. Union of India and others, W.P.(C) No. 554 of 2021 and Gaurav Kumar Bansal v. Union of India and others, W.P.(C) No. 539 of 2021," the court said.  According to the guidelines, those COVID-19 cases would be considered which have been diagnosed through RT-PCR test, molecular test, rapid-antigen test or clinically determined through investigations at a hospital or in-patient facility by a treating physician, while admitted at the hospital or in-patient facility.  Deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide and deaths due to accident, among others, will not be considered as COVID-19 deaths even if COVID- 19 is an accompanying condition, the guidelines stated.  "COVID-19 cases which are not resolved and have died either in hospital settings or at home, and where a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) in Form 4 and 4 A has been issued to the registering authority as required under Section 10 of the Registration of Birth and Death (RBD) Act, 1969, will be treated as a COVID-19 death, according to the guidelines.  The Registrar General of India will issue necessary guidelines to chief registrars of all states and union territories in this regard.  According to an ICMR study, 95 per cent of deaths take place within 25 days of a person testing COVID-19 positive, it was mentioned in the guidelines.  "To make the scope broader and more inclusive, deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a COVID-19 case, will be treated as 'deaths due to COVID-19, even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility," the guidelines stated.  However, a COVID-19 patient, while admitted at a hospital or in-patient facility, and who continued as the same admission beyond 30 days, and died subsequently, shall be treated as a COVID-19 death, according to the guidelines.  The guidelines state that in cases where the MCCD is not available or the next of kin of the deceased is not satisfied with the cause of death given in the MCCD and which are not covered by the aforesaid scenarios, states and union territories shall notify a committee at the district level.  The committee would consist of an additional district collector, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), an additional CMOH/ principal or head of department of medicine of a medical college (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert, for issuing of the "Official Document for COVID-19 Death", the guidelines said.  The guidelines also enumerate the procedure to be followed by the committee.  The next of kin of the deceased shall submit a petition to the district collector for issuing of the document, it said.  "The Official Document for COVID-19 Death will be issued in the format annexed to these guidelines by the aforesaid district-level committee after due examination and verification of all facts. The Official Document for COVID-19 death shall also be communicated to chief registrars of states/UTs and Registrar of Birth and Death, who issued the death certificates," one of the guidelines said.  The committee will also examine the grievances of the next of kin of the deceased, and propose necessary remedial measures, including issuance of amended "Official Document for COVID-19 Death" after verifying facts in accordance with these guidelines.  The applications for issuing the document and for redressal of grievances shall be disposed off within 30 days of submission of the application/ grievance.  In its June 30 verdict, the top court had also ordered steps to simplify guidelines for issuance and correction of death certificates/official documents, stating the exact cause of death, that is, 'Death due to COVID-19' for enabling dependents to get benefits of welfare schemes.  The top court's verdict had come on two separate pleas filed by lawyers Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation to the families of coronavirus victims as provisioned under the Act.  Four intervenors, who had lost their family members due to COVID have also moved the top court through advocate Sumeer Sodhi contending that there cannot be any discrimination in the amounts being paid by different states to family members of those, who had succumbed to the deadly infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Kozhikode plane crash: Report finds negligence on pilot's part||The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) on Saturday released its probe report into the plane crash at Kozhikode airport in August last year that killed at least 20 people and injured several others. The probable cause of the accident was non-adherence to the standard operating procedure by the pilot flying the aircraft but the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked, the 257-page report said. The crash of Air India Express's B737-800 aircraft happened on August 7 at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala. The plane coming from Dubai had overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport and later broke into pieces. There were 190 people onboard the ill-fated aircraft and at least 20 people, including the two pilots, were killed and several others were injured. The report, released little over a year after the deadly crash of the Air India Express plane, said the "probable cause of the accident was the non-adherence to SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) by the PF (Pilot Flying)". The PF continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, "half way down the runway, in spite of 'Go Around' call by PM which warranted a mandatory 'Go Around' and the failure of the PM to take over controls and execute a 'Go Around'", it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Afghanistan among key issues discussed in India-Australia 2+2 dialogue||India and Australia on Saturday asserted that Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner for terrorism and it should never again become a safe haven for "breeding and training" of terrorists, as the two countries held a detailed discussion on the situation in the war-torn country after its takeover by the Taliban.  At the inaugural India-Australia two-plus-two dialogue, the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries also vowed to work towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, a region that has been witnessing increasing Chinese assertiveness.  With the dialogue coinciding with the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks that led to the US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, both sides strongly called for combating terrorism without any compromise.  External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held extensive in-person talks with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton.  Noting that Afghanistan was a "major subject of discussion", Jaishankar said,"we had a very detailed exchange of views and our approach is very similar in a way it is summed up by the UN Security Council Resolution 2593 which emphasises most of all that Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner by anybody for terrorism."  Addressing a joint media briefing along with other ministers, the external affairs minister said there were also concerns relating to the composition of the interim Taliban cabinet as well as about the treatment of women and minorities.  "But apart from that (terrorism), there were issues of concerns about the inclusiveness of the dispensation, concerns about the treatment of women and minorities, matters related to travel of Afghans, issues relating to humanitarian assistance. It is an evolving situation and it was a good exchange of notes," he said.  Jaishankar said both sides agreed that the international community must be united in its approach, guided by UNSC Resolution 2593.  The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter and train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks.  "Today is the 20th anniversary of 9/11. It is a reminder- if one is still needed- of the importance of combating terrorism without compromise," he said.  "Close as we are to its epicentre, let us appreciate the value of international cooperation," he said, apparently referring to Pakistan with India often describing it as the "epicentre" of terrorism. However, he did not mention any country by name.  On her part, Payne said Australia shares a very strong interest in ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a "safe haven for breeding or training of terrorists", noting that it is an abiding concern of the international community.  "Along with the ongoing fight of terrorism, the future of Afghanistan remains a central concern to both of us," she said.  "Both of our countries have been victims of appaling terrorist attacks and this day, the 11th of September will be forever remembered for those terrible events 20 years ago when terrorism struck at the heart of our friend the United States, and by extension also a modern pluralist and democratic world," Payne said.  "It is fitting that minister Dutton and I should be here on this anniversary with such an important democratic partner," she added.  About the situation in Afghanistan, Payne said Australia is very much focused on seeking safe passage for Afghan citizens, foreign nationals and visa holders of other nations who want to leave that country.  "We have urged that they be allowed to leave safely. We are very conscious about the impact of violence and breaches of human rights of the Afghan community and would call for fundamental human rights to be observed," she said.  During the talks, the two sides also deliberated on the situation in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea, ways to further deepen bilateral defence and trade cooperation and to effectively deal with the challenges of coronavirus pandemic.  Jaishankar said the 'two-plus-two' dialogue reflected the comfort that India and Australia have attained in the bilateral relationship, especially in strategic and security spheres, based on the growing convergence based on a shared commitment for a free, open, prosperous and rules-based Indo-Pacific region.  "The peaceful development of the Indo-Pacific region has been a focus of our relationship. Our two countries believe that it should be shaped in a participative and collaborative manner," he said.  Jaishankar said both sides reiterated their commitment to continue to work together for peace, stability and prosperity of all countries in the region.  "This would include a rules-based international order, freedom of navigation in international waters, promoting connectivity as well as respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states," he said.  Jaishankar said the importance of ongoing cooperation in the multilateral arena for preserving the rules-based international order was also emphasised.  In his comments, Singh said both sides discussed various institutional frameworks for wide-ranging collaboration including defence cooperation and the fight against the global pandemic.  "During the discussions, both sides emphasised the need to ensure free flow of trade, adherence to international rules and norms and sustainable economic growth in the entire region," he said.  "On the bilateral defence cooperation we decided to expand military engagements across services, facilitate greater defence information sharing and to work closely for mutual logistic support," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Courts operate from ‘dilapidated structures’, says CJI||Courts in India still operate from "dilapidated structures, without proper facilities" as good infrastructure for judiciary has been neglected after the British left, rued Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday. To address this issue, he championed the cause for setting up of National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC). He also talked about the 1975 verdict of Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha of the Allahabad High Court of disqualifying then prime minister Indira Gandhi on charges of electoral malpractices was a judgment of "great courage" that "shook" the nation, leading to imposition of Emergency. "In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Smt. Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency. The consequences of which I do not want to elaborate now," Justice Ramana said. The CJI, who along with President Ram Nath Kovind took part in programmes including the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University in Allahabad and a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court here, stressed the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure in the country. “Courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, without proper facilities. Such a situation is severely detrimental to the experience of litigants and lawyers. It is an unpleasant work environment for court staff and judges, making it difficult to effectively perform their functions. We neglected and failed to focus on providing good infrastructure for courts in India after the British left,” Justice Ramana said. The head of the judiciary, who spoke few lines in Hindi at the start of his speech, said the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure cannot be overstated. “That is the reason why I am championing the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC), which will develop concepts of the National Court Development Project and its implementation. The NJIC shall be along the lines of different infrastructure development statutory bodies that work towards creating National Assets across the country. One of the design principles that the NJIC will follow, is socially responsible and inclusive architecture,” he said. “Sufficient judicial infrastructure can help improve access to justice, by catering to the ever-rising number of cases and litigants, and their changing needs,” he said. Hinting towards the “very worrying numbers” of pending criminal cases in Allahabad High Court, the CJI referred to the proposed construction of the new multi-level parking and advocates chambers complex and said this would re-energise bar and bench in tackling the huge pendency. “I hope that this new complex will re-energise the Allahabad Bar. I do not want to point any fingers or lay any blame regarding the pendency in the Allahabad High Court relating to criminal cases, which is very worrying. I request the Allahabad Bar and bench, to work together and cooperate to resolve this issue,” he said. The CJI lauded the efforts of President Kovind for his role in helping the cause of poor litigants and said, “It was his idea to translate the judgments of the Supreme Court to vernacular languages to increase access to justice, which has now been implemented.” At the outset, the CJI referred to the rich history of the city and said that this was the home to legendary freedom fighters and gave prime ministers and five chief justices to independent India. “In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency. The consequences of which I do not want to elaborate now,” he said. The CJI also unveiled the portrait of legendary late advocate Anand Bhushan Saran, the father of sitting Supreme Court judge Vineet Saran and termed him as ‘one of the best and most respected senior advocates from Allahabad’ who was well known for his wit and intellect, and for his ability to come up with practical solutions on the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya, Nitin Patel among frontrunners as next CM after Rupani's resignation||Names of Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel, state agriculture minister R C Faldu and Union ministers Purshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya are doing rounds amid speculation over who will succeed Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister.  Rupani resigned as CM on Saturday, over a year ahead of Assembly elections in the state, without assigning any specific reason.  "Names of Patel, Faldu, Rupala and Mandaviya are being discussed. But it is impossible to say who will be the chief minister as the decision will be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a party leader said.  When Anandiben Patel resigned as chief minister in August 2016, there was talk that Patel would succeed her, but in a last-minute decision, Rupani was chosen for the top post.  The demand to make Nitin Patel chief minister began to trend on social media after Rupani's resignation.  Union health minister Mandaviya, who like Patel belongs to the influential Patidar community, is also considered a front-runner. Leaders of the community had demanded recently that the next chief minister should be a Patidar.  State BJP president C R Paatil, who originally hails from Maharashtra, is unlikely to be considered for the CM's post, sources said.  The BJP had replaced Anandiben Patel a year before Assembly polls were due. It has now done the same with Rupani and his successor may lead the party in the December 2022 state elections, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Dangerous trend of govt agencies intimidating independent media must stop: Editors Guild of India||Expressing concern over the Income Tax 'surveys' conducted at the offices of two news websites, the Editors Guild of India on Saturday criticised the move saying the "dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating" independent media must stop as it undermines the constitutional democracy. On September 10, teams of IT officials visited the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry and conducted investigations through the day, the body noted. The Guild said it is deeply disturbed about the I-T 'surveys' at the offices of the two news websites. "The guild is deeply concerned that such indiscriminate seizure of journalists' data, which could include sensitive information such as details of sources, stories under works and other journalistic data, is in violation of free speech and freedom of press," it said in an official statement. While they were officially labelled as surveys by the I-T officials, according to the statement issued by Abhinandan Sekhri, co-founder of Newslaundry, this was a clear intermediately and latent attack on their rights and therefore press freedom, the EGI said. "It is learnt that the I-T team made clones of Sekhri's mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines, And no hash value was given to them. "This is clearly beyond the mandate of service as defined under section 133 A of the income tax act which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional date of journalists. It is also in violation of procedures laid out in the Information Technology Act 2000," it said. This was the second visit by an income tax team at the office of Newslaundry, the earlier one being in June. In case of NewsClick, the Enforcement Directorate had conducted raids at the office as well as homes of their senior journalists and officials in February. "Both NewsClick and Newslaundry have been critical of policies and functioning of the union government," the EGI said. "The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy," it said, adding that in July, income tax raids were conducted at the offices of the country's leading newspaper Dainik Bhaskar as well as a Lucknow-based news channel Bharat Samachar. These raids were conducted against the backdrop of some very critical coverage by both the news organisations on government's handling of the pandemic. "The Guild demands that great care and sensitivity be shown in all such investigations so as to not undermine the rights of journalists and media organisations. Further, to ensure that such investigations are conducted within the prescribed rules and that they don't degenerate into instruments of harassment to intimidate independent media," the EGI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||India, Australia dismiss criticism on Quad being 'Asian NATO'||India and Australia on Saturday dismissed criticism that Quad was a sort of an 'Asian NATO' with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar asserting that it is important not to "misrepresent" the reality. The assertion came at a joint press event after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the inaugural 'two-plus-two' dialogue here with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. Asked about Quad being referred to as an 'Asian NATO', Jaishankar said,"we call ourselves Quad and Quad is a platform where four countries have come to cooperate for their benefit and for the benefit of the world." "I think a term like NATO is very much a cold war term, looking back. I think Quad looks in the future, it reflects globalisation, it reflects the compulsions of countries to work together," he said. Jaishankar also pointed out that Quad was currently focussed on issues such as vaccines, supply chains, education and connectivity. "I can't see any relationship between such issues and the NATO or any other kind of organisations like that. So I think it is important not to misrepresent what is the reality out there," he asserted. Echoing similar views, Payne said as Australia and India have re-energised relations, there is also the opportunity to work through smaller groups like the Quad and other pieces of regional architecture like the East Asia Summit or the ASEAN regional forum. "Quad members are champions of ASEAN centrality, we actively engage in that ASEAN architecture. We are committed to supporting the practical implementation of the ASEAN outlook on the Indo-Pacific," she said. "We also say that we have a positive and practical agenda -- around vaccines, around climate, around critical technology also trying to address some of the dangerous misinformation that pervades the world experience in relation to the (Covid) pandemic," the minister said. Referring to the Quad, she said the constructive engagement in a normal diplomatic network was overwhelmingly about contributing positively for that "open, inclusive and resilient region in which we all want to live". Speaking at an event here, Payne on Friday had said the Quad has evolved "swiftly" and very "effectively" and that Australia commends India for taking a strong leadership role in the region. In the first Quad summit in March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion, in an apparent message to China. Both China and Russia have been critical of Quad. While Beijing has been claiming that the alliance was aimed against it, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had called it an "Asian NATO" and criticised the grouping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Congress gears up for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls as Priyanka Gandhi holds talks||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a review meeting with party leaders here on Saturday during which discussions were held on several issues, including the farmers' protest over the three agri laws. In a statement, the party said deliberations were held on the poll strategy for western UP and Gandhi sought reports from every village. The farmers' protest over the three agri laws also came up for discussions, the statement said. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states had gathered at Muzaffarnagar on Sunday for a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat', months ahead of the crucial UP assembly polls. The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar to protest the Centre's three farm laws. In another meeting held for state's Ruhelkhand zone, Gandhi said a strong organisation is needed not only for the party but also for nation building. She also urged the party workers to work for 24 hours during the elections. On Friday, the Congress decided to take out a 12,000 km-long yatra through villages and towns of Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly polls next year. The decision to take out the "Congress Pratigya Yatra:Hum Vachan Nibhayenge" was taken at a meeting presided over by Gandhi, and attended by members of the party's advisory and strategy committee here, the Congress had said in a statement. Priyanka had arrived here on Thursday to review the party's preparations in the run up to the polls. The yatra will draw attention of people to issues of corruption, inflation, crime, violence against women, unemployment and poor health services, the party said on Friday. During the yatra, Congress leaders will assure people that they will fulfil promises made by the party in the run up to the polls. Gandhi held discussions about routes and issues that will be taken up during the yatra, the party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Delhi rains: 40 passengers rescued from bus trapped in waterlogged underpass||The Delhi Fire Services on Saturday rescued 40 passengers of a private bus which was trapped at a waterlogged underpass here following heavy rains on Saturday morning, officials said. The passengers included women and children. The bus was going to Mathura and got stuck at the underpass of Palam flyover, officials said. The DFS received a call seeking assistance at 11.30 am after which two fire tenders were pressed into service, they said. Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Services said, "A bus with passengers onboard got trapped at an underpass of the Palam flyover due to waterlogging. Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and all the passengers were rescued safely." Heavy rains lashed the national capital Saturday morning, leaving many parts of the city waterlogged. According to civic agencies, several areas in the city, including Moti Bagh, RK Puram, Madhu Vihar, Hari Nagar, Rohtak Road, Badarpur, Som Vihar, Ring Road near IP Station, Vikas Marg, Sangam Vihar, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Munirka, Rajpur Khurd, Nangloi and Kirari, witnessed waterlogging. People posted pictures and videos of waterlogged streets on social media. The Delhi Traffic Police also posted tweets informing people about the stretches where they are expected to witness waterlogging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||India's economy recovered stronger than the impact it faced amid Covid-19, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India's economy recovered more strongly as compared to the impact it suffered due to the Covid-19 outbreak. He said that when big economies of the world were busy defending themselves during the pandemic, India was engaged in reforms. "Covid-19 affected the economies of the entire world, including that of India. But our economy has recovered more strongly than it was halted by the pandemic," Modi said while virtually addressing a gathering after inaugurating Sardhardham Bhavan here, a complex for providing training to job aspirants. "When big economies of the world were busy defending themselves during the pandemic, we were carrying out reforms. When the global supply chains were disrupted, we introduced the PLI (production-linked incentive) scheme to turn new opportunities in favour of India," Modi said. This scheme has been extended to the textile sector now, he said, adding that the textile sector and cities like Surat can take maximum benefit of the scheme. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday, India's economic growth surged to 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter of this fiscal, helped by a low base of the year-ago period, despite a devastating second wave of Covid-19. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 24.4 per cent in the corresponding April-June quarter of 2020-21. The PLI scheme announced for 10 key sectors, including textile and automobiles by the Centre, is aimed at helping the country's economy recover faster after the pandemic. "We should look upon ourselves as global economic leader as in the 21st century, India does not have a scarcity of opportunities to make it big," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani resigns from office||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday resigned from the post, over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December next year. Rupani (65) was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM -- in December 2017. "I have resigned as chief minister of Gujarat, Rupani told reporters after meeting Governor Acharya Devvrat and submitting his resignation letter. "I was allowed to serve the state for five years. I have contributed to the development of the state. I will further do whatever is asked by my party, Rupani said. In BJP, there has been a tradition that responsibilities of party workers change from time to time. I will be ready to take whatever responsibility that the party will give me in the future, Rupani said. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving a common worker like me this opportunity to serve the people of the state as chief minister, Rupani said. Rupani along with state BJP in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, Union ministers Purshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya, and state cabinet colleagues deputy CM Nitin Patel, Bhupndrasinh Chudasama and Pradeepsinh Jadeja met the governor and submitted their resignations. Asked about reasons for his resignation, Rupani said, In BJP, it is like a relay race for party workers. One gives the baton to the other. On who will be the next chief minister, Rupani said that the party will decide about it. He denied that he had any differences with state BJP president C R Paatil. Rupani comes from the Jain community which has around two per cent population in the state. There is speculation that his successor may be from the patidar community. He first became the chief minister on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly elections. Rupani, who completed five years in office on August 7 this year, was present at the inauguration on Saturday of Sardardham Bhavan where Modi was present virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Mumbai woman, raped and brutally assaulted with iron rod, dies during treatment||A 34-year-old woman, who was raped and brutally assaulted with an iron rod in her private parts at suburban Sakinaka here, died during treatment at a civic-run hospital early on Saturday, police said. The victim had suffered serious injuries in her private parts and there was a severe loss of blood in the incident. She was fighting for life at the Rajawadi Hospital since the early hours of Friday, an official said. He said that after raping the woman and brutally assaulting her with the rod, the accused had also attacked her with a knife. The incident had come to light in the early hours on Friday when police received a call about a man thrashing a woman at Khairani Road in Sakinaka, he said. Police had rushed to the spot, where they found the woman lying in a pool of blood, following which she was admitted to the Rajawadi Hospital, he said. "During the investigation, it came to light that the woman was raped and brutally assaulted with an iron rod on her body and private parts inside a tempo parked by the roadside," he said, adding that the police also had found bloodstains on the tempo. While analysing the CCTV footages of the area, police had zeroed on a suspect as he was found in the video leaving the tempo, he said. Police later arrested Mohan Chouhan (45) and an offence was registered against him, he said. The BJP in Maharashtra sought capital punishment for the accused involved in the incident, and also hit out at the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the issue of women's safety. Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, said, "The Sakinaka woman rape case should be tried in a fast-track court so that the accused gets punishment at the earliest. Maharashtra Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray) should meet the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court and request him to hold the trial in the case in a fast-track court." "I know that awarding a sentence is in the hands of the judiciary. But I feel the culprit in the Sakinaka rape should be hanged to death," he said. The Sakinaka incident was an unfortunate reminder of the Delhi rape case, he said, adding that attacks on women was a matter of concern. Fadnavis was referring to the 2012 case in which a young woman - later referred to as 'Nirbhaya' - was brutally gang-raped and assaulted inside a moving bus in Delhi. Asked about the proposed Shakti Act, he said, "Existing laws are sufficient to take tough actions against the culprits. It is the will power of the state to take tough decisions and follow it up till the logical end." Talking to reporters, Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, blamed the state government for the incident. "The onus of this incident is entirely on the state government because there is no respect left for the law (for criminals). It is horrible to know the kind of pain that she had to go through. I am deeply anguished by her death...I can not describe my feelings in words. It is not only shameful, but it has made me angry. The state needs to take some action," he said. "If BJP says anything on this, then it might be alleged that we are politicising the issue of crimes against women, but the number of such incidents are self-explanatory. Several such incidents have occurred in different parts of Maharashtra, wherein women were assaulted. In a couple of incidents, minor girls were raped, but the state government does not seem to be serious about it," he said. Darekar said, When I reached Rajawadi Hospital (where the Sakinaka rape victim was admitted) to see the situation, I spotted Congress leader Naseem Khan there with his party workers. I was shocked to see Congress workers raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the premises of the hospital." The BJP is being accused of politicising the incident, but it is the Congress indulging in such practice, he alleged. State BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh called for formulation of a new act on the lines of SC/ST Atrocities Act so that the culprits involved in atrocities against women do not get bail easily. "There are experts, lawyers and state judiciary department who need to come up with better measures that would work as deterrents," she said. She also asked Maharashtra Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur why she has not appointed anyone on the post of the chairperson of the state women's commission for over a year. "I am told that the file to appoint chairperson on State Women's commission has been sent back eight times by chief minister and deputy chief minister. How is this government going to defend it?" she asked. Wagh said Thakur was now pointing fingers at similar assaults on women that had occurred in the past. "But Thakur should not forget that she is a cabinet minister. She cannot escape from our questions on women's safety. She should tell us the reasons behind not appointing a chairman on the state women's commission. Why so much delay, when the commission's primary duty is to address women's issues," she said. It appears that the Sakinata rape case is just a number for the MVA government, Wagh alleged. Meanwhile, talking to reporters, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, a Shiv Sena leader, said, "I cannot imagine why some men act so cruelly. I have been told that the police are gathering all the details of the incident and collecting evidence. It will take some time, but the truth will come out."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Delhi airport forecourt waterlogged briefly after heavy rains||The forecourt of the Delhi airport was waterlogged for a "short period" Saturday morning after sudden heavy rains, its operator DIAL said. Sources said five flights were diverted from the airport this morning due to the bad weather conditions. Four domestic flights -- two of SpiceJet and one each of IndiGo and Go First -- were diverted to Jaipur. One international flight -- Emirates flight from Dubai to Delhi -- was diverted to Ahmedabad, the sources mentioned. Waterlogging was reported from several parts of the national capital including Moti Bagh and RK Puram in south Delhi after rains lashed the city Saturday morning. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Twitter that "due to sudden heavy rain, for a short period, there was waterlogging at the forecourt". "Our team was immediately aligned to look into it and the issue has been resolved," it added. Operations have been back to normal since 9 am, the DIAL mentioned. An official of the meteorological department said the national capital received 97 mm rainfall since Friday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Probe into last year's violence on JNU campus delayed due to Covid, says VC||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the coronavirus pandemic has delayed the probe into the violence on the campus in January last year that left around 35 people injured. Asked why the committee set up by the university to probe the incident did not conduct online depositions, he said the students are already under a lot of stress and it is not the right time to send them notices for online depositions. A group of masked men armed with sticks and rods attacked students and teachers and damaged property on the JNU campus on January 5, 2020, prompting the university administration to call in the police. JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh was among those injured in the violence. Days after the incident, JNU set up a five-member committee to probe the incident and recommend measures to ensure the safety of students. "The committee is looking into the matter. It has to call the students for deposition. Is it the right time to call them when they are in their hometowns? For this, we need to see the condition. These are our students. Considering the Covid situation, depositions have not been conducted. We are waiting for the situation to normalise," Kumar told PTI on Friday. Asked why the committee did not conduct online depositions, the VC said, "The situation is not conducive. We are waiting. Students are already under a lot of stress. It is not the right time to send them notices for participating in an online deposition. We don't consider our students as criminals. They are our own students." In August this year, the Lok Sabha was informed by Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai that the Delhi Police had not arrested anyone in connection with the JNU violence, even though several people were examined. After the violence, there was a clamour for Kumar's removal as the JNU VC and the Delhi Police came under attack for not acting when the mob was running riot on the campus and especially, for naming student union leaders, including Ghosh, in two FIRs for alleged vandalism. On the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers' Association's (JNUTA) objection to the renewal of the contract of security agency Cyclops for another two years by the university's Executive Council (EC), Kumar said the contract had not been renewed but extended till the process of appointing a new agency is completed. "If you want to appoint a security agency, then you have to follow the tendering process and the General Financial Rules laid down by the government. During this Covid period, many of our staff members were down (with coronavirus). You cannot suddenly ask the security people to pack their bags and leave and put the security of the campus at risk," he said. "The EC took a decision that the security company will continue," he said. The VC stressed that the contract hasn't been renewed but only extended till the process of appointing a new security agency is completed. This process will require at least six months, he said. In a statement issued on September 9, the JNUTA had said that the EC had renewed the security contract of Cyclops for another two years despite its failure to prevent the violent attack on students and faculty members on January 5, 2020 and the spate of burglaries on campus during the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||9/11 to be remembered as an attack to humanity, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the world has now realised that a permanent solution to tragedies, like the 9/11 terror attack, would be found through India's human values. He said that 9/11 is a date that is remembered for the attack on humanity and it has taught many things to the world. Modi was speaking after inaugurating via video conference the Sardardham Bhavan complex in Ahmedabad, where job aspirants and students would be given training. He also performed the bhoomi pujan of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya, a girls' hostel. "Today is September 11, that is 9/11, a date in the history of the world that is also known for attacks on humanity. But this same date also taught a lot to the whole world," he said. It was on September 11, 1893, when on the occasion of the Parliament of the World's Religions held in Chicago, Swami Vivekananda stood on the global stage and introduced to the world the human values of India, he said. "Today, the world is realising that the lasting solution to tragedies like two decades-old 9/11 will be (found) through these values of humanity. Also, if we need to remember lessons learnt from these terrorist attacks, then we also need to keep making efforts for human values with full faith," Modi added. Modi announced setting up a chair for Tamil studies dedicated to Tamil poet Subramania Bharati on the occasion of his death anniversary. The chair will be set up in the Faculty of Arts of Banaras Hindu University, he said. "Today is the 100th death anniversary of India's great scholar, philosopher and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati. The vision of 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' that Sardar (Patel) saheb carried, the same philosophy has been shining with full divinity in the Tamil writings of Mahakavi Bharati," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||IT survey an attempt to stifle independent media, says NewsClick||Online news platform Newslaundry on Saturday said it does business "honestly and with integrity" while another such portal Newsclick said investigation against it by various agencies including the latest Income Tax Department survey is an attempt to "stifle" independent journalism. The tax department surveyed the office of Newslaundry located at Sarvodaya Enclave in south Delhi on Friday along with that of Newsclick in Saidulajab area (south Delhi) on charges of alleged tax evasion. "We have nothing to hide and have done everything by the book and are not in any breach or violation of any law. We conduct our business honestly and with integrity," Newslaundry co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri said in a message posted on his Twitter handle. He said the tax team told him he "cannot" speak to his lawyer and the law requires him to comply "without seeking legal advice" adding that the officials were courteous and professional. He said "no signed hash value of the data copied" was provided to him and that he considered this as violation of his fundamental right to privacy. A hash value is a numeric value that uniquely identifies data. Hash values represent large amounts of data as much smaller numeric values, so they are used with digital signatures. Sekhri said the tax team comprising 6-7 people arrived at their office around 12.15 pm and left around 12.40 am on Saturday. "They searched and looked through all computer devices at the premises. My personal mobile phone, laptop and a couple of office machines were taken control of and all the data on them downloaded by the IT team," he said. Sekhri said this was the second visit by the tax authorities to his office, the first being in June, and they had given "all documents related to our funding and accounts" to the officials then. "We will cooperate in whatever way we are required to by the law. We will also continue to practice public interest journalism which is why we exist," he said. Our support comes from people who value public interest news and chose to subscribe to Newslaundry, not through government or corporate advertisements or public relation exercises, Sekhri said, adding that the online portal is proud of the model it has chosen and championed. Tax officials had said that separate survey operations on the two news portals were conducted to verify certain tax payment details and remittances made by the organisations. As part of a survey operation, carried out under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, they are authorised to seize documents, computer and electronic devices as part of the surprise action. Newsclick said the tax team "recorded the statement of its Editor-in-Chief Prabir Purkayastha; impounded his phone; and took away documents what they called loose papers from the premises". "They also took email dumps of Prabir, editor Pranjal, and various administrative and financial accounts related to Newsclick," it said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. Around 30 employees and support staff of Newsclick were in the office throughout the survey and their phones were temporarily seized, and they were not allowed to use their computers and work, it said. Newsclick said the latest action against them "appears to relate to the same false and unfounded allegations being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi Police. We have these allegations challenged in the courts". "These investigations by various agencies, and these selective allegations, are attempts to stifle the independent journalism of media organisations including Newsclick," it said. Tax officials who reached the Newsclick office around noon on Friday left at midnight. Newsclick, Purkayastha and other executives were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) earlier in February under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and that investigation is linked to alleged dubious foreign funding received by its registered company, which runs the news portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Karnal standoff ends: farmers call off sit-in||The Haryana government on Saturday ordered a judicial probe into last month's clash between farmers and police and sent the IAS officer who is at the centre of a row over his remarks on leave. Following this, farmers called off their sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters. Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh said the probe will be conducted by a retired judge and will be completed within a month. Former SDM Ayush Sinha will remain on leave during the time, he said. A joint press conference by Haryana government officials and farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni was held in Karnal after both sides reached an agreement, leading to the ending of the stand-off. There was an indication of a possible ending of the impasse between the farmers and the Karnal administration on Friday evening itself as after a marathon meeting both sides had said that it was held in a cordial atmosphere. At the joint press conference, farmer leader Chaduni said they will call off their sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters. About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police in Karnal on August 28 when they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break the heads" of farmers if they cross the line. Following the incident, farmers had been demanding the suspension of Sinha. On September 2, he was transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department. Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh on Saturday said the meeting between farmer leaders and the government officials was held in a positive atmosphere. He said the Haryana government will get a judicial probe conducted into the August 28 incident by a retired judge of the high court. The probe will be completed within a month and Sinha will remain on leave during the time, Singh added. The additional chief secretary also announced that jobs would be given to two family members of a farmer, who, the protesters claimed, died after being injured during the lathi charge. The administration had earlier rejected this allegation. "The Haryana government will give jobs to two family members of deceased farmer Satish Kajal under sanctioned posts at DC rate in Karnal," Singh announced. Dubbing the farmers as "our brothers", he said it was a "respectable agreement". About former SDM Sinha, farmer leader Chudani said farmers had demanded that an FIR be registered against him and the police personnel involved in the August 28 incident. However, advocated opined that there could be chances of cancellation or quashing of an FIR by the high court if the administration registers it, he said. "But if the FIR is registered after a retired judge of the high court held an inquiry, there is neither any chance of its cancellation nor of influencing the probe." Chaduni further said that they had demanded jobs for two family members of the deceased farmer Satish Kajal and the administration accepted it. He said the deceased farmer's kin would get the jobs within a week. On Thursday, Home Minister Anil Vij said the government was ready for a probe into last month's clash but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they were found to be at fault. He had offered an "impartial" inquiry into the "entire Karnal episode". The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks. A mahapanchayat was held in the city and then the dharna began on Tuesday evening after an earlier round of talks between district officials and the farm leaders "failed".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with Australian counterpart Payne||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday held talks with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne ahead of the inaugural 'two-plus-two ministerial dialogue between the two countries. It is learnt that the developments in Afghanistan and ways to further strengthen cooperation in the Indo-Pacific figured in the talks between the two foreign ministers. "Delighted to welcome my good friend FM @MarisePayne of Australia. We now start our discussions," Jaishankar tweeted. Payne and Australian Defence Minister Peter Dutton arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit primarily to take part in the inaugural two-plus-two ministerial dialogue on Saturday. The Indian delegation at the talks will be led by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Jaishankar. The two defence ministers on Friday discussed the fragile security situation in Afghanistan and their "common concerns" relating possible spread of terrorism from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. The defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Australian Navy was part of the recent Malabar naval exercise that also featured the navies of India, the US and Japan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||India logs over 33,000 fresh Covid cases, 308 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 33,376 coronavirus infections, taking the overall tally of cases to 3,32,08,330, while the number of active cases increased marginally since Friday to stand at 3,91,516, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll climbed to 4,42,317 with 308 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,91,516, comprising 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.49 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 870 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. On Friday, the country had recorded 3,90,646 active cases. Also, 15,92,135 tests were conducted Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,01,96,989. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the past 12 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.26 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the past 78 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 3,23,74,497, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, the data showed.\ The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide drive has crossed 73.05 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 308 new fatalities include 177 from Kerala, and 44 from Maharashtra. A total f 4,42,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,061 from Maharashtra, 37,472 from Karnataka, 35, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,864 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,303 from Kerala and 18,553 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Delhiites wake up to heavy rains||Heavy rains lashed Delhi early on Saturday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 24 degrees Celsius, an official of the meteorological department said. According to the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, the minimum temperature settled at 24 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal while relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 100 per cent. The city received 97 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, the Met department official said. The weatherman has predicted a generally cloudy sky with moderate rain and thundershowers for the day. There is also the possibility of heavy rain at isolated places across the city later in the day while the maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to settle around 31 degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded more than 100 mm of rainfall on two consecutive days at the start of the month -- 112.1 mm on September 1 and 117.7 mm on September 2. It has so far received 248.9 mm precipitation this month, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years. The string of rainy days gave 507.1 mm rainfall in Delhi, which was nearly 141 per cent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second-highest ever. On Friday, the maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal while the minimum temperature settled at 25.1 degrees Celsius, a point below the normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Modi greets people on Nuakhai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday greeted people on the occasion of Nuakhai, an agricultural festival celebrated especially in parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh. He lauded the outstanding efforts of farmers and their role in nation-building.  In a tweet, he said, "Nuakhai Juhar! Greetings to everyone on this auspicious occasion. On Nuakhai we laud the outstanding efforts of our industrious farmers and their role in nation-building. I pray for everyone's good health and well-being."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||I-T department  conducts 'survey' at NewsClick, Newslaundry offices||“Surveys” by the income-tax department that began around noon on Friday continued past midnight in the offices of two news websites deeply critical of the Centre. One of these was NewsClick, whose office and employees’ homes witnessed a five-day Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid in February on charges of money laundering related to a foreign investment. The other was Newslaundry, known for its brutally honest satire shows, Newsance and Tippani, which often lampoon pro-Centre channels. The survey at NewsClick ended around 12.15am on Saturday while it was continuing at Newslaundry. The two websites are among the founders of the Digipub News India Foundation, an association of online news outlets started last year that has challenged the Centre’s proposed regulations on online media this year. NewsClick’s 71-year-old editor-in-chief, Prabir Purkayastha, was kept incommunicado at the website’s office in Said-ul-Ajaib, south Delhi, despite a recent muscular spasm in his lower back that requires him to largely remain flat on his back. “For the last few days, he has been in pain and on medication for a muscular spasm over his lower spine. He is required to lie down flat on his back for it to heal,” author Githa Hariharan, who stays with Purkayastha, told The Telegraph. “Around noon, he got a call from a colleague that IT (income-tax) officials had come to the office. Prabir was lying on a hot pack then; yet he got up, bathed and left around 12.45pm.” Hariharan added: “Prabir was only allowed to talk to me on the landline once today for less than a minute. An IT officer came home with the NewsClick staffer to take Prabir’s mobile phone, which he had left at home to charge. I told him on the intercom that Prabir is in his 70s and has a back spasm. I sent the hot pack along with the phone.” After the survey ended, Purkayastha told The Telegraph: “The adrenaline seems to have helped with my back’s recovery.” He added that his mobile phone was impounded as the IT sleuths claimed that they were unable to download its data. Copies of hard disks of computers were taken, as well as two cartons of documents. “I was asked 40 questions, and made to sign on a notebook impounded that had doodles and some torn pages, so the IT department wouldn’t be held responsible for the torn pages.… The government machinery has a mind of its own. It is unfortunate that I was made to come to the office despite my back problem,” said Purkayastha, who was seen earlier in the evening sitting in a chair, with an orthopaedic support belt, inside the office. Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of income tax (media and technical policy), told this newspaper: “No searches; only surveys are going on…. I don’t know the specific details of this case but ordinarily, when a survey is on at anyone’s premises, the person concerned has to be there until the operation concludes.” She said the two publications were being investigated for unrelated cases of tax evasion, but did not reveal details. A “search” requires more documentation than a “survey” and can be carried out on private or professional premises of a tax assessee. A “survey” is carried out only at a commercial establishment. During a search or survey, an assessee is permitted to call a doctor but is normally not allowed to leave unless he or she needs hospitalisation. In the evening in the NewsClick office, with Purkayastha were editor Pranjal Pandey, Prasanth R, an editor of the Peoples Dispatch, a news website that functions from the same building, and about 20 others. Purkayastha and Pandey are also directors of the company that owns the premises. A NewsClick source said that income-tax officials had visited Hariharan three times during the day to collect electronic devices belonging to Purkayastha. NewsClick faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit filed by the Adani group. It is also being probed by Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and the ED. The ED’s case is based on an FIR registered by the EOW last year that accuses the firm of violating foreign direct investment (FDI) rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm, Worldwide Media Holdings LLC, in 2018. NewsClick has underlined that this investment was received before the FDI cap of 26 per cent was imposed on digital media in 2019. Purkayastha, a CPM member, was jailed during the Emergency. He suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. In July, income-tax sleuths had questioned him for five hours for alleged tax evasion on the same FDI. NewsClick is currently under the protection of Delhi High Court from coercive action by the ED and the Delhi police, and has asked the court to quash the cases. Last month, the high court questioned the police’s opposition to anticipatory bail despite a report from the Reserve Bank that the company had not violated the Foreign Exchange Management Act. The “survey” at Newslaundry’s office in Sarvodaya Enclave, south Delhi, began at 11.30am. Its CEO, Abhinandan Sekhri, was being kept inside without access to his mobile phone. A colleague of Sekhri told this newspaper: “We have complied with all rules and responded to any queries from IT…. This government survives on media control. Newslaundry has been challenging that very control, punching holes in the mainstream media narrative.” Both websites functioned through the day. Two women employees of NewsClick were allowed to leave after sunset as no women officials were part of the income-tax team. Congress spokesperson Shama Mohamed tweeted: “Income Tax officers visit the offices of news sites NewsClick & @newslaundry today, calling it a ‘survey’ & not ‘raids’. Call it by any name, this is nothing but an undisguised attempt to bully independent media! This is BJP’s governance by intimidation!” Trinamul MP Jawhar Sircar tweeted: “As his popularity sinks, Modi moves towards his Gujarat-2002 form — Unleashes Income Tax & Enforcement raids on NewsClick & Newslaundry — digital media critical of him. Who’s next?” Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani tweeted: “After raiding the VTV Gujarati office yesterday, a fierce critique of Rupani government’s anti-people policies, the Modi government has targeted News Laundry and News Click today. The intimidation tactics are back! What are you so afraid of Mr @narendramodi?” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had tweeted his protest when Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar faced income-tax raids in July, kept mum. He participated in a televised Ganesh puja promoted by his government as the “surveys” rolled on in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds axe on 38 employees of Bharat Coking Coal||The Supreme Court has upheld the dismissal of 38 employees of the public sector Bharat Coking Coal Ltd in Jharkhand for getting the jobs illegally 35 years ago in connivance with company officials although they were not enlisted with the state’s employment exchange. The court said “fraudulent practices cannot be countenanced” and such beneficiaries must be “prevented from enjoying the fruits of their ill-gotten advantage.” The 38 employees had been recruited as miners and loaders in 1986 but years later an internal probe by the BCCL revealed that they had got in although they had not been recommended by the employment exchange, a must to get government jobs. A BCCL personnel manager and a clerk had been sacked for illegally recruiting the 38 employees, a charge the workmen accepted in court during the long legal process. “Fraudulent practice to gain public employment cannot be countenanced to be permitted by a court of law. The workmen here, having hoodwinked the government undertaking in a fraudulent manner, must be prevented from enjoying the fruits of their ill-gotten advantage,” a Supreme Court bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said in its judgment. The Supreme Court allowed an appeal by the PSU challenging the 2016 order of a division bench of Jharkhand High Court reinstating the 38 employees with 50 per cent back wages. The bench had upheld the 2005 order of an industrial tribunal, which the staffers had approached through labour unions. The high court division bench had overturned a single-bench order setting aside the tribunal verdict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Army chief reviews situation on India-Pakistan border||Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Friday visited the western command headquarters in Haryana’s Panchkula and reviewed the security and operational situation on the India-Pakistan border. Sources said that at the Chandimandir military station Naravane was briefed by Lt Gen. R.P. Singh, the army commander of the western command, on the theatre’s operational preparedness. “The army chief addressed officers of the western command during which he exhorted them to serve with pride and in doing so uphold the military ethos and the rich culture of the Indian Army,” a defence ministry media statement said. During his interaction with the troops deployed in forward areas, Naravane commended them for maintaining a high state of combat readiness despite the Covid restrictions. “He highlighted the various force modernisation measures being undertaken by the army and also emphasised that soldiers must keep themselves abreast with latest trends in information technology and emerging cyber threats,” the army statement said. Sources said the defence ministry was concerned about the spike in Pakistani drones flying into Indian territory to drop arms, ammunitions, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. On Wednesday, Indian Air Force Chief R.K.S. Bhadauria had highlighted drone warfare and the challenges ahead in the wake of an attack at an IAF base in Jammu in July. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, injuring two personnel. Security agencies had suspected the involvement of Pakistan-based terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Covid: CoWIN develops interface to peek at jab status of individuals||India’s digital platform for Covid-19 vaccination will allow employers, airlines, railways, hotels and other entities to know the jab status of individuals without intrusions into their privacy, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The CoWIN digital platform has developed a software interface that will digitally convey the vaccination status of individuals — such as employees or passengers or hotel residents — to entities whom they may be engaging with for any reason. The interface is called KYC/VS — Know Your Customer or Client/Vaccination Status. Although CoWIN already generates vaccination certificates that fully inoculated individuals can show either in physical or digital formats, the new software interface — also called application programming interface — will eliminate the need for people to show these certificates. To use the interface, a verifier needs to enter an individual’s mobile number and name. This will generate an OTP (one-time password) that will also need to be entered into the application by the individual for the verifier to know the vaccination status. In return, CoWIN will send a response to the verifying entity specifying the individual’s vaccination status. The status will be “0” if a person is not vaccinated, “1” if partially vaccinated and “2” if fully vaccinated. The health ministry said enterprises might wish to know the vaccination status of employees, and railways or airlines might want to know the vaccination status of passengers seeking to reserve journey tickets. Hotels might wish to check the vaccination status of guests checking in. But representatives of the hospitality industry said the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the sector so hard that they were unlikely to turn away guests who are unvaccinated. Pradeep Shetty, joint honorary secretary of the Federation of the Hotels and Restaurants Associations of India, said: “The current revenues are between 30 and 50 per cent of pre-Covid levels. Are hotels or restaurants in a position to decline services to unvaccinated guests? Would they want to know the status?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||‘Saffronisation’ cry in Kannur University in Kerala||Inclusion of books written by Hindutva icons such as V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar triggered massive protests at Kannur University in Kerala on Friday as student unions alleged saffronisation of the syllabus for master’s degree in governance and politics. Members of Kerala Students’ Union of the Congress and Muslim Students’ Federation of the Indian Union Muslim League laid siege to the office of vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran and burnt copies of the syllabus on Friday. The university had included books by RSS icons such as Golwalkar, Savarkar, Deendayal Upadhyay and Balraj Madhok in the course material. The VC, however, told a news conference that a call on dropping the controversial books would be taken only based on the recommendation of a hurriedly constituted two-member expert committee that would submit its report within five days. The books were among those included recently for a paper titled Nation in Indian Political Thought for the third semester of the MA in governance and politics course that was introduced last year. Hindutva: Who is a Hindu? by Savarkar, We or Our Nationhood Defined and Bunch of Thoughts by Golwalkar, Integral Humanism by Upadhyaya and Indianisation? What, Why and How by Madhok were the books that triggered the row. Other books and essays on the list are Nationalism by Rabindranath Tagore, Nationalism is Religion by Sri Aurobindo, Is Hatred Essential for Nationalism by Mahatma Gandhi, Nationalism and Internationalism and What is Culture by Jawaharlal Nehru and Who Constitutes a Nation by B.R. Ambedkar. “These books (the pro-Hindutva ones) were included for comparative study and critical analysis and not to glorify them,” Ravindran said. Minister for higher education R. Bindu told a news conference that the VC had been asked to provide an explanation on the decision to pick the books. “We are a secular nation. So it’s dangerous to include extremely communal material in our syllabus,” she said. The Left was divided over the issue. While some of them defended the inclusion of the books, describing them as essential in understanding the dangers of Hindutva, a few others opposed it. “There is nothing unusual about this decision because master’s students should study the challenges faced by the freedom movement. They can argue against these books only if they study them,” said university syndicate member and CPI leader P. Sandosh Kumar. “All these books are available in the libraries of the CPI, CPM and the Congress,” he said. University students’ union chairman M.K. Hassan of the CPM’s Students’ Federation of India also disagreed with the protesters. “We have already had a few rounds of debates on these books. How else can one understand the dangers they carry if we don’t learn them?” he said. But SFI state secretary K.M. Sachin Dev said he did not agree with Hassan. “We don’t agree with the chairman’s stand because including such books in the syllabus would make them compulsory for study,” he told The Telegraph. Kannur district KSU president Mohammed Shammas, who was among those who led the protests, said his organisation would settle for nothing less than a complete withdrawal of the books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Man dies as motorcycle topples off flyover in Calcutta||A 23-year-old man died as his bike hit the guard wall of a flyover in south Calcutta and toppled onto the road below, police said on Saturday. The incident happened on the 7.5-km-long Sampriti flyover, known for regular deadly accidents, around 11.30 pm on Friday. Sudeep Mondal was heading towards Batanagar from Behala Parnashree at a high speed when he lost control of his motorcycle, hit the guard wall and fell onto the road below in the Dakghar area, police said. When taken to the ESIC Hospital in Budge Budge, doctors declared him brought dead, they said. Accidents are a regular affair on the two-lane flyover that connects south Calcutta with Maheshtala in South 24 Parganas. Vehicles, including pick-up vans and trucks, plying at high-speed often topple onto the road below, taking several lives in a year. The condition of the Budge Budge Trunk Road below, which is dotted with potholes, forces heavy vehicles transporting goods from the industries in the region to take the flyover, leading to accidents as the bridge was built only for small vehicles such as cars, locals said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's student credit card scheme runs into Centre roadblock||A directive from the Narendra Modi government issued in August has come as a stumbling block for one of Mamata Banerjee’s pet projects, the students' credit card scheme. The Union finance ministry has instructed all banks to process all applications for education loans through the Vidya Lakshmi portal, developed jointly by the department of financial services, the ministry of finance, the department of higher education (ministry of education) and the Indian Banks Association. The circular has specifically instructed  banks in remote areas where internet access is difficult that the forms must be filled physically by students and uploaded to the Vidya Lakshmi portal. The decision was taken after a review meeting of the target achieved till June 2021 where finance ministry officials learnt that loans to the tune of only Rs   2006.49crore were disbursed, barely 11.83 per cent of the annual target of Rs 16,965 crore. The ministry found only seven nationalised banks in the country were processing all students loan applications through the portal. The Vidya Lakshmi portal was developed under the Centre’s proposal to have an IT-based student financial aid authority to administer and monitor scholarship and educational loan schemes through the Pradhan Mantri Vidya Lakshmi programme and has been functioning since 2018. “We will ensure that no student misses out on higher education for lack of funds,” the late Union finance minister Arun Jaitley had said while announcing the scheme in his speech for the 2015-16 fiscal. The objective is common to what Mamata claimed while launching the scheme on June 30. She had announced that undergraduates, post-graduates, doctoral and post-doctoral students in India and those of Indian origin residing abroad can avail of educational loans up to Rs 10lakh till the age of 40, while the repayment tenure was fixed at 15 years. According to sources, the very scheme that Mamata has been tom-toming ran against guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India and other Centre-run institutes. Till August 26, the state government had received around 79,043 applications seeking loans worth Rs 3,461.31crore, out of which only 298 have received approval to the tune of Rs 11lakh from the state-run cooperative banks. Over 40,000 applications were still under consideration with the State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank. Now public sector banks are in a fix as they have to abide by the instructions issued by the Union finance ministry. State education minister Bratya Basu did not take calls. State education secretary Manish Jain refused to comment on the issue. Bankers committee officials did not seem to have a clue about the Centre's directive. “I have no information on the directive from the ministry. Some public sector banks are already on board with the WBSCC (West Bengal Students Credit Card) portal,” said Manas Dhar, a senior official of the state level bankers’ committee (SLBC). Asked whether public sector banks were bound to follow the Centre’s directive, Dhar said he could not comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post poll violence: CBI files fourth chargesheet in case||The CBI filed the fourth chargesheet in the ongoing probe into the post-poll violence cases in Bengal, sources said on Saturday. The chargesheet was filed at Krishnanagar court in Nadia district in connection with the killing of a BJP worker allegedly by Trinamul Congress members, they said. The chargesheet contains names of the two accused allegedly involved in the murder of the BJP worker after the Assembly election results were announced on May 2, they added. The Calcutta High Court last month directed the CBI to probe the post-poll violence cases. So far, the CBI has filed 34 FIRs in connection with murders and other heinous crimes perpetrated after the election results were announced. The agency has already filed three chargesheets in different courts in connection with incidents that happened in Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas, and Nalhati and Rampurhat in Birbhum district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati tells HoD to keep rustication order in abeyance||Visva-Bharati University authorities have notified two expelled students that the rustication orders issued against them on August 23 was not being implemented now in adherence to the recent order of Calcutta High Court. Three expelled postgraduate students - Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty - had sent separate emails to the proctor on September 9 urging him to allow them to attend classes immediately as directed by the high court. In a related development, the proctor called upon the Principal of Vidya Bhavana and the Head of the Department of Economics and Politics, Vidya Bhavana to keep in abeyance the rustication order on Friday. "With reference to the Honourable High Court's order dated September 8, the rustication orders have been kept in abeyance. You are requested to take appropriate actions accordingly.This is for your immediate action," the letter said. The two economics students are Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan. The expelled music department student is Rupa Chakraborty. A varsity official said a similar notice will shortly be issued to the head of Sangeet Bhavana to enable Rupa to attend classes. The three students were expelled on August 23 for alleged disorderly conduct during a protest meeting in Visva-Bharati campus on January 9. The varsity has been witnessing demonstrations by students against the expulsion since August 27. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha in his interim order on September 8 had observed that the rustication of the students for three years was harsh and excessive. He had directed that the varsity's expulsion order be kept in abeyance and allowed the students to rejoin classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Hiding data prevents policy-makers from taking measures: Economist||Hiding data to please political masters is not only harming the once-stellar reputation of the country but also preventing policy-makers from taking corrective measures, former World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu said on Friday. “India is a pioneer in data collection. P.C. Mahalanobis was known for his contribution to the world in the field of data collection.... But it’s unfortunate that when things go wrong, there are attempts to hide data,” Basu said. “Once you hide data, you are harming India’s reputation. And when you hide data, you also can’t take corrective measures,” he added, answering the question from this newspaper on the Centre’s reluctance to admit the economy was doing badly. The question was fielded by Basu — a former chief economic adviser to the Government of India and C. Marks Professor of International Studies and Professor of Economics at Cornell University — during a virtual Q&A session after he had delivered an online address on “Economics in everyday life and the role of ethics”. The lecture was organised by the Filix School of Education in Barandanga, Purulia, which is run by Nanritam, a social welfare organisation. In his 50-minute address, the economist covered a gamut of issues in simple language before an audience that included schoolchildren. The topics ranged from the origins of economics to the history of economic crashes and the problems involved in the pricing of products to the challenges that inequality poses to the global economy. Basu, who has been critical of the Narendra Modi administration and regularly commented on the de-growth of the Indian economy in his Twitter posts, didn’t refer to the government in his lecture but made it clear that the saffron ecosystem’s attempts at beating its own drum were not helping India. A teacher per excellence -- known for his ability to make complex things comprehensible with lucid examples -- Basu spoke about India’s performance in vaccinating its people against Covid to underscore that transparency in data was needed to understand the actual situation. “India has done reasonably well in vaccinating its elite population in urban areas, but the question is about the performance in rural areas in the north or east of the country.… India is a large country and so the absolute number of people vaccinated has to be high, but we have to look at what percentage of people are fully vaccinated,” he said. “I was looking at this number yesterday and saw 109 countries were ahead of India. I think one has to be transparent in sharing data,” added Basu, who is often attacked by saffron trolls for posing tough questions. While the numbers the government has disclosed on vaccination have opened a new area of controversy, there have been doubts over the last few years about the new series of GDP estimates, which have often showed trends at variance with independent sources of data. Doubts have been raised by independent researchers over some of the data on consumption, production and deflators used in official calculations. “During my days in the World Bank (2012-2016), I used to take pride in the numbers sent by India.… Although some of the numbers didn’t look that good, they were at least transparent. But we are sliding on this area,” Basu said, alluding to the changes the Indian data collection system has gone through since the change of guard in Delhi in 2014. Not only did Basu rue the changes in the dissemination of data, he referred to the poor showing by the Indian economy over the past few years. “From 2016, every year growth has been less than the previous year’s.… We are doing badly. We all know that unemployment is shockingly high in India,” he said. He also mentioned the change in the world’s perception of India during the Q&A session when he was asked whether India was heading towards a catastrophe. “Until 2015, most of the writing on India in The New York Times or Financial Times or The Wall Street Journal was very positive.… We were known as a country that could tolerate people of different faiths. India was known as a country espousing the values of inclusiveness, but unfortunately we are unwinding from that,” he said. Basu, however, said he was still hopeful about the country as India had very strong fundamentals. He didn’t prescribe a path to recovery for the Indian economy but went on to explain what had triggered the world’s biggest famine in China in 1960-61, subtly weaving around the account a suggestion that India needed to change its present style of governance. “In 1959, Mao Zedong started the Great Leap Forward (an attempt at reconstructing the country from an agrarian economy to a communist society) by crushing the laws of the market.… He was so powerful that no one dared tell him that the economy was going to crash. When people were dying, the reports that went to him said that everything was fine. Soon, the Great Leap Forward became the cause of famine in which 30 to 40 million people died,” Basu said. He kept the audience riveted with an account of how the fate of economics would have changed had Adam Smith, the father of modern economics, not been rescued from kidnappers who had snatched him at the age of three. Basu, who takes a keen interest in game theory, spoke of his meeting with Nobel-winning economist John Nash, whose life inspired the movie A Beautiful Mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore byelection: BJP fields advocate against Mamata||The BJP on Friday picked advocate Priyanka Tibrewal as its candidate to take on chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the bypoll to the Bhowanipore constituency, where voting will take place on September 30. Tibrewal, who is the vice-president of the state youth wing of the BJP, came into prominence after she moved Calcutta High Court on behalf of the party to demand CBI probe into alleged incidents of post-poll violence . “We had suggested Priyanka’s name.... The central leadership has decided to field her at Bhowanipore. This fight will be against injustice and Priyanka will be our face.… The entire party is with her.… She had fought vehemently on the issue of post-poll atrocities,” Bengal BJP chief and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh said at a news conference, with the candidate by his side. While Ghosh claimed that Tibrewal’s name was sent to the parliamentary board, which was officially done on Tuesday, sources said she wasn’t the state unit’s primary choice. According to multiple party leaders, Ghosh started considering Tibrewal’s name only after he was told the South Calcutta organisational district, under which the Bhowanipore Assembly falls, wanted Tibrewal as the candidate. Tibrewal, who joined the BJP in 2014, was a candidate in the 2015 civic polls. In 2021, the BJP had fielded her from the Entally Assembly constituency. She was defeated on both the occasions. Tibrewal has made a name for herself among the BJP’s ranks by fighting the post-poll violence case in Calcutta High Court. She has emerged as a leader who would stand beside the workers in their need, sources said. “Our focus would be to tell people about Mamata’s tyranny.... We know we will lose Bhowanipore. But we can use this opportunity otherwise,” a source said. With Mamata’s candidature, all eyes across the nation will be on Bhowanipore. A party leader said the BJP wanted to highlight the alleged incidents of post-poll violence during the campaign and paint a negative picture of the Bengal chief minister. “This is exactly why Priyanka, who has been fighting these cases, has been nominated. Mamata has publicly said this bypoll is important for 2024. We will reach out to the people with that in mind,” the leader added. The drift of the saffron camp’s campaign was made clear by BJP's IT cell chief and Bengal’s co-minder Amit Malviya when he tweeted: “BJP has announced Smt @impriyankabjp (Tibrewal), who represented the victims of post poll violence in Calcutta HC and got the order mandating a CBI and SIT probe, as its candidate from Bhabanipore against Mamata Banerjee. Bhabanipore must defeat Mamata Banerjee to stop Talibanisation of WB.” Speaking at the news conference, Tibrewal said her fight wasn’t against an individual, it was against injustice. “I’m ready to fight. This isn't a contest to become an MLA. This is a fight to reinstate democracy and against the post-poll atrocities,” she added. The BJP also announced the names of Milon Ghosh and Sujit Das as candidates for Samsherganj and Jangipur polls, respectively. The BJP has also finalised a horde of popular leaders as star campaigners for the Bhowanipore constituency. The list includes dissident MP Babul Supriyo, central minister Smriti Irani, Shahnawaz Hussain, Hardeep Singh Puri, MPs Rupa Ganguly and Debasree Chaudhuri along with Ghosh and Adhikari. Supriyo had recently announced that he wouldn’t be a part of politics anymore. Sources close to him said that Supriyo didn’t want to campaign for Tibrewal either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll: Mamata Banerjee files papers||Mamata Banerjee on Friday left her 30B Harish Chatterjee Street residence in Calcutta at 1.54pm, reached Survey Building at Alipore at 1.58pm and began filing her nomination as the Trinamul Congress candidate for the Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll at 2pm. The timing was meticulously chosen, on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. The chief minister was accompanied by trusted lieutenant Firhad Hakim’s wife Ismat Hakim, Tollywood producer Nispal Singh Rane and her election agent for the constituency, Baiswanor Chatterjee. Given the Covid-19 restrictions, the party forbade a large gathering at the venue, despite which hundreds showed up to cheer her. Mamata finished filing the nomination papers at 2.15pm, came out of the building (in picture by Pradip Sanyal) at 2.18pm and departed soon after. Through her journey to and from the office where she filed her papers, she greeted people with folded hands, often waving at them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 753 new cases, 766 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded 753 new Covid-19 infections, 766 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases fell by 27 to 8,219 in all with 82 successive days of a slide. Calcutta logged 127 new infections and North 24-Parganas 129, being the only two among Bengal’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a singledigit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported five. Bengal has 2.13 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, the highest ever this pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.85 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.55 lakh Covid19 cases since the first one was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.28 lakh recoveries and 18,553 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||5 held with ammunition, Rs 13 crore venom seized in in Malda||Five persons were arrested with arms and ammunition and other sharp weapons from Mojampur area in Malda district early on Friday. According to sources, Safiqul Islam, Aktar Alam, Amirul Sheikh, Abraul Momin and Masidur Sheikh, all residents of Mojampur, had assembled near a local bridge when a team of Kaliachak police intercepted them. “Two improvised firearms, 14 rounds of live cartridges, two swords and an iron rod were seized from them,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda. In another incident, police held four persons for trading gold illegally. Hirak Biswas, the inspector-in-charge of Malda police station, said three of them, including a woman hail from Bharatpur in Rajasthan. The trio had visited a gold shop in Muchia area to sell six gold lockets without valid papers. “We have arrested the goldsmith along with the trio.” In Siliguri, officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence nabbed two persons with gold bars weighing 1.90kg from Calcutta-bound Saraighat Express at New Jalpaiguri station on Thursday evening. The estimated cost of the seized gold is around Rs 95.72 lakh, sources said. The arrested duo are Partha Sanyasi and Madan Sanyasi, residents of Gangarampur in South Dinajpur district. Venom haul Foresters of Gorumara wildlife divisionof the state forest department on Friday seized snake venom smuggled from Bangladesh and arrested a suspected smuggler from the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town. “The cost of the seized venom, which was is crystallised form, is around Rs 13 crore,” Jyotipriya Mallick, the state forest minister. A forester said the crystallised form of venom was made in France.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt decides to keep politics and vaccination away||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to keep political interference away from the Covid-19 inoculation drive after it realised that such things had made the situation critical leading to huge rush at vaccination centres and made people angry over the entire process. State chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi recently sent an instruction to district magistrates, asking them to ensure that no political interference was entertained while carrying out the vaccination drive. “We have received some complaints from South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas that some political leaders were trying to interfere in the vaccination programme by asking officials to give priority to certain sections of people. It might help them in gathering votes, but it is hurting the entire process,” said a senior government official. So far, 4.5 crore doses have been administered. The state would require 14 crore doses to cover 7 crore eligible people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Vistadome ride for Bangladesh deputy high commissioner||Toufique Hasan, the deputy Bangladesh high commissioner in Calcutta, on Friday took a ride in the vistadome coach train introduced recently by the Northeast Frontier Railway to enable tourists to enjoy the pristine beauty of the Dooars. Hasan, who has been touring north Bengal, took the ride from Madarihat to Rajabhatkhawa (both in Alipurduar district) — a distance of around 40km — and appeared enthralled after the travel through the forests with Bhutan hills forming the backdrop. “I was spellbound during the trip as the train moved through forests. This is my first visit to the Dooars and the experience of travelling on a vistadome coach is excellent. Once I visit Bangladesh, I will place a proposal before appropriate authorities to introduce such coaches in the country for promotion of tourism,” the deputy high commissioner said. On Thursday, Hasan had travelled to Haldibari railway station in Cooch Behar district near the Bangladesh border. Last year, an old rail route connecting Haldibari with Chilahati — a railway station in Nilfamari district of Bangladesh — was reopened. Hasan inspected the station and the allied infrastructure and on Thursday evening, reached Holong in Jaldapara National Park at Madarihat. During his visit, he also referred to the passenger train service between Dhaka and Siliguri that had been inaugurated in March by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina through a virtual bilateral meeting. “Once there is an improvement in the Covid-19 pandemic situation, we will start the passenger train service on a regular basis along this route,” he said. The visit of the senior diplomat from Bangladesh, particularly after the formal launch of the passenger train service, will help in bringing in more tourists to north Bengal from the neighbouring country, said stakeholders of the tourism sector. “His visit and feedback will surely encourage more Bangladeshi nationals to visit the region. In 2020, there had been a major development as the ban on entry of Bangladeshis into Sikkim was lifted and thousands of them had flocked to different destinations in the state. If the train service starts in a regular manner, we hope more and more tourists will reach north Bengal in the coming days,” said a travel company owner based in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||PCM Group to revive 20-year-old bus terminus in Siliguri||The PCM Group, a corporate house based in north Bengal, has taken up the task to revive a 20-year-old bus terminus that the group had built at busy Sevoke Road, in association with the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). The PCM Group is a major manufacturer of railway sleepers and has plants spread across India and abroad. It also has business interests in real estate and tea, among others. According to sources, the PC Mittal Bus Terminus, the first private bus terminus in Siliguri, was set up for private buses from Siliguri to destinations across the Dooars. “They had set up the terminus on the basis of an agreement with the civic body. But for many years now, a handful of buses run from here, and vast stretches of land lie unutilised. That is why the plan is to revamp infrastructure and use the facility to run interstate buses and buses bound for the hills. This will also reduce traffic of Hill Cart Road from where most private buses leave” said Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of the SMC, who visited the terminus on Friday. Sources in the civic body said to ease traffic congestion in the city, the civic body wants private buses which head from Siliguri to Darjeeling and Kalimpong as well as the states of Assam, Bihar and Sikkim, to run from this terminus along with private buses bound for Dooars. Deb added that recently, representatives of the PCM Group had approached civic authorities, saying they wanted to revamp the terminus. “We discussed their proposal with the district administration and the state transport department and got their consent. So far, buses entering the terminus had to move through Sevoke Road. We decided to come up with an alternative road to link the terminus with NH31 to reduce traffic congestion,” said Deb. Existing bus bays will be developed along with a multi-layer car parking as commercial complexes surround the terminus. The area’s landscaping will also be done. Niranjan Mittal, a director of the PCM Group, thanked the state government and the civic body for their positive response. “We are drawing up plans to make it a model bus terminus in the state. In due course, we will elaborate on the project,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Barla prods Bhutan envoy on opening entry gate||Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP John Barla on Friday met V. Namgyel, the ambassador of Bhutan in India, in Delhi to know about the pandemic situation in that country. Barla also requested Namgyel to expedite the process of opening the entry point at Phuentsholing, Bhutan’s commercial capital that flanks Jaigaon in Alipurduar district. “It was a meaningful conversation at my office and we discussed issues related to borders of the two countries amid the Covid 19. Talks were also held on how the pandemic affected the economy of both countries, especially tourism,” Barla said over phone. Recently, Barla visited Jaigaon where traders told him about the drastic dip in commercial activities after Bhutan closed the border gate last year because of the pandemic. Also, daily-rated workers, who could walk to Bhutan for jobs, were forced to sit idle. “It was great to learn from him (Bhutan’s ambassador) that around 95 per cent of the country’s population above 18 years have been vaccinated. We hope Bhutanese authorities mull the issues I raised during the meeting,” Barla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Outspoken professor’s suspension extended ||Visva-Bharati on Thursday night extended the suspension of economics professor and teachers’ union leader Sudipta Bhattacharyya by a month amid murmurs that it was done in response to his backing the 13-day student movement against varsity vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty after the institution decided to rusticate three dissenting students. Bhattacharyya was suspended in January apparently for bringing into public discourse Chakrabarty’s alleged insult to Nobel laureate and economist Amartya Sen. Visva-Bharati claimed the varsity executive council found him guilty of “misconduct by mass-circulating a complaint and derogatory/defamatory/ baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. On the extension of his suspension, the varsity attributed it to disciplinary proceedings remaining incomplete. Bhattacharyya on Friday said it was “expected from such a vindictive administration after I extended my solidarity to the students’ movement”. Calcutta High Court on Wednesday stayed the varsity’s move to rusticate the trio and ordered the varsity to allow them to rejoin academic activities. It asked students to call off their protest. Students did so but the varsity has not yet let the trio rejoin classes. On Friday, several professors condemned the decision to extend Bhattacharyya’s suspension. “He was axed for raising his voice,” said a professor, adding Bhattacharyya led protests against “wrong-doings of the VC and sent letters to the PM and other dignitaries” on the same. The varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not reply to this paper’s calls or text.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Anit Thapa’s new party to host key meeting on portfolios||The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), the newly floated political party from Darjeeling by Anit Thapa will hold its first central committee meeting on Monday to chalk out the party’s future plans, its leaders said on Friday. “The central committee will decide on the party’s portfolio during its first meeting on Monday,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a leader of the party. Thapa, formerly associated with Binay Tamang’s faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has been appointed the president of the new party but all other posts are still vacant. Sources said Amar Lama, who joined Thapa’s party on Thursday, is one of the top contenders for the post of the party’s general secretary. Even though the majority of the leaders of a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are with BGPM, the new party is looking at a major image changeover. Around 40-odd apolitical people were invited at the party’s launch in Darjeeling on Thursday. Attempts are being made to project new leaders to have a distinct identity from the previous faction of the Morcha. “This is why the meeting is very important. The party might put in place new leaders even in the district and subdivisional committees,” said a leader of the party. Among the 20-odd frontal organisations of the party, immediate importance is being placed on the trade union. “A new trade union has to be formed and work to register the entity has to start immediately,” said the leader. The crucial meeting to decide the bonus of tea garden workers in the region will start from September 15. “It is vital for the representatives of the new party to be involved in the bonus negotiations,” said an observer. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction headed by Bimal Gurung is also focussing on issues related to tea gardens in their bid to recover lost ground in this brew belt. Supporters of Gurung’s Morcha faction have started planting party flags across the hills in an effort to make their presence felt following the formation of a new party by Thapa. Milan Pradhan, general secretary of the Darjeeling-Terai-Dooars Plantation Labour Union, which is affiliated to Gurung’s Morcha, said that a meeting of the Joint Forum, which is a conglomeration of more than 30-odd tea gardens from north Bengal, will hold a seminar on minimum wages in Darjeeling on Saturday. “Representatives of almost all the trade unions from north Bengal, including those of Trinamul, the Congress, the CPM, among others, will be attending the seminar on minimum wages for tea workers. We are confident that the issues would soon be solved as the state government is also positive in its response,” said Pradhan. The daily wage of tea garden workers in Bengal is currently Rs 202 as decided in an interim hike announced by the state government in January this year. The unions want the state to fix a minimum wage for the workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
11-09-2021||North East||AFSPA extended in Assam for six more months||The Assam government extended the 'Disturbed Area' status of the state for another six months from August 28 under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA), according to an official statement issued on Saturday. The AFSPA was imposed in Assam in November 1990 and is extended every six months since then after a review by the state government. "The Government of Assam in exercise of powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 has declared the entire State of Assam as "Disturbed Area" up to six months with effect from August 28, 2021 unless withdrawn earlier," the single-paragraph statement said. The statement did not mention any reason for the extension of the AFSPA in the state In the Northeast, the AFSPA is in force in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur (excluding Imphal Municipal Council Area), Changlang, Longding and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh, and areas falling within the jurisdiction of the eight police stations in Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Assam. Civil society groups and rights activists in the region have been demanding the withdrawal of the "draconian" law. The AFSPA empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without any prior warrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
11-09-2021||North East||Abhishek set to lead roadshow in Agartala on September 15||Trinamul Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will lead a roadshow in Agartala on September 15 against the “hooliganism” of the ruling BJP in Tripura. The show of strength was announced on Friday, days after the Enforcement Directorate had questioned the Diamond Harbour MP in a money-laundering case. Trinamul sources said the protest march had been organised to send a message to both the voters of Tripura and the BJP-led Centre that the party would be in the state for a long haul. “The rally is also to make it clear that Trinamul will not be cowed down by any central probe and will continue to fight for democracy,” said a Trinamul leader while referring to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s salvo against the BJP on Wednesday. Addressing party workers in Calcutta on Wednesday, Mamata had said the BJP was “harassing Abhishek without any evidence” and it was a ploy to teach her a lesson. Senior Trinamul leader in Tripura Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph that the party expected a turnout of around 50,000 people in the 4km-long roadshow in Agartala on Wednesday. “BJP’s hooliganism must end and we will do everything possible to restore democracy,” Singh said Trinamul’s proposed roadshow comes in the wake of the CPM flagging the alleged lawlessness in Tripura by organising protest rallies across the nation on Friday against the attack on its offices allegedly by the BJP on Wednesday. CPM leader Jiten Chowdhury told The Telegraph that the party had lined up a series of programmes to highlight the attacks triggered by what he said were successful rallies addressed by former chief minister Manik Sarkar in his Dhanpur constituency on Monday. “They (the BJP) have vandalised 20 CPM offices and 20 residences of our party members since Wednesday. We will also submit a memorandum to the Tripura governor regarding the attacks. A team of party MLAs will leave for Delhi soon to stage protests and also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah demanding restoration of rule of law in the state,” Chowdhury said. Rejecting Chowdhury’s claims, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said: “They (the CPM) are attacking our karyakartas, including women members. They are trying to revive the reign of terror they were used to when in power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
11-09-2021||North East||Ex-HNLC leader encounter: Knives dumped in Shillong protest||Senior leaders of the 11 pressure groups seeking the suspension of three senior Meghalaya police officers for their alleged role in the August 13 encounter death of a former militant leader deposited over 500 knives at the gate of the state secretariat in Shillong on Friday morning in protest against the “unbelievable claim” that he was shot after he had tried to attack the police team with a knife. The knives were collected during a “knife surrender rally” organised by the groups on Monday under the banner of Ka Sur Ki Nong Mawlai (The Voice of Mawlai People). Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma has maintained it would be unfair to suspend the police officers before the report of the judicial probe panel set up by the government comes in. Political observers said that with both sides standing firm, it remains to be seen who blinks first. “But since the knives are out, the NPP-led state government has to act with tact to douse the fire triggered by the encounter death,” one of them said. The pressure groups are seeking the suspension of director-general of police R. Chandranathan, East Jaintia Hills superintendent of police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa and SP (traffic) Shailendra Bamaniya for their alleged role in the death of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in an encounter with the police in the early hours of August 13 at his Mawlai residence in Shillong. Though the police have claimed that Thangkhiew was shot in self-defence after he tried to attack the police team with a knife, it found few takers after his family alleged that the ailing man was killed by the cops, fanning anger and protests. This led the government to impose curfew in Shillong on August 15, the day Thangkhiew was laid to rest. Thousands attended his funeral. Donboklang Kharlyngdoh, president of Hynniewtrep Youths’ Council (Mawlai circle), one of the leaders of the groups, told The Telegraph that the “surrender and deposit of knives” was a message to the police that they cannot kill somebody just for possessing a knife and that they will continue with their protest till they get justice for Thangkhiew. “The surrender and deposit of knives were against the unbelievable claim of the police after the fake encounter,” Kharlyngdoh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
11-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Manchester madness||Cricket, much like life, is a game of great uncertainty. This element of unpredictability is, under ordinary circumstances, limited to the field of play. But these are extraordinary times and, hence, the possibility of off-the-field drama can no longer be ruled out. The events leading to the ‘cancellation’ of the fifth and final Test match between India and England after Indian players refused to take the field fearing a further spread of Covid-19 infections in their rank and file given that several members of the support staff, including the coach, had contracted the virus were both unprecedented and dramatic. An initial statement by the England and Wales Cricket Board — that India were “unable to field a team and will instead forfeit the match” — was quickly changed to a rather benign pronouncement in which the word, forfeit, did not find any mention. Whether this is an instance of the camaraderie shared by members of the English cricket board with the wise men who run the Board of Control for Cricket in India or yet another example of the BCCI — it has the deepest pockets in world cricket — barrelling its way out of a sticky pitch remains a matter of conjecture. The ‘result’ in Manchester would come as a disappointment to fans of both teams who had followed, their hearts in their mouth, an enthralling, ‘yo-yo’ series in which fortunes swung from one side to the other. The word is that the match will be rescheduled in the future. But by that time, given the chock-a-block nature of the international cricket calendar, this series would have lost its lustre. It is perfectly acceptable for the BCCI to prioritize the health of the players. But some questions must be raised for the sake of the cricket fan. Why did the coach, captain and other members of the Indian team get away with attending a crowded public event? They did so without the necessary clearance. Will the board examine this breach and show the spine to discipline errant players since the event, it is believed, was the source of the infection? Would the BCCI have endorsed the players’ refusal to play had the Indian Premier League — its favoured cash cow — not been on the horizon? Covid-induced isolation of stars may well have robbed the IPL of its glitter. There is, in this strange incident, something for the International Cricket Council to ponder as well. Cricket is likely to be played under the shadow of the pandemic for a while. Does this merit a change in the forfeiture rule — the ICC’s regulation for Covid-19 does not include forfeiture for the World Test Championships — so that teams guilty of lowering their guard — Indian players did so by taking the risk of attending a book launch — can be penalized? A mechanism should be put in place to prevent such embarrassing lapses from taking place. The BCCI and the ICC owe this much to cricket lovers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
11-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Only 18 per cent Indians fully vaccinated||Fatally careless Sir — Just about 18 per cent of Indians are fully vaccinated. Yet, Indians are going about their business without a care in the world, not maintaining social distancing or bothering to wear masks as if the pandemic is over. What makes this situation even more worrying is that even full vaccination is no guarantee of protection from Covid-19. Not only is the virus mutating at an alarming pace — many of these mutations have outwitted the vaccines — but the frontline workers who had been the first to be vaccinated are also catching the infection. This shows that the efficacy of the vaccine is time-bound and that most people would ideally need booster shots. But how will a country where more than 80 per cent of the population hasn’t even received a second shot manage to provide booster shots? As usual, the rich will get the extra shots — either in India or abroad — and the poorest of the poor who do not have the luxury of staying at home or even social distancing at times will be the ones who will suffer. This is also the segment of the population without access to healthcare and those who will run pillar to post trying to arrange medicines and oxygen when there is a shortage. In the event of a third wave, it is the poor who will lose out the most when lockdowns are implemented. The government must take preemptive action and see that precautions are followed in public spaces. Civic volunteers can be recruited from among the country’s vast unemployed populace to assist the police in this. Fines and punitive measures for those who violate rules could be one way of dealing with the situation. Alongside this, proper masks, hand sanitizers, gloves and so on must be distributed among the public free of cost. The flimsy cloth masks that most people are sporting around their ears would not have been of much use even if they were properly worn. Yet, the masses cannot afford N95s or surgical masks. If the horrors of the second wave are to be avoided, the government needs to work on a war footing immediately. Shabbir Mallick,Calcutta Sir — A visit to any government office will reveal that those working there are not bothering to wear masks properly. Given that government workers meet thousands of people every day, the risk that they pose when it comes to spreading the virus is immense. These workers may be vaccinated but it is becoming increasingly clear that the vaccines are only effective for a limited period of time. What is worse, fully vaccinated people who catch the virus may be largely asymptomatic, which means that they may not even be aware that they are passing the virus on to others. Government officials cannot be lax when it comes to safety measures. Jolly Das,Calcutta Sir — It seems that only images of death and mass pyres can force Indians to wear masks. At the height of the second wave, people seemed to have finally grasped the importance of wearing masks. But all such lessons have now been forgotten. Riya Ekka,Calcutta  Mined truth Sir —  The latest food fad to grip the world is that of Himalayan Pink Salt. This salt is touted to have health benefits and considered “healthier” than refined salt. But not only does pink salt have a steep environmental cost, in case of India, it may also be less healthy. The reason most refined salt in India is iodized is because surveys have shown that in India out of the 167 million people at risk of iodine deficiency disorder, 54 million suffer from goiter and two million from cretinism. Consuming pink salt may cause more harm than good where Indians are concerned. Kuhel Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
11-09-2021||Opinion||The day a city died: 20 years of 9/11||This year marks the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attack that took place in 2001 at the World Trade Center in Manhattan. The non-profit, 9/11 Memorial & Museum, commemorated the day by having the family of the victims read aloud the names of the deceased in a ceremony. There were also six moments of silence observed to acknowledge the moments of the fall of the World Trade Center, the attack on the Pentagon and that of Flight 93 crashing into a Pennsylvania field. The ceremony was open only to families of the victims. At dusk, the annual ‘Tribute in Light’ took place where two powerful spotlights shot upwards to the sky to recreate the Twin Towers. This year, the museum partnered with NYC & Company and several buildings to illuminate many of New York’s edifices in blue light as a collective remembrance of that day. The structures included the Empire State Building, One World Trade Center, the Metropolitan Opera, Lincoln Center Plaza, The Oculus, New York City Hall, Governor’s Island, and several others. Several films and docu-series portraying the 9/11 attacks and the aftermath were also slated to release around the time. One film that is in the spotlight is a Netflix movie called Worth. It is about the lawyer, Kenneth Feinberg, played by Michael Keaton, who was in charge of developing and administering the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund. Another one, The Outsiders, documents the creation of the 9/11 Memorial Museum and portrays some disputes amongst the staff on how the unfolding of events was depicted in the museum. Buttery bovine Imagine being in front of 360 kilogrammes of butter but not being able to eat any (probably for the best). The ‘Butter Cow’ is the sculpture of a cow made entirely of butter and is presented annually at the Illinois State Fair in Springfield. This year marks the 100th carving of the cow, keeping with an age-old tradition. The sculpture was kept in a refrigerated rotating display case at the Dairy Building. This year, it was created by Sarah Pratt and 360 kg of salted butter was donated by Prairie Farms Dairy. Even if you couldn't make it to the fair, the state of Illinois placed a webcam over the sculpture allowing you to view it from the comfort of your home. Last month, when the sculpture was unveiled by the Illinois governor, there was a bit of an anticlimax as the glass pane of the display case fogged up due to the high heat, making the sculpture hard to see. But pictures confirmed that the sculpture depicted the cow and a young woman hugging it, keeping with the theme of “Embracing Tradition”. In case you are wondering, the Illinois State Farm offers webcams to let you view all kinds of farm mysteries, including piglets and livestock. Leaf storm Now that Fall is here, classes are resuming in person, cafes are launching their Pumpkin Spice lattes and leaves are slowly changing colour. This means people can finally look forward to Fall foliage and leaf-peeping trips. A leaf peeper is a colloquial, local term referring to anyone who travels around and photographs the changing colours of leaves in areas that experience Fall, typically in New England and the Upper Midwest area. Several travel sites, including SmokyMountain.com, and magazines have already published the best spots to watch the foliage this year. Smithsonian Magazine released an interactive map with week-by-week predictions of the changing colours. The regional train system, Amtrak, is launching a National Fall Flash Sale with tickets at half prices for rides taking visitors on scenic routes between cities and a promise of spacious seats. The pumpkin spice is back as well. Grocery and retail stores have started putting Fall decor and Halloween-related items on their shelves. While Starbucks unveiled a new Apple Crisp Macchiato, an unlikely player has jumped on this seasonal bandwagon — Budweiser. BudLight launched a pumpkin spiced canned seltzer on Twitter with the hashtag #FallFlannelSeltzer. Work for play Labour Day — it fell on September 6 — was signed into a federal holiday back in 1894. It began as a reason to celebrate America’s hardworking labour force and unions. It is a paid off-day for most workers, celebrated with cookouts and get-togethers. Wearing white is frowned upon after Labour Day although fashion historians are not sure how this ‘rule’ came about. But fashion magazines encourage consumers to ignore the rule: Coco Chanel and Michelle Obama have been spotted adorning white clothes throughout the year. This year, most cities hosted parades, concerts and happy hours in bars. People also visited local beaches. In New York, the 51st Labour Day Parade was a colourful event that celebrated Caribbean culture. The carnival started in 1930 because of the heavy West Indian population in Harlem; typically, it attracts three million attendees. This year, it went virtual due to the pandemic. FOOTNOTE First it was the Cronut; now a close cousin, the Croffle, has thrown New York City into a dessert craze. The Croffle, a hybrid between a croissant and a waffle that originated in South Korea, is being sold in a bakery called Croffle House in Flushing, Queens. Croffle, made by pressing the rich croissant dough into a waffle iron and then adding toppings, has taken over Instagram with its colourful toppings of fruit, whipped cream or chocolate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
11-09-2021||Opinion||Like no other||Perhaps because my own life has largely been devoted to the pursuit of personal success, I have always felt a guilty veneration for those who live for others. The public servant I most admired died on Sunday, September 5, aged sixty-six. In these times, this may seem too early to go (particularly as he was not a victim of Covid-19) and he had contributions to make to society and scholarship yet. But given all that he did, and the manner of its doing, I wish not to mourn his premature passing but to celebrate a life that was exemplary in all respects. I first met Keshav Desiraju in the year 1988. I had heard of him from mutual friends in Uttarakhand who marvelled at how this native Telugu speaker and graduate of Cambridge University had so endeared himself to the people of the hills. He was then district magistrate of Almora, serving in an area that I had written about in my own research. I went to see him at work, noting with interest the fluency of his Hindi, his zest for long treks into the interior, and his deep understanding of the challenges of sustainable development in the mountains. When Uttar Pradesh was bifurcated, Keshav chose to join the Uttarakhand cadre of the Indian Administrative Service. Since I was born and raised in Dehradun, his being there was an incentive to visit the new state often. I remember with particular fondness a drive to the soon-to-be-abandoned town of Tehri, calling on the way at the place where Sunderlal Bahuguna had fasted against the Tehri dam, and on the way back at one of the last contiguous stretches of blue pine forest in the Garhwal Himalaya. In Dehradun itself, I witnessed the enormous regard in which Desiraju was held in the secretariat, as an officer who almost uniquely combined domain knowledge, personal probity, and an absolute lack of hierarchy in his dealings with others. In 1998, Keshav and I went on a trip to the tribal areas of Madhya Pradesh, visiting the villages the anthropologist, Verrier Elwin, had worked in. On our last night, we had dinner in a roadside bhojnalaya in Amarkantak where, while reading a Hindi newspaper a previous customer had left behind, Keshav heard that M.S. Subbulakshmi had been awarded the Bharat Ratna. On the long train ride back from Anuppur to Delhi, he told me about every M.S. concert he had attended (the first being at Mumbai’s Shanmukhananda Hall when he was eight), with near-perfect recall of every composition he had heard her sing. After several years in Uttarakhand, Desiraju was posted to Delhi as additional secretary in the ministry of health. Here he did outstanding work in the campaign to eradicate polio and for the rights of people with disabilities and, after he was elevated to the position of secretary, on expanding the provision of mental healthcare in the country. He sought, heroically, to take on the corrupt cabal that ran the Medical Council of India, which had many influential politicians in its pocket. This campaign, as well as his opposition to the tobacco lobby, led to this remarkable officer being shifted away from the health ministry by the UPA government then in power. For a general election was around the corner, and an upright secretary was an impediment to the collection of funds via illegal means. Over the years, senior civil servants in India have become increasingly known for their arrogance, their capacity for ingratiating themselves with their political masters, and their lack of a moral compass. Keshav Desiraju lacked these attributes entirely. Which may be why, unlike so many of his colleagues, he was held in such high regard by the people he was mandated to serve. Like his predecessor, K. Sujatha Rao, he was that rare health secretary who was enormously respected by doctors, medical school professors, and community health workers. His transfer by the UPA government evoked strong public condemnation from health professionals across the country. As Keshav and I became closer, my admiration extended from the professional to the personal — to respect for his deep devotion to his siblings, to awe for his extraordinary knowledge of classical music. On our train ride through Central India, he had told me of his wish to write a musical biography of M.S. Subbulakshmi. Now, after working long hours in the health ministry on weekdays, he spent his Saturdays scouring old microfilms in the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, documenting the concerts that M.S. had given in different places and at different times. When allowed a brief annual leave, he took research trips to London at his own expense, searching for materials in the British Library that were not available in India. When Keshav retired from service, the M.S. project, germinating in his mind over many decades, finally found fruition in a book published by HarperCollins earlier this year under the title Of Gifted Voice: The Life and Art of M.S. Subbulakshmi. An impressive work of scholarship, it stands with Oliver Craske’s Indian Sun: The Life and Music of Ravi Shankar as one of the two best books on an Indian musician. In retirement, Keshav also co-edited a well-researched collection of essays on his professional interests, Healers or Predators? Healthcare Corruption in India, published by the Oxford University Press. I admired Keshav for what he had done, and envied him for what he knew. We both liked to think of ourselves as ‘Nehruvian Indians’, as standing for the inclusive, culturally plural India that our first prime minister had fought for. However, Keshav was a Nehruvian Indian of a much deeper kind than I, with a far greater immersion in the cultural and linguistic richness of India. With his formidable knowledge of our music went a serious interest in our classical literatures as well. He spoke Telugu, Tamil, Hindi and English fluently, and knew some Sanskrit too. He could read all these languages easily, except for Telugu — indeed, at the time of his death he was learning the script of his mother tongue as part of his research for a book on the composer, Tyagaraja, which will now tragically lie unfinished. Keshav Desiraju detested Hindutva. The Hinduism he himself understood and practised had a humanity and compassion and a philosophical depth, altogether incomprehensible to the self-appointed defenders of the faith who violently stalk the streets of India today. Keshav combined a deep understanding of India’s civilizational ethos with a sharp awareness of the disfiguring elements in our tradition. As a younger Indian who knew him wrote, “Keshav Desiraju was a true deshbhakt, a man in whom the high founding ideals of our Republic were actually made out in flesh and blood.” Scholars can be solemn and humourless, bureaucrats pompous and self-regarding. This scholar-civil servant, however, had a sense of mischief and fun, as noted in Jo Chopra’s wonderful tribute in the The Indian Express. He has been gone merely a week, but there have already been half-a-dozen occasions when, reading something funny or farcical, I have thought, ‘I wish I could share this with Keshav.’ Keshav Desiraju was the first person I turned to for instruction on music, language, governance and public policy, and the first person I wished to pass on a joke or an interesting piece of gossip as well. I have many cherished memories of my compatriot, of which the earliest may be the most characteristic. On that 1988 trip to Almora, the social workers, Asit Mitra, Lalit Pande, Keshav and I, went one Sunday to see a sacred grove around the Banari Devi temple. We travelled, at Keshav’s request, not in the DM’s lal-batti sarkari gadi but in Asit’s rickety jeep. It was a joyous excursion, the most powerful man in the district utterly content being incognito with his friends as we walked up a hill densely clad in oak to the shrine at the top. Thirty years later, finding myself once more in Kumaon, I shared this story with Radha Bhatt, doyenne of the Gandhian movement in contemporary India. Radhabehn added a memory of her own. Whenever, as district magistrate of Almora, our friend found himself in Kausani, he would leave his driver at the foot of the hill atop which the Lakshmi Ashram lay and walk up alone to spend an hour or two with a person who knew the hills and its people better than anyone else alive. No DM before Keshav, and surely no DM after him, would have had the intelligence or humility to do anything remotely of this kind. As I was drafting this piece, a scholar mentored by Keshav Desiraju sent me a news clip of people in Almora mourning his loss. It had been three decades since he had served in the district, yet he was still remembered with respect and affection. Indeed, through what he did in his different assignments at the level of the district, the state secretariat, and the Union government, Keshav may have touched more lives, and in more salutary ways, than any other civil servant of his generation. Keshav Desiraju’s maternal grandfather was the philosopher, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the second president of the Republic. Keshav carried his lineage lightly and that, too, was characteristic of the man. Many who knew him had no clue of whose grandson he was. Yet, in a strange but entirely happy coincidence, he died on the birth anniversary of his grandfather, September 5, also known as Teachers’ Day. Through his work and his conduct, Keshav taught all those who knew him how to live a more honourable life. And very often how to live a more interesting life too. He was the most exemplary Indian of my acquaintance — exemplary as public servant, scholar, teacher, family man, and friend. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||RSS distances itself from namaz room row  ||RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat who is on a three-day visit to Dhanbad to discuss the ongoing activities of the organisation and discuss the future plan, laid emphasis on expanding its activities to all the 1067 rural units titled mandal and 847 urban units titled Bastis. Giving details of the deliberations held first two days of the meeting Rakesh Lal, Sah Prant Karyawahak of RSS said, “We will be celebrating the 100 years of establishment of RSS in 2025 and therefore discussed the details of expanding our activities in all the rural and as well as urban pockets of Jharkhand before that to make our services available to the common people.” “We have apprised him about the service to society carried out by our organisation during first two phases of the Covid right from providing medicines and foods to affected people and family to shouldering the dead bodies of victims of the pandemic to the crematorium and have also completed all preparations right for the identification of place and appointment of manpower for establishment of block level isolation centres during the third wave,” said Lal. Rakesh Lal who addressed the media to inform about the deliberations however avoided a direct comment for the recent controversy over the allotment of room for offering Namaz in the Jharkhand Assembly and said, “The issue relates to the prerogative of the government here.” “We have heard that the government is planning to reconsider the decision and a committee has also been constituted in this regard and we will comment as per the development after the government reconsideration of the issue” said Lal. When asked by the media about the caste based reservation issue he said, “RSS believes that distinction can’t be carried out between two persons on the basis of their caste as we rather believe in propagating and establishing social harmony and carrying out regular campaigns to narrow down the differences on the basis of caste and origin.” Asked by media about Congress leaders, Digvijay Singh’s recent statement equating RSS with Taliban, Lal said that, “A sea can only be compared with a sea, a mountain can be compared only with mountain so there is no meaning of the statement as Sangh can be compared only with Sangh (read) RSS.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: CBI probing judge death focuses on his pending cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation, probing the alleged murder case of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand has now shifted focus on the cases being dealt by the deceased judge ahead of the incident of July 28 when he was hit by an auto rickshaw near his house during a morning walk leading to his death. The CBI team has collected the details of important cases being dealt by the deceased Uttam Anand and is likely to search for connection, if any, of the accused persons of other cases with the two arrested persons including auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma. The CBI is also likely to find out if any other person who has been denied bail in the court of Uttam Anand may have any link with his death. Notices are being sent to several such persons including the accused persons besides the complainant persons for questioning by the investigation team from Delhi. Two youths including Vikram Singh of Barora and Shahid Ansari of Katras whose cases were also pending in the court of Judge Uttam Anand were questioned by the CBI in the last two days. Vikram Singh, an accused of the violence at a colliery site was questioned on Friday at Katras police station while Shahid Ansari an accused of another colliery violence, was questioned on Saturday. The CBI team which reached Barora police station on Friday called Singh with the help of local police and later took him to Katra police station for questioning. The CBI team later also tried to question Shahid Ansari on Friday but as he was away he was later questioned today. Notably, the SIT of state police led by Sanjay Anand Latkar, ADJ (Operations) which carried out the probe into the cases ever since the incident of July 28 till August 5 when CBI took over the case interrogated several key persons whose  cases are being dealt by judge Uttam Anand including two members of the gang of UP based shooter, Aman Singh whose bail were denied by Uttam Anand. The state police as part of its investigation also questioned over 250 criminals and history sheeters of Dhanbad lodged in different jails across the  state including in Ranchi and Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Football Academy wins award for encouraging youngsters to join sports ||The Tata Football Academy, the youth arm of Jamshedpur FC, has been awarded ‘The Hall of Fame – Youth Development Award’ for its contribution to Indian football by Global Soccer Conclave in its virtual event. The event took place between September 5 and 7 and concluded with the award function. TFA has produced 150 national team players since its inception in 1987 in Jamshedpur, which has been a pioneering effort by Tata Steel, where sport is a way of life.       Jamshedpur FC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari was one of the esteemed panellists for the GSC live discussion where he discussed the Asian football business and various other topics. Jamshedpur FC also had player Ishan Pandita as a representative in the conclave as he won the ‘Most Popular Emerging Player’ award for his heroics in the Indian Super League in the previous season. GSC is a didactic platform of knowledge networking between developed and developing football ecosystems to explore, identify and implement measures to improve football performance of businesses. The event had participation of international clubs, federations, and various other stakeholders. Jamshedpur FC is taking serious steps to develop the football ecosystem in Jharkhand through a grassroots programme launched in 2018. The grassroots programme is helmed by Kundan Chandra. Kundan, a retired Indian Navy officer with a background in aeronautical engineering, has a rich pedigree of coaching background. He is an AFC A Licensed Coach, FIFA Grassroot Instructor, AFC C License Instructor and an AIFF D License Instructor. Besides football festivals for kids under the age groups of 5 to 12,workshops for the coaches, which is an open session for anyone above the age of 18, is also part of the grassroots programme, The primary focus of the club is to educate and develop grassroot coaches so that the children can identify their true potential and graduate to the senior team (read JFC) which participates in the cash-rich Indian Super League. Three graduates -- Mobashir Rahman, Sandeep Mandi and Pronay Halder -- of the elite TFA are presently in the JFC squad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to harness power from its waterfalls ||Jharkhand has identified about a dozen waterbodies, including four waterfalls in Ranchi, for setting up hydroelectric power plants as a part of a green initiative to rely more on renewable sources of energy for meeting the power demands within the state, officials said on Saturday. The four waterfalls in Ranchi – Dasham, Jonha, Hundru and Sita – will be included in this initiative, said sources in Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA), adding that generation from each of the hydroelectric power plants will be in the range of 1 MegaWatt to 20 MegaWatt, depending on the current and nature of the waterbody. State energy secretary Avinash Kumar said the department of energy has been on the lookout for water bodies for setting up hydroelectric power plants. "We have been identifying water bodies across the state for instaling hydroelectric power plants. Increasing our dependability on renewable sources of energy has always been a priority,” said Kumar. An official from JREDA, requesting anonymity, said that besides the four waterfalls in Ranchi, hydroelectric power plants will also be installed at Torpa, Manoharpur, Basia, Arki, Sugabandh and Raidih. JREDA has prepared the DPR for some of these projects. Setting up hydroelectric power plants at the four waterfalls in Ranchi is likely to cost about Rs 100 crore, sources in the energy department said. Ranchi, also known as the city of waterfalls, is yet to utilise most of its natural waterfalls for generation of energy. This initiative, officials said, will ensure that the waterfalls in the state capital are not just known for their beauty but also for their utility in production of energy. During the recently held investors’ summit in New Delhi, Chief Minister Hemant Soren had stressed on the government’s push for renewable energy and invited investors to set up plants in the state. The hydroelectric power plants may also be run in private public partnership (PPP) mode, sources in the energy department said. The government, however, will provide all possible infrastructural facilities to investors. JREDA has already floated tenders for installation of solar panels at five airports, including the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi, for generating solar power that can not only light up the airports but also provide electricity to some residential localities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Rebel den Latehar witnesses Taiwan papaya farm||Mahuadanr in Latehar, infamous for rebel activities and known for its wolf sanctuary, is witnessing a novel and progressive farming of the Taiwan papaya. The initiative is being done by a young intermediate commerce graduate Ujjawal Lakra. Lakra told The Telegraph Online that he first searched on the internet as to what to grow and then fell in love with the Taiwan papaya for its exotic name like Red lady 786. 786 has been a popular Hindi film heroes badge like Amitabh Bachchan in his film Coolie and Govinda wears it in the film Coolie Number One. For Ujjawal Lakra 786 has clicked too, he said. "I am growing Red lady 786 Taiwan papaya in my one acre of land at Baira Toli in Mahuadanr just 5km away from the Mahuadanr block and 110km away from Daltonganj," said Lakra. "I did my intermediate commerce course from the prestigious Marwari college Ranchi and then I decided to build a house on this one acre of land when someone told me about Taiwan papaya and its good market value," he said. Lakra got Taiwan papaya saplings from West Bengal at Rs 60 per sapling. Taiwan papaya plants last for 18 months which means fruits will be coming for eighteen months only in one Taiwan papaya plant before it has to be uprooted for new ones to be sown there. “Taiwan papaya is tasty and grows as little as a papaya plant of three to five feet in height,” he said. Lakra has 600 papaya plants in his one acre of land and one plant can give little over one quintal of papaya. Sources said the papaya has a great market in Lohardaga in Jharkhand and Lakra is too happy to sell his papaya consignment there. A noted physician Anand Kumar here said intake of papaya in everyday meals is good for people of all ages especially in this time of Covid 19. He said there is a misconception that costly fruits give energy only whereas papaya, guava,banana etc a regular use of them can do wonders. About irrigational constraints Lakra said he faced water crisis before, but now with MGNREGA he has a deep well and has started drip irrigation too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
