12-09-2021||Business||Factors That May Affect Your Personal Loan Interest Rate||If you are currently looking for a personal loan, you may have noticed that interest rates vary from bank to bank. Simply put, the interest rates you’re offered are a reflection of risk. If a bank identifies risk, it charges a higher rate of interest. Since the interest rates determine your overall loan costs, it’s useful to know what banks consider when deciding interest rates. Knowing the factors can help you get the best deal on your loan. To help you out, here are some parameters which affect personal loan interest rates. Income For banks, high-income borrowers are always the safest bet. Why? Because a higher income translates to a better loan repayment ability. Specifically, banks consider income relative to debt. For instance, if you have a sizable income with little obligations, you might bag a lower rate as you have more disposable income. On the other hand, banks might not forward you a loan if you have a low income with many obligations. However, certain banks such as IndusInd Bank enable you to apply for a personal loan with a minimum monthly salary of Rs. 15,000. Credit Score Your credit score is a reflection of how effectively you manage your debt. With a strong enough credit score, you can obtain loans quickly without undergoing any hassles. But did you know that banks offer lower personal loan interest rates if you have a higher score? Yes, by maintaining a good credit rating, you can hit two birds with one stone – faster loan approvals and lower interest rates. One way to bump up credit scores is to pay all your loan EMIs and credit card bills on time and in full. By doing this, you’ll be on a fast track towards better credit scores, and hence, better loan terms. Employer Reputation Yes, the reputation of your organisation matters! If you are working with a trusted company, you can procure a better deal on personal loan interest rates. The reason is quite simple – banks perceive employees working at reputed organisations to have stable careers and income, making them less likely to default on payments. If you work for a small company or start-up with a low employee size, banks will likely charge you higher interest rates. The same goes for self-employed individuals. Needless to say, if you’re nearing retirement, your interest rate is bound to be higher. Loan Payment History Apart from your credit score, banks also take a good look at your loan repayment history before approving your application. If you have a high number of defaults, it reflects poor loan repayment ability, translating to higher interest rates. Banks usually offer you better interest rates if you don’t have any defaults in over a year. The Relationship with Your Bank Like any relationship, a long relationship with your bank builds trust. If you’ve been a loyal customer of a bank for a long time, chances are, they’ll reward you by offering you discounts on interest rates. So, before you start shopping around, you should get in touch with your bank to see if you qualify for any loyalty benefits. Final Word Now that you know the factors that influence personal loan interest rates, you can use this info to negotiate your way to a better rate. With lower interest rates, you can easily fulfil your desires without draining your savings!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Sign FTAs with US, EU for helping domestic exporters: Parliamentary panel to govt ||The government should resolve its differences and sign free-trade agreements with the US and the EU to help domestic exporters, a parliamentary panel report has said. The parliamentary standing committee on commerce, chaired by YSR Congress leader Vijaysai Reddy, submitted the report to the chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Venkaiah Naidu, where it expressed concern that India’s exports contracted from 2019-20, registering a decline of (-) 15.73 per cent in 2020. The panel underlined that the Indian exporters are at a disadvantage in the US and the European markets while competing with other exporting nations because of the absence of FTAs with these countries. The committee felt that India needs to step up its efforts in export promotion, expand its export baskets and enter new markets to recover from its current slump and increase its share in global exports. The committee said the commerce department should iron out the issues that blocked the signing of FTAs with leading trade partners and enter into trade agreements that will benefit the country while balancing the interests of the domestic market with that of the exporters. The panel also expressed concern that the share of rail freight vis-a-vis road was only 35 per cent whereas the trend was reversed in developed countries. The panel recommended the railways ministry to undertake a detailed study on the reason for the low share and try to increase its share in freight traffic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||NCLAT admits Venugopal Dhoot petition against Anil Agarwal's Twin Star takeover bid||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has admitted a petition filed by Venugopal Dhoot, the former Videocon group chairman and managing director, who had challenged a June 9 order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The tribunal in its order had approved a Rs 2,962-crore takeover bid for its 13 group companies by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies. The appellate tribunal has issued notices to the resolution professional, lenders and Twin Star Technologies directing them to file a reply by September 17. “We have considered the submissions of various parties. We admit the appeal and the respondents are directed to file their reply by September 15, 2021 and, thereafter, the rejoinder, if any, be filed by September 17, 2021,” a PTI report quoting the NCLAT said. The two-member bench comprising Justice J.K. Jain and A.K. Mishra has listed the matter for hearing on September 20. In June, the Mumbai bench of the NCLT gave its nod for the Rs 2,962 crore takeover bid by Twin Star Technologies for the 13 companies of the Videocon group. However, this order was stayed by the appellate tribunal on July 19 over the petitions filed by two dissatisfied creditors of the Videocon group — Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd — and had directed to maintain “status quo ante”. This stay was extended further till September 20, the next date of hearing in the issue. Dhoot, in his petition filed before the NCLAT, has requested to set aside the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the NCLT and to direct the lenders to consider a Rs 31,789- crore settlement plan submitted by him under section 12A of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The NCLT Mumbai bench through its order on December 15, 2020 had said that the foreign oil and gas assets of the Videocon group, held through its foreign subsidiaries, were purchased by Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) and were to be treated as assets of VIL, Dhoot said in his plea. He claimed that the liquidation value of these oil assets was not less than Rs 15,000 crore.  The bids for the oil and gas assets are yet to be decided and Dhoot wants them to be included in the resolution plan. Dhoot in his petition said that the resolution professional (RP) or the committee of creditors (Coc) have no authority to sell the oil assets and consumer durables separately. “If the RP had sold the oil and consumer durables together, the RP would have got a minimum Rs 25,000 crore against a loan of Rs 49,000 crore (Rs 29,000 crore of VIL consumer durables and Rs 20,000 crore of the oil assets). Thus recovery would have been around 50 per cent and not 5 per cent as seen today,’’ the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Par panel asks Comm Min to engage with FinMin on increasing allocations for RoDTEP||The commerce ministry should engage with its finance counterpart for additional allocation under the recently notified tax rebate scheme for exporters — RoDTEP — as the budgeted Rs 12,500 crore for the programme would be inadequate to meet its objectives, the parliamentary panel on commerce said. Last month, the government announced rates of tax refunds under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme for 8,555 products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Govt cuts import duty on edible oil||The government has slashed the base custom duties on palm oil, soyoil and sunflower oil to contain spiralling edible oil prices. The base import tax on crude palm oil has been reduced to 2.5 per cent from 10 per cent, while the tax on crude soyoil and sunflower oil has been cut to 2.5 per cent from 7.5 per cent, the finance ministry said in a notification issued late on Friday. The new rates came into effect from Saturday. The import duty along with the cess on crude palm oil will be 24.75 per cent against 30.25 per cent. On RBD (refined, bleached, and deodorized) palm oil, it will come down to 35.75 per cent from 41.25 per cent. For crude degummed soyoil, the new rate will be 24.75 per cent against 30.25 per cent and on refined soybean oil, the rate has been lowered to 35.75 per cent from 41.25 per cent. “The domestic bullishness in edible oils is led by low arrival of mustard seeds. We had suggested a reduction in import duty on rapeseed oil in line with soya and sunflower oil. This will also go a long way in cooling all edible oil prices as internationally edible oil prices have started showing some weakness,” said B. V. Mehta, executive director, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Accel, Premji Invest and others invest over $100 mn in Amagi||Tech firm Amagi on Saturday said Accel, Avataar Ventures, Norwest Venture Partners and existing investor Premji Invest have collectively invested over $100 million (about Rs 735.2 crore) in the company. The venture funds have bought out the stake held by Emerald Media (an investment platform backed by KKR) and Mayfield Fund, a statement said. Nadathur Holdings continues as an existing investor in Amagi, a cloud-based SaaS (software as a service) technology for broadcast and connected TV, it added. “The transaction heralds the coming together of best-in-class SaaS venture funds and one of the largest media SaaS companies globally to accelerate the tremendous momentum for the $50 billion cloud-based video content creation, distribution, and monetisation market,” it said. The partnership will provide media companies the much-needed agility and efficiency to succeed in the traditional broadcast and the evolving OTT and streaming TV universe, it added. Amagi co-founder and CEO Baskar Subramanian said the company will immensely benefit from the collective experience of Accel, Avataar, Norwest, and Premji Invest in rapidly scaling its business and expanding its global footprint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Blow to Apple over App Store||Apple has been ordered to overhaul its App Store in a potential blow to one of its most lucrative businesses. An American judge on Friday delivered her ruling in a bitterly fought legal case brought by the owner of Fortnite, the popular computer game. Epic Games had accused Apple of acting as a monopoly by forcing users to pay for in-app purchases through the iPhone maker’s payment system. The ruling stated that Apple cannot prevent developers from providing buttons or links in their apps that direct customers to pay in other ways for apps and subscriptions. It also cannot bar developers from contacting customers using information obtained after they sign up within an app, the judge said. Apple levies a fee of as much as 30 per cent on revenues generated through its App Store. Epic Games had branded the charge the “Apple Tax”. The ruling comes after a three-week trial in May before Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers of the US District Court for the Northern District of California. Apple shares fell more than 2 per cent as investors digested her ruling. The decision undermines a mainstay of the business model of the App Store, which prohibit developers from explicitly encouraging users to pay them directly. The judge stopped short of granting Epic some of its other wishes such as forcing Apple to open up the iPhone to third-party app stores and allowed Apple to continue to charge commissions of 15-30 per cent for its own in-app payment system. She ruled that Epic had failed to demonstrate that Apple is an illegal monopolist, but it did show that the smartphone giant engaged in anti-competitive practices. India reaction The US court verdict evinced a strong reaction from Indian app developers. “We look forward to a reality where Indian developers will have a choice of which payment options to adopt and Indian payment players will get a level playing field to compete in the app economy. Such a move will unleash app economy revolution in India while also putting more money in the hands of developers,” Sijo Kuruvilla George, executive director — Alliance of Digital India Foundation, said. He expressed the hope that “the development will force introspection on the part of Apple and Google to act less like a toll gate collector and more like a service provider. It is critical that the government also enacts laws to ensure the interests of Indian developers are safeguarded”. With inputs from Delhi bureau and agencies||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Epic's narrow win in App Store case toughens fight against Google Play rules||Android app makers suing to stop Alphabet Inc’s Google from siphoning up to 30 per cent of their sales received little reassurance about their chances on Friday as a judge allowed a comparable fee charged by Apple Inc to stand. Developers, including “Fortnite” maker Epic Games, in the last year took aim at the two biggest mobile app stores, run by Apple and Google. The critics view the fee as needlessly high, costing developers collectively billions of dollars a year, and a function of the two big tech companies having monopoly power. Google’s trial is at least a year away, time both sides could use to hone arguments based on the Apple decision, legal experts said. Google’s Play store employs rules similar to the ones struck down in the Apple case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||India||India to get third set of Swiss bank details in Sept, to include data on real estate assets||India will get this month the third set of Swiss bank account details of its nationals under an automatic exchange of information pact with Switzerland and this will include for the first time the data about real estate properties owned by Indians there, officials said on Sunday.  Marking a key milestone in the Indian government's fight against black money allegedly stashed abroad, India will get this month the complete information on flats, apartments and condominiums owned by Indians in Switzerland as also on earnings made from such properties to help it look into tax liabilities associated with those assets.  The move assumes significance on the part of Switzerland as well as the European Alpine nation is trying hard to reposition itself as a key global financial centre while warding off the long-persisting perception about the Swiss banking system being an alleged safe haven for black money.  While it would be the third time that India will get details about bank accounts and other financial assets held by Indians in Switzerland, it will be the first time that the information being shared with India would include information about the real estate assets.  While the Swiss government has agreed to share details of real estate assets, the information about contributions to non-profit organisations and other such foundations, as also details on investments in digital currencies still remain out of bounds from the automatic exchange of information framework, officials said.  Experts and those engaged in the business of attracting investments to Switzerland said the move would help clear misconceptions about all fund inflows into Swiss assets being illicit and would go a long way in establishing Switzerland as a preferred investment destination, including for real estate properties.  Himanshu, Founder and CEO of Switzerland For You SA, the parent firm of IDDI Investments, which is engaged in the business of attracting investments from India and other countries to Switzerland including in startups and real estate, said transparency has its own virtues and the proposal of the Switzerland government to share information about property ownership of foreign clients with other countries including India is welcome.  "We find no valid reason for Swiss authorities to hide such information. After all, the ownership of property is not something which can be kept under wraps," said the India-origin entrepreneur who goes by his first name only and is settled in Geneva for many years.  "Sharing of such information with other countries under AEOI will bring in more transparency and act as deterrence for those intending to buy Swiss properties from ill-gotten wealth. The move will go a long way in making Switzerland an attractive investment destination," he added.  India had received the first set of details from Switzerland under AEOI (Automatic Exchange of Information) in September 2019. It was among 75 countries to get such information that year.  In September 2020, India received the second set of Swiss bank account details of its nationals and entities, along with 85 other recipient countries with whom Switzerland's Federal Tax Administration (FTA) exchanged information on financial accounts within the framework of global standards on AEOI last year.  From this year, Switzerland's Federal Council, the country's top governing body, has decided to implement a key recommendation of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, under which Swiss authorities will also share details about investments made by foreigners in the Swiss real estate sector.  However, some other recommendations of the Global Forum, including about sharing of information on digital currency accounts and contributions made to foundations and non-profit organisations are yet to be accepted and therefore those details would not be shared by Switzerland with India or any other countries for now.  Hectic lobbying is underway globally to convince Switzerland to start sharing information about digital currency accounts and contributions made to non-profit entities as well.  In each of the last two years, Switzerland has shared details about nearly three million financial accounts with various jurisdictions, while the count is expected to be higher this year.  For the last two years, India has been among prominent countries with which Switzerland has shared details about financial accounts of clients of Swiss banks and various other financial institutions, while it is also expected to figure high this year with regard to details about real estate properties.  Resident and non-resident Indians, as well as Indian companies, would account for a sizeable number in the overall list of those figuring in this year's exchange of information by Switzerland, officials privy to the development said.  Besides, Swiss authorities have already shared information about more than 100 Indian citizens and entities so far this year on receipt of requests for administrative assistance in cases involving probes into financial wrongdoings including tax evasion, the officials added. This count has been similar in the past few years.  These cases mostly relate to older accounts that might have been closed before 2018, for which Switzerland has shared details with India under an earlier framework of mutual administrative assistance as Indian authorities had provided prima facie evidence of tax-related wrongdoing by those account holders. AEOI is applicable only to accounts that are active or were closed during 2018.  Some of these cases relate to entities set up by Indians in various overseas jurisdictions like Panama, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands, while the individuals include mostly businessmen and a few politicians and erstwhile royals as well as their family members.  The officials, however, refused to share details about the exact number of accounts or the quantum of assets held in the accounts held by Indians, for which the information has been shared with India, citing strict confidentiality clauses governing the exchange framework.  The information shared by Swiss authorities includes identification, account and financial information, such as name, address, country of residence and tax identification number, as well as information concerning the reporting financial institution, account balance and capital income.  The exchanged information allows tax authorities to verify whether taxpayers have correctly declared their financial accounts in their tax returns.  The 86 countries covered under the AEOI in 2020 included 11 new jurisdictions -- Anguilla, Aruba, Bahamas, Bahrain, Grenada, Israel, Kuwait, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Panama and the United Arab Emirates -- in addition to a list of 75 countries, with whom information was shared in 2019.  Switzerland's first such exchange took place at the end of September 2018 and involved 36 countries, but India did not figure in the list at that time.  Nearly 10,000 entities, including financial institutions such as banks, trusts and insurers, as also condominium and apartment owners' associations are expected to have shared details about their overseas clients with the Federal Tax Authority of Switzerland for further sharing with foreign jurisdictions.  Switzerland has committed itself to adopt the global standard for the international automatic exchange of information in tax matters. The legal basis for the implementation of AEOI in Switzerland came into force on January 1, 2017.  However, AEOI only applies to accounts that are officially in the name of Indians and they might include those used for business and other genuine purposes.  The Global Forum of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) reviews AEOI implementation.  According to experts, the AEOI data received by India has been quite useful for establishing a strong prosecution case against those who have any unaccounted wealth, as it provides entire details of deposits and transfers as well as of all earnings, including through investments in securities and other assets.  On condition of anonymity, several officials said the details relate mostly to businessmen, including non-resident Indians now settled in several South-East Asian countries as well as in the US, the UK and even some African and South American countries.  A Swiss delegation was in India in August 2019 before the first set of details could get shared and the two sides also discussed possible steps to expedite the execution of tax information-sharing requests made by India in specific cases.  It is feared many Indians might have closed their accounts after a global crackdown on black money led to Switzerland buckling under international pressure to open its banking sector for scrutiny to clear the long-held perception of Swiss banks being safe haven for undisclosed funds.  Switzerland agreed to AEOI with India after a long process, including a review of the necessary legal framework in India on data protection and confidentiality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-09-2021||India||CBI arrests seven in murder case linked to Bengal post-poll violence||The CBI has arrested seven persons on Sunday in connection with a murder case in Cooch Behar linked to post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials said. The family of the victim, Hardhan Roy, had alleged that one Arjun Munda had taken him to Rajaghora river on May 3 where he was found smeared in blood, they said. He was taken to the hospital where he had died during treatment, according to the FIR. The CBI had arrested four persons on Saturday in connection with another murder case in Tufanganj reported during the violence. It was alleged that on May 4 TMC supporters Sahinur Ahmed and Prosenjit were having dinner when four BJP supporters joined them. After the dinner, Sahinur and Prosenjit were attacked resulting in severe injuries. They were dragged to a nearby maize field and left there. Prosenjit survived but Sahinur was found dead, the FIR said. The CBI has taken over the cases on the instructions of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court that had entrusted to the agency the investigation of alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in West Bengal, they said. The high court's directives came after a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) committee submitted a report on the violence in the state that followed the declaration of assembly election results on May 2 in which the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress humbled the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||UP jails no more ‘fun centres’ for criminals, says Yogi Adityanath||Jails in Uttar Pradesh are no more "fun" centres for criminals and they have turned into "reform homes" for them, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday. The chief minister proclaimed it while inaugurating and laying foundation stones for 122 developmental projects worth Rs 245 crore in Sant Kabir Nagar district. The projects also included the district prison built at Rs 126 crore. "We have converted state jails into reform homes where criminals are being given an opportunity to reform. The UP jails are no more places of fun for criminals, an official statement quoted the chief minister as saying on the occasion. There was a time when the power used to be a slave of mafias. Today the government bulldozers run on their houses," Adityanath said. The chief minister warned that his government will not let mafias have their say. “Our message to mafias is very clear. If mafias want to make the lives of the poor, farmers and traders hell, our government will not let this happen,” he said. Expressing satisfaction over the newly built jail in the Sant Kabir Nagar district, the chief minister said the prisoners from here will not have to be sent to Basti district and this prison would become a model reform home. Adityanath also accused the previous governments of making the state a synonym of dynastic politics, nepotism, appeasement, dacoity, hooliganism and riots . "The jobs for youths were auctioned and the poor were deprived of their morsels. Jobs were earlier mortgaged. If anyone tries to auction a job today, we will get their house auctioned," he added. The UP government has given over 4.5 lakh government jobs to youths on the basis of their merit, with complete transparency, the UP CM said, adding that recruitment for around 90,000 more government jobs is to start soon in UP. The recruitment of 30,000 women policemen is an important step in this direction, the chief minister said, adding the government is continuously taking up several schemes like Mission Shakti, Kanya Sumangala and destitute women pension in their interest. He reiterated that youths preparing for various competitions will get a 'competitive examination allowance' in the state. The Uttar Pradesh government has also decided to distribute tablets along with digital access to youths of the state. The chief minister also envisaged turning Sant Kabir Nagar into a hub of readymade garments. "Once Khalilabad in this district used to be a big centre of looms and handlooms. In such a situation, why can't it become a hub of readymade garments? he asked. If we link women with the market by giving them modern sewing machines, every house will start making readymade garments. In such a situation, we can even overtake Bangladesh and Vietnam in terms of production of readymade garments," he added. Adityanath also recalled another strong point of the district its utensils industry in Bakhira and said it would be another source of growth for Sant Kabir Nagar. "It was forgotten by the previous governments, but we are working towards making Bakhira's utensils industry recognised on the global stage. It will become a major source of employment for youths and women at the local level," he said. Adityanath also announced his government's plan to set up a medical college in the district under the PPP model. Expressing concern over the flood situation in Sant Kabir Nagar, the CM said the government is providing relief kits in sufficient quantities to every victim. Adequate availability of anti-snake venom and the anti-rabies vaccine has been ensured in the flood-affected areas, he added. Sant Kabir Nagar will not lag behind any district now on the scale of development, he said, adding the land of Baba Tameshwarnath and great Sufi saint Kabir was on the path of development. Political announcements were made for development earlier too but they were never implemented. But in the last four and a half years there has been a change, Adityanath said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Moily bats for Prashant Kishor's induction in Congress, says some leaders 'misused' G-23||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Sunday said some leaders "misused" the G-23 and asserted that if anyone persists with its institutionalisation it would be for "vested interest" as reform of the party was already underway under Sonia Gandhi.  The former Union minister also voiced strong support for poll strategist Prashant Kishor's induction into the Congress and said those opposing his entry into the party were "anti-reform".  In an interview with PTI, Moily, who was among the 23 leaders who wrote to Gandhi last year seeking organizational overhaul, opposed the institutionalisation of the G-23 and said "some of us put our signatures only for reform of the party from within and to rebuild the party, not to destroy it".  "Some of our leaders misused the G-23. No sooner did Sonia ji think of reforming the party from within and from the grassroots level, we did not subscribe to the idea of G-23," the senior Congress leader said, without taking any names.  He said with the initiation of reform under party chief Sonia Gandhi's leadership, the G-23 has "no role and has become irrelevant".  "If they (some leaders) persist (with G-23) that means there is a vested interest for a few of them to work against the Congress party which we don't subscribe to and rather oppose it," Moily said.  Anybody who again uses the instrument of G-23 is doing a great disservice to the Indian National Congress and its legacy, he said, adding such actions would help the Congress' rivals.  His remarks assume significance as many leaders of the G-23 have either distanced themselves from it or have been silent following the letter they wrote last year. Out of that group of 23 leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi, Jitin Prasada has switched over to the BJP.  A few members of the G-23 had got together at social gatherings a couple of times at Kapil Sibal's residence recently and reportedly discussed party issues. At one of the gatherings, Sibal had invited a host of opposition leaders as well to his residence.  Moily said the "major surgery" of the party that he has been talking about to revitalize the organisation was already being contemplated by Sonia Gandhi.  "She (Sonia Gandhi) is active and taking decisions, such decisions are needed," he said, adding he was happy with the steps taken by the party chief.  Asked about speculation that Kishor could join the Congress, Moily said it was advisable that he joins the Congress and injects reforms from within.  Moily urged those within the party opposing Kishor's entry into the Congress not to do so, saying it was important for the country and the Congress that the party be reformed, which, he said, was the intention of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.  According to sources, Congress president Sonia Gandhi will take a final call on the induction of Kishor and has held discussions with several senior leaders on the issue.  Asked if he thinks Kishor's induction will be beneficial for the party, Moily said the poll strategist has proved that he is successful in working out strategies.  "Instead of working from outside, if he joins the party, it will be quite beneficial," he added.  "Let there be strong willpower to join hands with Sonia ji to ensure that the party's organisation is strengthened within a couple of months. This is what I proposed that Prashant Kishor can inject that kind of resurgence of the Congress party (that is needed) by plan and design," Moily said.  He also said the Congress is the main plank of the politics of this country.  "We may lose sometimes but it cannot be said that we will lose forever. For example, in 1977 we lost and in 1980 with all the allegations against her (Indira Gandhi), ultimately the people found that they wanted the Congress and Indira ji came back, this is the history of the Congress," he said when asked about NCP chief Sharad Pawar's remarks suggesting that Congress' situation was now like impoverished landlords.  Moily also pointed out that Pawar himself has acknowledged that Congress was the only party in power in multiple states that could take on the BJP.  "Congress is the fulcrum of the strength of the politics of this country," Moily asserted.  Asked if Congress would be the fulcrum of an Opposition alliance to take on the BJP in 2024 elections, he answered in the affirmative.  "Ultimately the government cannot function to serve the interest of a group of people, few castes or few religions, it cannot be done. Just because the people are silent it does not mean that they cannot stage a political revolution, they can do it but only under the leadership of the Congress," Moily said.  It should be remembered that the integrity of the Constitution of India is under threat under the NDA regime, he alleged.  Hitting out at those alleging that the Congress was all about the benefit of one family, Moily said Sonia Gandhi had sacrificed for the country and never hankered for posts.  The Congress is the backbone of forces to take on the BJP, Moily said.  Asked about calls from within the Congress that Rahul Gandhi should be made the chief of the party again, he said the Wayanad MP was best suited to lead the party but added that presently it was important to turn attention to reorganise and revamp the party.  Moily, who was recently appointed convenor of a seven-member panel of the party to study matters related to caste census, said it was not about polarisation on the basis of caste but demand for equality and not something that would perpetuate the caste system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear pleas on Pegasus snooping row on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged snooping on certain people in India involving Israeli spyware Pegasus. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had on September 7 granted more time to the Centre to decide on filing a further response on the petitions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that due to some difficulties he could not meet the officials concerned to take a decision on the filing of the second affidavit. The Centre had earlier filed a limited affidavit in the apex court saying the pleas seeking an independent probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations are based on "conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material". On August 17, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on the pleas, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security. In its short affidavit filed in the court earlier, the Centre had said the position on the issue has already been clarified in Parliament by Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. With a view of dispelling any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and examining the issues raised, the government will constitute a committee of experts, it had said. The top court, while issuing notice on the pleas, had said that it did not want the government to disclose anything related to the national security and had asked the Centre what is the "problem" if the competent authority files an affidavit before it on the issue. "Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient," the law officer had told the bench, adding, "The Government of India is before the highest court of the country." The law officer had said if the government of any country divulges information about which software is used and which is not used, then those involved in terrorist activities may take preemptive measures. The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||AAP to contest all seats in UP Assembly polls||Asserting that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, senior leader Sanjay Singh has said it would be a mistake to consider AAP a minnow as it had emerged "stronger" than the Congress in the recent panchayat polls. The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP made it clear that it is not in talks with any other party for an alliance in the UP assembly election due early next year. “Our party is stronger than the Congress in the state. While the Congress won 40 seats in panchayat polls, we scored a victory in 83panchayats. AAP got over 40 lakh votes in these polls, where 1600 party candidates contested,” Singh, who is AAP's UP incharge, told PTI in an interview. The Congress was reduced to seven seats in the 2017 election to the 403-member UP Assembly. The AAP had earlier tested poll waters in the 2014 and 2019 Parliamentary elections on some selected seats in UP without any success. After coming to power in Delhi, it emerged as the main opposition party in Punjab and has been trying to expand its base in other states like Goa, Uttarakhand and Gujarat. Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal had himself contested against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi in 2014 and stood second ahead of the Congress and the Samajwadi party nominees. AAP had also contested three seats of Saharanpur, Aligarh and Gautam Budh Nagar in UP but could not do much. "We are preparing to contest on all 403 seats alone. We are presently not in talks for an alliance with any other party. Our focus is to strengthen our base in the state and in the past one and a half months, we have made over one crore members," Singh said. "The party has made Vidhan Sabha incharges in 100-150 seats and our leaders are meeting those who want to contest," said 49-year-old Singh who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Singh, who is a Rajya Sabha MP, said the main issue to be raised by the AAP in the assembly elections "will be BJP's nationalism versus AAP's nationalism". "BJP's nationalism is fake. Its nationalism is full of hatred and communalism. At the same time, the nationalism of the AAP is providing good education, good health, free electricity,free water, women's security and happiness," he said, He hit out at the BJP, claiming it was "afraid" of the AAP's model of governance and was indulging in vindictive politics. "Sixteen cases including that of sedition were filed against me. I got a stay from the Supreme Court in a sedition case. The BJP is doing vindictive politics. Our office here was closed by them. We are facing them strongly," he said. "AAP's model of governance focuses on education, health, education and providing basic facilities to the poor and needs. Our model is an answer to casteist and communal politics played by the BJP," Singh said. Providing jobs, unemployment allowance and better prices to farmers" are among the issues the party will take up, he said. The outcome of the UP assembly polls is considered important as it would reflect on the 2024 general election. The opposition sees an opportunity against the BJP in the bellwether state especially due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the SP and BSP have already launched their election campaign to woo various communities, the Congress under the leadership of its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is sparing no effort to revive the party at the grassroots level. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM, AAP and over a dozen small caste-centric regional parties ave also announced that they are entering the ring in the politically significant state. Singh said they will highlight the "failures" of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the past four and a half years. We are exposing them at the grassroots level. This government as promised during the polls made 'Shamshan' (cremation ground) in every village. In corona pandemic, every village became 'Shamshan' and people died without treatment and lack of medicines," he alleged. "The government failed to control crime and criminal activities. Incidents like Hathras and others exposed tall claims on law and order. There are scams galore and even Kumbh and Ram Temple were not spared by scamsters," he alleged. In the BJP regime, the state went "backwards" as they have "no concept of development", he said adding that without increasing the "purchasing power" of people there will be no economic boost. About the presence of Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM in UP polls and other fronts of smaller parties, Singh said, "Everyone has the right to contest in democracy." Kejriwal, who entered politics after gaining the spotlight during Gandhian Anna Hazare's movement for the Lokpal legislation, is also spearheading the party's campaign in neighbouring Uttarakhand, where the AAP is projecting itself as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Derek O'Brien accuses BJP of not keeping 2014 poll promise||Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien Sunday slammed the Centre over the Women's Reservation Bill, accusing the BJP of failing to pass the legislation despite assurances in the party's 2014 election manifesto. O'Brien also posted a video on Twitter of his recent speech in Rajya Sabha over the issue. "Today makes it 25 years since the WOMEN'S RESERVATION BILL was introduced in #Parliament. 25 years. No Bill passed. MO-SHA's BJP even promised it in their 2014 Manifesto. FAIL," the TMC MP tweeted. The bill aims at 33 per cent reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies. O'Brien, in the video of his speech, claimed that there is 25 per cent representation of women in legislatures across the world, while the national average is 13 per cent. In the BJP, the number of women MPs in Parliament is around 10-11 per cent, he said. The TMC national spokesman said in contrast, close to 40 per cent of his party's MPs in both Houses of Parliament are women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel elected to be next Gujarat chief minister||BJP MLA Bhupendra Patel will be the new chief minister of Gujarat. Patel (59) was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader here on Sunday. His name was proposed by CM Vijay Rupani, whose resignation from the post on Saturday surprised many. Most of the 112 MLAs of the party in the 182-member Assembly were present at the meeting, BJP sources said. Patel won the 2017 Gujarat Legislative Assembly elections from Ghatlodia constituency, defeating Congress candidate Shashikant Patel by over one lakh votes, the highest winning margin in the 2017 Gujarat polls. Bhupendra Patel holds a diploma in civil engineering. Fondly called as ‘Dada’ by many, he is considered to be close to former Gujarat chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. He represents the Assembly constituency that is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Union minister Amit Shah. In the past, Patel had served as the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) between 2015 and 2017. Before that, he was also the standing committee chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the largest urban local body in Gujarat, between 2010 and 2015. With Patel being named the new legislature party leader, the suspense over who will succeed Rupani as Gujarat chief minister has ended. The new leader is scheduled to meet the governor and stake claim to form the government, sources said. BJP's central observers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Joshi and party general secretary Tarun Chaug were present at the legislature party meet. Tomar met state BJP chief C R Paatil on Sunday morning. There was talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the Union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Health Minister, were among the contenders. Bhupendra Patel's name was not in the long list of probables being discussed in state political circles and in a way the first term MLA emerged as the dark horse, a political observer said. He belongs to the influential Patel community. Mandaviya is from Patidar community. People close to him know Patel, as a smiling face, who is well-connected to the grassroots. Before contesting the Assembly election, he was active in local politics and became a member of Memnagar Municipality in Ahmedabad district, serving as its president twice. Patel is also a trustee of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra, an organisation dedicated to the socio-economic development of the Patidar community. Rupani (65) on Saturday resigned from the post, his sudden announcement coming over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December 2022. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister -  his second stint as CM - in December 2017. Rupani, who completed five years in office on August 7 this year, first became the chief minister on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly elections. • A first-time MLA from Gujarat's Ghatlodiya, he defeated Congress's Shashikant Patel by over 1 lakh votes in the 2017 assembly election • Holds diploma in civil engineering • Served as the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority between 2015 and 2017 • Hails from the Patidar Community • Trustee of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Srinagar: Police officer shot dead by militant, incident caught on camera||A police officer was shot dead from point-blank range by a militant in the Khanyar locality of the city on Sunday, officials said. They said the militant fired at the officer and injured him. He was rushed to SKIMS in Soura but succumbed to injuries, they added. The incident took place at around 1.35 pm, the officials said. The deceased officer has been identified as probationary sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad who was posted at police station Khanyar, the officials said. The CCTV footage of the incident shows a militant shooting the officer at least twice from behind from point-blank range at a marketplace in Khanyar, they said. The officials said the area has been cordoned off and a hunt launched to nab the attacker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Swami Vivekananda's religious ideals important for today's youth, says CJI||Swami Vivekananda firmly believed that the true essence of religion was the common good and tolerance and to fulfill the dream of making a resurgent India through these principles there is a need to instill his ideals in today's youth, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Sunday. Justice Ramana while virtually addressing an event to mark the 22nd Foundation Day of Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence, Hyderabad and the 128th anniversary of the historic Chicago Address of Swami Vivekananda said: "Swami Vivekananda, in his address, propagated the idea of tolerance and universal acceptance. He analysed the dangers posed by the meaningless and sectarian conflicts in society to the nations and the civilisations. There is greater need today, in contemporary India, to pay heed to the words spoken by Swami Vivekananda as early as in 1893." Swami Vivekananda's address in the World "Parliament of Religions" at Chicago in 1893 drew the world's attention to the ancient Indian philosophy of Vedanta. He popularised practical Vedanta as it preached love, compassion and equal respect for all, the CJI said, pointing out that his teachings have great relevance for all times to come. "He was prophetic. Long before the painful churning that took place in the subcontinent during the freedom struggle resulting in framing of an egalitarian Constitution of India, he advocated secularism as if he foresaw the events to unfold. "He firmly believed that the true essence of religion was common good and tolerance. Religion should be above superstitions and rigidities. To fulfil the dream of making resurgent India through the principles of common good and tolerance, we should instil the ideals of Swamiji in today's youth," Justice Ramana said. Swami Vivekananda believed that youngsters in India are the chain that binds our past to a greater future. He believed that anything is possible if one has the required belief, he said. It is imperative for the youth to be aware about the social realities and challenges, the CJI said, adding "Remember, any change in the nation's trajectory always stems from its youth and their participation. It is for you to build the ideal nation and society that you desire to witness." "The democratic rights that we take today for granted are a result of the struggles of thousands of young people who took to the streets fighting authoritarian figures either during the freedom struggle or the dark days of emergency. Many lost their lives, sacrificed lucrative careers, all for the greater good of the nation and society," Justice Ramana said. Trust the youth to check the deviations in a society's journey towards peace and progress, he added. "Although it is desirable to be independent and economically successful, at the same time we must not forget our duties towards our family, our community and the nation," he said. "The youth often perceive every action with a clear set of principles-they don't tolerate injustice either towards themselves or towards others. They don't compromise with their ideals come what may. They are not only selfless but also adventurous. They are willing to sacrifice for the cause they believe in. It is these unadulterated minds and pure hearts which form the backbone of our nation," the Chief Justice said. Justice Ramana further said today resources are available at one's fingertips and there is unlimited access to a world of information. "These advantages come with a heavy burden. The hyper awareness that modern society allows, with the ease of flow of information mandates that students are more socially and politically aware." Justice Ramana also advised youth to focus on their health and engage in physical activities and sports. "Visit the slums to be conscious about the divides that exist even within urban spaces, visit villages to be aware about rural living. Beyond a mere awareness of the issues, you need to have the mentality to find solutions, and take action to make meaningful change in society. You need to be aware that your actions are a part of the process of nation building," he said. He further called upon educational institutions to inform and create awareness in the students about rights and restrictions. They should promote and transmit a culture of lawfulness, of respect for the law. Institutions should equip young minds with knowledge about their rights and duties and empower them to be change-makers in society, Justice Ramana added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi begins two-day visit to Rae Bareli ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra began her two-day tour of Rae Bareli, her mother's parliamentary constituency, on Sunday and offered prayers at the Hanuman temple in Churuva on the Lucknow-Rae Bareli border. Her visit to Rae Bareli comes ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, which will be held early next year. UP Congress media panelist Priyanka Gupta said the party general secretary will be holding organisational meetings throughout the day and the meetings will continue till late night. She may also meet people from different sections of the society, Gupta said. Gandhi visited Bachhravan, Harchandpur, Jagdishpur village and Civil Lines area of the city, where she was welcomed by party leaders and workers. Then her cavalcade proceeded towards the Bhuyemau guest house, a party leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath advertisement features Calcutta's Ma flyover, sparks row between TMC and BJP||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday took strong exception to the use of a purported image of a Calcutta flyover in an Uttar Pradesh government advertisement to project the economic progress of the state under its Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Noting that it was yet to be confirmed that the image was that of a Calcutta flyover, Bengal BJP claimed that while the UP government constructs expressways, flyovers come crashing down under the Mamata Banerjee regime in the eastern state. The advertisement titled 'Transforming Uttar Pradesh under Yogi Adityanath' showed an image of a flyover painted in blue-and-white colours synonymous with the TMC government along with high-rises and industries juxtaposed below a cut-out of Yogi Adityanath. "Before 2017, UP was not taken seriously with regard to investment, but in his four-and-a-half-year rule, that negative perception has been broken and in 2020, it has emerged as the second largest economy in the country," the message in the advertisement read. The Indian Express, which had carried the advertisement, issued a corrigendum saying, "A wrong image was inadvertently included in the cover collage of the advertorial on Uttar Pradesh produced by the marketing department of the newspaper. The error is deeply regretted and the image has been removed in all digital editions of the paper." The TMC, however, left no opportunity to ridicule the BJP over the episode, claiming that the saffron party has now indirectly accepted the "development spree" under the Mamata Banerjee government and even tried to appropriate it. "Transforming UP for @myogiadityanath means stealing images from infrastructure seen in Bengal under @MamataOfficial's leadership and using them as his own! Looks like the 'DOUBLE ENGINE MODEL' has MISERABLY FAILED in BJP's strongest state and now stands EXPOSED for all!" TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted. "Mr. @narendramodi is so helpless to save his party that other than changing CMs, he has also had to resort to using pictures of growth & infrastructure seen under @MamataOfficial's leadership, as his own. #BengalModel > #BJPRuledStatesModel Mr Modi?" Mukul Roy, who has returned to the TMC after winning a West Bengal assembly seat on a BJP ticket, tweeted. State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said, "By posting the image of our pride Maa flyover of Kolkata as one built in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP government in the northern state has touched a new low of falsehood. It also indirectly admitted the spree of development under the rule of Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal and tried to appropriate it as its own." The Bengal BJP tried to save face saying that even if the image was indeed that of Maa flyover, the TMC government does not have any other infrastructural development to flaunt. "Several expressways have been built under the Adityanath government in UP. In comparison, Bengal has witnessed several flyover collapses in the last few years. "It is yet to be confirmed whether the image is that of Maa flyover as claimed by the TMC. But their knee-jerk reaction to the advertisement proves they don't have anything else to flaunt. Even if it is indeed the image of Maa flyover, it was nothing but a mistake and does not take away Adityanath's credit for accelerating UP's growth," Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Courts must find out accused's history before granting bail, says SC||Courts should enquire into the antecedents of an accused to find out if he has a bad record and is likely to commit serious offences while out on bail, the Supreme Court has observed. A bench comprising justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the remarks while setting aside the bail granted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to a man facing a murder and criminal conspiracy case. The nature of the charge and the evidence are also vital factors while deciding on bail pleas, the bench said, adding the severity of the punishment in case of conviction also bears upon the issue. Referring to its earlier decisions, the bench said the deprivation of freedom by refusal of bail is not for punitive purposes but for the bifocal interests of justice. "Another relevant factor is whether the course of justice would be thwarted by him who seeks the benignant jurisdiction of the Court to be freed for the time being. The Court has also to consider the likelihood of the applicant interfering with the witnesses for the prosecution or otherwise polluting the process of justice. "It is further observed that it is rational to enquire into the antecedents of the man who is applying for bail to find out whether he has a bad record, particularly a record which suggests that he is likely to commit serious offences while on bail," the bench said. The top court said that while granting of bail, the factors among other circumstances which are required to be considered are -- the nature of accusation, the severity of punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence, reasonable apprehension of tampering with the witness or the apprehension of threat to the complainant; and prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge. The SC's observations came while it was hearing an appeal against a Punjab & Haryana High Court granting bail to an accused in connection with an FIR at Police Station Sadar Jalandhar, District Jalandhar under Sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy.), 34 (common intention), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of Indian Penal Code and section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959. The bench said the high court has failed to appreciate and consider the nature of the accusation and the severity of the punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence. "The High Court has also failed to appreciate the facts of the case; the nature of allegations; gravity of offence and the role attributed to the accused. As per the allegations, the accused Inderpreet Singh, respondent no.1 herein is the main conspirator who hatched the conspiracy along with other co-accused and that too from the jail. "The High Court has also failed to notice the serious allegation of hatching conspiracy from the jail. The High Court ought to have considered that if respondent no.1 accused Inderpreet Singh -- can hatch the conspiracy from jail, what he will not do if he is released on bail," the bench said. The apex court said that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a grave error in releasing Singh on bail and therefore the impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Shiv Sena will contest Uttar Pradesh and Goa Assembly elections, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party will contest the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Goa due early next year, and claimed farmers' organisations in western UP are willing to support his party. Talking to reporters here, Raut said the Shiv Sena will field candidates in 80 to 100 seats in UP (which has a 403-member Assembly), while it will contest about 20 seats in the Goa Assembly (which comprises 40 seats). "Farmers' organisations in western UP have expressed their willingness to support the Shiv Sena and we may ally with smaller parties. In Goa, efforts are on to explore a formula like MVA. Let's see if we succeed," the Rajya Sabha member said. Raut further said the Shiv Sena has its cadre in these two states and has been contesting elections, irrespective of success or failure. After the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls, the Shiv Sena snapped ties with long-term ally BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post, and forged an alliance with the NCP and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Asked about the resignation of Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister, Raut said, "It is an internal matter of the BJP, outsiders need not comment. I have known Rupani since he was the Rajya Sabha member with me." "Last time, the BJP just managed to cross the majority mark (in the 182-member Gujarat Assembly). The situation this time is not good for the party," he claimed. To a question on Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray's role at the national level, Raut said, "Thackeray has the capability to become a national leader. A Maharashtra chief minister is a national leader."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||BJP leadership to meet in few hours to decide on new Gujarat chief minister||The suspense over who will succeed Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister will be over after a meeting of BJP legislators here later on Sunday, party sources said. Central observer Narendra Singh Tomar, who will attend the meeting, met state BJP chief C R Paatil on Sunday morning. BJP has appointed Union ministers Tomar and Prahlad Joshi as observers for the legislature party meeting to elect a new chief minister. "We have come here to hold further discussions on the issue (new chief minister). We will discuss it with state BJP leaders," Tomar said at the airport. "I will hold consultations with Gujarat leaders, then the central leadership will take a decision," said Joshi. BJP general secretary Tarun Chaag has also reached Ahmedabad.There is talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is among the top contenders. Also reportedly being considered are Parshottam Rupala, the Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Mansukh Mandaviya, the Union Health Minister. Both of them also belong to the Patel or Patidar community. The names of Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and state agriculture minister RC Faldu, both from the Patel community, are also doing the rounds. Rupani (65) on Saturday resigned from the post, his sudden announcement coming over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December 2022. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM - in December 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Mangaluru Airport gets rid of 'Adani' tag in its name||After months of sustained protests by local social activists, the tag 'Adani airports' has been removed from the name boards of the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). The original name boards, prior to the Adani group taking over the handling of operations of the airport, have now been restored, social activist Dilraj Alva, who took up the issue with the airport authorities, told reporters here on Saturday. Alva said the Adani group had changed the name, adding 'Adani airports' to the name boards after it took over the handling operations. However, as per the agreement for operations and maintenance of the airport, there was no provision to change the airport name, which was revealed through an RTI reply. A legal notice was served in March this year to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the MIA director questioning the 'Adani' tag attached to the name boards. The legal battle waged in this regard has now yielded result and the original name board has been restored from Friday. The changes have been made in MIA's official Facebook and Twitter accounts also, Alva said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out at BJP government over job losses||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Sunday attacked the government over the issue of employment, saying the difference between a week off and working day has ended under this dispensation as "there are no jobs". Taking to Twitter, Gandhi tagged a media report on US auto major Ford deciding to stop vehicle manufacturing in India which quoted an industry insider as saying that over 4,000 small firms could shut down. "The 'development' under the BJP government is such that the difference between Sunday and Monday has ended," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. When there are no jobs, how does it matter whether it is Sunday or Monday!" the former Congress chief said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Pensioners organisation seeks PM intervention for release of DA, DR & arrears||Bharatiya Pensioners Manch (BMS) has sought intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the release of dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) arrears for central government employees and pensioners at the earliest. In April last year, the Ministry of Finance had put on hold an increment in dearness allowance (DA) till June 30, 2021, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In July this year, the government hiked DA and DR to 28 per cent from July 1, 2021, which benefited more than 48 lakh central government employees, and 65 lakh pensioners. The rate of DA from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, was 17 per cent. Thus no DA and DR arrears were released for central government employees and pensioners respectively. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the BMS stated, "It is urged upon you to kindly intervene into the matter and direct the Ministry of Finance for early release of the freeze DA/DR with effect from January1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. An early and immediate action with a line of reply to this organization will be highly appreciated." The BPM opined that during this period (DA/DR freeze) the retail inflation had shot up and the price of auto fuel, edible oil and several pulses had soared to record level. The very basis of payment of DA/DR is to compensate employees and pensioners for increase in the cost of living. After the cost of living has gone up, it is unfair to deny the compensation to employees and pensioners, it submitted. The most of the pensioners being in their old age are required medical assistance and now the rate of every commodity has risen many-folds due to the crisis of Covid-19. Most of the pensioners are in hand to mouth financial condition, it mentioned. "The pensioners who are senior citizens are most vulnerable in the fight of Covid-19 and any stoppage of DR in their case at this juncture is not an appreciable decision on the part of the government. "No doubt, the country has been passing through a financial crisis due to Covid-19, but most of the pensioners have already contributed one day pension to the Prime Minister CARES Fund," the body stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Covid: Active cases in India decline by nearly 6,600 in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 28,591 coronavirus infections, taking the overall tally to 3,32,36,921, even as active cases declined by nearly 6,600 in a day to stand at 3,84,921, according to Union Health Ministry data updated Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,42,655 with 338 daily fatalities reported Sunday, the data released at 8 am showed. The number of active cases declined by 6,595 in a span of 24 hours to stand at 3,84,921, constituting 1.16 per cent of the total infections, while the Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the health ministry said. Also, 15,30,125 tests were conducted Saturday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 54,18,05,829. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.87 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the past 13 days. The Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.17 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the past 79 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,24,09,345, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 73.82 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 2 crore on June 23. The 338 new fatalities recorded Sunday include 181 from Kerala, and 35 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,42,655 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,096 from Maharashtra, 37,487 rom Karnataka, 35,46 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,874 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,484 from Kerala and 18,567 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Met department predicts moderate rain in Delhi through the day||The national capital Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 23.4 degrees Celsius, one notch below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department said. The relative humidity was recorded at 94 per cent in the morning, it said. The weatherman predicted a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain thundershowers during the day. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 31 degrees Celsius. With record rains on Saturday, the air quality index remained in the "satisfactory" category at 54 at 8.05 am, according to the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Gujarat chief minister resigns a year before Assembly elections ||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday in an abrupt development that betrayed the BJP’s unease in the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi where Assembly elections are due next year. Rupani is the fourth BJP chief minister to be dropped in six months — after Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat in poll-bound Uttarakhand and B.S. Yeddyurappa in Karnataka. Public anger against the party has been on the rise in Gujarat, ruled by the BJP since 1995 barring a brief interlude, and has been exacerbated by the mishandling of the Covid crisis. Sources said Rupani, said to be home minister Amit Shah’s choice, was also facing an internal rebellion. Shah had recently been on a three-day Gujarat visit and is expected back in the state to preside over the change of guard, likely on Sunday. Both Modi and Shah are known to keep a watchful eye on the state government. After handing over his resignation to the governor, Rupani tweeted: “I believe the journey of Gujarat should go ahead under a new leadership…. Keeping this in mind, I have resigned as chief minister.” Rupani denied any differences with state BJP president C.R. Patil, who was appointed last year and is seen as close to Modi. Gujarat is expected to go to the polls in end-2022 and a change of guard, the party sources said, was needed. BJP leaders said Rupani’s government was seen as “lacklustre, lacking dynamism and an underperformer”. Like in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat had witnessed overflowing crematoriums and burial grounds during the second Covid wave. The local media, relying on publicly available data, had reported how the Gujarat government was suppressing the ballooning death figures. The soul-stirring poem, Shav Vahini Ganga, that captured the horrors  of Covid mismanagement  was written by a Gujarati poet. In May last year, Dhaval Patel, editor of a local web portal, had been arrested on sedition charges for writing that Rupani would be removed as chief minister for mishandling the Covid crisis and that Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya was likely to replace him. Mandaviya, 49, reached Gandhinagar on Saturday amid speculation that he could replace Rupani. Another name doing the rounds is that of controversial Lakshadweep lieutenant governor Praful Patel, who is believed to be close to Modi.  Another probable is Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel. The BJP sources said a Patel was likely to be chosen as the next chief minister to woo the numerically, politically and economically powerful Patidar community that is unhappy with the BJP for several years. All three names doing the rounds are of Patidar leaders. Hardik Patel, a popular Patidar leader who has led protests against the BJP government, is the state chief of the Congress. He tweeted that the reason for Rupani’s exit was a BJP-RSS survey in August that predicted a clear win for the Congress in elections. Rupani was picked as chief minister in August 2016 after the sudden resignation of Anandiben Patel, who is now the governor of Uttar Pradesh. Anandiben had taken over after Modi moved to Delhi as Prime Minister in 2014. It was believed that she didn’t share a rapport with Shah. Rupani  continued as chief minister despite the BJP’s narrow win in 2017 because of Shah’s support, party sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Afghanistan crisis: Kin tormented by Taliban, rebuffed in India||Taliban insurgents celebrating the takeover of her hometown in Afghanistan raped her sister, forced her family out of their home because of their ethnicity and turned it into a military camp. She says she is wanted by the Taliban for writing in a US journal and her plea for visa renewal in India has been rejected. “I can’t apply for a job in India without a work visa and I can’t apply for a work visa here without a job,” the 23-year-old Delhi University pass-out told The Telegraph here. With Afghanistan in turmoil and her facing the prospect of becoming one of the many stateless people, shorn of basic human identity and never quite accepted in their adopted country, the woman broke down while narrating her plight to this correspondent. The young woman, who has recently completed her post-graduation in political science from Delhi University, was unwilling to be named or photographed. She said her family had not spoken about the brutality on her younger sister because of threats from the Taliban. The militants took over her hometown, near the Turkmenistan border, on July 26. “My family decided not to make it public as it is an issue of honour, and they (the Taliban) threatened to kill them if they spoke to anyone about this. The Taliban members who have occupied our town are Pashtun, and we are Uzbeks who they do not consider true Muslims,” the woman said. “My family members have all run away to different places and are in hiding. My sister, who was to join a course in Kabul University, is having a tough time and won’t be joining this semester. I am still traumatised and have told this only to very few close friends.” The woman’s request for visa renewal in India has been turned down on the ground that she has completed her course of study. “We are a secular Muslim family. Just because I wrote for a US military journal, the Taliban have issued a letter against me. Our home is now a military camp for them. As soon as they took over my hometown near Turkmenistan, they started marrying women forcibly and recruiting young boys. A friend of my brother who is in school turned up at the mosque one day with a big gun after being drafted (by the Taliban). My brother, who is 12 years old, was too scared to go to the mosque after that,” she said. The woman has been issued an Asylum Seeker Card by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and her hearing is scheduled for December next year. She receives no institutional assistance and is surviving on remittances from an elder brother in Russia. She wishes to emigrate to the US but has not received the documentation to prove her employment with the journal that she says she has been writing for. “My flat here was recently burgled and my phone and laptop were stolen. Police have done nothing to solve the crime…. I have been here since I was 17. I go to gurdwaras and my favourite music that I play on my phone is kirtan. But without a visa I shall always be an outsider,” she said. This newspaper spoke to several refugees in the Afghan quarters of Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar on Tuesday, hours after the Taliban had brutally suppressed a women’s protest for their rights on the streets of Kabul. Asked about the violence in Kabul, a woman vehemently refused comment, saying: “Taliban goli maar dega (The Taliban will shoot us).” She was one among several young Afghan women — fashionably dressed and without headscarves — at the bustling Lajpat Nagar market in New Delhi. In Delhi’s Afghan pocket of Lajpat Nagar, dotted with travel agencies, forex dealers and restaurants serving Central Asian food, incomes have been halved as the flow of medical tourists and students from Afghanistan has stopped after the Taliban takeover, as have international flights from that country’s main airports. Most refugees here — usually forthcoming and hospitable to the media — declined comment when this newspaper visited Lajpat Nagar, reflecting the deep insecurity they felt for their loved ones back home. Jamshed Faizi’s father had sent him to Delhi from their village near Mazar-i-Sharif three years ago to prevent him from being forcibly recruited by the Taliban. “The cities have fallen to them only now but they have been harassing us in the village for many years. My father said, ‘Just leave, do anything but get out of here. Our lives are over but you have your whole life ahead of you,’” he recalled. Faizi, 21, is an expert naanwai who bakes Afghan naan breads like Paraki, Lavasa, Roghani, Roht, Bolani, Obi, Uzbeki and Afghani in a spherical earthen oven in a hole in the wall at the Kasturba Niketan Complex in Lajpat Nagar, where several Afghans live. “Our daily sales are down from Rs 10,000 to Rs 5,000. Families that are here for medical treatment used to spend at least Rs 500 a day, but now they somehow make do with Rs 200 to 300 as the Afghan banks have stopped working and there are no remittances,” Faizi said. “Even Indians don’t have enough work, so as a refugee I can’t expect to be allowed to work in the formal sector. What hurts is the extortion. Most landlords charge us double the normal rent. We pay for electricity at a flat rate of Rs 10 per unit to landlords who get it free (waiver for low consumption). But many Indians are very kind to us, like my Sardarji landlord,” he told this newspaper. His landlord stopped on his way back from work to ask if Faizi had read the day’s newspaper. “It’s all bad news,” he replied. “It’s better to die hungry here than live as a slave under the rule of Pakistan and its henchmen.” The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has registered 15,217 Afghan refugees in India. Hundreds more have come over the past month. Refugee groups estimate the total number to be more than 21,000 now. Many are camping outside the UNHCR office as well as the embassies of Australia, Canada and European countries. Faizi had participated in a protest outside the UNHCR office in Delhi for asylum and financial assistance, but got neither. Another naanwai, 20-year-old Naseebullah Khan from Kandahar, came to Delhi five years ago to study at an Industrial Training Institute. He now survives on sales to Somali, Iraqi, Tajik and Uzbek medical tourists. “I wish I could work on the things I learnt at the ITI. But I can’t return to Kandahar. What you see on TV in Kabul is jannat (heaven) compared to the jahannum (hell) in my hometown,” he said. Rohid Afzali from Kabul and Nadeem Obaidi from Mazar-i-Sharif have family in Canada and want to join them there. They have been staying in the Kasturba Niketan Complex for a couple of years, trying for a visa. “We feel bad and helpless for what is happening back home. Women can’t study, those of us who have studied can’t find jobs. We came here as it is believed that emigration is easier from India, and it was too unsafe back home. Little did we know that our countrymen in Delhi have been struggling here for decades,” Obaidi said. Afzali weighed in: “My political science degree is of no use. A travel agency we ran back home has shut, and here too Afghan restaurants have been hit since the pandemic begun. I’m stuck, there’s nowhere to go and I’m totally dependent on funds from relatives in Canada. For how long, I don’t know.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Kozhikode: Medicine cloud in jet crash in August 2020, says report||The pilot’s failure to adhere to the standard operating procedure resulted in the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash at Kozhikode airport in August 2020, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau said in its final report released on Saturday. The report also flagged systemic failures that may have played a contributory role. The crash killed 21 people, including the two pilots. The plane was carrying 190 people. “The pilot in command was taking multiple un-prescribed anti-diabetic drugs that could have probably caused subtle cognitive deficits due to mild hypoglycaemia, which probably contributed to errors in complex decision-making,” the report said. The report concluded that the probable cause of the accident was the pilot’s decision to continue with an un-stabilised approach and the failure to carry out a “go around” despite calls to do so by the co-pilot. Low visibility and a faulty windshield wiper led to degraded visual cues upon landing, the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Heavy rains in Delhi leave part of airport, several areas waterlogged||Rain lashed the national capital early on Saturday, flooding streets, neighbourhoods and the forecourt of Delhi airport and raising the total monsoon rainfall at the city’s Safdarjung weather station to 113.6cm, the highest in 46 years. Weather scientists said the rain over Delhi was part of a pattern of excess rainfall across India’s northwest, driven primarily by a low-pressure zone over eastern Rajasthan that had pulled moisture-laden winds from the east. Another low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to move northwest and intensify into a depression, the India Meteorological Department said on Saturday, predicting “very heavy or extremely heavy” rainfall over Gangetic Bengal on Sunday. (See Metro) Delhi International Airport authorities said that record-breaking rain on Friday night and a high downpour on Saturday morning had caused some waterlogging across the forecourt of Terminal 3, which was “cleared within a few minutes”. Aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted that he had spoken to airport officials and “was told that the waterlogged forecourt was cleared up within 30 minutes”, PTI reported. By then, a video clip of the waterlogged forecourt was circulating on social media, evoking sarcastic remarks. “When airport turns into seaport,” said a tweet. “Any arrangement for boats?” asked another. An airport spokesperson attributed the waterlogging to a steep slope of 17 metres between a nearby highway and Terminal 3 that drives rainwater towards the terminal, from where it is carried away by a drainage system. The spokesperson said the airport had been requesting state and central government bodies and officials to widen the underground drainage channel for the past few years. “We hope the drainage system will be widened soon,” the spokesperson said. On Sunday, the weather agency said, very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was likely to cause localised flooding of roads, inundate low-lying areas, and close underpasses in cities and towns across these regions. Traffic is likely to be disrupted because of waterlogged streets. “The excess rainfall across northwest India over the past 24 hours is the result of these two low pressure systems,” said IMD director-general Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra. “This excess will help make up the deficit rainfall in August.” Saturday’s rain has raised the total monsoon rainfall over Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station to 113.6cm, the highest since the station recorded 115.5cm in 1975. The highest that Safdarjung has ever logged was 142cm in 1933. Bikaner in Rajasthan’s desert region received 7.6mm instead of the normal 0.5mm, an excess of 1,424 per cent, while Barmer recorded an excess of 1,445 per cent, and Ludhiana in Punjab an excess of 252 per cent. The IMD has predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over parts of Odisha and eastern Rajasthan on Sunday, over parts of Odisha, Gujarat and central India on Monday, and over Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Farmers end gherao of Karnal mini-secretariat as Khattar blinks||Farmers ended their gherao of the Karnal mini-secretariat on Saturday after the Haryana government agreed to send former sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha on leave, pending inquiry by a retired high court judge, and promised compensatory employment to two family members of the farmer who had died, allegedly after suffering injuries in a lathi-charge on August 28. Sinha had been caught on camera ordering police to “break the heads” of those planning a protest against the ruling BJP that day. The breakthrough came after four rounds of talks between the farmers and the Haryana administration amid clear signals from the farming community that they were prepared for the long haul if their demands were not met. The farmers dug their heels in regardless of alleged efforts by the government to make things difficult for them. The farmers had alleged on Thursday that the administration had lopped off trees to rob them of their shade. However, like the farmers sitting at Delhi’s borders for over nine months —  come rain or sunshine —  the peasants at Karnal were determined to continue with their dharna till the government yielded to their wishes. The gherao of the Karnal mini-secretariat had begun on Tuesday. After defending Sinha’s actions for the past fortnight, the government led by Manohar Lal Khattar finally blinked on Saturday morning. On September 2, Sinha had been transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary in the citizen resources information department, a decision the farmers found unacceptable. Footage had shown Sinha instructing the police to “break the heads” of farmers if they breached the security cordon during their protest against a BJP meeting in Karnal on August 28. Subsequently, at least 10 farmers were injured in a police lathi-charge. Elsewhere, too, the farmers’ agitation received a shot in the arm on Saturday. Some of the Olympic medallists, along with Arjuna and Dronacharya awardees, accepted the farmers’ invitation to be felicitated, braving criticism. The sportspersons present at the felicitation at the Kharkhoda grain market in Sonepat included Olympic-medallist wrestlers Ravi Dahiya and Bajrang Punia, hockey player Sumit Valmiki who was part of the bronze-winning team in Tokyo, and wrestler and Olympian Deepak Punia. For the protesting farmers — called “anti-national” by the Right wing — this was a way of reminding the rulers how deep and wide their links were in society. As they often say, even the police, who are ordered to beat them up, are in effect “farmers in uniform”. At Karnal, after the breakthrough meeting between the state government’s representative, additional chief secretary Devender Singh, and farmer union leaders led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) head Gurnam Singh Chaduni, they addressed a joint media conference to announce the end of the gherao. Devender, a senior IAS officer, said: “The farmers are our brothers. We have reached a respectable and amicable solution on all the demands that were raised.” He said former SDM Sinha would remain on leave for the period during which the probe led by the retired judge is conducted. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — which has been spearheading the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders and had given the call to gherao the Karnal mini-secretariat — said: “The Khattar government has agreed to suspend Ayush Sinha.… There was also an agreement between the Haryana farm unions and the administration for a judicial inquiry under a retired high court judge who will look into the role of Ayush Sinha for the police violence which resulted in the death of one farmer and injury to countless others. The probe will be completed within a month. “The government has also agreed to compensation to the family of Shaheed Sushil Kajal (the deceased farmer) and support in the form of two jobs to be provided to his family members. Compensation will also be given to the farmers injured in the violence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Newslaundry CEO accuses I-T sleuths of privacy violation||The CEO of Newslaundry, one of the two news websites “surveyed” for 12 hours by income-tax officials on Friday, has accused the tax sleuths of downloading personal data from his devices and thus violating “my fundamental right to privacy”. Nor did the income-tax officials give him a “hash value” that acts as a safeguard against device tampering, Abhinandan Sekhri, who had been held at his Sarvodaya Enclave office, said in his statement. Prabir Purkayastha, editor-in-chief of NewsClick — the other website “surveyed” — alleged “attempts to stifle independent journalism” while the Editors Guild condemned the “dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media”. (See Page 3) Sekhri said: “My personal mobile phone, laptop and a couple of office machines were taken control of and all the data on them downloaded by the IT (income-tax) team.” Sekhri said: “In my understanding this (taking all data from my personal laptop and mobile phone) violates my fundamental right to privacy. No signed hash value of the data copied was provided to me.” A hash value is a unique number that identifies an electronic device. It changes if any change is made to the device’s storage, and is used to ascertain whether a device has been tampered with. Although investigators are not legally bound to give an individual the hash value of a device taken away as evidence, failure to do so can be claimed as grounds by the defence to question the veracity of the electronic evidence if it is presented in court, two criminal lawyers not engaged by these companies told this newspaper. The income-tax department is yet to respond to Sekhri’s statement. Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, under which the surveys were carried out, says: “An income-tax authority acting under this section shall, on no account, remove or cause to be removed from the place wherein he has entered, any books of account or other documents or any cash, stock or other valuable article or thing.” “It is learnt that the IT team made clones of Sekhri’s mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines, and no hash value was given to them,” the Editors Guild said. “This is clearly beyond the mandate of surveys as defined under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional data of journalists. It is also in violation of procedures laid out in the Information Technology Act, 2000.” Both websites are being probed for alleged tax evasion. Sekhri said: “We have in the past given the IT authorities all documents related to our funding and accounts. We will cooperate in whatever way we are required to by law. “We will also continue to practise public interest journalism which is why we exist. Our support comes from people who value public interest news and choose to subscribe to Newslaundry, not through government or corporate advertisements or PR exercises.” Several Twitter users have shown their support by tweeting that they subscribe to a paid version of the website, known for its news coverage as well as its satire shows. Sekhri confirmed that Newslaundry had witnessed a surge in subscriptions on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||‘I’d rather build a cadre than poach leaders’||The day Sushmita Dev quit the Congress, a disgruntled Kapil Sibal reacted thus in a social media post: “The party moves on with eyes wide shut... While young leaders leave, we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it.” Sushmita, 48, former Lok Sabha MP and till recently president of the All India Mahila Congress, is believed to be a close associate of Rahul Gandhi. Her resignation has been part of the great and continuing unravelling of the grand old party that has in recent times lost young leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Jitin Prasada to rivals. “It is not possible to be with the Congress anymore,” says Sushmita. “It’s a completely ideologically messed up party,” she adds with a deep sigh when I finally connect with her, a fortnight after she has joined the Trinamul. Unlike many others, she doesn’t express any grouse against the party’s high command. She’d rather talk about future possibilities. “After the massive victory of the Trinamul in West Bengal, I believe Mamata Banerjee is the strongest national leader. She can fight and vanquish the BJP, the country’s biggest enemy. By joining the Trinamul, I will be able to help her,” she says over phone. She is talking from her home in Tarapur in Silchar. I can imagine her sitting beside a huge portrait of her father and veteran Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev. Dev Sr was one of Rajiv Gandhi’s most trusted aides and ministers. I had visited the house on a windy evening of February 2019, before the Lok Sabha elections; it is located on a road named after her grandfather, Satindramohan Dev, a freedom fighter and an associate of Jawaharlal Nehru. Apart from legacy loyalties, Sushmita had firmly established her position in the Congress after she ousted Kabindra Purkayastha, a BJP stalwart of the Northeast, in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. It was also sweet revenge; Dev Sr had lost to Purkayastha in 2009. Obviously, it hasn’t been easy for her to sever ties with the Congress. In a letter to interim Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Sushmita did not mention why she was resigning, just that she cherished her “three-decade-long association” with the party. Soon after Sushmita joined the Trinamul, hordes of Congress cadres followed suit. She, however, insists, “I would rather build a cadre base than poach leaders of other parties. You cannot do politics without cadres.” Over the past few years, the Congress party’s base in Assam’s Barak Valley, as built and consolidated by Santosh Mohan Dev over decades, has been disintegrating. Dev Sr had been instrumental in forming Congress governments in Tripura and other northeastern states in his heyday. But at some point, the RSS-BJP combine’s prolonged fanning of ethnic differences in the region created the context for its own ascent. Since a large number of people in the region are migrants from erstwhile East Bengal, the BJP dangled the carrot of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA; they promised fast-tracked citizenship to Hindu emigres. This helped the BJP draw Hindu voters to its fold; in 2019, Sushmita lost to greenhorn Rajdeep Roy of the BJP. To add salt to injury, in the 2021 Assam elections, the Congress in Assam decided to forge an alliance with the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front. This further alienated the Congress’s Hindu vote bank in Assam and the party lost. Says Sushmita, “I had warned against this alliance, but they were desperate,” she laments. “Besides, the Congress sent leaders like Bhakta Charan Das (from Odisha) and Manish Chatrath (from Delhi) for electioneering; they were clueless about the Northeast .” According to her, Himanta Biswa Sarma, the new chief minister of Assam, is hand-in-glove with a section of the Opposition there. These leaders now sing paeans for Sarma instead of standing up to the BJP’s anti-people policies. “He has thoroughly communalised the political space in Assam and the region. He’s been pursuing a politics of chauvinism — linguistic and religious — to impress his boss Amit Shah so that he could become the chief minister,” says Sushmita. It is his chauvinism, according to her, that has resulted in the border disputes between Assam and neighbours Mizoram and Meghalaya. She adds, “Now that he’s CM, he doesn’t bother much about other northeastern states.” Sushmita believes that in this backdrop of strife and chaos, people are looking for a non-Congress and non-BJP alternative. “The Trinamul can fill the political void,” she says. When I ask her whether Mamata Banerjee will be viewed as a typical Bengali leader in the region, she shoots back, “Her influence is no longer confined to Bengal. She’s been in national politics far longer than Prime Minister Modi...” Political observers such as Joydeep Biswas, a political scientist with Assam University, believe Sushmita will be projected as the chief ministerial candidate in Tripura by the Trinamul in the 2022 Assembly elections. Biswas says, “Just like Mamata, she is a street-fighter and hardworking. Give her five-six years and she’ll turn the tide of politics in the Northeast.” As for Sushmita, this is what she has to say. “By foisting a chief minister like Biplab Deb on the people of Tripura, the BJP has sent the message that they just want to grab power and have no interest in governance. I know the state well, thanks to my father, and I can expedite the process here.” Têtevitae 1972: Sushmita is born to Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev and his wife Bithika in Silchar After her postgraduation from King’s College, London, becomes a Bar-at-law from Middle Temple, UK 2011: Fights Assam Assembly elections and wins 2014: Becomes MP from Silchar 2017: Becomes president of All India Mahila Congress 2019: Loses Silchar Lok Sabha seat to the BJP August 2021: Quits the Congress and joins the Trinamul||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Odisha government sounds caution during festive season||The Odisha government has urged people to be  cautious during the festive season with the state still reporting over 600 positive Covid cases daily. Special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena on Friday called upon people to celebrate Nuakhai, the biggest festival of western Odisha associated with harvesting, by following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Jena asked people not to crowd temples during the festive period as this could lead to a spurt in cases. “Odisha is reporting 600-1,000 new Covid-19 infections daily. All need to be cautious as the second wave is yet to be over,” he added. During this most important agrarian festival of the state, “nabanna” or rice from the newly-harvested paddy crop is offered to the local deity before people eat it in different forms. Jena also said that the restrictions for the festive season announced on August 9 will remain in force. “Odisha will continue to celebrate festivals in a low-key manner in view of the pandemic. The 4-ft cap on idol height at Puja pandal remains,” he said. Amid protests by puja committees over restrictions on the height of the idols for Durga Puja, the state government on September 8 had said that a decision on the issue would be taken in two days. Later, chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra had met a delegation of the puja committees of Cuttack at the Lok Seva Bhavan here in the presence of Jena. The government continues to insist on puja committees not installing idols more than 4 feet high. On the other hand, the state government has made all possible preparations to tackle the possible third wave of the pandemic, which according to experts, is likely to affect children the most. While special paediatric care wards have been set up in hospitals, child specialists have been imparted special training to deal with Covid-19 affected children. Odisha was the first state of the country to set up special Covid hospitals when the first wave of the pandemic hit India in March last year. The state government, which took preventive measures in advance, had established dedicated hospitals to deal with Covid cases. The private sector, too, was involved in the initiative in a big way. The state was able to minimise the adverse effects of the pandemic mainly because of its efforts for the upgradation of health infrastructure. “We are trying to ensure that our good work does not go in vain because of the carelessness of people,” said a senior health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||HC stands with Knanaya Catholics marrying outside community||Kerala High Court has come to the aid of Catholic members of the Knanaya community who risked expulsion from their Church if they married outside the community, ruling “social values and morals are not above constitutionally guaranteed freedom”. “The said freedom is both a constitutional and a human right. Deprivation of that freedom which is ingrained in choice on the plea of faith is impermissible,” the single-judge bench of Justice V.G. Arun said on Wednesday. It lifted an additional district court’s stay on a sub-court’s ruling in April against the age-old practice by the Kottayam Diocese. The high court cited the landmark Hadiya case in which the Supreme Court had in 2018 affirmed the validity of Hadiya’s marriage with Shafin Jahan. Born Akhila Asokan, Hadiya’s conversion to Islam and marriage to Shafin had been challenged by her father. The 2.5 lakh Knanayas, whose ancestors are said to have migrated from Syria in the fourth century AD, are concentrated in the south Kerala district of Kottayam and its neighbourhood and are mostly Catholic. The majority of them come under the Kottayam Diocese, which enforces endogamy on pain of expulsion. A group of reformists led by the Knanaya Catholic Naveekarana Samithy had challenged the district court’s stay and contended the Kottayam Diocese had expelled many Knanayas even for marrying non-Knanaya Christians. They said the ostracism was extended to children born of such marriages or of non-Knanaya surrogate mothers. This has forced many Knanayas to remain unmarried, they added. The Kottayam Diocese and its archbishop argued that endogamy was a religious practice for the community and was therefore protected under Articles 26(b) and 29(1) of the Constitution. But the high court ruled: “The social values and morals have their space but they are not above the constitutionally guaranteed freedom.” It added: “The issue involved is regarding curtailment of the fundamental right of a citizen to marry a person of his/her choice, by insisting that the partner should also be a member of the Archeparchy of Kottayam.” It further observed that the appellate court had lacked sufficient grounds to stay the sub-court order. The petitioners, who were represented in court by Supreme Court lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj, had argued: “The rights and religious freedom under Article 25 cannot be used in a way to override the rights of others. “Individual autonomy, while in conflict with supposed religious freedom, should override the latter. This is the spirit behind the prohibition of various practices like untouchability under Article 17 of the Constitution.” The Samithy had in 2015 filed a civil suit before the Kottayam sub-court seeking relief from the practice of expulsions for breaking the endogamy rule. On April 30 this year, the sub-court restrained the Kottayam Diocese from ordering such expulsions. But the additional district court of Kottayam stayed the order on May 18 and, in July, extended the stay till the disposal of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Income-tax survey an attempt to stifle journalism: NewsClick||The editor-in-chief of one of the two anti-establishment news websites that income-tax officials “surveyed” for 12 hours on Friday has alleged an attempt “to stifle independent journalism”. NewsClick boss Prabir Purkayastha, 71, who is suffering from a spasm in his lower back, was detained in his office through the “survey” that ended after midnight and had his phone impounded. “The raid yesterday appears to relate to the same false and unfounded allegations being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and the economic offences wing, Delhi police,” Purkayastha said in a statement. “We have these allegations challenged in the courts. These investigations by various agencies, and these selective allegations, are attempts to stifle the independent journalism of media organisations — including NewsClick.” NewsClick faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit filed by the Adani group. It’s also being probed by the Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The ED’s case is based on an FIR the EOW had registered last year alleging NewsClick had violated FDI rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm, Worldwide Media Holdings LLC, in 2018. A Reserve Bank report to the police does not support this claim. NewsClick has underlined that this investment was received before an FDI cap of 26 per cent for digital media was imposed in 2019. The Editors Guild too spoke out against the way the “surveys” were conducted. “While they were officially labelled as ‘surveys’ by the IT (income-tax) officials, but as per the statement issued by Abhinandan Sekhri, co-founder of Newslaundry, this was a clear intimidatory and blatant attack on their rights, and therefore press freedom,” a Guild statement said. “The Guild is deeply concerned that such indiscriminate seizure of journalists’ data, which could include sensitive information such as details of sources, stories under works and other journalistic data, is in violation of free speech and freedom of press.” The Guild added: “The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy. In July 2021, income-tax raids were conducted at the offices of (the) country’s leading newspaper, Dainik Bhaskar, as well as a Lucknow-based news channel, Bharat Samachar. These raids were conducted against the backdrop of some very critical coverage by both the news organisations on government’s handling of the pandemic.” Digipub News India Foundation, an association of online news outlets, expressed “great worry that the authorities have potentially gained access to confidential information that the journalists may have been privy to in the course of their work”. The Delhi Union of Journalists condemned “attempts to browbeat media establishments and individual journalists” and also cited the FIR in Uttar Pradesh against journalist Rana Ayyub.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Bihar: No stretcher, 80-year-old woman carried on plastic sack||An 80-year-old woman suspected to have suffered brain haemorrhage had to be carried around on a plastic sack in the district hospital in Bihar’s Bhojpur on Friday as no stretcher was allegedly available. Videos widely shared on social media show the frail woman, identified as Phuljharo Kunwar, lying on the sack on a dusty road and then being carried by three men, who held the ends of the sack, into the emergency ward of the Sadar Hospital at Ara in Bhojpur. Her weight caused the sack to bulge downwards. Another man filming the episode on a cellphone points out that this is the condition of heath care at Bhojpur, whose minister-in-charge is the state’s health minister, the BJP’s Mangal Pandey. Kunwar’s relatives said she had to be lugged around from one department to another inside the hospital too for tests and doctors’ advice as no stretcher was available. The Opposition tore into Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over his claims of improvement in health infrastructure. Kunwar had fallen unconscious in the bathroom of her home in Bihta village on Friday. She was rushed to a government referral hospital at Tarari, where doctors suspected that she had suffered brain haemorrhage and referred her to the Sadar Hospital in the district headquarters. Kunwar’s family members could not get an ambulance at the referral hospital and had to hire a vehicle to reach the district hospital. Once there, they were shocked to find that no stretchers were available to take the patient around for tests and treatment. “At first, two of us ran around in different directions in the hospital for a stretcher, but there was none. We asked some hospital employees, but they either did not even bother to answer or told us to wait,” Munna Kumar, Kunwar’s grandson, said. “We did wait for a few minutes, but realised we were losing precision time. We looked around and saw a torn plastic sack. We made our grandmother lie on it and carried her around to doctors, for a CT scan and then back to the emergency ward where she was later admitted. There were just the three of us and we had a hard time carrying her around,” Munna added. He said this was not the rosy picture of health care that politicians often painted. Asked about the incident, hospital manager Kaushal Kishore Dubey said: “The family members of Phuljharo Kunwar had brought her to the emergency here. They asked the medical staff for a stretcher and were told to wait a bit. But they did not wait and carried the patient themselves. There is no dearth of stretchers here.” Prodded further, Dubey said the district hospital had two stretchers, both of which were in use when Kunwar was brought in. Sources said the stretchers were in a pitiable state and were seldom used to carry patients. The mobile phones of the Bhojpur civil surgeon and the Ara Sadar Hospital medical officer in-charge remained switched off on Saturday. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav shared a photograph of the woman being carried on the plastic sheet and said: “This is chief minister Nitish Kumar’s BJP-type of development during 16 years of (his) rule.” Health minister Pandey’s tenure has been pockmarked with allegations of inefficiency. There have been waterlogging inside buildings, wards and operation theatres, complaints of misbehaviour by hospital staff and doctors with patients and their kin, absence of doctors from duty, lack of ambulances and hearses due to which people have been forced to carry patients and bodies themselves, bungling in tests, especially those pertaining to Covid-19, dearth of investigative facilities at government hospitals and poor nursing. There are around 12,000 government hospitals and health centres in Bihar — 36 district hospitals, 67 referral hospitals, 54 sub-divisional hospitals, 533 public health centres, 9,949 sub-centres and 1,393 additional public health centres. On Saturday, Nitish chaired a review meeting of the health department against the backdrop of a fast-spreading viral fever and cases of dengue and swine flu that have only added to the Covid woes. Health minister Pandey and senior officers of the department were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Cong set to take on BJP on religion and nationalism ahead of elections||The Congress is gearing up to confront the BJP on religion and nationalism ahead of the critical elections in Uttar Pradesh and then Gujarat as it expects the ruling party to milk these emotive issues to hide governance failures. The unusual prominence given to the Taliban in the political discourse of Uttar Pradesh, assiduously aided by the electronic media and the RSS-BJP’s WhatsApp network, is being viewed as a precursor to the full-fledged Hindutva agenda being unveiled in the coming months. Congress leaders believe the BJP is tapping into the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to polarise voters along communal lines and call for a Hindu consolidation. Senior leaders are saying in private conversations that Rahul Gandhi’s visit to the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu must have been driven by concerns over the BJP’s ability to portray itself as the sole protector of Hinduism and unleash the propaganda that the Congress is anti-Hindu. Although this was not Rahul’s first visit to the important Hindu shrine, the timing appeared linked to the upcoming political battles. That the visit was not just about personal faith got forcefully manifested through the extraordinary projection of the event by the Congress on social media. Addressing a public rally in Jammu after his pilgrimage, Rahul himself used new metaphors to explain the nature of the political crisis. “There is a trinity of Durga, Lakshmi and Saraswati at Vaishno Devi. These three powers protect and make the country flourish. Durga is the power that protects, Lakshmi helps one fulfil objectives and Saraswati gives knowledge,” he said. The Congress leader went on to ask whether demonetisation had enhanced or diminished the power that Lakshmi symbolises and whether knowledge, the power of Saraswati, is bolstered when the government packs universities with RSS activists. While this new language of communication may rile those overtly secular, party workers believe the most urgent task is to dilute the perception of the Congress being anti-Hindu and the BJP being a Hindu party. A Congress MP said: “The BJP will have nothing left to say if we blunt their Hindutva push. Once we are on a par, they will have to explain the failures on the economy, jobs, Chinese intrusion and the corona mismanagement. Rahul always goes to temples but we still have to do a lot to demolish the perception that the BJP protects Hindu interests. “We will have to establish that the BJP uses Hinduism to spread hatred against Muslims while our objective is to unite people, to strengthen the constitutional principles of equality and justice.” Senior leader Digvijaya Singh, who has always dealt with the issue of religion boldly, said at a conference a couple of days ago: “We oppose the RSS because they create religious frenzy to divide the society. We know unity and harmony are essential for progress. They whip up passions through false propaganda about Hinduism being under threat and exploit the Hindu sentiment for vote.” Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar also believes the BJP has filed a case against him in Patna for endorsing lyricist Javed Akhtar’s comparison of the RSS with the Taliban only because they want to prevent any debate on core issues and take political advantage by misleading people. “Javed Akhtar has said there are similarities between the ideology of the RSS and the Taliban. Anybody can see the similarities in mindset. The Taliban want an Islamic state and the RSS wants a Hindu rashtra. We always opposed the RSS concept of nationalism because it is based on religious discrimination while Congress nationalism is based on constitutional principles,” Anwar told The Telegraph. He added: “They think I will be scared of their legal threat. I come from a family of freedom fighters. I will fight the RSS and their Talibani mindset because we believe in the Gandhian philosophy of truth and non-violence. They tried this intimidating tactic against our leader Rahul also. But the Congress is opposed to the RSS worldview and we will always remain so.” Digvijaya supported Anwar’s line through a series of tweets, arguing that the Taliban’s outlook towards women was similar to the RSS’s. Recalling RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s comment that “women should be housewives, men should be breadwinners”, Digvijaya said: “Do the Taliban and the RSS have a similarity of views on working women? Looks like it, unless Mohan Bhagwatji and the Taliban change their views.” The Congress veteran also quoted Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who had been reported as saying that women were incapable of being left free or independent. “The Taliban say women can’t be made ministers. Isn’t there a congruence of views?” Digvijaya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Probe agency will reveal how Abhishek became rich: BJP MP||Amid Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on Trinamul Congress (TMC) general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Jagannath Sarkar on Sunday said that the law enforcement agency will reveal the exact amount of money the TMC leader has accumulated and what was his source of income. Jagannath Sarkar while speaking to ANI, said, “Nobody knows how Abhishek Banerjee possessed a huge amount of money. But now, ED will reveal the exact amount of money and how he became rich.” Sarkar also questioned Mr Banerjee's financial condition over the past few years, he said, “His financial condition was not great 10 years ago. Now, how does he have crores of rupees? Everything will be clear after the investigation.” The statement came after Banerjee was summoned by ED on September 3 in connection with the coal mining scam and arrived at their office on September 6 for the investigation. Meanwhile, the TMC leader also made statements of hanging himself after being accused by the opposition leader Sarkar related to the scam. Slamming the BJP, Abhishek Banerjee had said, TMC cannot be cowed down like Congress and other parties while adding that BJP's resources will fall flat no matter how much might, vigour and threat it puts in. The TMC leader on Monday appeared before Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the national capital. He was interrogated for around eight hours by the agency in an alleged coal smuggling case. Briefing reporters after appearing before ED, Banerjee said, “If BJP thinks it can frighten TMC by doing all this, we will fight more vigorously. TMC cannot be cowed down like Congress and other parties. We will go to every state where BJP has killed democracy. BJP’s tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat and resources, mind my words, their resources are going to fall flat. TMC will defeat BJP in next polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI arrests 7 people in murder case ||The CBI has arrested seven persons on Sunday in connection with a murder case in Cooch Behar linked to post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials said. The family of the victim, Hardhan Roy, had alleged that one Arjun Munda had taken him to Rajaghora river on May 3 where he was found smeared in blood, they said. He was taken to the hospital where he had died during treatment, according to the FIR. The CBI had arrested four persons on Saturday in connection with another murder case in Tufanganj reported during the violence. It was alleged that on May 4 TMC supporters Sahinur Ahmed and Prosenjit were having dinner when four BJP supporters joined them. After the dinner, Sahinur and Prosenjit were attacked resulting in severe injuries. They were dragged to a nearby maize field and left there. Prosenjit survived but Sahinur was found dead, the FIR said. The CBI has taken over the cases on the instructions of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court that had entrusted to the agency the investigation of alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in West Bengal, they said. The high court’s directives came after a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) committee submitted a report on the violence in the state that followed the declaration of assembly election results on May 2 in which the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress humbled the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta University starts renovation of Asutosh Museum of Indian Art||Calcutta University is renovating its Asutosh Museum of Indian Art, a rich treasure trove of sculptures, paintings and manuscripts dating back centuries, to give a better display to its exhibits. Through the renovation, which is expected to be completed by next year, the university seeks to make the commoners aware of the rich archival contents that have remained unnoticed for long, Vice Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee said. "Most of the terracotta items and the antiques were not stored properly. We will keep the exhibits at a controlled temperature with digital lighting on each item. In consultation with experts, we have undertaken the drive to revamp the infrastructure and facilities of the museum," she told PTI. A major portion of the collection comprises terracotta items unearthed in the 1940s from various archaeological sites in Bengal such as Chandraketugarh, Tamluk, Panna, Tilda, Bangarh, Mahasthangarh and Paharpur. The museum houses paintings by renowned artist Jamini Roy, and also has portraits of Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Rabindranath Tagore and Michael Madhusudan Dutt, which had been lying in a state of neglect, she said, adding there are also many valuables donated by royals. "There are many interesting items in the museum, which is on different floors of the centenary building of the 164-year-old university. Even many people visiting the campus were unaware of the existence of such a museum. We want to make people aware of their heritage," she said. The vice chancellor said that renovating the museum at par with global standards and showcasing the artefacts would also help in building the brand of Calcutta University. "Many people from across the globe visit the university campus for different reasons. The museum will definitely attract them too," she said. As part of the renovation drive, the main gate of the College Street campus has been renovated while retaining its architectural characteristics, and the VC's chamber has been given a facelift, while work is underway in other centuries-old portions of the premier institution, including the Darbhanga Building, she said, adding all work is being undertaken in consultation with the state Heritage Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Jagaran Sangha portraying goddess Durga at the Ganesh Puja organised by it this year||Jagaran Sangha, a club in Harishchandapur of Malda district, has come up with a clay idol of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, portraying her as goddess Durga at the Ganesh Puja organised by it this year. Clad in a blue-white sari, the idol, with 10 hands symbolising the social welfare schemes introduced by the state government, is seen cradling Ganesh. “The chief minister has been relentlessly working for welfare of people across Bengal and taking steps to keep the residents safe. She has stood by people in every crisis. That is why we depicted her as Durga,” said Bulbul Khan, secretary of the club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Demand for 'permanent political solution' gets louder in Darjeeling||Demand for a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region, promised by the BJP in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, is gaining ground in the hills again after being on the backburner these past few years. The Bharati Tamang faction of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) will hold a protest rally in Darjeeling on Sunday to allegedly expose the “lies” of BJP MP Raju Bista. “What happened to the issue of a permanent political solution, we need answers now,” said Bikramaadi Bangdel Rai, working president of the ABGL (Bharati faction). Bista, also a BJP spokesperson, had on August 6 after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah, claimed a tripartite meeting to discuss the permanent political solution of Darjeeling, Terai and the Dooars, would be held in the first week of September and that invitations to it would be sent around August 12. The Bista-led delegation that met Shah had GNLF president Mann Ghisingh, former Darjeeling MP and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxist president R.B. Rai, BJP MLAs from Darjeeling and Kurseong Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, and BJP hill president Kalyan Dewan. But what Bista claimed did not take place. Bista had reportedly said developments in Afghanistan might have delayed the meeting but it would “definitely be held within September”. Last Monday, the Bharati Tamang faction brought out a rally garlanding Bista’s effigy with shoes to protest the no-show of Bista’s claims. Taking offence at ABGL’s act, GNLF leader Zimba, who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, said he would personally be at the MP’s residence in Darjeeling on Sunday to meet ABGL leaders. “The last time I was not there. This time I will personally be there to give them a befitting reply,” said Zimba. ABGL leaders in turn alleged Zimba was indirectly threatening them and said the days of “intimidation” were over. “We are ready to discuss the issue with him (Zimba) on Sunday. But if any untoward incident takes place, Zimba must be held responsible. If there are obstructions tomorrow (Sunday), we will garland Amit Shah’s effigy with shoes and slippers from next week and march across Darjeeling town,” said Rai. Although permanent political solution has not been defined by BJP or the Centre, its allies in the hills have maintained that their understanding of it is Gorkhaland. Many believe recent developments in BJP-ruled Assam have also brought the focus back on permanent political solution in the hills. On September 5, the Centre and Assam government inked a tripartite peace agreement with five Karbi Anglong groups assuring greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council apart from a special package of Rs 1,000 crore over the next five years.Earlier, the Centre had signed three key peace accords in the Northeast. “But as the BJP-led Centre hasn’t held a single official meeting on permanent political solution here, disenchantment is growing in the hills,” said an observer. The Centre last year issued a letter for a meeting on “Gorkhaland” but soon changed the agenda to that of reviving the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP sets goal for Bhowanipore bypoll||The Bengal BJP leadership on Saturday decided to leave no stone unturned to increase its vote share in the Bhowanipore bypoll battle against chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The call to go all-out to increase the party’s vote share and put more stress on campaigning in minority-dominated areas of Bhowanipore constituency was taken at a meeting at the BJP’s Hastings office in Calcutta on Saturday. Since the party is sure that its candidate Priyanka Tibrewal doesn’t stand a chance against Mamata in the bypoll, its aim is to increase its vote share, said sources. “This will be our acid test. We believe if we fight with all our strength, we can reduce the margin and increase our vote share.... If we can do that in Bhowanipore, we can do it elsewhere,” a source present at Saturday’s meeting said. Saturday’s meeting was chaired by MP Arjun Singh, who has been named the party’s observer for the Bhowanipore constituency. Other members of the committee formed to oversee affairs of the bypoll, including MP Saumitra Khan, MLA Agnimitra Paul, general secretary Sanjay Singh, campaign in-charge Rudranil Ghosh and candidate Priyanka Tibrewal  were among those present. Rudranil had been the BJP candidate for the Assembly polls from Bhowanipore this summer. He had lost to Trinamul candidate Sovandeb Chattopadhyay by 28,719 votes. While Sovandeb had a vote share of 58 per cent, Rudranil had managed 35 per cent votes. He had lagged behind Chattopadhyay in six of eight wards in Bhowanipore. Dilip Ghosh, state BJP chief and Midnapore MP, chose bravado. “Bhowanipore is a cosmopolitan area. People from all communities, including Marwaris, Gujaratis and Muslims live there. We want people of Bhowanipore to cast their votes without fear.... We have defeated Trinamul in court, we will defeat them in the election,” he said. However, a BJP leader said when a high-decibel campaign led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah couldn’t ensure a win in the Assembly polls, what could the local leadership hope to achieve in a bypoll pitted against the chief minister. BJP MP Arjun said: “I don’t think Narendra Modi or Amit Shah needs to campaign here. We are enough. (Mamata has) lost once, will lose again.” A leader, who attended the Saturday meeting, said the BJP would make every effort to field agents in all booths located in Muslim-majority areas of the constituency. The party also seeks to ensure that members of the Hindu community living in those areas voted for the BJP without fear. The BJP has also decided to better its booth management. On Saturday, it  decided to have two agents for each booth as a back-up plan. “We have seen in earlier polls that our agents are threatened and asked to leave booths.... If we have two agents in each booth, we can replace one with another if there is a problem,” a source said. Despite the intent of aggression expressed by the campaign team, a section within the party expressed doubt about putting up a full-strength battle given the prolonged dilly-dally over the selection of candidate for the Bhowanipore seat. “Our leaders seem to be day-dreaming. Bhowanipore is Mamata Banerjee’s home.... That is why Delhi took so long to decide on the candidate…. In fact Priyanka’s name was a last-minute inclusion.... How do they even think of increasing vote share in a constituency where we were defeated by a big margin,” a party functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati finally obeys Calcutta HC order, students see ruse||Visva-Bharati authorities late on Friday night complied with Calcutta High Court’s interim order that on Wednesday directed the varsity to stay its decision to rusticate three students on charges of impropriety and let them resume academic activities. The three students, who had also been suspended in January, had been leading protests within and outside the campus against the “whimsical attitude” of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his alleged attempts at saffronising the campus. The proctor of Visva-Bharati circulated two orders via email to the departments of economics and Hindustani classical music requesting action according to the high court order around 11.30pm on Friday. The same email was sent to top varsity officials, including confidential secretary to VC Chakrabarty. On Saturday, the heads of the two departments called up the trio and asked them to resume classes from Monday. The trio, economics students Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan, and Hindustani classical music student Rupa Chakraborty, as well as some teachers alleged on Saturday that the varsity’s “almost-midnight order” in adherence to the court ruling was a ruse to keep students suspended “in a way” till Monday owing to the weekend in between. “It means we will get the benefit of the high court order after at least four days and we don’t know whether our VC has another trick up his sleeve for us on Monday. We want to sit for our exams,” said Sow. Several varsity officials criticised the administration for issuing the order close to midnight. “At the stroke of the midnight, when the world sleeps, Prof Shankar Majumdar, proctor of Visva-Bharati was awake to send a letter to the Principal of Vidya Bhavana…. To comply with the order of the honourable High Court at Calcutta, ” the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association letter reads. “We reiterate our demand — the misdeeds of Prof Bidyut Chakrabarty and his assorted lackeys have to be investigated by a high-level committee,” the letter reads. The letter pointed out that the VC had not left his residence this week but the admission process and publication of results resumed. Varsity authorities had earlier claimed during the students’ gherao of the VC’s residence that his physical presence was required for both the jobs. Asked about the delay in issuing the notice to comply with the court order, proctor Majumdar on Saturday said only the varsity’s public relations officer could brief the media. The officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a WhatsApp message from this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||ED calls Abhishek Banerjee to New Delhi on September 21||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday summoned Abhishek Banerjee, the Trinamul Congress general-secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, to New Delhi on September 21 for another round of questioning in connection with its probe into a coal pilferage case. The fresh summons comes within four days of Abhishek appearing for a nine-hour questioning session by the ED in New Delhi on Monday. The central agency had also summoned Abhishek on Wednesday for questioning, but the Diamond Harbour MP had expressed his inability to go. A section of Trinamul leaders said the decision to summon Abhishek was taken soon after Biman Banerjee, Speaker of the Bengal Assembly, decided to send separate letters to the ED and the CBI asking officers to explain how they could showcause three Trinamul leaders — ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim along with Madan Mitra, the Trinamul MLA from Kamarhati — without his consent. The ED, which is probing into the money laundering aspect in connection with the Narada sting operation, recently submitted chargesheets against housing and transport minister Hakim, panchayat minister Mukherjee, along with Mitra, former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee and IPS officer S.M.H. Mirza. The chargesheet followed a criminal case drawn up by the CBI. The ED requested a special court while submitting the chargesheet that the accused be summoned for questioning on November 16. The court, while granting the plea, had directed that the summons to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the Assembly Speaker, as the trio are legislators. Summons to the other two would be served directly at their addresses, the court had said. Speaker Banerjee has decided to question this move saying the state Assembly’s consent was required before drawing up chargesheet against MLAs. Separate letters are being sent to both agencies asking why the mandatory clearance was not taken before drawing up the chargesheet. “In retaliation to the Speaker’s letters, the ED has decided to call Abhishek. It would take a few days to assimilate whatever he answered during the nine-hour long questioning. But it seems there is an urgency,” said a senior Trinamul leader overseeing preparations for Mamata Banerjee’s by-election campaign in Bhowanipore. ED officials said they recently found that two companies that had links with Abhishek and his family had received several crores of rupees from a construction company, which in turn received the amount through some of the accused in the alleged coal pilferage case. “We want to clarify some of the answers that Abhishek has submitted to us in writing,” said a senior ED official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Armed gang makes off with 12 kilos of gold in Asansol||A gang of four armed robbers decamped with Rs 10 lakh in cash and 12kg of gold ornaments from the Asansol branch of a Kerala-based gold financing company on Saturday afternoon. Police said the value of the looted gold was estimated around Rs 6 crore. This makes it the second-largest heist of the precious metal in the region in the past one decade. A police officer said one of the robbers entered the office of Muthoot Fincorp Express Gold Loan located at a shopping complex near Asansol (south) police station posing as a customer around 2pm when the office was about to close for the day. Within a few minutes, three more barged into the office brandishing firearms after overpowering the security guard. “They beat up the security guard and other employees at the office and held them at gunpoint,” a police officer said. Security guard Anil Kumar Pandey said the first robber approached him, pretending to seek information about a gold loan. “I allowed him inside after completing the initial formalities. Within a few minutes three more youths brandishing revolvers barged into the office. They snatched my gun and pushed me inside holding a revolver on my temple. They hit my head with the revolver’s butt. All of them spoke in Hindi,” said Pandey. One of the employees, Sonali Gupta, said the first youth even handed her some jewellery and asked how much loan he would get against the items. “I was examining the ornaments, when I suddenly saw three youths brandishing guns enter our office after overpowering the guard. The youth in front of me asked me to come to the counter. I realised then he too was a part of the group,” said Gupta. The goons confined all the four employees and one customer present at the office inside a small room. “They snatched our phones and taped our lips. They threatened to kill us if we raised an alarm. They then decamped with cash and ornaments from the vault,” said Gupta. “As of now we have estimated Rs 10 lakh in cash and 12kg gold was taken,” said Saikat Das, branch manager of the finance company. After the goons left, the employees broke open the door and called the police. The cops rushed to the spot and collected the CCTV footage from the office. “We have alerted all neighbouring police stations, including our counterpart in Jharkhand. We have sealed the borders and special checking is on,” said a police officer in Asansol. Sources said the goons arrived at the office on two motorbikes and also fled on them. “They finished their operation within 20 minutes. We are trying to identify the gang from the CCTV footage. We are suspecting the gang might have fled to Jharkhand,” said another police officer. In 2010, gold worth Rs 14 crore was looted from the office of another gold financing company in Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda: Three girls pulled out of Ganga, two of them die||Three minor girls of Malda district went missing in the Ganga on Friday and were rescued the same day, but two of them died on Saturday. The duo breathed their last at the Malda Medical College and Hospital (MMCH). The third girl is stable but still under observation at the MMCH. Sources said on Friday, friends Sriparna Rajak, 10, Purnima Rajak, 10, and Koyel Rajak, 12, went to bathe in the Ganga at Shaktimandalpara of CharSujapur, a village under Baishnabnagar police station of KaliachakIII block. The trio went missing which some by-standers noticed. They jumped into the river, pulled out the three unconscious girls and took them to a local health centre. When their condition did not improve, they were referred to the MMCH. On Saturday, Sriparna and Koyel died. Purnima is conscious . A couple of weeks back, three brothers of the same area had drowned in the Ganga. Mamun Akhtar, the BDO of KaliachakIII block, said families of the deceased girls would be compensated accord¬ng to the state’s guidelines. “People should stop their children from going to the river that has swollen during the monsoon,” he said. People at large should be on the alert to avoid such mishaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 752 new infections and 14 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded 83 successive days of a fall in its total of active Covid19 cases, with 752 new infections, 754 recoveries and 14 deaths. The total fell by 16 to 8,203. Bengal has 2.12 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with the most number of such cases. Calcutta logged 119 new infections and North 24-Parganas 128, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Five districts reported a singledigit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent  the highest ever this pandemic  still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.76 per cent on Saturday. Eighteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has over 15.56 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.29 lakh recoveries and 18,567 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||West Bengal||Mask up to keep Covid at bay: Women campaigners ||District authorities in South 24-Parganas launched a renewed mask awareness drive on Friday apprehending complacency among those partially vaccinated against Covid-19 and a possible third wave of the pandemic amid the festival season. The move comes amid rising numbers of positive cases in the district, with doctors and medical associations urging citizens to obey Covid safety protocols better. “The drive involves women from self-help and grassroots organisations in South 24-Parganas,” said a district official. “The objective of the initiative is to reach the grassroots and encourage people to wear masks stringently. Doorstep drives are at the core of this initiative,” the official added. According to medical associations in the district, the spectre of a third wave “appears imminent”, with the district continuing to record nearly 50 new positive cases every day over the past few weeks. Sources added that rising numbers made district officials realise that engaging grassroots and self-help groups would be crucial to keep Covid infections under control. “We observed rising infections since the process of unlocking began, because many people are attending crowded places without wearing masks. This is deadly,” said a doctor from Diamond Harbour Super Speciality Hospital. “Policing and awareness campaigns seem to have fallen on deaf ears.” Acknowledging this, district magistrate P. Ulagnathan said: “Our district has a very poor mask culture in comparison to other districts, but this needs to change. People should understand that by wearing a mask, they can check the spread of Covid.” “We are engaging women’s groups to make people more aware about the importance of masks and about the threat of a third wave,” he added. Though South 24-Parganas has recorded a good number of Covid patients who have being discharged from hospitals, the district continues to record new cases. On July 10, the district had a total 95,114 positive cases, which increased to 96,529 on August 10 and increased further on September 10 to 98,166. On July 10, the total number of deaths was 1,260, which rose to 1,278 on August 10, and went up further to 1,292 on September 10. During the past one week, the district has recorded an average 50 new positive cases daily, which is quite alarming, health officials have stated. Last year, the Bengal government had decided to engage around one crore women members of self-help groups to raise awareness in rural areas of the state. These women were also imparted training by the local panchayat and health department. South 24-Parganas has over 1,000 such groups formed under the “Anandadhara” programme by the district administration. They have begun visiting public places and homes across the district. The drive constituting the first phase began from Kulpi, Mograhat, Kakdwip, and Baruipur on Friday. On Saturday morning, members of the groups were seen interacting with people in a bid to make them realise the need for masks, using sanitisers, maintaining distance, the need to wash hands and how to contact health workers in case of illness. Still, in many districts the initiative could not be implemented since many groups have reportedly lost their income and wage support. A senior official of the panchayat department in the district said: “Since members of self-help groups are women, they can play a very effective role in creating awareness, as they know villagers personally. The most important aspect of their support is to make people understand about the need for wearing masks.” Sources said women from these groups would not be offered any remuneration for the awareness drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
12-09-2021||Opinion||I’ve been my own plaything, and so?||They do say things, such things and such things not. And the others say things others will say, such things and such things not. You can do this, and this thing you may not. These we need to think about now and these we shall think about later. If there is a later. We are always at such a crossroads these days, aren’t we? This for now, that for later. And most often we may not know there will be a later. The way things are, and the way we are headed, the later may well be sooner. But you see dilemma can also be a happy thing. A better thing than no dilemma at all, no choice to make, only the one road to take. Better a crossroads than a cul-de-sac, wouldn’t you think? If you wouldn’t, then think. This way or that way better than just this way or just that way. Imagine if things were going to be just one way and no other. And imagine if there were another way to imagine how things could be. Take your pick. Or maybe pick your nose when no one’s looking. Just to get a sense up as close as the tip of your nose of how things work better when there is one way and another way. Imagine a single nostril, oh god no! Thank god for two of them, am I right? One way in, another way out, or the other way around, but choices between one and another. Imagine being possessed of a single nostril, never mind that a single nose does just fine, let’s not take this too far down ludicrous directions. I mean, you determine a course and you stay the course come what may. That’s determination, yes. And it is also possible to take a course and digress from it should circumstances so require. That’s flexibility. That’s also exercise of choice. Always handy, this choice business, although in fairness to extant realities, the choice business can’t be said to be doing too well, if you can discern what I mean. If you cannot, look at the billboards, or watch television news, or tune in to the radio certain Sunday mornings. We are quite stuck. And it would need a golly full-blooded blow for that to come unstuck. Can you blow hard enough, do you have the lungs for it? Try blowing, and how hard you blow may tell you what choices you have, or what you don’t. Try it, and it may well define the shape of things to come. Were we to go that way And make of it the most Should we heed what they say When all we really are is lost?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Thok ke bhav||The Bahujan Samaj Party or BSP boss Mayawati has said that if she is voted to power in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) elections, she will no longer build memorials, statues and parks dedicated to OBC and Dalit icons. She said, “We have already done it thok ke bhav.” Indeed, soon after she came to power for the first time in 1995, Mayawati built more than 1,500 statues of Ambedkar across UP. Statues of Jyotirao Phule, Pandita Ramabai, Shahuji Maharaj also came up. There were statues of Kabirdas, Ravidas, Ghasidas, Birsa Munda. And there were more of the Buddha, Kanshi Ram and Mayawati herself. In 2009, a PIL was filed, which accused the BSP government of using Rs 2,000 crore public money to build statues and BSP's symbols. Mayawati was elected chief minister of UP four times. The fourth time --- 2007 to 2012 --- she served a full term. The first lot of statues may have been regular cement structures, but eventually bronze, marble and granite came to be used. Post 2002, came the sthals — Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Samajik Parivartan Prateek Sthal better known as Ambedkar Memorial Park, the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal, the Manyavar Kanshiram Smarak Sthal. Expert commentary about the architectural style employed is peppered with terms such as “neo-Buddhist style”, “enfilades”, “Sanchi stupa inspired domes”, “Ashokan pillars”. Nearly everyone remarks about the “extra-human scale” of the creations. Much is also said about the “visually incongruent” cityscape of Lucknow; much Nawabi, some part British, and then ostensibly Dalit. The statue of Ambedkar in the Ambedkar Memorial Complex is inspired by the Lincoln Memorial. The Prerna Kendra enshrines Kanshi Ram’s ashes. It seems thicker-than-usual stone slabs were used and extra thick bronze. The open-air sculpture gallery at the Ambedkar Memorial has friezes on its walls depicting key events from the careers of Kanshi Ram and Mayawati. In the paper “Monumental Pride: Mayawati’s Memorials in Lucknow”, Melia Belli writes, “These are not sites built to honour the Buddha. It could even be argued that their ultimate function is not to honour Ambedkar or Kanshi Ram, but Mayawati.” Her primary job done, this time round Mayawati has promised not to build more statues and memorials for her vote bank, and instead work for development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Don't ignore Covid norms in the name of festivals ||Sir — In spite of the extent of death and disease suffered by Indians in the first two waves of the pandemic, anytime a festival rolls around, people can be seen gathering in large numbers. This blatant disregard for social distancing norms was witnessed, once again, when people celebrated Ganesh Chaturthi. Devotees were seen jostling in temples and taking part in processions. This is bound to spread the infection further. People seem to have forgotten the dreadful scenes of numerous pyres and patients gasping for breath. Must things be that serious for people to be careful? Ananya Mohite, Mumbai Sir — The last-minute cancellation of the final Test match between India and England was an anticlimactic ending to an otherwise thrilling series (“Manchester madness”, Sep 11). The root cause of this fiasco is the recklessness of the head coach, Ravi Shastri, who thought it wise to attend a book launch at a crowded venue in breach of Covid-19 protocols. The captain of the Indian cricket team, Virat Kohli, and other members were present at the event as well. Since then, Shastri and a few other members of the support staff have tested positive. This led to the Indian team refusing to play for fear of spreading the disease further. However, one cannot help but wonder that if all players tested negative, was it really necessary to cancel the final match altogether? Had the players gone ahead with the match, there was a high probability that the Indian team could have won the series and scripted history. After India’s gripping victory in the fourth Test at The Oval, all of us had hoped that the final match of the series would be just as riveting. But it seems that the Board of Control for Cricket in India had other priorities — perhaps the Indian Premier League which is about to start in less than 10 days. If any of the Indian players test positive or even quarantine during the IPL, it would result in huge economic losses for the BCCI and the franchise owners. The lure of money has well and truly corrupted cricket. N.V. Krishnan,Chennai Sir — It is unfortunate that an interesting Test series had to be cancelled because of Covid-19. After Ravi Shastri and at least four other members of the support staff tested positive for the disease, it seemed wise to cancel the final match. Although there are rumours that the match may be rescheduled, it seems unlikely with the IPL around the corner. Had Shastri and other members of the Indian team followed protocol and refrained from attending the unveiling of Shastri’s book, the series could have continued as planned. Not only is it disappointing for the fans, but the cancellation is also unfair to the English team. The Indian team must be held accountable for their irresponsible behaviour. C.K. Subramanian,Navi Mumbai Sir — The cancellation of the fifth Test between India and England at Old Trafford was completely avoidable. After the coach of the Indian team and support staff tested positive for Covid-19, the England and Wales Cricket Board was left with no option but to cancel the match. But did it really have to come to this? We are currently in the midst of a pandemic and had the team members been mindful of the consequences of their actions, they would have refrained from attending a crowded event. But they failed to take even basic precautions. Such callous behaviour is unforgivable. Minakshi Baruah,Guwahati Sir — It was deeply saddening to read about the demise of the Nehruvian diplomat, Keshav Desiraju, at the relatively early age of 66 (“Like no other”, Sep 11). It is poetic that he would take his last breath on the birth anniversary of his grandfather and the second president of India, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. It is rare to find an honest and humble civil servant these days, who is equally respected by the people he serves as well as his peers. He will be missed. K. Nehru Patnaik,   Visakhapatnam||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||No-nonsense Naveen acts on party leader, shows the way ||The chief minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, has built a reputation for having a no-nonsense approach to maintaining law and order in the state. He ensures that action is taken against people violating laws, irrespective of their political connections. This has made Patnaik quite popular among the people. The CM set an example recently when he suspended a member of his own party, the Biju Janata Dal. The Chilika member of legislative assembly, Prashanta Kumar Jagdev, who has the image of being the ‘bahubali’ of the party, was suspended for being caught on camera beating up a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader in his constituency. Patnaik also removed Jagdev from the post of chairperson of the Khurda District Planning Committee. This has opened the door for the arrest of the MLA. Patnaik has just killed two birds with one stone. Not only has he foiled the BJP’s attempt to hit the streets over the issue of deteriorating law and order situation in the state, but he has also been able to send out the message that he will not let anyone breaking the law go scot free. Chirag Paswan, son of the prominent Dalit leader, Ram Vilas Paswan, is trying hard to step into the shoes of his late father. Paswan Senior was known for being able to correctly judge which way the political wind was blowing and align with the winning side. In fact, this had earned him the sobriquet of “mausam vaigyanik” or the political weather vane. But Chirag lacks this political deftness. He was caught napping when his uncle walked away with all the Lok Janshakti Party members of parliament except Chirag and has now staked claim over the party. The LJP was formed by Paswan Senior and handed over to Chirag. Both the BJP and the prime minister, Narendra Modi — a leader Chirag was in awe of — have dumped him and sided with his uncle, Pashupati Paras. The government has also asked the family to vacate the 12, Janpath bungalow associated with Ram Vilas Paswan for nearly three decades. Chirag’s well-wishers say he is confused. He does seem unwilling to take a clear political stand — in spite of being disowned by the BJP, he refrains from taking on the ruling party. He is also sending confused signals when it comes to aligning with the Opposition. His admirers say that Chirag was still on his training wheels when his father passed on. This is why he is yet to learn the tricks of the trade. The appointment of RN Ravi as the governor of Nagaland in 2019 had fuelled hopes of an early solution to one of Asia’s longest running insurgencies. He was not only a signatory to the much-touted Framework Agreement signed between the Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) in 2015, but also the interlocutor for the Naga peace process. Two years down the line, the peace process is floundering and Ravi has been transferred to Tamil Nadu in an attempt by the Centre to get the peace talks back on track. Ravi may also be removed from the role of the interlocutor. Ravi’s departure has triggered a sense of relief — most organizations directly or indirectly blamed Ravi, a former IPS officer, for the standstill in the peace process. In fact, the NSCN (I-M) had been demanding his removal for some time now. Ravi’s transfer, most feel, should be a lesson for those who think that the Naga people can be forced into “accepting” just any solution. If the Centre does not revisit its policies for Nagaland, it risks wasting the gains it has made so far. That Nagaland has an Opposition-less state assembly for the second time since 2015 to facilitate an early resolution of the Naga talks is revealing. Being overbearing and hasty are clearly not options when dealing with Nagaland or the Northeast. The BJP ministers in Bihar are rushing to Delhi one after another to meet the PM and the Union home minister, Amit Shah. But not all are successful in meeting them. The lucky ones are said to be boasting about their work in the poverty-ridden state. Many are even trying to meet the party president, JP Nadda, and other senior ministers. The rush started when whispers were heard that the top leadership of the BJP and its parent organization, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, was unhappy with the performance and conduct of several Bihar ministers, and mulling changes. The petrified leaders are now waiting with bated breath for the axe to fall. Ramesh Chennithala was among the Congress veterans peeved at being ignored while the posts of the district chiefs in Kerala were rejigged. The popular Congressman was the leader of the Opposition in the previous assembly and felt left out when the party picked his younger colleague, VD Satheesan, to take his place in the assembly and then went on to select district chiefs without “sufficient” consultations with seniors like him. Party circles have since been agog with talks of Chennithala being placated with a national role at the AICC. But he is unwilling to stay away from his home state and create space for younger leaders. The seasoned politician that he is, Chennithala knows well the perils of leaving his comfort zone. Amit Shah’s assurance that the Karnataka CM, Basavaraj Bommai, would lead the party in the 2023 state elections has caused heartburn among senior leaders eyeing the top job. The support for Bommai — whom many see as a stop-gap CM — has not gone down well with senior leaders like KS Eshwarappa and Jagadish Shettar. Bommai’s origin in the Janata ‘parivar’ is another factor working against him as some want old-time loyalists to be considered for the CM’s job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Caught in the blades||When Friedrich Nietzsche had predicted the rise of an Übermensch — the superior man who would impose his own values on the rest — he had been slightly off the mark. The tribe that imposes its values on others has taken the form of Übereltern — Super Parents — instead. Nietzsche would have fared better if he had turned to India, where parents, be it the overbearing mother or the authoritarian father, have, for long, honed the skill of micromanaging the lives of their children. Bengali mothers have gone a step further and turned this craft into a fine art, usually expressing it in the form of relentless ministrations. Time and technology have only served to sharpen the skills of these ‘helicopter parents’, as they are popularly known. Reports show that several schools in Calcutta are now complaining that ever since classes shifted online owing to the pandemic, thereby transitioning from school to home, children have been imprisoned in virtual panopticons with parents watching their every move. The consequences of this surveillance are troubling: children are being prodded to sit properly in front of the laptop screens, answer before their peers do, not to mention the ample but unwarranted — pesky — parental aid that they are receiving when it comes to doing classwork and homework. Scientific research shows that this type of domineering parenting has serious, long-term consequences: the children’s inability to take independent decisions impairs their problem-solving skills. The key to liberating children from the family-turned-prison may be found by digging deep into the parents’ psyche and enquiring what is it that compels them to nudge, nay shove, their blood onto the path of perceived success. The results of such an enquiry can be illuminating. Rising economic instability and a rapidly shrinking job market may be the reasons why parents force children to join the rat race. Then, there is the figure of the overbearing mother, a creature born as a result of inverted, asymmetrical power relationships. Women in a patriarchal society have little say in family matters and, as the lockdown-induced layoffs have shown, the fate of the modern working woman may change at the first sign of trouble. As such, children become collateral damage, subjects on which mothers exert excessive control as a result of their own powerlessness. What runs even deeper though is the culture of surveillance that is ingrained in the Indian family structure — the snooping Indian relative can give Pegasus a run for its money. In a society where personal choices mean little and often several members of a family share limited space, concepts like privacy and independence have always been hard to comprehend. Knowledge — about the intimate affairs of family members — is power when it comes to keeping the fast-disintegrating Great Indian Family together. It is this lack of understanding of the idea of privacy — even that of children — that is at the heart of helicopter parenting. This intrusive mindset needs to change if helicopter parents are to keep their children from crashing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Noble experiment||The ascendancy of majoritarianism in several parts of the world calls into question the historical significance of India’s experiment with pluralism. This broad popularity of majoritarian parties and leaders can be taken to mean that the ideal of representing diversity isn’t just a local failure brought about by the success of the Bharatiya Janata Party, it also represents a more general defeat of the idea that nations ought to do better than suffer minorities. If this is true, it is a world-historical defeat. I have argued before that both historical fascism and contemporary majoritarianisms confront minorities with extinction, expulsion or coerced assimilation. These aren’t, of course, choices; these are fates assigned by nations to their minorities. While totalitarian states and illiberal democracies are more prepared to use massive state violence to achieve their majoritarian ends, countries that think of themselves as liberal democracies — like France — are increasingly willing to discipline minorities through law and propaganda. Let us assume that the election victories of the BJP in 2014 and 2019 mark the end of this experiment, at least for the foreseeable future. This raises an important question: what is the historical significance of independent India’s experiment with pluralism if it is snuffed out? Its importance is this: if this pluralist first republic hadn’t existed, we wouldn’t be able to invent it. It was created by a unique historical conjuncture: the decolonization of a subcontinental empire. The Indian nation state that was one of the end results of this process was historically singular but the constitutional polity it created through pragmatism and idealism, intention and error, produced precedents and practices that are now available to the whole democratic world. This is not the space in which to attempt an exhaustive inventory of these precedents and practices, but I want to focus briefly on the central insights of constitutional pluralism. The first of these was that a democratic state can take formal cognizance of difference and inequality. Unlike France, where the principle of laïcité creates a willed blindness to difference and, therefore, prevents the state from even gathering the information that might allow it to address systematic discrimination on the basis of those differences, the Indian republic institutionalized affirmative action in its founding charter, in the schedules of its Constitution. This is historically important because once a democratic state incorporates affirmative action as a part of its political project, it becomes a precedent that can be examined and evaluated by other democratic states. It ceases to be a wispy rhetorical aspiration and becomes a real-world practice. The fact that India has scheduled castes and scheduled tribes who have a special claim upon the attention of the state is important not just to India but to any discussion in the world where people discuss inequality and what governments can do to systematically tackle it. The Indian republic is sometimes accused by its critics of fetishizing diversity. The most obvious example of this is India’s calendar of gazetted holidays that scrupulously nominates holidays for the special days of virtually every faith community in the country. You could see this as a kind of unproductive pandering, or you could think of it as a way of reminding Indians that everyone’s religious practices are formally acknowledged by the state as equally worthy of its attention. It is, if you like, a way of publicly making room for everyone, of not allowing the weight of numbers to define who is worthy of public attention. One of the most interesting examples of intellectual parochialism is the absence of the experience of India from the debates about the shape and political direction of the European Union. Geographically, India and Europe are subcontinental extensions of a single continent. They are roughly the same size, though India is both more populated and more diverse. The reason Europe dignifies itself as a separate continent has nothing to do with geography and everything to do with its erstwhile imperial dominance. India’s achievements and failures as a subcontinental democracy ought to interest the EU’s architects and ideologues as well as its critics. The controversy about the EU’s treatment of its poorer constituent elements like Greece, the often-resented dominance of Germany and France, the legitimacy and necessity of redistributing resources between the poorer and richer regions of a single monetary union would be richer if the experience of India, a country that incorporates radically unequal regions, was factored in. This is not to argue that India is an exemplary nation; merely to say that its experience and practice of managing difference — economic, cultural, religious, linguistic — in a pluralist way represents a living political experiment that every democrat and political thinker should refer to: as case study, inspiration or cautionary tale. I was reminded of the significance of India’s secular and pluralist Constitution by a recent essay by a brilliant Naga academic, G. Kanato Chophy. At a time when the BJP’s explicitly majoritarian government is busy driving a coach-and-four through the rights guaranteed by the Constitution with the seeming deference of the country’s courts, it’s worth attending to a scholar who sees the republic from a vantage point very different from the heartland hubris of Narendra Modi and his disciples: “I belong to an emerging class of educated Nagas who consider themselves “constitutional Indians”; many of the young in my community, and perhaps the north-east more broadly, are culturally conservative, proud of their region’s distinctive history, tradition, language, and ethnic identity, but at the same time seeing and desiring common ground with fellow citizens in other regions of the country that have their own — sometimes almost incomprehensibly different — language, history, and culture. For a Naga, this common ground is the idea of a modern and secular India — as the truly Ambedkar-inspired Constitution defines it — not the largely elite and Brahmanical notion of a timeless Indian civilisation and tradition dating back thousands of years.” The reason why the Indian Constitution strikes a Naga scholar from India’s borderlands as the one platform on which he can feel a sense of citizenship with other Indians is that this Constitution was shaped and framed by another scholar who wrote from the margins of Indian society, whose community had been at the receiving end of this “timeless civilisation” that now seeks to remake India in its own image, and who was, therefore, acutely aware of the need to establish citizenship on the ground of rights, not ‘culture’ or ‘civilisation’. Ambedkar’s Constitution is a living reminder that a political culture, unselfconscious about difference, that tries to co-opt people into majoritarian practice risks alienating them. This is as true of laïcité as it is of Hindutva. “The umbilical cord connecting Nagas with mainland India... is not the cord of a shared ancient history, religion, or culture. The link is tenuous, and has to do with the ideas of equality, justice, and liberty enshrined in the Indian Constitution.” What’s true for Nagas is true in principle, or ought to be, for all Indians. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court transfers Rupa Tirkey case to Dhanbad from Sahebganj||The Jharkhand High Court has ordered the Rupa Tirkey suicide case, being investigated by the CBI, to be transferred to a Dhanbad special court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate Shikha Agarwal. The trial is likely to begin after the transfer of documents pertaining to the case from Sahebaganj Court to Dhanbad. The body of Rupa Tirkey, officer in-charge of women police station of Sahebganj was found hanging from at her official residence on May 3. Police investigation in the case claimed that Rupa Tirkey was allegedly harassed by her friend and colleague Shiv Kumar Kanujia leading to her death by suicide following which Kanaujia was arrested on May 9 for abetting her suicide. The case, which has remained in the media spotlight for the last two to three months due to political connotations, has been transferred to Dhanbad special court in the absence of a CBI court in Sahebganj. Dayanand Oraon, father of Rupa Tirkey, claimed his daughter did not die by suicide but had been killed as part of a conspiracy. Oraon who also filed a petition in Jharkhand High Court in June demanding a CBI probe into the death of his daughter charged that she was harassed by some of her colleagues at the instruction of Pankaj Mishra, MLA representative of Chief Minister, Hemant Soren and Dahu Yadav as she didn’t listen to the their request to manage some of the cases being dealt by her. Various tribal right organisations as well as opposition BJP raked up the issue forcing the government to announce a judicial probe into the case and a one-member commission was constituted by the government of a retired high court justice. Dissatisfied with the government move, Oraon continued his demand for a CBI probe into the issue and challenged the government decision of a judicial probe in high court. The court bench of justice SK Dwivedi finally ordered a CBI probe into the case  after which the Patna team of CBI took the case into its hand by registering an FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Mirzapur camels for a joyride on Jharkhand highway ||Camels from Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh travelling to Puri in Odisha through the state highway have become a source of entertainment and means to earn money for its handlers. “People show their hands and ask us to stop by the side of the highway where we make men and boys sit atop the camel and they in turn give us twenty rupees,” said Rinku of Mirza Tahseel under Allahabad district, one of the handlers of the camels. “We are on our way to Puri in Orissa. It has taken nearly two weeks to reach Daltonganj from where we are moving with our camels towards Gumla in Jharkhand for Puri in Orissa,” he said. A sitting on the hunch of the camel is worth Rs 20. The camel obliges it too without making any grudge if a new sitter comes on top of it every five to ten minutes. He said the daily earning is Rs 400. Rinku has two more assistants with him to take care of the camels. “More than half of the income of it goes to our Malik in Mirzapur and the rest we spend on our camels and on our food,” said Rinku. He showed this correspondent his 'dicky' on the camel which one finds in a car. His dicky is the side of the camel from where hang bags which carry rice pulse and clothes and some medicines. Rinku said camels manage their food themselves. If they find palatable leaves in the trees across the state highway they stop and then they have their  mouthful of it. Rinku and his assistants cook food only twice in 24 hours. He said sometimes women of the villages lying across the state highway give them food in lieu of their children having a free camel ride. Asked as to where he and his camels spend the night to which he said, “We spend our night in any government building and one of us remains wide awake for our camels at night.” “It is for dogs not to disturb the camels at night,” he said. A well known wildlife campaigner D.S. Srivastava said the camels are put to torture by making them walk hundreds of kilometre on the black top which their hooves find difficult and hard to negotiate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city special athletes get second Covid jab||Eighteen special athletes took their second dose of vaccine for Covid-19 at a camp organised by the East Singhbhum district administration on Sunday. Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO which runs a special school, requested the district administration to organise the camp for the second dose of vaccine at their school. A team, including three nurses, completed the formalities in around two hours. The special athletes, including, Ryan Francis, Raju Diwan, Akash Sharma and Pankaj Kumar (all students of Jeevika) were afraid to take the vaccine and refused to roll up their sleeves. However, they relented after a while when presented with chocolates. "Things went off peacefully. Our students had taken the first doze of Covishield vaccine on June 16 and it was time for the second dose. We had informed the district administration that the second dose of vaccine was due. We are thankful to the district administration," said Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika. According to him, they felt it was their responsibility to convince parents of our special children to get their wards from a safety point of view. "We are happy that now our students are safe," added Singh, a former international cyclist. Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur was also present on the occasion. New state shuttle association Badminton Association of Jharkhand was formed on Sunday. Dinesh Kumar has been nominated president of the outfit while Vijay Singh (vice-president) Rajeev Sengupta (secretary) and Mohammad Rashid (treasurer) are other office bearers. "The association has been formed for developing the game and promoting shuttlers in the districts. We are organising a two-day tournament in Telco later this month," Kumar said at a media meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town colleges launch teacher exchange plan to tide over staff crunch||Coal town colleges of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalachal University have launched faculty exchange programme in the face of acute shortage of teachers obstructing the timely completion of courses. Three prominent colleges of Dhanbad, including SSLNT Women’s College, Dhanbad; PK Roy Memorial College of Dhanbad and RS More College, Govindpur have already launched the exchange programme, while talks are on with two other colleges including BSK College Maithon and KB women’s College Bokaro, which are also facing the same problem. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Praveen Singh, Principal of RS More College, Govindpur said, “As per laid UGC norms, the teacher student ratio should be 1:25 while in coal town colleges the ratio is more than 1:300 in many of the subjects.” “We have none of faculty in any of science subjects, including Physics, Chemistry and Zoology and somehow managing classes with contractual teachers who can’t relied as keep on leaving service as and when they get regular jobs,” said Singh. “As classes are being held through online mode so there is no issue with the TA DA payment with regard the teachers taking classes in other colleges under faculty exchange programme as only per class payment is being made,” said Singh and added that though classes are presently being held under the faculty exchange programme with SSLNT Women’s College and PK Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad. Elaborating over the teacher’s crisis Singh said, “We have only four regular teachers for a student strength over 7000 and we are facing great issue with the managing the administrative work like as these teachers are also overburdened with a number of responsibilities like one regular teacher who has retired yesterday was holding the charge of several posts like burser, accounts in-charge etc.” “We even can’t entrust the contractual teachers with such key responsibilities as they due to non permanent nature of their job can’t be given task involving financial issues as they are unaccountable,” said Singh and added that due to teacher’s exchange progamme the academic can be carried out smoothly and regular teacher can have some space for discharging administrative work other than taking classes. Principal of PK Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad BK Sinha said, “We are facing scarcity in faculty in various subjects as we have only two teachers in Commerce and one each in Political Science and Zoology.” “Though many of teachers are not agreeing to teachers in other colleges but we are somehow motivating them to cooperate in the interest of students to ensure timely completion of courses,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Acid attack victim turns counsellor for people in distress||Sonali Mukherjee, an acid attack victim from Bokaro, presently associated with a wide range of social work, including women empowerment, medical and equipment support to physically challenged persons besides support to transgender community, has now taken the cudgel to provide counselling to people facing depression or mental stress due to pandemic and lockdown related difficulties. A helpline number 6287172173 has been launched by her to provide counselling support to people in distress. Sonali Mukherjee, a student of B.Sc at BSS Women’s College of Dhanbad was attacked by Tapas Mitra, a resident of Telipara who had proposed to her but she declined. Tapas, along with two friends entered her Bhelatand, Dhanbad house on April 22, 2003 and poured Sulphuric acid on her face due to which her face was badly damaged.  The family shifted to Kasmar in Bokaro after the incident and forced to live in penury for more than 10 years. Sonali’s plight attracted media attention on June 2, 2012 when she came to office of chairperson of state women’s commission seeking financial help. After her appearance in KBC, support came in from different organisations and she underwent a series of surgery at BL Kapoor Hospital of New Delhi. Talking to The Telegraph Online today she said, “We have received four calls after the launch of the helpline yesterday one of which was from a Dhanbad resident related to delay in getting job on compassionate ground.” “I am myself providing counseling to the depression victims based on my long experience with mental trauma besides that we have a professional counselor, and referring the critical cases which require expert handling,” said Mukherjee who is presently working in district collectorate as a clerk ever since she was given a job by the state government seven years ago. Mukherjee and her husband Chitranjan Tiwari run a trust called Ucchshikhar Foundation “We are engaged in social work since last two years and during interaction with the people came to know about the depression caused due to job loss, income loss to business failure during lockdown, closure of shops and outlets, neglect of the senior citizens, many of whom have either attempted suicides and thus have launched the helpline number yesterday,” said Sonali, a native resident of Kasmar block of Bokaro who is presently living in Bokaro town along with her husband and five-year-old daughter. “Not only financial constraints or job losses but depression is affecting the youth and women due to being confined at home for long during Covid and lack of interaction with friends, failures among students on academic front, on line classes related stress  and all of them requires counseling,” said Muherjee and added that majority of these cases can be handled only by listening to their problem diligently while in some cases some support in order to address their financial problem etc can help prevent the worst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi's political advisor arrested in UP on charges of sexual harassment||BJP leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi’s political advisor, Sunil Tiwari, accused of sexually harassing a minor tribal girl in Ranchi, was arrested from a locality in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, sources in Argora police station where an FIR was lodged against him, said. Tiwari, police said, was on the run since his plea for interim bail was rejected by a Ranchi court. Later, another case was lodged against him in connection with child labour. A tribal girl from Khunti, who claimed to have worked as a domestic help at Tiwari’s Ashok Nagar residence, lodged an FIR with the Argora police station in Ranchi on August 16, accusing Tiwari of sexual exploitation and coercion for sexual favours. Tiwari has also been booked under sections of the ST/SC Atrocities Act, police said. “Three teams from Ranchi police were constituted to track and arrest Sunil Tiwari. He was arrested this morning from a locality somewhere between Agra and New Delhi,” said a police official. “He will be brought to Ranchi once all formalities are completed in UP,” he added. In her FIR, the girl has alleged that Tiwari forced her for sexual favours in the absence of other family members and threatened her to stay mum or face consequences. She has also accused Tiwari of beating her up when she resisted his sexual advances. According to the girl's statement, she was victimized for the first time in March 2020, but she could not move out of Tiwari’s house due to Covid restrictions. After several months, she shared her ordeal with her family in Khunti and decided to lodge an FIR, police said. In the last week of August, a Ranchi court had issued an arrest warrant against Tiwari on charges of sexual exploitation. Tiwari's arrest prompted the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) to target the BJP. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya  questioned the BJP’s stand against crimes against women, claiming that the party’s protective attitude towards a person accused of a heinous crime against a tribal woman showed its leaders’ actual stand against such crimes. The BJP, on the other hand,  termed the incident "political vendetta", claiming that Tiwari was framed because he knocked on the door of the apex court, demanding a directive to the Mumbai High Court to hear a matter related to allegations of sexual exploitation against Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active cases drop in Jharkhand, 1.45 lakh get vaccinated||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated close to 1.45 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload dropped to 128 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection by a fair margin for the second day in a row, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to at least 98,143 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 45,983 beneficiaries. More than 1 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44. With more than 18,000 residents vaccinated on Saturday, East Singhbhum topped in terms of vaccination numbers among districts. About 17,000 residents were vaccinated in Ranchi, while over 10,000 got vaccinated in Dhanbad. Accordint to an MHM bulletin, the state on Saturday reported at least 21 Covid recoveries against seven fresh cases, while none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike. The count of active cases dropped to 77 in Ranchi as the district reported at least 13 Covid recoveries against only three fresh cases. At least 20 districts did not report fresh cases. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported one case each, while two persons were found infected in West Singhbhum. Jharkhand on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 43,368 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. A press communique issued by the health department highlighted that Jharkhand had till Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1.16 crore residents. Over 30 lakh have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||11-year-old suspected to have been bludgeoned to death in Dalma foothills ||The decomposed body of an 11-year-old boy was found lying on a hill in the foothills of Dalma under Mango thana area about eight km away from the heart of the city on Saturday morning. Identified as Sujit Gorai, the deceased was suspected to have been bludgeoned to death as the body bore marks of injuries and a blood-stained boulder was lying beside it. Son of Dharnidhar Gorai, a resident of Kumrum Bustee along the NH-33, the deceased was missing from his house since September 9 morning and the body was found on the hill, about one kilometre from his house at about 10.30 am on Saturday. A police party led by deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-1) Birendra Ram reached the spot after the body was found. "The boy was suspected to have been bludgeoned to death as a blood-stained boulder was found beside the body," said OC, Mango thana, Vinayak Kumar to The Telegraph Online. Kumar said they can conclusively say it to be a case of murder after getting an autopsy report only. "At the time the body was found today, it was filled with magots. Though a boulder bearing marks of blood was found near it but it is yet to substantiated whether the boy has been murdered. Moreover, the deceased's father did not hint at any enmity with anyone," said the OC. He pointed out they have shifted the body to the MGM medical college mortuary for the post mortem so that the truth can be known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Congress leader plea to Hemant Soren on namaz room ||The furore over the allotment of a room for namaz in the Jharkhand Assembly refuses to die down though the Speaker has formed a committee to look into the issue. While MLAs have fiercely put forward their respective views, either for or against the allotment of the room, and at least two of them engaged in a verbal duel outside the House, Ajoy Kumar, a former MP and state Congress president, on Friday suggested that not all in his party, a constituent of the ruling dispensation in Jharkhand, are happy with the arrangement. Kumar, also the Congress in-charge for Tripura, Nagaland and Sikkim, wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday requesting “our government” to keep politics and religion separate. “In view of the recent happenings involving religious issues in Jharkhand Assembly, I request our government to keep religion and politics separate,” Kumar said in his letter in Hindi. “The Assembly is a temple of democracy and should be kept apart from religious practices,” he further said, adding that “religious practices and political affairs should not be mixed up though religion had been playing an important role in politics for a long time now”. “There would be chances of unrest if a political party extends support to a particular religion,” he cautioned, adding that it might come in the way of treating everyone equally and working for overall development. The Assembly, in a notification issued on September 2, allotted a room within its new premises for offering namaz, an issue on which BJP members virtually paralysed the House through the brief monsoon session that began the very next day. While the BJP legislators disrupted the House proceedings on all the five working days, the party supporters tried to reach the Assembly by breaking barricades on Wednesday leading to the police using water cannons and then batons to disperse them. The administration later lodged an FIR against 28 BJP leaders and about 1,200 unidentified others, slapping various charges like violating norms of the disaster management law, spreading communal hatred and encouraging violence. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto then formed a seven-member all-party committee to look into the namaz room issue and submit a report within 45 days. But the MLAs, speaking to the media outside, strongly advocated their party’s stand as Randhir Singh of the BJP and Irfan Ansari of the Congress got engaged in a verbal duel. Inder Singh Namdhari, Jharkhand’s first Assembly Speaker, and one of his successors Shashank Shekhar Bhokta had dismissed it as a non-issue as they said the namaz room was part of the undivided Bihar Assembly. The Jharkhand Assembly has also had a namaz room since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000, they added. “The practice continued even when BJP MLAs became Assembly Speakers,” Bhokta had said, naming C.P. Singh and M.P. Singh of the BJP. “I consider the namaz room issue unimportant,” said former BJP minister and now Independent MLA Saryu Roy. He said that it is laughable that former ministers who once patronised the practice of offering namaz within the Assembly premises were now staging dharna to protest it. “It was like giving an easy catch to the opponents when the match was at a crucial stage,” a mediaperson commented on the timing of the notification to allocate a namaz room, adding that the practice was always there but the BJP found an issue to disrupt the proceedings of the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Bhupesh Baghel plans to turn Chhattisgarh into millet hub||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has expressed confidence that his state can become the millet hub of the country in the coming times. “Like minor forest produce, we want to make small grain crops also the strength of Chhattisgarh,” said Baghel at his residential office in Raipur where a memorandum of agreement was signed on Friday between the Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad, and the collectors of 14 districts under the Millet Mission. Baghel said that under the Millet Mission, an initiative has been taken to give the farmers the right price for small cereal crops, provide input assistance, procurement arrangements, processing and ensure that they get the benefit of the guidance from experts. The districts covered under the scheme are Kanker, Kondagaon, Bastar, Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi, Balrampur, Koriya, Surajpur and Jashpur. Under the MoU, the IIMR will provide support and guidance for increasing the productivity of kodo, kutki and ragi, technical knowhow, availability of high-quality seeds and the establishment of seed banks in Chhattisgarh. Apart from this, arrangements will be made for training farmers of Chhattisgarh through the Krishi Vigyan Kendra for disseminating scientific technology developed at the national level related to millet production by the IIMR at the field level. In view of the increasing demand for millets like kodo, kutki and ragi in the country and abroad, the Millet Mission will not only increase the income of the farmers of Vananchal and tribal areas but will also give a new identity to Chhattisgarh. At the same time, the processing and value addition of millets will also provide employment to farmers, women’s groups and youth. Kodo, kutki and ragi are produced in 20 districts of Chhattisgarh. In the first phase, MoUs were signed with the collectors of 14 such districts. “Minor cereal crops like kodo, kutki and ragi are mostly sown in our forest areas. Crops like kodo, kutki and ragi are rich in nutrition. There is a good demand for these in the country. These are sold at very good prices in urban areas. But kodo, kutki and ragi grown in Chhattisgarh have not been able to come out of Vananchal. Till now, neither the support price of these crops was fixed, nor was there any arrangement for their purchase. Even after producing such an important and valuable crop, the farmers who grew it remained poor,” said Baghel. He added: “The sate government has now started the Millet Mission to increase the yield of these crops, ensure good procurement arrangements and take them to the city markets after processing. Along with fixing the support price of kodo, kutki and ragi, the state government has also included these under the purview of Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. With this, now the farmers growing these small cereal crops will also be able to get input assistance like other farmers.” The purchase of minor cereal crops would be done through the Van Dhan societies of the Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation Limited. After processing these crops, they will be used in midday meals, public distribution system and nutrition programmes. Arrangements will be also made to take the finished products to the markets of the metropolitan cities. It has also been decided to manage Rs 170 crore 30 lakh for the next five years under the Millet Mission through the district mineral fund and other means. “Under the Millet Mission, farmers would be given input assistance of Rs 9,000 per acre and Rs 10,000 per acre for growing kodo-kutki and ragi respectively instead of paddy,” said Baghel. The chief minister said that like minor forest produce, large-scale employment opportunities would be created at the local level due to the value addition of small grain crops. “Like minor forest produce, we also want to make small grain crops the new strength of Chhattisgarh. In the next phase, MoUs will be signed with more such districts, where production of kodo, kutki and ragi is abundant,” said Baghel. IIMR director Vilas A. Tonapi said there is a need to increase food diversity to address the problem of lifestyle diseases and malnutrition. “The year 2023 will be celebrated as the International Year of Millet. Through the Millet Mission, Chhattisgarh will be successful in making a mark as a millet hub in the country by 2023,” said Tonapi. Federation managing director Sanjay Shukla said that IIMR specialists will be posted in the districts by the state government to guide the farmers to increase the production of millets while seed banks for small grain crops would be established in Bastar, Surguja, Kawardha and Rajnandgaon. State forest minister Mohammad Akbar, industry minister Kawasi Lakhma, additional chief secretary to the chief minister, Subrata Sahoo, agriculture production commissioner M. Geeta, industry secretary Ashish Bhatt and industry director Anil Tuteja were also present. Tonapi, IIMR chief scientist Dayakar Rao and the collectors of 14 districts joined the programme online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Man ‘cast out’ from village for opposing child marriages in Dumka||A man has been allegedly cast out from his village in Dumka district of Jharkhand by the panchayat for opposing child marriages. The issue came to light on Thursday when Basharat Ansari, 50, a resident of Chirudih village in Morbhanga panchayat under Mufassil police station area, around 17km from Dumka town, was found by a few local reporters waiting outside the office of the Dumka superintendent of police seeking a meeting. “I approached the local police station but the SHO (station house officer) said that I should appeal to the deputy commissioner or the superintendent of police. I have made a petition to the SP. I have been raising voice against child marriages in my village for the last few years. I had even stopped the marriage of my niece (elder brother’s daughter) in 2012. I had informed Childline officials who came to the village and stopped the marriage. Now, the panchayat has given an order to expel me from the village. My own brothers have thrown me out of my father’s house,” said Basharat. Basharat said that after opposition from his brothers and villagers, he had gone to Delhi with his family leaving his father and mother behind in the village. “My elder daughter went to Old Delhi after marriage. I used to do a carpenter’s job and also had a small grocery shop. I had to leave the village in 2012 after my brother decided to get his minor daughter married. I had only fought for the child and wanted her to complete matriculation at least before marriage. The villagers used to hurl expletives at me for calling Childline members and stopping the marriage of my brother’s daughter. I decided to settle down in Delhi,” said Basharat. However, in February this year, his elderly parents requested him to come back to Dumka. “My parents were not keeping well. They requested me to come and stay in Dumka as they needed me as they are not only dependent on the money which I used to send every month from Delhi. I came to Dumka with family (wife and two sons) to stay with my parents in my ancestral house,” said Basharat. He, however, continued to protest against child marriages. “As I continued to educate people against the ill effects of early marriage, I became a thorn in the eyes of villagers who were also influenced by my brothers. In August a panchayat was called and I was asked to leave village or give Rs 5 lakh fine for every marriage I oppose. I refused to abide by their directives,” said Basharat. On August 31, while Basharat was in his house, his elder brother along with a few villagers forcibly threw out his household items from his room and told that he should leave the village according to the panchayat diktat. “I had no option but to take shelter in my sister’s house in a neighbouring village with my family and parents. However, I sought justice from the police. The SP has assured to initiate a probe into my case. Let’s see,” said Basharat. Dumka SP Ambar Lakra confirmed that he had received the complaint. “I have asked the local police station to investigate the issue as I know that Basharat had been doing a good job in stopping child marriages. Action will be taken against anyone found guilty in this case,” said Lakra. According to data from the United Nations Population Fund, a UN agency aimed at improving reproductive and maternal health worldwide, Jharkhand is among the top three states of India where the practice of child marriage is prevalent. The average number of such cases have never gone below 50 per cent in the past 10 years in Jharkhand as against the national average of 47 per cent, according to the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
