13-09-2021||Business||Just One-click Away From Entering The World of Stocks & Crypto with Rainmaker||Rainmaker, the world’s first fantasy Cryptocurrency & Stock exchange gaming application brings to you an offer where you can play your first ever game for free. This is what a win-win situation looks like for crypto stock enthusiasts, and a fresh learning experience worth no investments for the new investors. About Rainmaker Rainmaker- A legal, fun, engaging and high-skilled Cryptocurrency & Stock fantasy game application, tailor-made for fun and entertainment while educating and bringing all crypto, stock market and equity investment enthusiasts from around the world on a single platform to compete against each other in different forms of exciting and gripping contests ( Pick 6 or 9 cryptocurrency and stocks.) To become the next ‘Big Bull’, Rainmaker gives you a chance to test your knowledge and skills, create immersive portfolios/teams to build or enhance your crypto and stock analytical skills, improve your investment strategies and at the same time winning cash rewards daily. Download now and engage yourself in the world of Cryptocurrency and stocks for an experience like never before. Rainmaker is the answer to all your questions regarding the Cryptocurrency and Stock markets investment space whether you’re a newbie or an experienced trader. Life-hacks to use Rainmaker’s platform to your advantage: Please note: In this use case, the more wrong you are in the real world, the better are your returns on Rainmaker. Rainmaker works on a simple online fantasy gaming principle concerning the user rewards, taking references based on data from live events, and fluctuations taking place in the real-time Global Cryptocurrency and Indian Stock markets using real-time data of exchanges with a lag of max 1 min. Download the world’s first fantasy gaming app for Cryptocurrencies and Stocks, and grab a chance to win exciting rewards. Get our app- IOS | Android *Get Rs.50 on your first sign-up, offer valid only till 30th September | T&C Apply For more information: Visit: www.rainmaker.win Contact: info@rainmaker.win Disclaimer: This game involves an element of financial risk and may be addictive. Please play responsibly and at your own risk. Terms and conditions published on Rainmaker’s website/ application shall apply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||IndiGo to start 38 domestic flights in September||IndiGo on Monday said it will start 38 domestic flights in September to improve accessibility between metros and tier-2 or tier-3 cities. The move came as relief for many travellers. These new flights will essentially include 24 6E only connecting flights. Some are being relaunched after the Covid second wave. IndiGo will operate new flights between Raipur-Pune, while restarting flights between Lucknow-Ranchi, Bengaluru-Vishakhapatnam, Chennai-Indore, Lucknow- Raipur, Mumbai-Guwahati, and Ahmedabad-Indore, the airline's statement stated. Sanjay Kumar, Chief Strategy and Revenue Officer, IndiGo said, "We are pleased to add 38 new flights to strengthen our domestic network." "These flights will cater to the increased demand for travel and improve accessibility between metro and tier 2/3 cities," he added. These flight are also supposed to operate between Ahmedabad-Agartala (via Kolkata), Chennai-Chandigarh (via Hyderabad), Chennai-Vadodara (via Hyderabad), Kolkata-Kozhikode (via Bengaluru), Kolkata-Coimbatore (via Hyderabad), Chandigarh-Patna (via Lucknow), Chandigarh-Ranchi (via Lucknow), Chandigarh-Hyderabad (via Delhi), Coimbatore-Lucknow (via Hyderabad), Coimbatore-Udaipur (via Bengaluru), Delhi-Silchar (via Kolkata) and Hyderabad-Dibrugarh (via Kolkata).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops 127 points to close at 58,177||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 127 points on Monday, weighed by losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 127.31 points or 0.22 per cent lower at 58,177.76, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 13.95 points or 0.08 per cent to 17,355.30. Reliance Industries was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HUL, HDFC Bank, M&M, Ultra Cement, IndusInd Bank and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, TCS, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finserv, Tata Steel, Maruti and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. "Indian equity benchmarks continued to trade in the red zone in the afternoon session. On the global front, Asian markets were trading mixed amid a surge in US inflation to a record high...(and) concerns the Federal Reserve will be forced to tighten monetary policy sooner than later," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo closed in the positive territory, while Hong Kong ended in the red. Equities in Europe were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 423.44 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 73.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||Infosys, Microsoft ink multi-year deal with Ausgrid||IT major Infosys and Microsoft have entered into a multi-year strategic engagement with Ausgrid to accelerate the cloud transformation of the largest electricity distributor on Australia's east coast. This programme will further Ausgrid's vision to connect communities and empower lives with a focus on affordability, reliability and sustainability, Infosys said in a regulatory filing on Monday. With over 4 million Australians relying on our services every day, it is essential we are maintaining our high standard of reliability and connectivity, as well as delivering on the expectations of Australian communities," Nick Crowe, acting CIO at Ausgrid, said. Accelerating the cloud transformation journey in partnership with Infosys and Microsoft allows the organisation to improve the reliability of the network, keep downward pressure on electricity prices and bring new services to market at speed and in a cost-effective manner, he added. The cloud programme is designed to reduce Ausgrid's cost of ownership and improve the performance of its IT systems and applications, the filing said. As part of this strategic engagement, Infosys and Microsoft are helping Ausgrid address these challenges by modernising its application landscape and optimising the IT infrastructure, it added. The cloud-driven transformation programme - launched in mid-2020 - is being delivered through a phased approach, leveraging a cloud management platform combined with managed services, it said. "Our engagement with Ausgrid has expanded to include this strategic cloud transformation initiative, leveraging Infosys' Cobalt ecosystem of platforms, solutions and services as well as our deep expertise in the utility industry," Infosys Executive Vice President and Global Industry Leader (Communications, Media and Technology) Anand Swaminathan said. This engagement further strengthens Infosys' global collaboration with Microsoft, and its joint value to the industry, he added. Microsoft Australia Chief Partner Officer Rachel Bondi said the company is observing a considerable rise in enterprise-wide cloud adoption, which is recognised as being critical for resilient business models. "Through this partnership with Infosys and Ausgrid, we are leveraging the power of Microsoft Azure to create endless digital capabilities and to accelerate customer value," Bondi said. This transformation programme will help Ausgrid increase agility, it will simplify and modernise its digital platforms, driving tangible business outcomes and delivering value at scale to its end customers, Bondi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 190 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 190 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid weak sentiment in Asian markets.  The 30-share Sensex was trading 193.16 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 58,111.91. Similarly, Nifty fell 37.90 points or 0.22 per cent to 17,331.35 in initial deals.  HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 1.39 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, Infosys, Nestle India, Axis Bank, Titan and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, HDFC, Bharti Airtel, Maruti, ITC, Kotak Bank and Tata Steel were among the gainers.  In the previous session on Thursday, the 30-share Sensex ended 54.81 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 58,305.07 -- its all-time closing high. The NSE Nifty rose 15.75 points or 0.09 per cent to settle at 17,369.25.  Markets were closed on Friday on account of Ganesh Chaturthi'.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Tokyo also closed in the red.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 423.44 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.62 per cent to USD 73.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||UK-India Business Council seeks import duty cut on Scotch whisky||The UK-India Business Council (UKIBC) has proposed the reduction of Indian import duty on Scotch whisky and medical devices along with the alignment of standards and intellectual property protection in the foreign trade agreement between India and the UK. The negotiations for FTA are expected to start later this year. The UK industry want tariffs on bottled in origin spirits be reduced to 30 per cent over three years from 150 per cent at present. Besides, the UKIBC wants to align the tariff on medical devices to the average WTO (World Trade Organization) rate of 4.8 per cent. UKIBC managing director Kevin McCole said that over July and August the industry body had held several round table discussions taking inputs from over 200 companies including small and medium enterprises as well as multinational companies covering sectors such as digital, food and drink, healthcare, financial services, education, defence and aerospace and energy. The discussions were on the backdrop of a virtual summit between the Prime Ministers of India and UK in May where an enhanced trade partnership (ETP) was announced to double the trade between the two countries by 2030. As part of ETP, India and the UK had agreed on a road map to negotiate a comprehensive and balanced FTA, including the consideration of an interim trade agreement for early gains. On the basis of its discussions, the UKIBC has recommended reduction in tariffs, including on alcoholic spirits and medical devices and reduction of non tariff barriers through the alignment of standards. It has also suggested the simplification of customs procedures, tax parity between the UK and Indian businesses and secure mutual recognition of qualifications in higher education and professional services along with the alignment of data protection and IP protection. McCole said the UKIBC has recommended a series of interim or mini-agreements that will eventually form a fully comprehensive FTA. The focus should be on improving the ease of doing business in parallel to the FTA negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Coal India mulls 10% price hike to tide over cost push, wage revision||Mining major Coal India Ltd might raise prices of the dry fuel by at least 10-11 per cent to mitigate the impact of increased costs and an impending wage revision, sources close to the development said. The Calcutta-based company had last hiked coal prices in 2018. Its current average regulated price realisation is Rs 1,394 per tonne. “There has been no price rise in coal in the fuel supply agreements (FSA) since the last few years. Costs have jumped on all fronts and a wage revision is due. A minimum 10-11 per cent increase is necessary to avoid bottomline erosion. “Coal India has informally discussed the matter with board members and most of them have acknowledged the need to hike prices of coal. The miner is awaiting the government’s nod following which it will take the final call,” they said. Chairman and managing director Pramod Agarwal had recently said the costs of the miner had gone up and there was no reason why it should not increase the prices of the dry fuel. The price of coal for the power sector is cheaper than non-power industrial consumers like steel and cement. “On an average, non-power coal is 15-20 per cent higher than power consumers,” the sources said. The wage revision, which is due from July this year, is likely to cost the miner an additional Rs 10,000 crore, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Petronet eyes fresh foray into petrochemical business||Petronet LNG Ltd, India’s largest gas importer, is looking to reclaim the lost opportunities of the past decade as it seeks a fresh foray into the petrochemical business and plans to set up an LNG import facility on the east coast. Oil secretary Tarun Kapoor, who is also the chairman of Petronet, in the firm’s latest annual report said the company was looking to set up a floating terminal at Gopalpur port in Odisha and “is embarking upon a major diversification drive to broad base its business activity and is exploring to have an ethane/ propane import facility at Dahej terminal”. Petronet had some years back planned to set up a terminal at Gangavaram in Andhra Pradesh for the import of supercooled gas in ships. The company management stopped pursuing that terminal in 2015-16 on grounds that there wasn’t enough demand to justify a 5 million tonnes a year import facility. Gangavaram would have been the first terminal on the east coast as Petronet owns and operates facilities at Dahej in Gujarat and Kochi in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Ford shut down: 4000 SME suppliers in trouble||Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) will be impacted by Ford India’s decision to close its manufacturing plants in Chennai and Sanand. Around 4,000 SMEs, including the smaller suppliers are facing a drop in orders as the US giant will stop making vehicles such as the EcoSport, the Figo, the Figo Aspire, the Freestyle and the Endeavour. Over 4,000 SMEs around Chennai and Sanand might face closure, said a convenor of a consortium of small manufacturers. Ford’s decision to service existing customers will mitigate some of the plight of the component makers. The company said it will maintain a parts depot and continue to offer servicing of vehicles and make engines for the global Ranger pick-up. “The savings grace here is that components and parts manufacturers will still be making parts for the Ford vehicles on road. But obviously, there will be a drop in orders with no new vehicle manufacturing happening,” said an industry source. The SMEs mostly supplied auto parts such as the upholstery, leather, dashboards, switches, metres, screens, lights, PVC supplies, cables, fastners, handles, paints and other components either directly or indirectly to the OEM. Tamil Nadu is the worst hit by Ford’s move as its first manufacturing operation was in Chennai. Moreover, the state is the base for many auto giants because of its port. The whole infrastructure created for vehicle exports and transport logistics will be hit too. Service providers to the Ford factory offices are also facing uncertainty. If 4,000 employees have been directly hit by the move, the indirect job loss is about 12,000. “The auto sector is going through some really tough times. Our concerns for the sector that contributes about eight per cent to the country’s GDP have been aired a number of times but no one is listening. We did nothing to remove the blocks in policy intervention. Instead we pushed for BS-VI first, reduced the gap between petrol and diesel prices with both nearing Rs 100 per litre, pushed aggressively for EVs, gave PLI to the EV sector and finally vehicle scrappage put the last nail to the coffin,” said K.E. Raghunathan, convenor, Consortium of Indian Associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Ford to shut down plants in India, dealers face unprecedented losses||Ford’s dealers in India are staring at unprecedented losses after the US car maker announced last week that it would stop manufacturing at both its plants in India. What has caught the dealers off guard is that the company had appointed new dealers even five months ago. New generation vehicles such as the Figo Aspire were launched in July, while the latest EcoSport model was to hit the markets soon. Employees at the dealerships are not feeling assured by Ford India’s plan of continuing with niche products such as the fully imported Mustangs. “Ford appointed new dealers in Noida and Delhi NCR five months back. No multinational corporation makes plans overnight. There were talks with new dealer principals even last month, I am told. This is absolutely unacceptable,” said Harsh Damani, CEO, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (Fada). While Ford’s decision to stop production would impact 4,000 workers at its factories, another 40,000 employees in Ford’s dealership network in the country are also facing an uncertain future. Fada has stressed the need for a legislation to protect dealer interest in the case of such withdrawals by companies from the Indian market. “Fada has been requesting the central government to roll out a Franchisee Protection Act. In the absence of such protection, auto dealers are not adequately compensated like their counterparts in Mexico, Brazil, Russia, China, Japan, Italy and many other countries, where this law exists. After General Motors, Man Trucks, Harley Davidson, UM Lohia and multiple fly-by-night electric vehicle players, Ford India is the fifth biggest exit from the Indian markets since 2017,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president of Fada. The parliamentary committee on industry in its report released in December 2020 had recommended the ministry of heavy industries that the government should enact the Franchise Protection Act for automobile dealers in the country so that it is a win-win for both the auto original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) as well as the dealers. “Ford is offering a three-year agreement to its dealers which has non-disclosure clauses. Most of the dealer principals are wary of signing such agreements. The only way is the legal option but that is a last resort. The dealer principals are small and medium business firms or partnerships who are now facing the biggest loss of their lives,” said Damani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Chip crisis ramps up used car sales||The used car market is witnessing an uptake in sales with the semiconductor crisis impacting the supply of new cars. Second-hand car sales are set to see a 15-20 per cent growth in sales compared with 2020, said Umesh Hora, CEO, used cars, CarDekho Group. Sales of used cars in 2020 had seen a similar 15-20 per cent growth over 2019, he added. “There is a shortage in supply of new cars owing to the chip crisis. Production in the months of August and September are severely affected. However, even as supply is affected, there is a robust demand for cars and we are witnessing a sharp increase in enquiries for used cars,” said Hora. “Demand for cars is super great, it is up by 10 per cent,” he added. The OEM’s business-to-customer ventures such as Maruti’s TrueValue or Hyundai’s H Promise are witnessing an increase in enquiries as well. “We have a number of walk-ins and phone-in enquiries. Usually people sold their cars to us and opted for new vehicles. There are first time car buyers upgrading from two-wheelers with a budget of Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. Then there are buyers with a budget of Rs 5-9 lakh range. Here the demand is tremendous and is almost at pre-Covid levels,” said a Maruti TrueValue personnel. About his customer profiles, Hora said: “Anyone with a budget of Rs 7-8 lakh are looking for a three-year-old or a two-year-old vehicle. People are opting for old cars in a higher segment. In such a scenario, the used car market will get a bigger boost.” There is no supply constraint in the used car business, said Hora. “People are exchanging their cars for an upgraded used car. The used cars are completely revamped with new parts and accessories,” added Hora. Scrappage advantage The central government’s recent scrappage policy is also supposed to give impetus to the used car business in the country where cars with a lower age are expected to drive the demand, industry experts said. As cars’ age approaches scrappage age, its value will steeply fall. As a result demand will shift to younger cars with a consequent increase in prices. The sweet spot for selling a majority of pre-owned cars is expected to shift to 3-5 years of manufacture rather than 7-8 years, experts said. This will spur availability of used cars in the market and help keep their prices competitive, they said. A recent report by consulting firm RedSeer said India’s used car market is expected to see significant growth in the coming years. The car services and repair market in the country is likely to grow at an annual rate of 12 per cent to touch $25 billion by 2030 from $8 billion last year, it said. According to a study carried out by research firm Frost & Sullivan, used car sales is projected to outnumber new car volumes in a ratio of over 2:1 by FY2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Outlook for manufacturing in Q2 improves significantly: Ficci survey||The outlook for increased manufacturing activities in the second quarter of this fiscal has significantly improved though the cost of doing business and production is rising, according to a survey by industry chamber Ficci. According to Ficci’s latest quarterly survey (Q2) on manufacturing, industry respondents have attributed the hike in production costs primarily to high fixed costs, higher overhead costs for ensuring safety protocols and a drastic reduction in volumes because of the lockdown. The hike was also attributed to lower capacity utilisation, high freight charges and other logistic costs, increased cost of raw materials, power cost and high-interest rates. It said that after experiencing a subdued Q1 (April-June 2021-22), the outlook seems to have improved significantly in the second quarter (July-September), it said. “However, the survey noticed a high percentage of respondents experiencing the rising cost of doing business and production,” it said. On exports, it said the outlook seems improving as around 58 per cent of the participants are expecting a rise in their outbound shipments during the second quarter. NCAER outlook The Indian economy is expected to grow around 10 per cent during the current financial year on the likelihood of fewer Covid-19-linked supply disruptions and buoyancy in the global economy, said Poonam Gupta, director general of economic think-tank NCAER. The real challenge, however, would be to sustain a growth rate of 7-8 per cent in years to come, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||PHDCCI identifies recipe for $750 billion exports by 2027||Industry association PHDCCI on Sunday said it has identified as many as 75 potential products from nine sectors, including agriculture and minerals, and as many markets such as the US and Europe, which can help take India’s exports to $750 billion by 2027. Sanjay Aggarwal, president, PHDCII, said the US, Canada, Germany, France, UK, Japan, UAE, China, Mexico, Australia, among others would be the major focused markets in the next six years to achieve the export target. According to the report of the chamber, the 75 potential products include fish, meat, cotton, ores, mineral fuels, chemicals, rubber, textiles, footwear, iron and steel, boilers, electrical machinery, vehicles, aircrafts, furniture, mattresses, toys and sports items. At present, these 75 products contribute around $127 billion, which is around 46 per cent of the total exports from India. The 75 markets also include Russia, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Nepal, Brazil, Poland, Italy and Thailand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Cabinet likely to consider amendments to PFRDA Act soon||The Union cabinet is likely to consider amendments to Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013 soon and a Bill may be introduced in the upcoming session of Parliament, sources said. The amendment Bill may contain provisions on the separation of NPS Trust from the PFRDA, a hike in the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit for the pension sector to 74 per cent from the existing 49 per cent, among others, sources said. In March, Parliament approved a bill to increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. Insurance Act 1938 was last amended in 2015 which raised the FDI limit to 49 per cent, resulting in a foreign capital inflow of Rs 26,000 crore in the last five years. With the amendment, sources said the powers, functions and duties of the NPS Trust, which are currently laid down under PFRDA (National Pension System Trust) Regulations 2015, may come under a charitable Trust or the Companies Act. The intent behind this is to keep NPS Trust separate from the pension regulator and managed by a competent board of 15 members. Out of this, the majority of members are likely to be from the government which along with the states are the biggest contributor to the corpus. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced to separate NPS Trust from the PFRDA with appropriate organisational structure, keeping in view the wider interest of the subscribers and to maintain an arm’s length relationship of NPS Trust with the regulator. The Trust was established by the PFRDA for taking care of the assets and funds under NPS. The proposal to separate the two job roles has been under consideration for the last couple of years. The PFRDA was established to promote and ensure the orderly growth of the pension sector with sufficient powers over pension funds, the central record keeping agency and other intermediaries. It also safeguards the interest of members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||IRDAI floats draft guidelines on surety insurance contracts||Insurance industry regulator IRDAI has floated draft guidelines on surety insurance contracts. Once implemented, it could address the high funding requirements of the construction and infrastructure companies. A surety contract is a tripartite agreement among the debtor, creditor and the surety entity, in this case the insurance company, providing performance guarantee. As per the draft guidelines, a general insurer maintaining a solvency margin of not less than 1.25 can underwrite a surety insurance business not exceeding 10 per cent of gross written premium subject to a maximum of Rs 500 crore in a financial year. The insurers can work together with banks and other financial institutions to share risk information relating to contractor’s historical payment records with lenders, losses incurred, regularity of working capital account among others. “Surety bonds are an efficient way of bidding/developing huge infrastructure projects. The guidelines permit insurers and surety solution companies to work along with other financial institutions to share risk, technical expertise and take part in large underwriting. The shared database of activities will also help mitigate any systemic risk to businesses,” said Vikash Khandelwal, CEO, Equaro Guarantees. He added that once permitted this will enable the efficient use of working capital and obviate the need for collateralisation of bank guarantees thus releasing liquidity without compromising on risk mitigation. The IRDAI has set September 28, 2021 as the deadline for submission of comments and suggestions on the draft guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
13-09-2021||Business||Be wary of a Curate’s Egg||Cry havoc! And let slip the dogs of war! The debt market embraces intrigues that would shame dark plots captured in Shakespearean tragedies, especially for lay investors. For most of them, the association between coupons offered by bonds and credit ratings still remains a nebulous area. Few care to delve deep enough to unearth the latent significance of ratings, good or bad. The immediate trigger for this Monday’s cautionary tale is an NCD issue which I have lately come across. The debenture in question has promised nearly 10 per cent, a rate that helps it beat most of the usual fixed-income alternatives, at least the ones that are currently available in the market. It is not clear how such a high rate would be serviced for the entire tenure by the issuer, a financial services company with weighty antecedents. The simple fact that stands out is this: the cost of fund for the issuer would be quite steep. And that, of course, brings home all too familiar images of defaults and downgrades. Issuances that offer particularly stiff rates typically command poor credit ratings. A section of the investing fraternity, nevertheless, seems to ignore this very significant relationship. Clearly, many of those who invest in the debt market are motivated purely by superior yield — never mind the fact that other debt options with similar tenure (being more creditworthy) are comparatively better for their portfolios. Better, because these are safer and more stable. At this stage, I must put on record that most credible debt structures are typically yielding in single digits. The latter are well below the 10 per cent or so promised by the particular NCD that I referred to earlier. My point is that many of these bonds are potentially quite risky, and investors must choose cautiously. A portfolio consisting of, say, AAA-rated paper (the highest rating) would yield low; however, it would be a lot more reliable and secure than portfolios marked by lower average ratings. I must also remind investors that there have been many instances of default in the recent past. The history of the Indian debt market is replete with major mishaps — in short, corporate houses that have not paid interest and repaid principal — and large sections of investors have been miffed because of delayed payments. Debt, therefore, is a classical “curate’s egg”: low-yielding in some parts and risky in some others. Let me, at this stage, dwell a bit on returns delivered by the debt market, primarily by mutual funds that create entire portfolios with debt instruments. How much do you think a medium-duration debt fund offers an investor who stays committed to it for a year or so? Well, if you go by the last 12-months’ record, an average of 6.5 per cent (perhaps just a tad higher) is what you probably secured at the most from this category of funds. And, yes, that number barely covers inflation. Some of those that have under-performed have truly disappointed. Change tack So, this may be just the time for you to change tack and adapt to a bit of risk. The latter would mean shedding some of your debt holdings (the absolutely low-yielding, slow-moving sort should probably be the first to go) and switching them to equity. You would assert, of course, that equity is by far a riskier asset class. Yes, there are no two arguments about it. Allow me to suggest that a serious look at your risk-profile is probably in order. A 100 per cent debt-driven portfolio with an average 5-6 per cent return would not serve you well at all —certainly not if you happen to be in the highest income tax bracket. The effects of low returns and high tax are enough to cause nightmares even for the most intrepid investor. Now, assuming that changes in your asset allocation are indeed justified, here is what I would like to propose: Choice is everything The debt market presents a wide fare; prudent choices, however, hold the key. There is no need to select an income fund with a poor credit profile, just as there is no reason for you to pick up a debt security that rating agencies have castigated. A smart investor needs to keep an eye on all developing credit implications. Investors might well expect less from debt over the immediate term. This means that other forms of assets would gain significance. Striking a clear balance between safety and risk is the biggest challenge in today’s perilous world. An investor who can do this successfully across market cycles is indeed a rare bird — good tidings would await him at every turn. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
13-09-2021||India||Raman Dandyan and Gurinder Baasi are the two superstars emerging in the music industry||Different industries and fields are on a constant rise, especially from the past few years, thanks to the consistent efforts, hard work, and resilience a few individuals have shown over the years. These individuals have been hustling their way to the top in their chosen industries and making the most of the opportunities, and also creating newer ones for them. Raman dandyan and Gurinder baasi are such rare gem amongst these young talents from India, who, for his passion for music has been consistently walking his path, facing the challenges, and emerging as a true winner in the same. It is unbelievable to know that Raman dandyan and Gurinder baasi are the only youngster, who with his pure love, passion, and commitment to music, has been shining brightly as a rising musical artist in the ever-so-evolving and growing music industry. The young guys confesses that from a very young age, while he was still a kid, he realized his heart was inclined the most towards the world of music. Since he understood his true calling early in life, he decided to dive deep into the music industry to emerge as a dynamic young singer and artist. Raman dandyan and Gurinder Baasi, today has given us hit songs such as Phantom, Double Cross, Fame etc. They confesses that they always wanted to do something different as a singer and offer a kind of uniqueness to the audiences and music lovers with his songs. To know more, follow him on Instagram @ramandandyan1, @gurinder_baasi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
13-09-2021||India||NLP Master Yogendra Singh Rathore’s unique approach makes him a preferred coach in India||What makes a coach effective? It is not just their motivation to improve their practice and approach towards mentoring, but ensure that they foster the overall development of an individual. Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) coaching is one such technique that coaches use in reaching the personal goal of an individual. Such kind of technique helps in improving the thoughts, language and behavioural patterns of a person. Bringing a change in people’s lives with his effective method is NLP master Yogendra Singh Rathore, popularly known as YSR on the internet. Since day one, his goal is pretty clear – break the barriers that hinder the overall  development and replace negativity with positivity. For instance, the life coach says that anxiety can be replaced with meditation. “After all, meditation keeps the mind calm and peaceful whereas NLP training keeps the body and behaviour of a person positive. It is interlinked to each other”, says Mr. Rathore. The NLP master through his distinctive training has helped individuals in finding their life purpose and getting out of the limited mindset. Through a holistic approach, Yogendra Singh Rathore has played a significant role in creating solutions for problems. Under his guidance, he has strengthened the leadership capabilities of a person and has also taught people how to overcome the difficulties of life in a rational manner. Mr. Rathore’s one-of-a-kind approach has seen him turn his entrepreneurial dreams into reality. He is the proud owner of startups including Mission Positive World Pvt. Ltd, Guniguru.com, and LEADMONK Digital Pvt. Ltd. Apart from this, YSR is the bestselling author and an award-winning marketing influencer. Converting the negative into positive, and the challenges into opportunities, this NLP master has boosted the overall development of a person. Furthermore, he went on to reveal that identifying the trigger points and understanding the root cause of any problem is of utmost importance.  For the same, Mr. Yogendra strongly urges to follow a positive and healthy mindset. Explaining about it, he said, “Cultivate good thoughts. When you think good, you attract better and have the best things in life.” Being an influential speaker and an affluent writer that he is, YSR has delivered motivational speeches at different workshops and seminars in India and overseas. Besides sharing the stage with notable personalities from different fields, Yogendra Singh Rathore has made an excellent contribution to Ahmedabad’s leading NGO named ‘YUVA-UNSTOPPABLE’. The terrific work ethos of Yogendra Singh Rathore has seen him garner many accolades like the Yuva Gratitude Award at IIM Ahmedabad among other awards and recognitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
13-09-2021||India||Read how entrepreneur Yash Tuteja’s NGO ‘Aashayien’ is contributing to the welfare of society||The Raipur-based man much before embarking on his entrepreneurial journey had the vision to eradicate poverty from the state India’s economy is touching newer heights, thanks to entrepreneurs who have diversified various business ventures. While expansion has been a key aspect for every entrepreneur to prosper, the ability to give the maximum to society remains one of their best traits. Exercising both these duties brilliantly, Yash Tuteja has been helping thousands of people through his NGO ‘Aashayien’. The NGO was founded by him in 2010 that looks after the public welfare of people. Always passionate about helping underprivileged people under any circumstances, Yash Tuteja has a firm belief in serving the countrymen. In his words, “To bring a change, one must be the change.” And through ‘Aashayien’, he is truly making a difference and bringing a change in society. Mr. Tuteja is the president of the NGO, and he calls these eleven years a fruitful journey. He says, “My friends and I during college collected pocket money to celebrate our birthdays with the poor kids. We all had one common thing among us – a desire to help needy people in any capacity. With this collective approach, ‘Aashayien’ was born.” He then stated that their team is glad to reach the maximum number of people across Chhattisgarh as well as India. The Raipur-based man much before embarking on his entrepreneurial journey had the vision to eradicate poverty from the state. For the same, he has made an array of donations for child education, medical check-ups and many other initiatives. During the lockdown after the coronavirus pandemic, his NGO has helped more than 10,000 people across Chhattisgarh by distributing essential items. Moreover, after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country, ‘Aashayien’ was played a significant role in distributing PPE kits and oxygen concentrators in hospitals across different regions of Chhattisgarh. In the past, ‘Aashayien’ has adopted many small villages of Chhattisgarh, and the NGO has made sure to meet the basic necessities of people ever since. On the professional front, Yash Tuteja is managing Meenakshi Salon & Academy, a luxurious salon that has five outlets spread across Chhattisgarh. Apart from this, he runs a Tuteja Academy in Raipur that was established way back in 1991. While summing it up, the entrepreneur said that his idea is not just about making money but making an impact on people’s lives through his earned money. As of now, ‘Aashayien’ is dedicatedly working towards the betterment of people across the state. To be a part of the heartening journey of Mr. Tuteja, connect with him on Instagram - @yashtuteja1||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Meet Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar, A Politician & Activist Who Is A Messiah For People In Osmanabad!||Today's generation has several sectors to start a business thanks to social media and the emergence of various professions. They also have an excellent opportunity to get involved in politics. Rajsinha Eknath Rajenimbalkar is one such person who has mastered both. He began his career as an activist and is now the District President of the BJP Yuva Morcha. Rajsinha Eknathrao Rajenimbalkar was born in Osmanabad and studied Political Science at Vivekananda College in Kolhapur. His mother wished for him to work as an administrative officer. He studied for the MPSC exam while concurrently taking a correspondence MBA course at Pune's Symbiosis College and completing a post-graduate degree in International Politics at Pune University. Rajsinha chose to start a business after being unable to achieve the required results in the MPSC exams. When Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar returned to Osmanabad, he decided to improve his father's property. He also began working in the construction industry. Rajsinha noticed how distinct Marathwada's thinking, living, and working methods are throughout his time in Western Maharashtra. He had the idea that by providing greater possibilities to the youth, he might empower them. Rajenimbalkar thus joined the Nationalist Party 12 years ago and worked as a general worker to achieve his objectives. Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar began his political career under his father's supervision and was a prominent figure at events such as the Jubilee and Essay Competitions, Eloquence Competitions, Dance Competitions, Lecture Series, and district-level honours to the youth. Rajenimbalkar's life changed for the better in 2019 when he joined the BJP Youth Front under the leadership of Rana Jagat Singh Patil. During the pandemic, Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar donated masks, sanitisers, and food to thousands of people as the BJP Yuva Morcha district president. Sanjeevani Hospital has cooperated with the 25-bed Covid Center and the Terna Covid Center on a lease basis under the name of his Terna Charitable Trust in Osmanabad. The District President also assisted youth in participating in various Atmanirbhar Abhiyan Yojana projects. People in his locality were aware of numerous government programmes since he always made an effort to raise awareness about them. Two thousand people were given Rs. 10 loans as part of the Prime Minister's Self-Funding Scheme. Following this, some of the persons who had returned their loans were issued new loans. Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar has been involved in the coordination of blood donation camps and plasma donors. Aside from that, he owns Rajsinha Trading Company and Rajsinha Infra, which he runs independently. Young people, according to the politician, have a good opportunity in politics. He claims that by establishing his own business, he can carve out his niche in this sector. Rajsinha has established several public relations and youth organisations not just in Osmanabad but throughout Marathwada and Kolhapur. Under the leadership of Rana Jagat Singh Patil, MLA Sujit Singh Thakur, and Youth State President Vikrant Patil, he declared he would continue to lead politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Afghan crisis: Jaishankar calls for distribution of humanitarian aid ||With a grave humanitarian crisis unfolding in Afghanistan, India on Monday said it is willing to stand by Afghans and called for unimpeded access to aid providers to the country as also a "non-discriminatory" distribution of relief supplies across all sections of the society. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said that as an immediate neighbour, India is monitoring developments in Afghanistan with "understandable concern", and noted that the issue of travel and safe passage that can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance should be immediately sorted out. In a brief virtual address at the UN high-level meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the minister also heightened the threat of rising poverty levels and said the same could have a catastrophic effect on regional stability. He said India's approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by its historical friendship with its people and it will continue to be the case. “Today, I wish to underline that in the face of a grave emerging situation, India is willing to stand by the Afghan people, just as in the past. To ensure that this happened speedily and effectively, we believe that the international community must come together to create the best possible enabling environment,” he said. “Among the challenges that the current situation poses is that of efficient logistics. It is therefore essential that humanitarian assistance providers are accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said. The external affairs minister said once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a “non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society”. “Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors. As the picture becomes clear in respect of the legitimate concerns I am confident that the world will step forward and assist the Afghan people in their hour of need,” he said. His comments came in the backdrop of apprehensions of whether the relief materials, once delivered, will reach the intended beneficiaries under the Taliban regime. “Afghanistan is passing through a critical and challenging phase. There has been a sea change in its political, economic, social and security situation, and consequently, in its humanitarian needs,” he said. “As an immediate neighbour, India's monitoring developments with understandable concern,” he added. Jaishankar said India has consistently supported a central role of the global body on the future of the country as a multilateral platform is always more effective than small groups in building global consensus and encouraging united action. In his comments, he also said the UN Security Council resolution 2593 should guide the international community's approach in the coming days in Afghanistan. The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter and train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks. The external affairs minister also referred to an assessment by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) that there is an imminent threat of the poverty levels rising from 72 to 97 per cent in that country. “This would have catastrophic consequences, not just in our collective fight against poverty, but also for regional stability. Even as we address that, it is important that the issue of travel and safe passage that can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance be immediately sorted out,” Jaishankar said. He said those who wish to travel into and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction. “The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard but then become the basis for a regular flow of relief material. This would also accelerate activities that would complement domestic relief measures,” he said. Jaishankar also listed India's contribution to the humanitarian requirements of Afghan society in the past. “This included providing more than one million metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan over the past decade. Last year too we have assisted Afghanistan with 75,000 metric tonnes of wheat,” he said. The minister said India has also partnered World Food Programme for the distribution of high protein biscuits over several years and that the innovative scheme particularly supported vulnerable school going children of Afghanistan. "India's efforts and helping the Afghan people have been both direct and indirect way of contributing to the livelihood and larger framework as significantly as they have to direct material leads. Our friendship is reflected in Indian development projects that today exist in all the 34 provinces," he said. Jaishankar said India has invested more than US dollar 3 billion for the welfare of the people of Afghanistan. “We have undertaken 500 projects in critical areas of power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity building,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Meet Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi, raring to reach the top of the music world as a true blue professional||A closer look around us will let us know how things have been changing for the better across industries of the world. These changes are brought about by the immense efforts and hard work of certain individuals, who believe in not just attaining their desired success but also in taking those industries to the next level. They make others believe in the power of passion and perseverance. Doing exactly that is one such youngster, who believed in his visions and knew what he sought in life and hence, made every possible effort to get nearer those dreams and take those industries to the next level; he is Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi. This young guy who hails from Tehran, Iran, was born in 2002. He was always a creative soul, which he realized at a much early age. This early realization helped him pave his own path to success in all those industries that he ever wanted to be a part of. At 19 years, Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi is already a bitcoin investor, author, and entrepreneur in the world of cryptocurrencies and also an actor. However, what has caught much attention of people all over the world, is his growing inclination towards the world of music. This Iranian young man exudes pure passion for music and is raring to reach the top of the industry soon, showcasing his genuine talents in the same. Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi has already come up with two tracks, "Love Me" and "Anytime", which are available on Spotify. On Facebook, he is already a verified personality. There is so much that Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi wants to achieve as a musician, just as he achieved in the world of cryptocurrencies. All of us are really excited about the kind of work and music he wishes to create as an upcoming musical artist. Till then, do follow him on Instagram @hosseinabadimatin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Naseeruddin Shah calls out govt nudged 'pro-establishment' films||Actor Naseeruddin Shah said today that while he felt that the film industry had been insulated from religious discrimination and Islamophobia, filmmakers were being encouraged by the government to make "pro-establishment" films. Speaking to NDTV, the veteran actor also said his statement on a "section of Indian Muslims" celebrating the Taliban's return was misunderstood. In comments that went viral earlier this month, he had said: "Even as the Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan is a cause for concern for the whole world, celebrations of the barbarians by some sections of Indian Muslims is no less dangerous." He had also differentiated between what he called "Hindustani Islam" and what is actually practised in other parts of the world. The 71-year-old actor conceded today that "celebration" may not have been the right word to use. "I was referring to those who openly made a statement in favour of the Taliban. The past history of Taliban should make us pretty anxious," said Naseeruddin Shah. "What saddened me was that there are sections of the Muslim community who are in agreement. I also received pats on the back from the rightwing. I don't need any such congratulations or label." Asked whether he had felt any discrimination in the film industry, he said: "I don't know if the Muslim community is facing any discrimination now in the film industry. I think our contribution is far too important. In this industry there is only one god, and that is Mammon. The amount of revenue you can generate makes for the amount of respect that you receive in this industry. The three Khans are still at the very top, they are unchallenged and still delivering. I have never felt any discrimination. I was advised early in my career to change my name. I kept it and I don't know that it would have made any difference." But the discrimination did exist outside, he said. The actor said completely harmless statements by Muslim leaders, union members and students were being penalised yet open statements about perpetrating violence on the Muslim community are not being castigated or commented upon, let alone taken to task. On the backlash over his statements, the actor joked that he had been offered a fully refundable ticket to Pakistan - "Bombay to Colombo, Colombo to Karachi". Though there is no outright bigotry, the film industry is seeing some changes, the actor said. "They are being encouraged by the government to make pro-government films, to make films lauding the efforts of the government. They also being financed, also promised a clean chit if they make movies which are propaganda, to put it bluntly," he said. "In Nazi Germany also this was attempted. Filmmakers who were outstanding, world class, were rounded up and asked to make films propagating the Nazi philosophy." The actor said he didn't have any definite proof but it was obvious from the big-ticket films coming out these days. "The kind of big budget films that are coming. The big ones cannot disguise the jingoistic agenda," he said. He asserted that what he said was "perfectly reasonable" and that he felt sorry for those getting "rabidly angry" at what he had said on the Taliban. "It's not an ordinary time. There is an atmosphere of bottled hate just waiting to be released. People are waiting to take offence to anything. If they had heard my statement, they would have realised there is nothing to get their knickers in a twist about," Naseeruddin Shah said. On the view that he may have exaggerated the scale of people who were speaking in support of the Taliban, he told NDTV that he felt what he said had to be said at that time. "It doesn't take time for a wildfire to spread. It doesn't take time for thoughts like this to penetrate into people's minds. A majority of people were upset about reforms and that bothered me even more. They are against the idea of modernism," he said. "By Indian Islam I meant tolerant Sufi influenced practice of Islam in this country. I was referring to the Islam represented by people like Salim Chishti and Nizamuddin Aulia. Indian Islam is a religion that does not believe in the fundamental execution of the word of the law." The actor shared that his wife Ratna Pathak Shah, also an acclaimed actor, had told their children to say, when asked what religion they practised: "Bhelpuri". "I am not worried about myself, I am worried about the kids," he said. "The establishment wants us to feel afraid. They want us to give into the feeling of fear. I have never been threatened with physical violence. My sympathies lie with those exposed to lynchings, cow slaughter accusations, often without proof. It is even more worrisome that those who inflict the harm are often congratulated."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Indians likely to benefit from US Bill proposing Green Card for a supplemental fee||Millions of people stuck for years in the employment-based Green Card backlog in the US, including a sizable number of Indians, can hope for a lawful permanent residency in America by paying a supplemental fee if a new House bill is passed into law.  The move, if included in the reconciliation package and passed into law, is expected to help thousands of Indian IT professionals who are currently stuck in an agonising Green Card backlog.  A Green Card, known officially as a Permanent Resident Card, is a document issued to immigrants as evidence that the bearer has been granted the privilege of residing permanently in the US.  According to the committee print released by the US House of Representatives Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over immigration, an employment-based immigrant applicant with a priority date that is more than 2 years before can adjust to permanent residence without numerical limits by paying a supplemental fee of USD 5,000.  The fee is USD 50,000 for the EB-5 category (immigrant investors). The provisions expire in 2031, the Forbes magazine reported.  For a family-based immigrant who is sponsored by a US citizen and with a priority date that is more than 2 years before , the fee for getting a Green Card would be USD 2,500.  The supplement fee would be USD 1,500 if an applicant's priority date is not within two years but they are required to be present in the country, according to the committee print. This fee would be in addition to any administrative processing fee paid by the applicant.  However, the bill does not contain permanent structural changes to the legal immigration system, including eliminating country caps for green cards or increasing the annual quotas of H-1B visas.  Before becoming law, the provisions would have to pass the Judiciary Committee, the House of Representatives and the Senate and be signed by the president, the report said.  According to a report in CBSNews, if successful, the legalisation plan would allow undocumented immigrants who came to the US as children, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) beneficiaries, farmworkers and other pandemic-era essential workers to apply for permanent US residency, or green cards.  Reacting to the bill, David J Bier, Immigration policy analyst at Cato Institute, said, "employment-based applicants can adjust if they have waited 2 years from their priority date... this is almost like abolishing the EB caps for adjustment applicants who can pay $5K. Awesome!"  "For EB5, it's $50K fee. Even those who can't afford the fees or who are abroad would benefit from freeing up this cap space for others. It's unfair that the bill maintains the country caps as is, so Indians and Chinese will be the only EB applicants required to pay the $5K/50K," he said in a series of tweets.  He said that the base caps for diversity, family, and #H1B all remain the same.  "Since H1B is the feeder for most EB, that's basically like keeping the EB cap the same. No reforms to #H2A, #H2B, or other work programs, so nothing to help unskilled workers/address the border," he said.  "Basically, this bill will help a few legal immigrants abroad indirectly, but the main purpose is integration of existing immigrants. That's a noble cause, but the immigration/migration part of immigration reform is just left out. No new pathways for workers, same system," he tweeted.  US Congressmen, including Indian-American Raja Krishnamoorthi had last month urged their Congressional colleagues to support their move to employment-based Green Card backlog as part of budget reconciliation.  A group of 40 US lawmakers, led by Krishnamoorthi, had written to Speaker of House Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, saying the budget reconciliation package provides relief to these individuals stuck in the employment-based Green Card backlog, thereby strengthening the economy in the process.  They argued that under current law, the American economy is unable to access the full international talent pool of high-skilled workers already present and working in the United States today indeed, the very scientists, inventors, health care workers, entrepreneurs, and other professionals that give the US its edge over its global competitors today.  This is because there is effectively a Green Card ban on high-skilled immigrants from India, China, and other countries with large populations of workers eager to remain in America and power forward our economy and social safety net programs for generations to come, they said.  This arbitrary cap is keeping some of the world's most talented individuals from permanently calling America home, encouraging them to take their inventions, expertise, and creativity to other countries instead.  Most workers in the employment-based Green Card backlog are already in the United States on temporary nonimmigrant visas, such as the H-1B visa for workers in specialty occupations, that are renewable but greatly restrict beneficiaries from reaching their full potential.  Right now, no more than seven per cent of employment-based green cards are available to individuals from a single country, which has created a decades-long backlog for would-be immigrants from India and China.  Indian nationals face a particularly daunting backlog of 80 years, and an anticipated 200,000 will die before achieving lawful permanent resident status, the lawmakers said.  H-1B holders are unable to change jobs or start their own businesses -- despite the fact that they have been shown to boost overall productivity, wages, and new patents, they said.  The temporary nature of the H-1B visa forces beneficiaries to live in a constant state of uncertainty, preventing them from becoming entrepreneurs, buying homes, employing more Americans, or otherwise fully establishing themselves as permanent fixtures within the American economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat rains: 3 dead, several relocated in Saurashtra ||Heavy rains battered parts of Gujarat's Saurashtra region on Monday, leading to the deaths of three people in Rajkot and Jamnagar as rivers overflowed and low-lying areas got flooded, prompting the authorities to issue alerts and deploy NDRF and SRDF teams for evacuation and relief. Indian Air Force helicopters were pressed into service in Jamnagar and Rajkot to airlift people, district authorities said. “Lodhika taluka in Rajkot received 435 millimetres of rainfall in a 10-hour period since 6am on Monday, while Visavadar taluka in Junagadh got 364 mm, Kalavad in Jamnagar 348 mm, Rajkot taluka 305 mm, Dhoraji in Rajkot 202 mm, Kotdasangani in Rajkot 190 mm, Gondal in Rajkot 162 mm,” State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) officials said. “A woman and two men drowned after their cars were washed away by the intensity of rains in two separate incidents in Kalavad in Rajkot and Jam Jodhpur in Jamnagar districts, respectively,” officials said. “Several teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were rushed to Rajkot, Junagadh and Jamnagar,” they said. Around 20 people were airlifted by Indian Air Force helicopters from various villages in Jamnagar district, and 30 others rescued as well, Collector Sourabh Pardhi said, while Rajkot Collector Arun Mahesh Babu informed that IAF choppers were preparing to airlift 22 people from three different villages in his district. “So far we have relocated a total 1,155 people to safe places in the district, and the process continues. A team of the NDRF from Bhatinda in Punjab and two teams of SDRF from Banaskantha and Vadodara will be here to help in rescue operations,” Babu said. Pardhi said two teams of the NDRF and one of SDRF were carrying out rescue operations in affected areas in Jamnagar. An SEOC official said a part of the national highway between Jamnagar and Kalavad was blocked due to flooding, while six state highways in Jamnagar, Amreli and Porbandar districts and 58 village roads in different districts were similarly affected. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department, during the day, forecast widespread rainfall across Gujarat till Wednesday, including ‘heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall in a few places in the districts of Saurashtra during the next four days’. “Parts of south Gujarat and other districts may also receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during this period,” IMD added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opts out of NEET with a new Bill||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Monday adopted a bill to dispense with the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) and provide for admission to medical courses based on Class XII marks to ensure social justice, as the suicide of a medical aspirant fearing outcome of the test he was to take echoed in the House with the main opposition AIADMK targeting the government over the incident. Chief Minister M K Stalin introduced the Bill and all parties, including the main opposition AIADMK and its ally PMK, besides others like Congress, supported the bill, which seeks to provide for admission to UG courses in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homeopathy on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination, (Class XII). The opposition BJP staged a walkout, protesting against the government move. Earlier, as soon as the House convened, Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami referred to the suicide of 19-year-old Dhanush in his native Salem district on Sunday and targeted the government on the matter. He said that though the DMK had promised "cancelling" NEET, it was not done and several students had not prepared well. Some of his remarks were expunged by Speaker M Appavu. Palaniswami sought a job for a person from the deceased's family, besides cash assistance. The opposition party MLAs, who came to the House wearing black badges, staged a walkout, led by Palaniswami. On Sunday, hours before he was to appear for NEET for a third time, 19-year old Dhanush, belonging to a village near Salem, died by suicide, fearing the outcome of the test he was to take. The incident triggered a blame game with the AIADMK holding the DMK regime responsible for the death and the state government targeting the Centre. Stalin, replying, said, “NEET was conducted for the first time in Tamil Nadu when Palaniswami was the Chief Minister and it was not held even when the late J Jayalalithaa was the CM.” Recalling the death by suicides of students, including S Anita in recent years, he said, “All these happened when Palaniswami was the CM.” The student, Dhanush, who took the extreme step, could not clear the exam twice when the AIADMK was in power. Stalin also targeted the AIADMK over rejection of Bills enacted during its regime in 2017 to get the state exempted from the ambit of NEET and also for hiding it from the House. Stalin introduced the Bill and appealed to all to support it for social justice, indicating that the present initiative would be fully different from what was done before during the AIADMK regime. The Bill, referring to recommendations of a high-level committee, said the government has decided to enact a law to dispense with the requirement of NEET for admission to UG Medical degree courses and to provide admission to such courses on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination, through "Normalisation methods", to ensure "social justice, uphold equality and equal opportunity, protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated and bring them to the mainstream of medical and dental education and in turn to ensure a robust public health care across the state, particularly the rural areas." Stalin, who welcomed the support of the main opposition party to his government's move on NEET, recalled that in the past, when the DMK was in the opposition, it supported the then AIADMK government on the issue of jallikattu, the bull-taming sport. BJP's Nainar Nagenthiran insisted NEET had its benefits like increased pass percentage and led his party's walkout protesting against the bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||India crosses 75 crore Covid vaccine doses, says Health Minister||India has crossed the landmark of administering 75 crore Covid vaccine doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Monday. He said the country's vaccination drive continues to create new dimensions under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and with his mantra of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Prayas (together with everybody, with everybody's efforts". 'Congratulations India! In the 75th year of independence, the country has crossed the figure of 75 crore vaccinations," the health minister tweeted with hashtags #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine and #AazadiKaAmritMahotsav. So far, all adult people in six states and union territories -- Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh and Lakshadweep -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. “India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach 30 crore,” Mandaviya said. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on Sep 7. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of the vaccination drive commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||BJP busy replacing non-performing CMs, says Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram Monday said the BJP is busy replacing its "non-performing" chief ministers but the list is long. His reaction came two days after Vijay Rupani resigned as Gujarat chief minister. Bhupendra Patel succeeded him. "The BJP is busy replacing its non-performing Chief Ministers. When did the BJP leadership realize they were non-performing CMs," he asked on Twitter. Before Rupani in Gujarat, the BJP had replaced Lingayat stalwart B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka CM with Basavaraj S Bommai. Uttarakhand got three different chief ministers within four months when the BJP replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat, before bringing in Pushkar Singh Dhami. Chidambaram said the people of the states concerned knew for months that B S Yediyurappa, the two Rawats and Rupani were non-performing . "There are more who must be replaced. In Haryana, Goa, Tripura etc The list is long," he said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: HC issues notice to NIA on activist Anand Teltumbde's bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Monday issued a notice to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and directed it to file a reply to the bail plea of activist Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad Maoist links case. Teltumbde has approached HC challenging the order of the special court denying him bail on merits in July this year. In his plea, filed through senior counsel Mihir Desai, he has denied charges against him and sought bail. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar directed the NIA to file its reply to Teltumbde's plea within three weeks. On July 12 this year, the special NIA court in the city had rejected Teltumbde's bail plea observing in its order that there existed a prima facie case against him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). "Upon perusal of the documents, including the exchange of emails and the statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution, and after cross-checking the truthfulness of the allegations made against the applicant, this court does not find that the accusations are inherently improbable or wholly unbelievable, the special court had said at the time. Teltumbde, however, challenged the order and said the NIA had picked and chosen electronic evidence to suit its case. Teltumbde also said in his plea that he had cooperated with the probe and was not a flight risk, and, therefore, deserved to be granted bail. He was arrested by the NIA in April last year and has been in judicial custody in the Taloja prison since then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Parth Vekariya an entrepreneur with a cause has made India Proud through his work||India is filled with young talents and the competitions keep increasing every time. From being a great thinker to a huge political marketing individual, Parth Vekariya has made it big in the industry. The idea of building a new India is something that Parth believes in and works towards it to enhance the innovations in India. Parth has been working towards making new activist ideas and working towards knowing more about it and delivering the same is his idea of new India. He has been part of many initiatives and has led many in the past as the major individuals. From working on Political campaigning to being a Youth leader and social activist, Parth has done it all for India that he dreams of. He also started the initiative called Shahid Katha to remember the Paramvir martyrs who received Param Vir Chakra when India was in a state of war to become independent during 1947. Shahid Katha was organized to unite religions and castes. The theme of patriotism during Shaheed Katha was a Rangoli preparation on the stretch of 2.8 km road from Sukan Char Rasta to Bhakti Circle in Nikol. Also, on the first day of the story was welcomed by a bike rally and 3 thousand societies. The unique initiative of Parth has got all heads turning towards him, making him the young entrepreneur who is born with a cause and works for a cause. This is a celebration of a lifetime and organizing such an initiative is something that Parth was able to pull off through his innovative skills. He is inspiring many young individuals to follow their dreams of making it big and according to him, ‘nothing is easy and yes there shall be challenges but never quit. There is no better way than just pushing hard till you achieve what you deserve.’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Lyricist Prince Sharma Has An Encouraging Message To Aspiring Song Writers||Prince Sharma's passion for music began at a young age and has only grown since then. After writing songs as a hobby, he pursued it full-time and decided to make songs for people. He knew the journey would have hurdles, but nothing stopped Prince from achieving his dreams.  Blood, Chori Chori, Valentine, Dil Dil Rani, and many more are just a few of his notable songs. There's a whole lot more original music on the way. One of his notable collaborations was with Pranjal Dahiya on the song "Aafat," which went viral with over 3.5 million views in a short period of time. Prince is incredibly gifted, and he ensures that he maintains his energy by zoning into various moods to create the best original music that we all enjoy jamming to.  Prince has a sizable fan base on social media. His fans are always eagerly anticipating his next endeavour. They also want to know who Prince will collaborate with next, whether it's a musician or a singer. All of the love, trust, and admiration for his work from followers, according to the lyricist, motivates him to keep going.  Prince Sharma says, "Writing music has always been a passion for me. It makes me feel calm and content. I want to keep working hard in order to create more intriguing songs that I can share with my audience."  When asked what message he would like to give to aspiring lyricists, Prince says, "Keep writing. Even if you are struggling to finish a song because you are unable to find the right words, take a break but don't stop. If you really want to pursue your career as a lyricist, you should be the first one to believe in your work. Also, the journey is not going to be easy. So don't give up soon. Keep working hard, keep writing and be patient."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Centre targeting its leaders through ED, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Enforcement Directorate has sent a notice to its national secretary Pankaj Gupta under a "fabricated" case under the PMLA and that the BJP-led central government was targeting its leaders as the saffron party was "rattled" by the AAP's growth and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's popularity in other states. “In Delhi, they tried to defeat us with IT Dept, CBI, Delhi Police - but we won 62 seats. As we grow in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Guj - we get an ED notice! The people of India want honest politics- these tactics of BJP will never succeed, they will make us stronger,” Kejriwal said in a tweet. AAP's national spokesperson Raghav Chadha in a press conference said that in the ED notice the party's national secretary Gupta has been summoned to appear before the agency on September 22 at 11.30 AM at its office. In an unending quest to persecute the AAP, the Modi government's favourite agency Enforcement Directorate has been pressed into service and has dispatched a love letter (notice) to the AAP. "They (ED) have sent a notice to party's national secretary under some section of Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002,” Chadha said. When asked about the case in which Gupta has been served a notice, Chadha said that he has no idea but added it must be some fabricated case . The Rajinder Nagar MLA alleged that the BJP is rattled by the increasing popularity of the party's national convenor Arvind Kejriwal and the rising graph of the party. When you (BJP) can't electorally assassinate us you try to character assassinate us. As soon as opinion polls show that Kejriwal is getting popularity, agencies like ED are pressed into service to seek political revenge and character assassinate AAP, Chadha alleged. They are rattled by the popularity of Kejriwal to an extent that the Modi government has pressed into service all its agencies against AAP leaders. In view of elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and next year in Gujarat, a rattled BJP has pressed all its agencies (ED, CBI, IT, etc) to persecute Arvind Kejriwal and AAP leaders, Chadha alleged. He alleged that a witch-hunt against AAP by the Centre is going on. He said that during Anna Movement in 2012, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sent a notice under FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act 2010) to check accounts. Chadha alleged that in past years they had sent the CBI to raid the CM office and Delhi Police to raid the CM house. CBI raided twice at the residence of deputy CM Manish Sisodia but found nothing, he alleged. “The AAP is not going to fear these tactics. We welcome the notice. We believe in rule of law. We pray to God that rule of law should prevail over the rule of vendetta politics,” Chadha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Schools closed for two days in parts of Odisha amid downpour||The Odisha government has shut down schools in 12 districts for two days as rain continued to pound the state for the third day on Monday due to a deep depression over the Bay of Bengal.\ School and Mass Education Minister Samir Dash said the 12 districts where schools would remain closed till Tuesday are Khordha, Puri, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Dhenkanal, Nayagarh, Ganjam, Kandhamal Angul Jajpur and Boudh districts. Schools had reopened for classes 9, 10 and 12 following an improvement in the COVID-19 situation. Heavy rain since Saturday clobbered large parts of the state as a depression over the Bay of Bengal intensified into a deep depression and crossed the coast near Chandbali in Bhadrak district. The Met office has issued alerts for 13 districts. Bhubaneswar received 195 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours till 8.30 am, breaking a 63-year-old record, while Puri also broke its 87-year-old record with 341 mm of rain during the period. The Department of Water Resources said it reviewed the flood situation and preparedness, as well status of river gauge and discharge in the low-lying areas of the state. It cancelled holidays and leaves of all employees and asked them to remain present at office. The civic bodies at Cuttack and Bhubaneswar have engaged around 400 pumps to drain out water from the low-lying areas of the twin cities. In Cuttack, dry fruits were distributed among people whose houses have been inundated, civic officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Relax restrictions on Durga idol height, says BJP workers||BJP leaders and supporters staged picketing in different areas of the millennium city on Monday wearing raincoats and holding placards to press for their demand to relax the restriction on the height of the Durga idols during the 12-hour Cuttack bandh called by the party. The saffron party had called the bandh to protest the state government's August 9 guideline on festivals where the restrictions have been imposed to keep the height of the Durga idols within four feet and conduct in-door like puja in different pandals across the state. The restrictions were imposed keeping in view the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the state. Most of the shops, commercial establishments, educational institutions remained closed due to deep depression induced heavy rainfall. As most parts of the state's commercial hub was waterlogged, people preferred to remain indoors. A large number supporters of the saffron party wearing raincoats picketed at the Badambadi Bus terminal and other places and courted arrest. "The bandh was successful. The people on their own supported the bandh call as it was organized as a mark of pride for the Cuttack city," said BJP Mananagar president Lalatendu Badu. Badu said that the BJP activists have been picketing in about 100 places across the city. "The people of Cuttack are annoyed over the state government's rejection of request of the puja committees and peace committees to withdraw the restrictions on the Durga idol size," Badu said, adding that the BJP was supporting the puja committees. The state government's recent denial of the relaxation on the height of the Durga Puja idols, has also sparked a political slugfest in the state. While the ruling BJD is divided over the issue, the Opposition BJP and Congress have thrown their weight behind the people who are demanding withdrawal of the restrictions. The row over the Durga idol size has its impact on the ruling BJD too. Cuttack's six-time BJD MP Bhartuhari Mahtab while attending a puja committee meeting in Cuttack, wondered how the government can avoid spread of the infection if the height is limited within 4 feet. "I do not see any reason behind the argument that raising the idol size by another 2 or 2.5 feet will help spread the infection. It's laughable," the veteran Parliamentarian, said. However, senior BJD leader and former MLA Debashis Samantray ridiculed Mahtab and said: "Where was the MP all along with the issue is being debated since a long time? He was not seen anywhere. But suddenly he attended a meeting and kept his views. The decision is taken for the entire state and not alone for Cuttack in view of the pandemic." Incidentally, when the Chief Secretary and special relief commissioner (SRC) held discussion with the puja committees of Cuttack on September 7, all the local BJD MLAs and ex-MLAs were invited, barring Mahtab, a sitting MP, sources said. Barabati-Cuttack Congress MLA Mohammad Moqim also demanded withdrawal of the restriction on the height of the idols. "This is unfortunate that the chief secretary and the SRC did not take any decision on the September 7 meeting and sought two day's time. Later, the government upheld the earlier guidelines without reconsidering the plea of the puja committees," he said. Balu Bazaar Puja Committee, one of the oldest committees organizing the Durga Puja, has planned to move the Orissa High Court challenging the restrictions of the state government. "We have been worshipping the 8 feet height Durga idol since 1914 and it is not possible to change the tradition," said its president Suryakant Sanganeria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Will function as ordinary BJP MLA, says Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who attend the legislative assembly session for the first time after demitting office, on Monday said he will function as an ordinary BJP MLA and would make all efforts to ensure Congress leader Siddaramaiah continues to remain in opposition after 2023 assembly polls in the state. The BJP strongman said his successor Basavaraj Bommai was doing a "good job" as the Chief Minister and that he would extend all kinds of support and cooperation to him. "I don't have any such thing, with utmost happiness I will function as an ordinary BJP MLA, there is nothing that I want to function only as Chief Minister. As an MLA sitting in the back benches, I will appreciate the good work of the government and do everything to ensure that the opposition parties continue to remain in opposition in the days to come," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on attending the session as an MLA. Speaking to reporters here, he said he will continue work for the BJP along with other party leaders by travelling across the state after the assembly session. "We will do everything to ensure that Siddaramaiah (now LoP) sits in the opposition, in case he wins the next election...bringing BJP back to power is my resolve and I will travel across the state along with other leaders for it," he added. Interestingly, Yediyurappa who led the ruling side in the assembly till the previous session in March, occupied one of the back seats of the treasury benches on Monday, the first day of the 10-day long monsoon session of the state legislature. "...as someone who was the Chief Minister I had requested the Speaker to allot me a seat next to the Chief Whip, he has agreed to it. I will participate in the proceedings of the assembly from there," he said in response to a question. Yediyurappa is MLA from Shikaripura assembly constituency in Shivamogga district. This is first session of the Karnataka legislature, after the change of guard in the state. The 78-year old BJP veteran had stepped down as the Chief Minister on July 26, as his government completed two years in office, paving the way for Basavaraj Bommai to take charge and form a new cabinet subsequently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Congress should take Sharad Pawar's criticism positively: NCP||The NCP on Monday asked the Congress to take in a positive way Sharad Pawar's criticism over the state of affairs in the Sonia Gandhi-led party, and said everyone should contribute towards his efforts to unite the opposition parties against the ruling BJP in the country. Both the NCP and Congress are part of the Shiv Sena-led ruling combine in Maharashtra. Pawar last week told a news portal that the Congress is like an impoverished landlord who cannot look after his house anymore. He had also said that on the issue of leadership, Congress leaders were very "sensitive" and not open to any suggestions. This had later evoked a sharp reaction from Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole. On Monday, Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesman Nawab Malik, without taking any names, wondered why were leaders quitting the party (Congress) and winning state elections on their own? "Pawar highlighted this through his criticism and the Congress should take it positively. Everyone, including the Congress, should contribute towards Pawar's efforts to unite the opposition parties against the BJP," he said. Pawar had last week said, "There was a time when the Congress had presence from Kashmir to Kanyakumari...we agree. But that is not the situation now." "A Zamindar (landlord) in Uttar Pradesh once owned huge tracts of land and a Haveli (mansion). Then he lost most of the land....the Haveli stands but he can't repair it...he says all that land belonged to me, but it is in the past," the NCP chief had said. However, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole later claimed that leaders who were entrusted with power by the party eventually betrayed it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Modi congratulates new Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Bhupendra Patel on taking oath as Gujarat chief minister and expressed confidence that he will enrich the state's growth trajectory. Noting that he has known Patel for years and has seen his "exemplary work", be it in the BJP organisation or in civic administration and community service, Modi extended his wishes to him. He tweeted, "Congratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat's growth trajectory." He also lauded Patel's predecessor Vijay Rupani, saying he worked tirelessly for all sections of society. "During his five years as CM, Vijay Rupani Ji has undertaken many people-friendly measures. He worked tirelessly for all sections of society. I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come," Modi tweeted. First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn in as Gujarat chief minister after Rupani resigned over a year ahead of the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||India an attractive destination for global clean energy investments, says Bhupender Yadav||Climate change is the biggest global challenge and India is committed to combat it, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Monday. Speaking at the launch of Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD) under India-US Climate Clean Energy Agenda 2030, Yadav said India is proactively working towards tackling climate change and reducing carbon emissions. John F Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, arrived in New Delhi on Sunday for the launch. Yadav said the partnership between India and the US will help strengthen climate action. Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue of the Agenda 2030 Partnership launched today will provide both countries an opportunity to renew collaborations on climate change while addressing the financing aspects, Yadav said. The minister said India is already an attractive destination for global clean energy investments. I hope this dialogue will work to mobilise and deliver climate finance primarily as grants and concessional finance, as envisaged under the Paris Agreement to strengthen climate action. I believe this Dialogue will not only strengthen India-US bilateral cooperation on climate and environment but will also help to demonstrate how the world can align swift climate action with inclusive and resilient economic development, taking into account national circumstances and sustainable development priorities, he said. Calling for urgent action to address climate change, Kerry said action needs to be taken now to avoid more catastrophic consequences. Floods, forest fires, record levels of rainfall are happening everywhere and to keep 1.5 degree warming limit in reach, and avoid more catastrophic consequences, we must act now, he stressed. Kerry also said that it was a good time to invest in energy transition. There has never been a better time to invest in energy transition. Renewable energy is cheaper than ever. Investors are flocking for clean energy all around the world. The transition has already rebounded after the pandemic and is now on track to smash the pre-pandemic record of 8.4 billion US dollars invested in one year, he said. Terming the clean energy partnership as a major opportunity for India and the US, Kerry said it is far less expensive to deal with climate crisis now than it will be in the future. The India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership was launched at the Leaders' Summit on Climate in April 2021 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel takes over as 17th Gujarat Chief Minister||First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn in Gujarat chief minister, two days after Vijay Rupani's surprise exit from the post, a year ahead of the Assembly polls. Patel (59), unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, was sworn in as the state's 17th chief minister by Governor Acharya Devvrat at a simple ceremony here. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of some BJP-ruled states were among those present at the Raj Bhavan ceremony. As decided by the party, only Patel took the oath. The council of ministers will take oath during the next few days after their names are finalised, BJP sources said. The governor had on Sunday invited Patel to take oath as chief minister. "The new leader of BJP's Legislature Party Bhupendrabhai Patel presented a proposal to form the government under his leadership. Accepting the proposal, he was invited to take oath as CM on September 13 at 2.20 pm," Devvrat tweeted. At Sunday's legislature party meeting, the proposal to elect Patel the legislative party leader was moved by Vijay Rupani, whose resignation as CM on Saturday, 15 months ahead of the Assembly polls, surprised many political observers. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM - in December 2017 and completed five years in office on August 7 this year. With state Assembly polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Patel, a Patidar, for poll victory. In the 2017 Assembly elections, BJP won 99 of the 182 seats and Congress got 77. The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors. Patel's elevation - he is the first from the Patidar sub-group to be chief minister - is key to BJP's plans to woo the Kadva Patidar community, which some political observers feel, has drifted away from the party. He is a trustee of Sardardham, the Patidar community organisation that hosted the programme where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief guest on Saturday. Born in Ahmedabad, Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, previously held by former chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. He won the seat by over 1.17 lakh votes in 2017, the highest margin in that poll. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency represented by Shah. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, has served as Ahmedabad municipal councillor and as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority. He is also a trustee at Patidar organisation Vishwa Umiya Foundation. Patel has never held a ministerial post, just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was never a minister when he became Gujarat CM 20 years ago. Modi was sworn in as CM on October 7, 2001, and became an MLA on February 24, 2002, by winning the Rajkot seat bypoll. Patel is considered close to former Gujarat chief minister and present Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. His Assembly constituency is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Shah. The BJP's CM choice came as a surprise for many as the low-profile, first-time legislator was not seen to be among the top contenders for the post. Gujarat BJP chief C R Paatil said Patel's work at the grass-root level, his hold on the cooperative sector, association with party workers and administrative abilities were among the factors that led to his elevation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||HC seeks status of mentally unstable homeless people's Covid vaccination ||The Bombay High Court directed the Maharashtra government on Monday to file an affidavit, giving details of how many mentally ill people, who were homeless or without legal guardians, have been identified and registered for vaccination against COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni directed the state government to file the affidavit within three weeks. The bench also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file an affidavit, informing the court about the number of such people registered for vaccination and those who already vaccinated in the city. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), seeking better access to vaccination against COVID-19 for citizens, including those who were mentally ill or not in a position to give a consent for the inoculation. On Monday, the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the bench that while the Centre had issued an SoP (standard operating procedure) for vaccinating the homeless and mentally ill people, it was the state police's responsibility to identify them, locate their relatives, or to take them to a shelter home so that they could be registered for vaccination. Singh also said that over 21,000 urban homeless people across the country had been registered for vaccination and more than 8,000 of them were inoculated against COVID-19. The Maharashtra government's counsel, Gita Shastri, submitted an affidavit stating that a total of 1,761 mentally ill people across the state had been vaccinated against COVID-19. The bench, however, noted that the state's affidavit was "silent" on the number of mentally ill people who were homeless, without legal guardians, and not in a position to give their informed consent for vaccination. Such people posed a greater risk of spreading the coronavirus and therefore, must be identified and vaccinated by the state authorities at the earliest, the court said. "Every citizen, no matter in which condition, needs to be taken care of by the state," the HC said. "File an affidavit stating how many mentally ill people who are homeless or found wandering in the community, and what steps are being taken to vaccinate them?" the court said to the state government. The court suggested that the state and the BMC could jointly set up a mechanism to identify and vaccinate such homeless and mentally ill people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Delhi: 2 children dead as building collapses in Sabzi Mandi area||A four-storey building in north Delhi's congested Sabzi Mandi area collapsed on Monday, killing two brothers who were passing by with their mother and were trapped under the debris, officials said. The two children were aged seven and 12, the police said, adding that a case has been registered against a man named Mohak Arora who had undertaken the renovation work on the ground floor of the building. The police said, “72-year-old Ramji Das, who was also trapped under the debris and suffered a head injury, was rescued and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment.” “He is stated to be out of danger,” they said. The ground floor of the building, believed to be 75-years-old, was being used for commercial purpose while the rest was residential. "It is not yet confirmed whether anyone else is trapped under the rubble. Rescue operations are underway to ascertain that," a senior police officer said. N S Bundela, Joint Commissioner of Police (Central), said that the two children, both brothers, were rescued and taken to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. "They were passing by with their mother when the building collapsed and the two bothers got trapped under the debris," he said. The two children -- Somya (12) and Prashant Gupta (7), were residents of Roshnara Road in old Delhi. Their father Nitin Gupta (38) works at a shop in north Delhi's Sadar Bazar while their mother is a housewife, according to the police. A senior police officer said, "A case has been registered under section 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 288 (Negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code." The incident comes days after record heavy rains pounded Delhi, throwing life out gear. An old building in Delhi's Narela area, which was declared a dangerous structure by civic authorities, had collapsed recently. However, no one was injured in that incident. Das, a resident of Malka Ganj here had a 'paan' shop near the building. He was at his shop when the structure collapsed, police said. Assistant Commandant, NDRF, Shri Niwas said, "Two teams of the NDRF were at the spot conducting rescue operation. We used cameras to see whether people were trapped under the debris or not. We are not confirmed about the number of people trapped inside it." A car parked nearby was severely damaged as the debris from the building fell on it. The locals who gathered at the spot to help with rescue operations were later removed from the area. Three brothers lived in the other residential floors of the building. An 18-year-old member of one of the families, who was on second floor, had a narrow escape when the building collapsed. Hemantica Aneja (40), a resident of the building and a Supreme Court lawyer said, "Our family has been living here for the last 35 years and it is a well-maintained building. Fortunately none of us were at home when it collapsed and my 18-year-old nephew Aryan who was on the second floor of the building also managed to after when he heard a loud noise. Aneja said for the last 10 days, renovation work was going on at a milk shop on the ground floor of the building which also led to cracks in the walls of the floors. "Usage of electric drill further weakened the structure leading to its collapse," she alleged. D C Chauhan, who saw the building collapse said, "I was present near the spot when the building collapsed. One woman was passing by the area along with her two children.” "They were in front of the building when it collapsed and the two boys unfortunately were buried under the debris. One 'paan' shop owner was also trapped." Ravi Kumar, another local, was terrified and rushed towards the building when he heard a loud noise. "I live on the other side of the street and heard a loud noise. We rushed to the spot and found debris on the road. We then started helping people. From what we heard, some construction work was going on the ground floor of the building which eventually led to the collapse," he claimed. Teams of MCD and the NDRF were also at the spot to undertake rescue operation. The Delhi Fire Service received a call about the incident at 11.50 am, following which which seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot for rescue operations, said Atul Garg, the director of DFS. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he is closely monitoring the situation. "The incident of building collapse in Sabzi Mandi area is very sad. The administration is engaged in relief and rescue work. Through the district administration, I am myself monitoring the situation," he tweeted in hindi. North Delhi Municipal Commissioner Sanjay Goel said, "Rescue and relief operation is going on, and debris are being removed. We are trying to find out what led to the collapse of the building in which two children have died". The building was located in Malka Ganj ward of Civil Lines Zone of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. We will probe the cause of the incident and then take appropriate action according to the report that we get," he said. AAP MLA from Timarpur Dilip Pandey also took twitter and said local administration along with party workers are engaged in rescue operations. "Very unfortunate incident, 75-year-old building of Laxman Prasad ji collapsed in Malkaganj. On the spot, QRT team of Delhi government, fire brigade team and local administration, we and AAP workers are engaged in rescue work. "Two people were evacuated safely. About 7-8 more people feared to be trapped inside," he tweeted in hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat: Bhupendra Patel meets Vijay Rupani ahead of swearing-in ceremony||Gujarat's Chief Minister-designate Bhupendra Patel on Monday called on Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the top post last week, 15 months ahead of the state Assembly polls. Patel, who is scheduled to take oath as the next CM later in the day, met Rupani at the latter's official residence in Gandhinagar in the morning and held discussions on various issues, a release issued by the state government said. After Rupani resigned on Saturday, Patel, who represents the Ghatlodia Assembly seat in Ahmedabad, was unanimously elected as the BJP legislative party leader on Sunday. Before meeting Rupani, Bhupendra Patel met Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel at the latter's residence in Ahmedabad. In the wake of incessant rains causing a flood-like situation in some parts of Jamnagar, Bhupendra Patel instructed the district authorities to make necessary arrangements to airlift about 35 people stranded in three villages, which have been inundated and cut off from other parts of the district, another government release said. According to Jamnagar district's disaster management wing, the Indian Air Force has been requested to airlift people stranded in some of the villages of Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Kejriwal  urges Centre to direct states to mandatorily use Pusa bio-decomposer for stubble management||An audit by a central agency in Delhi has found the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution for stubble management, highly effective, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, and urged the Centre to ask neighbouring states to distribute it for free among farmers. He said stubble burning in neighbouring states in October is a major factor behind the high level of air pollution in Delhi. "The farmers are not at fault. Governments are at fault because they had to offer a solution," Kejriwal said. Last year, the Delhi government distributed the bio-decomposer free of cost which was used by farmers on 1,935 acres of land in 39 villages to convert stubble into manure, he said. A survey by a central government agency, WAPCOS, has come up with very encouraging results on the use of the bio-decomposer. Ninety per cent of the farmers claimed that the solution turned stubble into manure in 15-20 days. Also, the content of carbon in the soil increased by 40 per cent, nitrogen 24 per cent, bacteria seven times and fungi three times. Sprouting of wheat also increased by 17-20 per cent, the chief minister said. "We appeal to the Centre to ask the states to distribute the bio-decomposer free of cost among farmers to stop them from burning stubble," he said. Kejriwal said he would call on the Union environment minister with the audit report and request his personal intervention in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Security forces defuse 6 grenades placed along NH 44 in Srinagar||Security forces on Monday averted a major tragedy by detecting and defusing six hand grenades placed by militants on the busy Parimpora-Panthachowk axis in Srinagar, officials said here. "During a routine road opening exercise along National Highway 44, alert troopers of the 73 Battalion of the CRPF recovered six Chinese grenades from a sandbag placed on a divider of the road," a spokesperson of the force said. He said the troops averted a major incident on the busy highway. "Since there was a lot of rush on the highway, the grenades were not demolished in situ. They were handed over to the police for disposal," the official added. The anticipation exercise along the busy arterial road connecting south Kashmir with north led to a traffic snarl on the highway as well as in other parts of the city. The stretch where the grenades were found is used by security forces to reach places in remote border districts, including Kupwara and Bandipora. The same road is also used to reach Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Govt refuses to file affidavit on Pegasus citing national security||The Supreme Court on Monday said it only wants to know whether or not the Centre used Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly monitor citizens after it stoutly refused to file an affidavit citing national security on pleas seeking an independent probe into the snooping row. Observing that concerns have been raised by journalists and others over violation of privacy, the top court decided to pass an interim order, reiterating it was not interested in knowing issues related to national security. Noting that a detailed affidavit would have helped it in knowing the stand of the Centre, a bench headed by Chief Justice N. V. Ramana also told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that he was beating around the bush after the law officer, in his rejoinder submissions, reiterated his arguments on national security. 'Here is a procedure established under the law which allows interception too. We had to have your affidavit to understand your stand. We do not want to say anything further," the bench said, adding that if a spyware was used by the government then it has to be as per the procedure established by the law. The court then permitted Mehta to mention the matter if the government had a re-think about filing a detailed affidavit as it would take two-three days’ time to finalise the order. "When the matter came up a few days back and the issue of national security arose, we had clarified that no one is interested in knowing about anything related to national security or defence because the information is very sensitive. We were only expecting a limited affidavit since there are petitioners before us who say that their right to privacy has been violated by A or B agency. You had to say whether it has been done or not...National security is not a part of present proceedings," said the bench which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The CJI, leading the bench, said, "We are again reiterating we are not interested in knowing matters related to security or defence. We are only concerned, as my brother said, we have journalists, activists, etc, before us to know whether the government has used any method other than admissible under law". During the hearing, which lasted over one hour through video-conferencing, the Centre vehemently referred to the threat to national security and said that it does not wish to file a detailed affidavit on whether a particular software was used or not as it was not the matter for public discussion, and making this a part of an affidavit would not be in national interest. The Solicitor General said the government had nothing to hide and that was why the Centre had on its own said that it would constitute a committee of domain experts to look into these allegations and report to the court. "You (Solicitor General) have repeatedly been saying that the government does not want to file an affidavit. We also do not want any security issues to be put before us. You say that a committee will be formed and the report will be submitted... We have to look into the whole issue and pass an interim order," the bench said. As the law officer, in his rejoinder submissions, reiterated the arguments on national security, the bench said, "Mr Mehta, you have been beating around the bush and that is not the question here". At the outset, the bench took note of the Centre's stand and said, "We thought the government will file a counter-affidavit and will decide further course of action. Now the only issue to be considered is the interim orders to be passed." Mehta began by saying that the government had considered the issue which was very important and could not be made a subject matter of "judicial debate" or "public discourse" by filing an affidavit. Referring to the Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act, he said the statutes provide for certain acts in some cases and stating that a particular software was being used would alert terror groups as there was counter technology to a technology. "Suppose I am saying that I am not using this software. Then it will alert the terror groups. If I say I am using this software, please remember, every software has a counter-software. The groups will take pre-emptive steps," he said. "Having examined the issue, it is the stand of the government that such issues cannot be a debate on affidavit. Such matters can't be a subject matter of debate before the court. Nonetheless, the issue is important so the committee will go into it," the law officer said, adding that the panel would not have government employees, but rather include domain experts whose reports would be presented to the court. To this, the bench said the report may become public after it is filed in the court. The law officer said that would be the decision of the bench. "Which software was used and which software not used cannot be on affidavit but it will be before the experts," he added, stating that such things "have its own pitfalls and should not become a part of public discourse. This is in the interest and security of the nation". The bench referred to the earlier statement of the Information and Technology (IT) Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in which the report of snooping through Pegasus spyware was allegedly acknowledged. The law officer referred to the recent statement of the IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in Parliament which said that the "publication of stories before monsoon session cannot be a coincidence. " "I am not averse to certain individuals claiming invasion of privacy. This is serious and must be gotten into. The question is whether it is Pegasus or something. Our stand is putting this into an affidavit will not serve national interest...Hence allow us to form a committee of domain experts without the government members," he said. "You are going back, again and again. We are not interested to know what you are doing to protect the interest of the country... Your (former) minister had said that the government has taken note of reports that software was used," the court said. "Appointing a committee or making an inquiry is not the question here," the bench said, adding that if an affidavit was filed then it would come to know the stand of the Centre. "We had given a fair opportunity to the Centre to make a statement. Now they do not want to file an affidavit. So we will pass an order," the bench said before senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, appearing for petioners N Ram and Shashi Kumar, initiated his submissions. "This is unbelievable that the Government will say that it will not file the response. It is the bounden duty of the government to tell its citizens the factual position, Sibal said. "If the spyware has been used then the procedure has to be followed and in this case, it has not been done which is evident from the stand of the Centre," he added. Another senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for a petitioner, said that the snooping issue has been an assault on the democracy and the spyware not only snoops but it may also implant some materials into the snooped devices. Several senior lawyers such Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora also appeared in the case and demanded credible and independent probe into the snooping allegations. The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Jet Airways to resume domestic services in Q1 of 2022||Jet Airways will restart domestic operations by the first quarter of 2022 and short-haul international flights by the last quarter of the next year, Jalan Kalrock Consortium, the winning bidder for the grounded airline, stated on Monday. The first flight of Jet Airways would be on the Delhi-Mumbai route, it mentioned, adding that the airline would now be headquartered in Delhi instead of Mumbai. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June this year had approved the Jalan Kalrock Consortium's resolution plan for Jet Airways, two years after the once-storied full-service carrier went into insolvency proceedings. In a statement, Murari Lal Jalan, Lead Member of the Jalan Kalrock Consortium, said, "Jet Airways 2.0 aims at restarting domestic operations by Q1-2022, and short haul international operations by Q3/Q4 2022." Our plan is to have 50-plus aircraft in three years and 100 plus planes in five years, which also fits perfectly well with the short-term and long-term business plan of the Consortium, he noted. "The aircraft are being selected based on competitive long term leasing solutions. It is the first time in the history of aviation that an airline grounded for more than two years is being revived and we are looking forward to being a part of this historic journey," he said. The Consortium's statement read that the revival plan for Jet Airways is being implemented as approved by NCLT and all the creditors will be settled according to the plan in the coming months. The process of reviving the grounded carrier is on track with the existing Air Operator Certificate (AOC) already under process for revalidation, it mentioned. The Consortium is working closely with the relevant authorities and airport coordinators on slot allocation, required airport infrastructure, and night parking, according to the statement. "Senior Members of the Jalan Kalrock Consortium along with Jet 2.0 Operations Team led by the newly appointed Capt. Sudhir Gaur, Accountable Manager, and acting CEO visited key airports last month and held productive meetings with them," it noted. Captain Gaur said, "We will start with domestic operations on an all narrow-body aircraft fleet leased from major global aircraft lessors who have approached us, and with whom we continue to engage." "Jet Airways has already hired 150+ full time employees on its payroll and we are looking to onboard another 1,000+ employees FY 2021-22 across categories," he mentioned. The airline was grounded in April 2019 due to fund crunch and high debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to take over as 17th Gujarat CM today||First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel will be sworn in Gujarat chief minister on Monday, two days after Vijay Rupani's surprise exit from the post, a year ahead of the Assembly polls. Patel (59), who was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, will be sworn in as the state's 17th chief minister at 2.20 pm, an official said. The party's CM choice came as a surprise for many as the low-profile, first-time legislator was not seen to be among the top contenders for the post. Only Patel will take the oath on Monday and a decision regarding the new Gujarat cabinet will be taken later, party sources said. Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat on Sunday invited Patel to take oath as chief minister. "The new leader of BJP's Legislature Party Bhupendrabhai Patel presented a proposal to form the government under his leadership. Accepting the proposal, he was invited to take oath as CM on September 13 at 2.20 pm," tweeted the Governor. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to attend the swearing-in ceremony. I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state's sustainable development will keep up its momentum, Shah tweeted. Modi phoned Patel on Sunday and congratulated him, a BJP spokesperson said. Born in Ahmedabad, Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, previously held by former chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. He won the seat by over 1.17 lakh votes in 2017, the highest margin in that poll. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency represented by Shah. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, has served as Ahmedabad municipal councillor and as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority. He is also a trustee at Patidar organisations Sardardham and Vishwa Umiya Foundation. With state Assembly polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Bhupendra Patel, a Patidar, to lead the party. In the 2017 Assembly elections, BJP won 99 of the 182 seats and Congress got 77. The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors. At Sunday's legislature party meeting, the proposal to elect Patel the legislative party leader was moved by CM Vijay Rupani, whose resignation on Saturday, 15 months ahead of the state Assembly polls, surprised many political observers. Most of the 112 MLAs of the party in the 182-member Assembly were present at the meeting, BJP sources said. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM - in December 2017. He completed five years in office on August 7 this year. Patel has never held a ministerial post, just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was never a minister when he became Gujarat CM 20 years ago. Modi was sworn in as CM on October 7, 2001, and became an MLA on February 24, 2002, by winning the Rajkot seat bypoll. Gujarat BJP chief C R Paatil said Patel's work at the grass root-level, his hold on the cooperative sector, association with party workers and administrative abilities were among the factors that led to his elevation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||India records over 27,000 Covid cases, 219 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 27,254 new COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the country to 3,32,64,175, while the count of active cases declined to 3,74,269, according to Union Health Ministry data on Monday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,42,874, with 219 daily fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The count of daily new cases has remained below 50,000 for 78 consecutive days now, according to the ministry. The tally of active cases has declined to 3,74,269, which comprises 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.54 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 10,652 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,08,247 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Sunday, taking the total of such examinations to 54,30,14,076. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.26 per cent. This has been below three per cent for the last 14 days, and below five per cent for 97 consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.11 per cent. The figure has been below three per cent for the last 80 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,24,47,032, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 74.38 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 219 new fatalities include 67 from Kerala and 46 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,42,874 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,142 from Maharashtra, 37,504 From Karnataka, 35,168 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,883 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,551 from Kerala and 18,577 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Telangana to administer Covid vaccine to 3 lakh people daily||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed Health department officials to take up a special drive of vaccination against COVID-19 and inoculate three lakh people daily as there is a possibility of the state getting required quantities of the vaccine following augmented production. An official release issued on Sunday night, quoting KCR said, though the COVID-19 spread is in control in the State, the special drive of the vaccination should be taken up so that people should not suffer in future due to the pandemic. "Chief Minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed the senior officials of the Medical and Health department to take up a special drive to vaccinate 3 lakh people daily to save people in the Telangana State from coronavirus," it said. The Medical and Health department officials brought to the notice of the CM that despite government and private educational institutions having opened, there is not much impact of the virus and there is no chance of increase of COVID-19 cases. The officials informed Rao that there are 2.80 crore people above the age of 18 and are eligible for vaccination in the state. So far 1.42 crore people were administered the first dose of the vaccine while 53 lakh completed their second dose also and 1.38 crore people are yet to be inoculated. The Chief Minister also instructed the officials concerned to utilise buildings of schools, colleges and other government and private infrastructure as vaccination centres. Rao urged the people to go to the nearest PHC and get them examined if they have any symptoms and take precautions such as wearing masks. According to the release, Rao has instructed the medical and health officials to be on high alert to help people in any eventuality due to COVID-19 or any other seasonal diseases besides setting up Oxygen plants and beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat: First-time MLA Bhupendra Patel picked as CM to woo Patidars ||Bhupendra Patel, a first-time MLA, was picked on Sunday to be the new chief minister of Gujarat, with the BJP leadership shedding its avowed aversion to caste politics to apparently assuage the influential Patidar community ahead of the Assembly elections next year. The new face is being seen as a surprise sprung by the direct intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his home state. It is also being viewed as a revenge of sorts exacted by former Gujarat chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel on Union home minister Amit Shah. Five years ago, when Anandiben had to step down in a huff, the exit was said to have been precipitated by those close to Shah, who was then national president of the BJP. In August 2016, Anandiben, chosen by Modi to succeed him as Gujarat chief minister in 2014, had announced her resignation on her Facebook page a year ahead of the polls, leading to the appointment of Vijay Rupani, who is counted as “Shah’s man”. Now, in a replay, Rupani has quietly resigned as chief minister over a year ahead of the polls. Bhupendra, the successor, is known in Gujarat as a “close aide” to Anandiben and represents the Assembly segment in Ahmedabad district vacated by Anandiben. After he was chosen on Sunday, Bhupendra said: “I have always been under Anandiben’s blessings.” He thanked Modi, BJP chief J.P. Nadda, Shah and other party leaders. In another instance of stark similarity, Bhupendra, 59, is a first-time MLA and so was Rupani in 2016. “Anandiben then had stressed experience and backed Nitin Patel (the deputy chief minister in the Rupani government). Amitbhai, however, firmly rejected it and picked Rupani,” a Gujarat BJP leader said, adding that now “Anandiben has turned the tables on Shah”. Anandiben had to quit in 2016 in the face of the Hardik Patel-led Patidar agitation for reservation and the BJP’s defeat in the local body polls, though she had cited her age (then approaching 75) as a reason for her resignation. A section in the BJP had then accused the state party leadership of engineering the Patidar protest. It’s too early to conclude whether Shah’s standing has been affected by the turn of events in Bengal, BJP sources said. “Modiji intervenes whenever things go out of hand. Reports of intense internal bickering and lack of good governance were coming from his home turf and so he had to act,” a BJP parliamentarian from Gujarat said. Both Modi and Shah used to keep an eye on Gujarat but the latter had been in full control post-2014. But Shah’s reputation for election skills received a big blow with the BJP’s defeat in Bengal, party insiders said, underlining how the powerful leader had been maintaining a low profile since the Bengal result. “What role Amitbhai plays in Uttar Pradesh and other state polls, including Gujarat, will indicate whether he remains as powerful or not,” a party leader said. Politically and electorally, the choice of Bhupendra was seen as an outreach to the influential Patidar community. The Patidars’ anger had seen the BJP struggle in the 2017 Assembly polls, when it won just 99 of the 182 seats, its lowest tally since 1995. Gujarat leaders said that this time, many more issues like the Covid mismanagement, price rise, lack of jobs and internal squabbling had piled up, prompting the leadership to take corrective measures. Under Modi and Shah, the new BJP has been disregarding politically dominant communities in the states to show that it doesn’t believe in caste politics. The choice of a Patidar as the new chief minister suggests that such a stand has been shelved, at least for now. The chief minister-designate’s connection with the Prime Minister has been established with past pictures of Modi taking part in kite flying along with Bollywood star Salman Khan from Bhupendra’s terrace in Ahmedabad. Bhupendra, MLA from the Ghatlodia constituency, was chairman of the Ahmedabad urban development authority and headed the standing committee of the Ahmedabad municipal corporation. Party leaders rubbished the need for administrative experience, recalling that Modi was in a similar position when he was made chief minister in 2001. “Bhupendra Patel, clearly, is Narendrabhai’s choice although Anandiben may have used her influence to get him elected (to the Assembly),” a Gujarat MLA said, attributing the absence of protests against his selection to knowledge that Modi wanted him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Adityanath government ad features Calcutta's Maa flyover||A front-page advertisement that Yogi Adityanath’s government in Uttar Pradesh took out in the Sunday edition of The Indian Express newspaper, claiming he was transforming the heartland state, showed the Maa Flyover of Calcutta among other visuals. “A wrong image was inadvertently included in the cover collage of the advertorial on Uttar Pradesh produced by the marketing department of the newspaper. The error is deeply regretted and the image has been removed in all digital editions of the paper,” The Indian Express tweeted on Sunday. Mistakes are not unusual and the matter would normally have ended with the clarification and expression of regret. But the BJP’s publicity machinery protested too much, circulating the newspaper’s clarification and saying: “Well done. The chaps in TMC (Trinamul Congress) and assorted opposition jumped up and down in excitement as a result. Who will now compensate for killing their excitement? Double whammy this.” The political irony of the visual could not have been starker: Here’s the poster boy of muscular Hindutva basking in the reflected glory of a flyover Mamata Banerjee had inaugurated and named. Can Maa, Mamata and Bengal aspire to a bigger compliment than this? The flyover project was started in 2010 by the then Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government and was inaugurated on Mamata’s watch. The towering image of himself over Maa would have been particularly galling for Adityanath, who had aggressively campaigned against Mamata in the Assembly elections. In every election henceforth in Bengal, it is unlikely that Trinamul will allow Adityanath to forget the monumental blunder. Although the newspaper itself took responsibility and the Uttar Pradesh government sought to distance itself from the images, media professionals pointed out that the client (in this case the Uttar Pradesh government) cannot wash its hands of the matter so easily. Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh told The Telegraph: “It was an advertorial of The Indian Express; we have taken the matter up with them.” Asked whether the government didn’t vet its advertisements before publication, Singh said: “We obviously pay for such advertorials and there may be some problem but the mistake was committed by the newspaper.” Two grey areas have cropped up here. One, whether it was an advertorial or an advertisement. An advertisement is a straightforward pitch that hard-sells a product, person or an organisation. Its character is all too apparent to laypersons. An advertorial is also an advertisement but it gives information about a product in the manner of a news report or objective article. In order to differentiate between the publication’s own content and that of the advertorials, news organisations insist that the typeface of the letters in the advertorials is different from the publication’s typeface. Besides, the abbreviation “ADVT” or the word “Advertisement” is printed on top of advertorials to tell the readers that the content below is not that of the publication. The distinction between an advertisement and an advertorial holds significance because the full content for the advertisement is usually provided by the client or an agency hired by the client. The publication usually seeks changes only if the content goes against the law. The Indian Express website says that “the responsibility of providing the ad material remains with the agency/client who place the booking for an advertisement”. A separate policy on advertorials was not readily apparent on the website. The content of an advertorial is also largely provided by a client but the publication can demand changes in the typeface and the layout to ensure it stands apart from the editorial matter. Any specific mention of “ADVT” or “Advertisement” is not visible at the top of the front page attributed to The Sunday Express and circulating on social media through the day. A veteran media professional, who did not want to be named, said the front page featuring Adityanath and Maa looks more like an advertisement than an advertorial. The veteran media professional said: “Had it been an advertorial, it would have had some similarity with a regular news page or front page while showing distinctive typefaces and a label denoting it as an advertorial at the top. These are industry standards but I am not familiar with the in-house style of this particular publication.” The second point of contention is whether a client can lay the entire blame at the door of the publication. The content is the responsibility of the client. The publication can only verify whether it goes against the law of the land (such as a wrong map or content disturbing peace). Trinamul national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien, who had been a journalist as well as an advertising professional, said in Calcutta: “It’s a basic advertorial norm that no (state government) ad is released without the consent of the state government.... There has to be one person signing the ad’s content and putting the sign on it before it is released. They cannot get away with this.” Officials of the Uttar Pradesh department of information and publicity, which had issued the advertisement, went incommunicado. Department principal secretary Navneet Sehgal and director Shishir Singh — who re-tweeted The Indian Express post — didn’t respond to WhatsApp messages from this newspaper. Usually, it is Sishir who selects pictures and gives the initial as well as final approval for an advertisement, a source in the department said. “It took three weeks to prepare this advertisement. Initially, it was approved and then supervised by many deputy directors. The text was prepared by a PR agency,” the source said, adding that he was not aware of any departure from the usual process this time. Shishir’s mobile was off when this newspaper called him to ask whether he had selected the picture and approved the final advertisement. Right at the top, the advertisement quotes Adityanath, who came to power in 2017, as saying: “Before 2017, people from outside used to laugh as soon as they used to hear the name of Uttar Pradesh....” Such laughter rang loud in Calcutta on Sunday as O’Brien and Trinamul MLA Samir Chakraborty addressed a news conference on the controversy. “Ajay Bisht, who changed his name to Yogi Adityanath, came to Bengal to campaign against Trinamul 11 times. He last came here in April. Finally, he has acknowledged that development is happening in Bengal. The picture of Maa Flyover as a part of UP’s development project is proof of that,” O’Brien said. “I’ll give him a list of a few other developmental initiatives of the Bengal government so that he can come up with a series of such ads.” Chakraborty claimed the BJP had forced the newspaper to take the blame on itself. Trinamul national general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee tweeted: “Transforming UP for @myogiadityanath (Adityanath) means stealing images from infrastructure seen in Bengal under @MamataOfficial’s (Mamata Banerjee’s) leadership and using them as his own!” He added: “Looks like the ‘double engine model’ has miserably failed in BJP’s strongest state and now stands exposed for all!” Adityanath did not react to the flyover controversy on Sunday. At a public meeting in Kushinagar, he used the term “Abba Jaan” — a pejorative reference to a community and the Samajwadi Party. Adityanath said “Abba Jaan used to digest rations” before 2017. “Rations meant for Kushinagar used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh,” he said, threatening to jail “anybody who digests the rations of the poor”. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Centre rejects IIT plea for quota exemption in senior faculty posts||The Union government is learnt to have rejected the IITs’ request for exemption from implementing reservations in senior faculty posts and permission to continue with their policy of de-reserving posts a year after they fall vacant for unavailability of suitable candidates. The department of higher education (DHE) under the Union education ministry is said to have told the parliamentary committee on the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes that it would not exempt the IITs from the quota law. The committee, headed by BJP parliamentarian Kirit P. Solanki, had a meeting with DHE officials on August 25. Officials of the law ministry and the department of personnel and training were also present. The committee discussed the recommendations of a panel headed by IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao that had sought exemption from reservation for the posts of associate professor and professor. The committee also suggested continuation of the de-reservation of reserved posts after a year if they could not be filled for lack of suitable candidates from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes or economically weaker sections. The IITs have been advertising reserved posts and de-reserving them a year later if suitable candidates cannot be found.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to install Tagore statue, Mamata asked to unveil||The Tamil Nadu government will install a life-size statue of Rabindranath Tagore at Queen Mary’s College, Chennai, and plans to invite Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to unveil it, sources said. A source close to the state government told The Telegraph the statue would be erected to commemorate Tagore’s advocacy of women’s education and empowerment as well as his association with the southern state, which he visited several times. The authorities therefore thought it most appropriate to put up the statute at the QMC, the first women’s college in south India, which began life as the Madras College for Women on July 14, 1914, the source said. “It would take three to four months to erect the statue,” the source added. Tagore had paid several visits to Tamil Nadu. In March 1919, he delivered lectures in the then Madras city, Thanjavur, Trichy and Madurai to try and raise funds for his Visva-Bharati project. At Madurai, culture historian K.R.A. Narasiah said, Tagore delivered three lectures at the American College at the invitation of its then principal, W.M. Zumbro. The topics were the significance of Visva-Bharati, the “spirit of popular religion in India”, and “Indian education”. Tagore’s lectures were a huge draw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Chirag gets PM letter, uncle visit on father’s death anniversary||Former Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s first death anniversary on Sunday marked his son and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan’s coming of age as a politician. Chirag managed to bring the family together after a split in the party engineered by uncle and Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, ended his own isolation and left chief minister Nitish Kumar isolated. He had invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. The Jamui MP revealed that he had unsuccessfully sought time to meet and invite Nitish as well. The invitation card that he had printed mentioned him as the LJP national president and included Pashupati among the hosts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him on Saturday night and followed it up with an emotional letter recounting Ram Vilas’s rise as a leader who always remained concerned about villages, the poor, Dalits and the deprived. Making Modi’s letter public on his social media accounts, Chirag said: “This letter provides strength to me and my family at this juncture of sorrow. May your love and blessings always be there.” Taking Modi’s letter as a cue, top BJP leaders. “Ram Vilas Paswan was a stalwart Dalit leader of Bihar and the country. With important elections including in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states round the corner, we could not have afforded to lose Chirag to the Opposition. Scheduled Caste votes matter,” a senior BJP leader said. “I was hoping Nitish ji would come, but he did not. No phone, message or letter from him came either,” Chirag said. Pashupati attended the  rituals in the morning and stayed  through the afternoon.  “It is unfortunate Chirag sent me an invitation because till now I used to organise any function in the family. Still, I thank him for the invitation,” he said. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who too was invited, visited Chirag and was received with an embrace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||CJI N.V. Ramana evokes Vivekananda’s secularism||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday said “contemporary India” needed to learn from Swami Vivekananda’s teachings how to shun “meaningless and sectarian conflicts” and practise “tolerance and universal acceptance”. “He popularised practical Vedanta as it preached love, compassion, and equal respect for all. His teachings have great relevance for all times to come,” Justice Ramana told an event through videoconferencing. “Swami Vivekananda, in his (Chicago) address, propagated the idea of tolerance and universal acceptance. He analysed the dangers posed by meaningless and sectarian conflicts in society to nations and civilisations. There is a greater need today, in contemporary India, to pay heed to the words spoken by Swami Vivekananda as early as 1893.” Justice Ramana’s remarks came at an event organised by the Ramakrishna Mission’s Hyderabad unit to mark the 22nd foundation day of the Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence and the 128th anniversary (which fell on Saturday) of Vivekananda’s address at the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago. Justice Ramana, the chief guest, said Swami Vivekananda had advocated secularism and stressed that religion should be above “superstitions and rigidities”. “He was prophetic. Long before the painful churning that took place in the subcontinent during the freedom struggle, resulting in the framing of an egalitarian Constitution of India, he had advocated secularism as if he foresaw the events to unfold. He firmly believed that the true essence of religion was the common good and tolerance,” the Chief Justice said. “Religion should be above superstitions and rigidities. To fulfil the dream of making a resurgent India through the principles of common good and tolerance, we should instil the ideals of Swamiji in today’s youth. I want to utilise this time in reflecting on the huge potential of the youth in our country, and the ways in which we can achieve the greater good.” Justice Ramana said Vivekananda’s Chicago address had earned India respect and recognition at a time it was under colonial rule, and had drawn the world’s attention to the philosophy of Vedanta. He went on to say that an account of India’s freedom struggle would remain incomplete without a mention of youth leaders such as Birsa Munda, who had mobilised tribal communities against the British, or the trio of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. The inspiring tales of Alluri Sitarama Raju, who led a tribal rebellion against the British in present-day Andhra Pradesh, still continue to inspire generations, he said. “The democratic rights we take for granted today are a result of the struggles of thousands of young people who took to the streets fighting authoritarian figures, either during the freedom struggle or the dark days of the Emergency,” the Chief Justice said. “Many lost their lives, sacrificed lucrative careers, all for the greater good of the nation and society. Trust the youth to check the deviations in a society’s journey towards peace and progress. Although it is desirable to be independent and economically successful, at the same time we must not forget our duty towards our family, our community, and the nation. “It is imperative for the youth to be aware about the social realities and challenges. Remember, any change in the nation’s trajectory always stems from its youth and their participation. It is for you to build the ideal nation and society that you desire to witness.” Vivekananda believed that India’s youth were the chain that bonded the country’s past to its future, Justice Ramana said. He lauded the Ramakrishna Mission monks. “Swamijis, you are truly the embodiment of sacrifice and service. Your act of renouncing material and worldly pleasures is not easy to emulate. Your life is a message to all of us gathered here,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat: BJP operation deepenes anxiety in rudderless Congress||The swift BJP operation to project a new face has deepened anxieties in the rudderless Gujarat Congress, which is waiting for months for a new state unit chief and general secretary in-charge. The Congress, which almost uprooted the BJP in the 2017 Assembly elections, has been on the decline since then even as the disenchantment with the BJP peaked during the pandemic, badly denting even the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his home state. The lukewarm response to the BJP’s “Aashirwad Yatra” in recent weeks and the feedback from rural areas convinced the Congress that the tide was turning decisively, but there was nobody to plan the political action to exploit the negative sentiment. The Congress central leadership was quick to describe the change of guard in Gandhinagar as a ploy to divert attention from the disastrous governance, amplified during the Covid-19 crisis, but the state leaders unanimously believe that they failed to take advantage. They squarely blame the high command and the leadership crisis there for the miserable state of Opposition in the state which is the wellspring of strength for Modi. Senior leaders of the Gujarat Congress conceded on Sunday that the BJP central leadership had intervened in time to stem the rot while their high command was “shockingly disinterested”. A senior leader told The Telegraph from Ahmedabad: “The BJP has addressed a major demand of the aggrieved Patidars by appointing the chief minister from their community. They are battered and exhausted but still preparing for the journey ahead. We are fast asleep, stubbornly refusing to wake up.” While the outgoing chief minister Vijay Rupani was hardly a factor in Gujarat politics as the entire management was done by Modi and Amit Shah from Delhi, the BJP has assuaged the feelings of Patidar community with the choice of Bhupendra Patel, blunting a lethal electoral plank of the Congress. “The Patidar movement is anyway over but there was dissatisfaction in the community. We hoped to encash that in the election. But that is difficult now,” a Congress leader said. “We tried to tap the Patidar anger by making Hardik Patel the working president. But he hardly did anything. He kept sulking, complaining against lack of free hand in the organisation. Who stopped him from campaigning throughout the state? He had the blessings of Rahul Gandhi. Hardik could have built a political capital during these months but he wasted a great opportunity. Now we will have to build a fresh narrative to counter the BJP,” he said. Pointing to the organisational lull in the party, Congress leaders explained how the BJP has now ironed out the coordination issues in their camp. “Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil couldn’t get along with Rupani. Patil was Modi’s choice while Rupani was close to Shah. Now the new chief minister, a confidant of former chief minister Anandiben Patel, who too was opposed to Shah and close to Modi, will work in tandem with the state chief,” the Congress leaders said. “In our organisation, every leader is on his own; there is no attempt by the central leadership to build a cohesive team,” they added. The state Congress chief Amit Chavda and legislature party leader Paresh Dhanani resigned in March after the miserable performance in local body polls. The state committee was dissolved. In May, the general secretary in-charge of the state, Rajiv Satav died of Covid-19.A delegation from Gujarat came to Delhi last month to plead with the high command to make the appointments at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Cuttack: Political parties oppose Durga Puja idol height cap||Political parties in Cuttack have united against a state government order limiting the height of Durga Puja idols to four feet, saying it would spoil the festival in a city renowned for holding it in a big way. State authorities have argued that big idols attract larger crowds, increasing Covid infections. An all-party team from Cuttack, including members of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD), are expected to meet chief minister Naveen Patnaik soon and seek a rethink on the height restriction, announced by special relief commissioner P.K. Jena on Friday. The BJP will observe a Cuttack bandh on the issue on Monday. “This cap on the height of idols is not acceptable,” Mahhamed Mouqim of the Congress, MLA from Barbati in Cuttack city, told The Telegraph. “Here people across religions observe the Durga Puja. It’s the biggest festival in Cuttack city. We must celebrate it with the traditional grandeur. No other state, not even Bengal, has capped the height of Durga idols.” The state government had last year too capped the idols’ height to four feet citing the pandemic. All of Cuttack’s 145 Puja committees had fallen in line barring nine whom Orissa High Court had granted exemptions because they had already got their idols built. This time the authorities have ordered the height restriction well in time before the October 11-15 festivities, but the Puja organisers aren’t willing to curtail the event’s glamour two years running. Pravat Tripay, senior BJD leader and secretary of the Cuttack Durga Puja Committee, said the idols have to be at least six feet tall. “In Cuttack, the Durga Puja committees have traditional sets of gold and silver ornaments, including the crown, for the idols. These ornaments were made keeping in mind six-foot-tall idols. Any reduction in height will affect the beauty of the idols and rob the festival of its glamour,” he said. Last year, many of the ornaments could not be used because they were too big for the four-foot idols. “We had a meeting on Saturday evening. An all-party delegation will meet the chief minister on the matter,” Tripay said. A Puja committee member said: “We are ready to abide by all Covid protocols, but there’s no link between the height of an idol and the rise or fall of Covid cases.” Another said: “The Covid situation was grim last year. Now we have lived with the pandemic for more than one year and need to move ahead.” Odisha recorded 649 new Covid cases on Saturday, 630 on Friday and 745 on Thursday. The Durga Puja was first organised in Cuttack in 1509 by a Banerjee family that had arrived in Odisha with Sri Chaitanya Deb from Nabadwip. “The Puja did not stop even when famine gripped Odisha in 1865-66, or when the Spanish flu hit in 1919,” an elderly Puja committee member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||West Bengal||SC to hear Bengal govt's plea on post-poll violence on September 20||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear on September 20 the West Bengal government's appeal challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing court-monitored CBI probe into the heinous cases of rape and murder during the post-poll violence in the state after accepting the an NHRC panel's recommendations. A bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose deferred the matter to go through a chart submitted by the state government. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the state government, pointed to the members of the committee that has been formed to investigate the incidents and said, "Can you imagine these people have been appointed to collect the data? Is this a BJP investigating committee my Lords?" He further said that for cases like rape and murder there is the CBI and for other events, there is a Special Investigative Team (SIT). The apex court then observed, "If somebody had a political past and if he lands up in an official position by that very fact will we treat him to be biased?" Sibal submitted that the members are still posting posts related to BJP and how can chairman of Human Rights Committee appoint such members? He sought some interim order in the meantime. The apex court then said that it would hear the case on September 20. "Nothing will happen. We'll have it on Monday," the bench said. The state government in its special leave petition alleged that it did not expect fair and just investigation by the central agency which is busy foisting cases against the functionaries of ruling Trinamool Congress Party. Earlier, lawyer Anindya Sundar Das, one of the PIL petitioners on whose plea the High Court August 19 verdict came, had filed a caveat in the apex court urging that no order be passed without hearing him if the state or other litigant move appeals. A five-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year in which the ruling TMC came back to power. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be investigated by a Special Investigation Team under the monitoring of the court. The high court bench, which also comprised justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Ordering setting up of an SIT to probe all other cases, it had said that it will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation, it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation". The bench had said the State failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction." "Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned," it had noted. It had said allegations that the police had not registered a number of cases initially and that some were registered only after the court had intervened or the committee was constituted were found to be true. It had observed that the facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee, was obstructed from discharging his duty and he and his team members were attacked by some undesirable elements on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted. The PILs had alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought impartial probe into the incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
13-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI at Bengal minister's door over chit fund scam||A CBI team landed at the door of another minister in the Mamata Banerjee government in a connection with a chit fund deposit scam on Monday. CBI officials  reached the Camac Street office of Pratha Chatterjee, the heavyweight Trinamul leader and state industries minister, who had turned down the Central investigation agency's directive to visit it's office, saying officials could instead meet him at his office or home. The minister, among Trinamul-appointed observers for the Bhowanipore Assemby by-elections, had reasoned that he was busy with poll-related work. On Monday Chatterjee was at  his departmental office. CBI is interested in questioning Chatterjee regarding his ties with Icore, a deposit mobilising company which had duped  investors by promising high returns on investments. According to the CBI, Chatterjee had attended a number of programmes organised by the company and heaped praises on the late owner Anukul Maity, who died in CBI custody in Bhubaneswar last November. The minister is understood to have told investigators that he attended events as he led the industry department and believed the company could generate employment in the job-starved state. "This is another case of political vendetta. We've time and again said that BJP govt is only targeting TMC govt because Mamata Banerjee is the only leader who's opposing their anti-people policies," said Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP, on the CBI raid. This is not the first time that Chatterjee had averted CBI’s interrogation. The CBI team’s interrogation of Chatterjee is bound to further raise the heat in the already charged bypoll, crucial for Mamata to return to the Assembly and continue as chief minister for the third term. While the case is old, the timing of the interrogation is also likely to provoke the Trinamul into accusing the BJP of unleashing central probe agencies to coerce rival political leaders. The CBI had earlier arrested two ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former Trinamul leader and ex-Mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the Narada bribery case. Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul’s all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was interrogated by the Enforcement Directorate in Delhi last week in connection with a coal mining scam. Mamata has dismissed all the charges against her party leaders and ministers. The CBI is yet to issue any statement on the interrogation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||New executive director at regional NHPC office in Siliguri||Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a senior officer of NHPC Limited, assumed the office of the executive director at the regional office of the power company in Siliguri on Saturday. Mukherjee, who started his career in the NHPC in 1987, is a civil engineer and an MBA in financial management. After assuming office, he met senior officers of the regional office and those posted at the Teesta Low Dam Project (TLDP) III and IV. Along with the executive director, he is also the chief executive officer of Lanco Teesta Hydro Power Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of NHPC in Sikkim. Mukherjee told officials that the ongoing projects of the NHPC would have to be completed within the stipulated timeframe while maintaining quality parameters, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Effigy and new equations heat up hill politics||It was a politically charged Sunday in the hills, almost akin to poll season. Anit Thapa was “welcomed” by hundreds of supporters on his “return” to Kurseong from Darjeeling on Sunday. The two hill towns are apart by 35-odd kilometres. Thapa returned to his home town after nearly two months and for the first time after floating his new political party, the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha. “Our supporters came out on the streets to welcome me. There is a lot of work to be done in the hills,” said Thapa. S.P. Sharma, the general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), Bharati Tamang faction, was out in Darjeeling with an effigy of Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of the BJP, complete with a garland of shoes and slippers. Sharma and his followers protested the Centre’s failure to convene tripartite talks within the first week of September on the “permanent political solution”. Bista had last month said Union home minister Amit Shah had assured him of holding a meeting within September first week. When Sharma reached Bista’s residence, Matterhorn in Darjeeling, Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) leader and Darjeeling MLA from the BJP, Neeraj Zimba, was ready to welcome Sharma with floral garlands. After a sarcastic exchange between the two leaders, Sharma left, refusing to enter the MP’s residence despite being invited to do so by Zimba. Sharma said he refused because Zimba didn't allow the media to accompany Sharma inside the residence. “The tripartite meeting will take place in September. I am ready to be garlanded with shoes and slippers if it does not happen,” said Zimba. Barely half a kilometre away from Bista’s residence, Ajoy Edwards, who after quitting the GNLF has decided to form his own political party, addressed his supporters. Many from Lebong and adjoining areas of Darjeeling pledged him their support. Edwards also promised to work for the community. “I am overwhelmed by the support I am getting from people who were never associated with any political party,” said Edwards. Bimal Gurung of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, the tallest leader of the hills from 2007 till all his three candidates lost the 2021 Assembly election, also held a meeting in Belatar, some 10km from Kurseong. Here, 40-odd supporters from Anit Thapa’s party joined Gurung’s party. Amid the political cacophony, the Kanchenjungha was clearly visible from the region after months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Migrant labourer body home after 3 months||The body of a migrant labourer from Murshidabad’s Sagardighi police station area, who was killed in Kerala’s Kannur district in June, was brought home on Sunday evening. Washiqul Islam, 32, a resident of Mathurapur village, had last spoken to his family over the phone on the night of June 28. “He was a mason and lived in Likkur area of Kannur with two other men from Murshidabad,” said Mominul, his brother. Mominul had gone to Likkur on June 30 after not being able to get in touch with his brother on phone and filed a missing diary there. After a month of no leads, he contacted Sadequl Islam, a Calcutta-based IT professional who was in the news last year for his networking efforts to help migrants during the lockdown. After a letter by Sadequl to senior Kannur police officers, including the DIG and SP in late July, police tracked down and interrogated roommate Paresh Mondal in late August. Paresh confessed to murdering Washiqul with the help of accomplice Ganesh Mondal, for cash. “They hit Washiqul on the head with blunt weapons and buried the body beneath the floor of a bathroom that they sealed with concrete,” said a Kannur police officer. Washikul’s body was exhumed on Friday. Kannur police arranged its return to Washiqul’s home. Kannur police said Paresh’s accomplice Ganesh was absconding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Ganga eats away 250 Malda homes in eight hours||At least 250 families living at different villages located on the left bank of the Ganga in Kaliachak 3 block of Malda have become homeless after the swollen river gobbled their houses since Sunday morning. Sources said the Ganga had been steadily eroding land at villages like Chinabazar, Sarkartola, Ghoshtola and Mukundatola — all in Birnagar 1 panchayat of the block — since Sunday morning and reached close to a high school and the panchayat office. “The erosion started around 6am and continued till late afternoon. Within a span of around eight to 10 hours, the river swallowed around 250 houses. We have never witnessed such a devastating situation before and it seems these villages will eventually be wiped out from the district’s map,” said Kunti Roy, a local resident who lost her home on Sunday. Since morning, the residents started shifting their belongings to safer places as the river menaced at the homes. Many were seen hiring vehicles to load furniture and other items to shift to adjoining areas. “We had taken shelter at the high school. If the erosion continues in such a manner, the school building would not be safe anymore. We would have to spend nights under open sky then,” said Anjana Roy, another erosion victim. Sources said the river had already eaten away the guard wall of the school and also a portion of the area where the National Thermal Power Corporation dumps fly-ash. Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar under whose constituency the affected areas are located, visited the villages and spoke to the homeless families. She also asked the villagers to be alert and stay at safe places to avoid any casualty because of the erosion. “The situation is grave at some of the villages. I have spoken with the block administration to ensure that all the affected families are provided with necessary relief materials and shelters,” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Tourism department to introduce eco-friendly wheels for tourists ||The state tourism department will introduce two eco-friendly, battery-run electric vehicles for tourists at “Bhorer Alo”, the mega tourism hub that is the initiative of the state government at scenic Gazoldoba near the Teesta barrage in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, ahead of the Durga Puja holidays. Jyoti Ghosh, the joint director of tourism posted in north Bengal, who was here on Sunday, said: “We have decided to bring in two battery-run vehicles at the site ahead of Durga Puja. While six persons can sit on one vehicle, the other one will have a capacity to seat four people. The vehicles will carry tourists from the parking area to the cottages located on the site. The same vehicles will take guests to the golf course coming up at the site.”In due course, the department will buy more such vehicles, he added. The tourism hub, which has come up over 210 acres of land and wetland, is a dream project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Back in October 2018, she inaugurated the site where cottages for tourists have come up, along with some additional attractions. Ghosh said they had developed sewerage in the area to prevent flooding during monsoon. A water treatment plant has also been installed. Sources at the department said they were waiting for a new committee of the Gazoldoba Development Authority formed by the state for the development of the site. “The GDA has sent proposals for roads, streetlights, improved drinking water supply and an office (of the development authority), for an estimated Rs 16 crore to the state government. We hope the state soon announces a new committee and approves the proposals,” said Khageswar Roy, the MLA of Rajganj. As of now, work of a steel bridge to link the tourism hub over the Teesta canal is on. “The state PWD has taken up the project. Also, the parks and gardens wing of the state forest department is carrying out landscaping and beautification at the site. It will also set up an orchidarium (a place for permanent exhibit of orchids) in the hub,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri BJP MLA flags fake FB profile||Shankar Ghosh, the BJP MLA of Siliguri, has alleged that hackers have floated his fake profile on Facebook through which they are asking for money from people. Ghosh said on Sunday he received phone calls from  many people who told him they got messages from his fake profile, asking for sums ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000. “Of late, we have come to know about this new trend of cybercrime... I want to clarify I have never asked anyone for any money in such a manner. No one should fall into this trap,” said the MLA. He added that he had also brought the matter to the notice of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. “Also, the legal cell of our party is aware of the issue and will take necessary steps,” he said. During the past few months, a number of persons, including politicians, government officers, senior police officers and members of the business fraternity have faced a similar problem. “Any social media user receiving such requests should be alert and must immediately check with the person from whose (fake) profile that request for cash help has been made,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-results violence: CBI arrests four BJP workers||The CBI, which was entrusted with probing into violent incidents following the publication of Assembly poll results in May, arrested four alleged BJP supporters from Cooch Behar district  on Sunday early morning in connection with the murder of a Trinamul Congress worker. Sources said Shahinur Rahaman, a Trinamul worker in the Chilakhana area of Natabari Assembly constituency under Tufanganj police station of Cooch Behar, had gone missing from his home on May 4. The following day, his body was found in a nearby agricultural field. After the incident, Trinamul had accused the BJP of murdering Rahaman. The BJP denied the charge then. The arrested quartet are Ishwar Das, Ishwar Das (two persons with same name), Gobinda Das and Mihir Chanda. A court in Tufanganj remanded the four in judicial custody for 14 days. Cooch Behar district BJP president Malati Rava has said the quartet was falsely implicated in the case. “After the polls, Trinamul workers indiscriminately attacked hundreds of our supporters who were even forced to leave their homes. We hope the CBI will act against all those involved in such attacks. As far as today’s arrests are concerned, we believe our supporters have been falsely framed in the case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||46 new containment  zones to arrest Covid across South 24-Parganas ||The spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two days across South 24-Parganas prompted the district administration on Sunday to announce fresh micro-containment zones, primarily in four municipalities and six blocks. Out of the 46 new micro containment zones announced by district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, 28 are in Maheshtala, Rajpur-Sonarpur, Baruipur and Diamond Harbour municipalities. The remaining containment zones have been marked in Canning 2, Kulpi, Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpratima and Sagar blocks. The objective of creating micro-containment zones is to cause little disruption to public life as well as economic activities. Another goal, according to an official of South 24-Parganas district administration, is to contain the outbreak of Covid in specific geographical areas. A senior official of South 24-Parganas district administration said: “We have added more areas to our list of micro-containment zones from where new cases have been traced. We have found new cases mostly in municipal areas, which shows lack of awareness of mask culture even among people living in towns.” The district recorded 115 infections in the past 48 hours. 751 new cases Bengal on Sunday logged 751 Covid-19 cases, 757 recoveries and 10 deaths as the state completed 84 successive days of a fall in the total number of active infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||2 youths die on NH512 in bike-van crash||Two youths were killed while a third was critically injured when their motorcycle collided head-on with a pick-up van on NH512 in Fulbari, South Dinajpur district, late on Saturday. Angry residents blocked the highway in protest, alleging lack of police vigilance encouraged rash driving after dark. Sources said the three friends on the bike had been headed towards Balurghat while the pick-up van had been coming from Balurghat to Gangarampur when the crash occurred. The three youths, who did not wear helmets, were rushed to the superspecialty hospital in Gangarampur where doctors pronounced two of them dead. One was identified as Sarib Sarkar, 23. The other is yet to be identified. Sohel Rana Sarkar, 27, is  fighting for his life at Malda Medical College and Hospital. The van driver fled. Agitated residents blocked the highway for about an hour, demanding action against speeding. A team from Gangarampur police station rushed to the spot and pacified the demonstrators. Police have seized both vehicles. Investigations are on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Prod to Bengal government for NH10 repair||The dilapidated condition of several stretches of NH10, worsened by the battering from recurring landslides, has prompted state PWD officials to send a proposal to Nabanna, seeking funds for immediate repairs. The Narendra Modi government is supposed to send funds to maintain NH10, which connects the Himalayan state of Sikkim and Bengal’s Kalimpong, and the Sino-Indian border. Although a national highway, the NH10 division of state PWD maintains it from Sevoke, some 25km from here, till Rongpo in Sikkim. Funds for the highway’s upkeep, however, flow from the Centre as the state PWD works solely as an agency. “Puja holidays are ahead, and vehicular load on the highway will only increase. Considering the situation in some stretches of NH10, we can’t sit idle. As no move has been made by the Centre for revamp, we have sent a proposal to the state stating some immediate measures are required to prevent halt in traffic owing to landslides,” said an official of the NH10 division of state PWD. Last month, Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, had claimed the Union ministry of road transport and highways headed by Nitin Gadkari would spend Rs 800 crore to rebuild NH10. “As far as funds allocation and initiation of repair work are concerned, there has been no development,” a PWD official said. He added that since July-end, traffic halted on NH10 around 15 times because of landslides. Last Tuesday, a slide blocked the highway and traffic was restored after around five hours. The most precarious stretch is in 29th Mile, around 60km from here, with frequent slides. Sources said debris, comprising mud, boulders and pebbles, piled around 300 feet above the level of the highway falls on it regularly, especially after a bout of rain. “This pile needs to be emptied from the area to keep the road clear. We are fortunate that so far there has been no casualty,” said a source. In the proposal, the officials have said that a protection wall at the spot can be useful. “Also, we need to explore whether an alternative alignment of the road can be built at the stretch,” the source added. The slides have also made residents of Sikkim and Kalimpong question why no concrete initiative is being taken to repair the highway. “NH 10 is one of the key road routes to the Sino-Indian border and is strategically important for the country. Also, being residents of this country, we deserve a decent national highway. We also pay road tax and other government charges. Then why will we have to face such problems every year?” asked Girish Lama, a Kalimpong resident. The NH10’s dismal state, with hardly a month left for Puja holidays, have left tourism stakeholders perturbed. “The pandemic situation is under control now and going by reservations, we are expecting a good tourist season ahead. But if tourists get stranded, it will have a negative impact,” said Santanu Choudhury, who runs a travel house in Siliguri. He said that it normally takes around four hours to reach Gangtok from Siliguri via NH10. But if one has to make a detour, it would take two-and-a-half hours more to reach the state capital of Sikkim. Another senior tour operator in Siliguri said the ban on Bangladeshis entering Sikkim was lifted in 2018 and since then thousands of Bangladeshi residents visit the Himalayan state. Recently, air connectivity resumed between India and Bangladesh. “We expect a steady inflow of tourists from Bangladesh. It is high time that the Centre and the state take up thorough repair along the affected stretches of NH10 to ensure that foreign tourists don’t feel discouraged to visit this region,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
13-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 751 new cases, 757 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 751 new Covid-19 infections, 757 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total of active Covid-19 cases in the state fell by 16 to 8,187 with 84 successive days of a slide. Bengal has 2.2 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most number of them. Calcutta logged 125 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a singledigit figure. Calcutta reported one and North 24-Parganas two. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, its highest this pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.8 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.57 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. It includes more than 15.3 lakh recoveries and 18,577 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
13-09-2021||North East||Attack on CPM office in Tripura provides Left party with a booster||The attacks on CPM offices in Tripura have provided the Left party with the “right ammunition” to reactivate its organisation and cadres to take on the ruling BJP and also check the rise of Trinamul in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly elections. At least six CPM offices, including the state headquarters in Agartala, were vandalised in three of Tripura’s eight districts on Wednesday evening by suspected BJP activists in what appears to be a retaliation to the alleged attack on its karyakartas by CPM cadres on Monday and Wednesday. Three media houses were also vandalised on Wednesday. Left Front watchers said the CPM, which had in August announced a month-long September Campaign against the “anti-people policies” of the BJP-led government, including the three contentious farm laws, will now flag the attacks to highlight the “growing lawlessness” in the state to send a message to voters and its cadres that it remains a strong contender in the three-way race for political supremacy involving the BJP, Left Front and the Trinamul and get another shot at power in 2023. With the Congress in freefall and Trinamul trying to rebuild its state unit, the CPM poses a direct threat to the ruling BJP. In the 2018 state polls, the BJP had bagged 43.59 per cent of the vote share to win 36 seats to CPM’s 42.22 per cent votes. The CPM had won 16 seats. “The attacks and the Trinamul’s emergence have galvanised the CPM and Left Front having realised doing routine party activities will not help them check either the BJP or the Trinamul. The attacks have provided the CPM with the right ammunition to sustain its anti-BJP campaign till the 2023 polls,” a veteran political watcher said. “Expect the CPM to regularly organise big programmes to convey that the CPM-led Left Front was a serious player in the 2023 state polls against the BJP, not the Trinamul. Earlier they were thinking what to do but the attacks and the Trinamul have forced them to concertised these programmes,” another political watcher said, pointing to the slew of programmes chalked out by the Left to take on the BJP after the attacks. Left Front convener Bijan Dhar told The Telegraph that the CPM state committee had on Saturday organised an online meeting on the prevailing situation, including the recent attacks by suspected BJP members, and its future course of action. He said the Left Front constituents will hold a mass convention in Agartala on September 21 to mobilise support  for the September 27 Bharat Bandh seeking the repeal of the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre. According to Dhar, the attack on CPM offices are “linked” to its ongoing September Campaign. “Since they (BJP) have no other strategy to stop us, they resorted to the attacks. But we will continue with our pro-people campaign,” Dhar said. CPM central committee member Jiten Chowdhary said Saturday’s online meeting also decided to hold a protest on September 16 in Agartala against the recent violence where all the 16 CPM MLAs will participate. “We have instructed all our units not to be provoked. They (BJP) will try to resort to violence to hide their non-performance and anti-people policies and we will try to expose these before the people,” Chowdhary said. The CPM will also hold a press meet in Delhi on September 14 besides seeking an audience with the state governor and the president Ram Nath Kovind on the alleged BJP misrule in Tripura. The ruling BJP too seems to be targeting the CPM than the Trinamul. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted on Friday, “For past 3 years, Tripura has seen all round peace & prosperity with radical improvements in law & order situation. Political opposition led by CPM have been rattled by this. In their desperation to regain lost political ground, they attempted to plunge Tripura into lawlessness.” The CPM and the Trinamul have in return accused the BJP of perpetrating lawlessness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
13-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Emma Raducanu wins US Open 2021||Young gun Sir — The British teenage sensation, Emma Raducanu, deserves to be congratulated for winning the US Open, 2021. She has created history by becoming the first British woman to clinch a Grand Slam singles title in 44 years; Virginia Wade had won the Wimbledon in 1977. Raducanu’s maiden Grand Slam win is all the more remarkable because she defeated top-seeded players without dropping a set. Amazingly, Raducanu is said to have turned pro just three months ago — she has never been a direct entrant to a Grand Slam main draw, she is yet to play a tour-level three set match, and she has not even won a match at a World Tennis Association tour event. But occasionally a special player like Raducanu comes along, making a mockery of conventions and taking the sporting world by storm. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Emma Raducanu has shown spectacular potential and determination at the US Open. Given her lack of experience and young age — she is just 18 years old — the feat of winning the US Open is commendable indeed. Raducanu is sure to become yet another jewel in the tennis crown. We wish her all the best for the future. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Sir — The 18-year-old Briton, Emma Raducanu, has become the youngest Grand Slam champion since Maria Sharapova in 2004 by beating the Canadian, Leylah Annie Fernandez 6-4, 6-3. She has already achieved several milestones in a professional tennis career that only began in earnest three months ago. I doubt we will see anyone else with her potential in the near future. Raducanu has been outstanding in this tournament and deserves all the praise being heaped on her. But one hopes that Raducanu has a good head on her shoulders. She will need it if she is to continue to do a good job in the future while handling all the media attention that she will be subjected to. Between Raducanu and Fernandez, one cannot think of a more spectacular ending in the memory of the US Open women’s final. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Emma Raducanu’s achievements are significant. She may just be the new star on the tennis firmament. But success at such an early age has its pitfalls. The other ace tennis champion, Naomi Osaka, had recently highlighted some of these. Mental health can take a backseat when players are pushed to succeed no matter what the cost. If Raducanu is to truly live up to her potential, she should not be forced into anything and allowed to just enjoy the game. This enjoyment of the game is the secret to the success of greats like Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, who continue to stun spectators even at such an advanced age. Even pure talent needs to be honed over time if it is to last. If Raducanu allows fame and fortune to get to her head, then she may burn brightly but briefly. Shreya Basu,Calcutta  Poppy pickers Sir — In an effort to gain international acceptance after seizing power in Afghanistan, the Taliban have told farmers to stop cultivating opium poppies — the raw material for heroin. Illicit drug trade has long been a cash cow for the Taliban. Drug traffickers are known to have made huge donations to the Taliban to meet the group’s weaponry requirements and so on in exchange for ‘protection’. Foreign aid cuts and losses in local spending by departed foreign troops are fueling an economic and humanitarian crisis. It is thus unlikely that either the destitute Afghans or the Taliban will turn their backs to the narcotics trade.Rajesh Kumar,Satna, Madhya Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
13-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unmindful||Human behaviour can be a fascinating area of study, even when public conduct is far from ideal. Consider the findings of a recent study on social behaviour across 31 nations. A team of 65 researchers found that Japanese society is the most conscious when it comes to ‘social mindfulness’ — an intrinsic, collective ability to comprehend the outcome of individual action on others. Seventy-two per cent of decisions in Japan, the researchers found, could be categorized as ‘socially mindful’, putting Japan as the leading exponent of a culture that prioritizes the spirit of cooperation. The study threw up some interesting nuggets. The score for Canada, touted as one of the politest of nations, was poor: 57 per cent of the conduct of Canadians was bracketed as such, while neighbouring United States of America, the high priest of individualism and, in recent years, insularity, managed a score of 58 per cent. China, which is seeking to topple the US from its high pedestal, had a better ranking than its rival with a reading of 62 per cent. India, unsurprisingly, found itself in the lower rungs, with a score of 50 per cent; only Turkey — 47 per cent — and Indonesia — 46 per cent — fared worse. The researchers may have warned against any value judgment on the basis of their study but it would be tempting to draw some broad conclusions. Cooperation has been one of the pivots that supports the edifice of civilization. The progress made by mankind in the course of its history was made possible because human society mastered collaboration and, in turn, nurtured a sense of empathy far better, and quicker, than other species. Yet it seems that this very foundational element is now in crisis, albeit in varied degrees, across large swathes of the globe. A number of causal reasons can be speculated upon. They would range from the pursuit of materialism to absorption in forms of technology that encourages the deepening of narcissism, undermining cooperation and enterprise. The impact of such insularities has acquired distinct political forms: the rise of shrill nationalism that vilifies pluralism in India and the world is a case in point. Citizens and nations must learn to be mindful of others if the world is to retain its humane visage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
13-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Grim tale||The Periodic Labour Force Survey released by the Government of India for 2019-2020 reveals some expected changes in the labour force and in employment patterns. There was an economic slowdown prior to the start of the pandemic. Thereafter, matters got much worse with disruptions in economic activities. The survey uses data from July 2019 to June 2020. One finding of the survey is the increase in labour force participation in agriculture. The share of the labour force in this sector increased from 42.5 per cent in 2018-19 to 45.6 per cent in 2019-20. This reflects, in part, the reverse migration of informal migrant workers from the cities to the villages. They treated the agricultural sector as the employer of the last resort. This is also indicative of the additional stress on the agricultural sector, which already houses a substantial volume of the labour force. This is a reversal of the trend of economic development where agriculture releases additional workers as more and more non-agricultural jobs open up in industry and urban areas. The survey also reveals that women’s participation in the labour force has increased in this period. Normally, this would have been a welcome development. However, given the economic distress resulting from the pandemic, it is indicative of a growth in unpaid family labour. This, in turn, means a decrease in paid jobs for women who would fall back on doing chores for the family. According to the survey, the employment rate for unpaid female workers increased from 30.9 per cent in 2018-19 to 35 per cent in 2019-20. The overall trends imply that labour market stress is higher now than it was in the pre-pandemic period. First, the two rounds of stress — pre-Covid slowdown and pandemic-induced reverse migration — would make it even more difficult for employment rates to pick up significantly to ensure a better distribution of income and growth in aggregate demand. Second, efforts at job creation in terms of crisis management in a weakened economy would lead to greater low-paid informal sector work, making the bottom of the economic pyramid heavier than ever before. Third, when the economy eventually picks up enough confidence to see a large, steady flow of new investments in the non-agricultural sector, employers are likely to minimize the use of labour and choose new technologies that are labour-displacing. Finally, what could be an alarming outcome of the current trend is that even with reskilling displaced workers there may not be adequate number of jobs to absorb them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
13-09-2021||Opinion||Cornered Dragon||India recently despatched four warships to the disputed South China Sea region to enforce its maritime claim over the world’s most contested waters. While geopolitical analysts and foreign policy pundits may dismiss this as a routine exercise, it reveals India’s unwillingness to remain a silent bystander. It also signals a paradigm shift in India’s strategy where Beijing is concerned. The South China Sea has overlapping territorial claims by a number of countries in East and Southeast Asia. These maritime territorial claims assume significance because the region is rich in hydrocarbon reserves and is an excellent chokepoint for any major power. In his book, Asia’s Cauldron, Robert D. Kaplan highlighted that the South China Sea region is responsible for the passage of 75 per cent of South Korea’s and 90 per cent of Japan’s oil and natural gas imports. Significantly, more than $200 billion worth of India’s annual trade happens through this strategic waterway. From a resource and strategic point of view, this region is thus a goldmine. India can ill-afford to remain aloof about developments in this area. India’s unexpected aggression has taken Beijing by surprise. New Delhi must not let go of this opportunity. A new way of tackling the dragon in its backyard is by putting up a collective show of solidarity. At a time when the global public opinion is against China over its alleged role in the outbreak and spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, India can gain an upper hand by enticing its Quad partners to organize naval exercises in the disputed region. Australia and Japan, with whom China’s relationship is at an all-time low, can become natural allies for India in taking on the dragon. The South China Sea region can help India take the fight to the dragon’s doorstep. New Delhi can also persuade Beijing’s neighbours, particularly Vietnam, Philippines and Malaysia, who are at the receiving end of Chinese aggression, to join hands with it to rightfully settle their sovereign maritime claims in the region. India can build a N-4+, that is a naval coalition of the Quad plus other countries to curb the dragon’s belligerent behaviour. It can extend the vaccine alliance it has built among Quad members to include these countries as well to counter Beijing’s medicine diplomacy, which has already spread to many countries. A key aspect of outwitting China in this great power game would be to enlist the support of Taiwan, which has tried every possible method of protecting its sovereignty against Chinese aggression and has been largely successful. India must reach out to Taiwan by selling it the BrahMos supersonic missiles and its Light Combat Aircraft, Tejas, for instance. Taiwan will prove to be a reliable ally in this great game because it, too, has claims in the South China Sea region. What makes Taiwan the trump card for India and the Quad is that Taiwan is a robust democracy with liberal social and political institutions. It also has a booming economy and has been one of the countries most successful in tackling Covid-19. Enlisting the support of Taiwan will allow the Quad, especially India, to shed its Beijing-centric foreign policy. New Delhi will also be able to concentrate on cultivating ties with a country that, despite its small size, can prove to be an effective counterweight to Beijing. This outreach will also send a message to Beijing that India and its allies will no longer accept the erosion of the current world order; rather they will vigorously challenge China’s hegemony, and its model of development and governance, defending a rules-based liberal international order. If India and its Quad partners can emerge victorious in this great game, then a new multilateral order will emerge where India commands dominance. It is time India explores the advice of Sun Tzu, the Chinese war strategist, who said, “It is more important to outthink your enemy, than to outfight him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
13-09-2021||Opinion||Where have the voices gone?||It has been a few months since the United States of America decided to unconditionally pull out its troops from Afghanistan. We now know that a humanitarian catastrophe is unfolding there. We also know that women and children were particularly vulnerable as thousands flocked to the Kabul airport to meet the August 31 deadline set by the US for the evacuation of troops. Various reports have stated that the Taliban are going to let women participate in Afghanistan’s workforce and society subject to the conditions of the sharia. This possibility has been met with derision and scepticism. Surprisingly, global women’s rights activists have been quiet during this period, particularly those part of the ‘MeToo’ movement. Coined so by the women’s rights activist, Tarana Burke, in 2006, the movement gathered momentum in 2017 with the Harvey Weinstein episode. As of today, the hashtag has trended in at least 85 countries and celebrities — Alyssa Milano, Gwyneth Paltrow, Ashley Judd and Uma Thurman, among others —have lent their voice to the movement. Yet, a cursory search of these names and their stated positions on women in Afghanistan reveal a strange silence. Have they been shocked by the recent turn of events? Might they be working in the background trying to influence G7 countries for supportive measures for Afghan women? Is UN Women, one of the key voices in this space, doing enough herein? These are questions that must be raised globally, especially in a world where women leaders like Angela Merkel or Jacinda Ardern are few and far between, at least in terms of influence on geopolitical decision-making. Moreover, all of this is happening in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic in which, many publicized estimates have shown, women have suffered disproportionately on account of the ripple effects of lockdown measures on the economy, labour markets and households. Strangely, influential women — Mackenzie Scott, Melinda Gates or Indra Nooyi — are not speaking enough on the crises. The MeToo movement has its antecedents in the West where institutions, to some extent, complement the role of individual influencers. But in poorer economies in large parts of Asia, Africa, Latin America and other conflict zones, these institutions are mostly absent, and the fight remains between individual women and their oppressors. Even Malala Yousafzai was criticized for being late in commenting on the Taliban’s advent in Afghanistan. But without the supporting institutions, speaking out may not change the status quo in these regions. Meanwhile, the men from the West continue to waffle through the Afghan mayhem. The British chief of defence, General Nick Carter, has claimed that this time around, the Taliban want an inclusive society but was caught off guard when his interviewer intervened, ‘except women’. In his televised addresses, President Joe Biden may have mentioned the precarious plight of women in Afghanistan but that is almost always a side note. Afghan women deserve the support of the ‘MeToo’ activists. The absence of support could expose the movement’s prejudices. If women’s rights decline in Afghanistan after two decades of gain in literacy and other positive outcomes for women (as indicated by data from UN Women), there could be a negative spill-over effect in other neighbouring societies reeling under Covid-19 and the yoke of fundamentalism. The return of the Taliban and the weakening of women’s rights could have larger ramifications. Research suggests that there is an inverse link between women’s empowerment and domestic terrorism. Cameron Harris and Daniel Milton, in their article in 2015 in the Journal of Human Rights, found evidence in support of this hypothesis on the basis of a sample of 150 countries between 1970 and 2004 — that women’s empowerment leads to a decline in domestic terrorism, an idea that found support among Laura Bush and Hillary Clinton. Where have those voices now gone amidst the calamity in Afghanistan? Isn’t it time to reinvigorate them not just to support Afghan women but to cleanse local and global terrorism? Chirantan Chatterjee is a Tenured Reader in Economics of Innovation at the University of Sussex, United Kingdom||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
13-09-2021||Opinion||Special bonds||Teachers’ Day was celebrated on September 5. It is perhaps felicitous to recall some notable relationships between teachers and students, both within and outside the academia. In modern times, the relationship between Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Swami Vivekananda is well-known. The teacher-student relationship between Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi is relatively less-known. However, both cases share a common feature — the guru is looking for the shishya. Another relationship in this category is between Kalidas Bhattacharyya, a senior and well-known professor of philosophy and former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati University, and C.S. Rao, an unknown young philosophy teacher from Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati. Rao later changed his name to Vaddera Chandidas. This relationship also remains largely unknown to the public. The encounter between the Paramahamsa and the Swami was accidental. Constraints of the Indian freedom struggle guided the connection between Gurudev and the Mahatma. The meeting between Bhattacharyya and Rao turned out to be rather dramatic, with Bhattacharyya discovering an exciting new philosophical manuscript. Bhattacharyya then proceeded to prepare the text for publication by writing an introduction. This journey began in 1972 with the University Grants Commission appointing Bhattacharyya to evaluate the Department of Philosophy of Sri Venkateswara University. He considered various aspects of the department and expressed a desire to meet all the faculty members individually before writing the report. He met all of them except Chandidas but he insisted on meeting him before leaving. A meeting was finally arranged on the morning of the last day of his stay. It did not begin well as a reluctant Chandidas was not forthcoming with answers. Bhattacharyya, however, persisted in probing Chandidas about his interests — both within academia and outside of it. His perseverance paid off, and Chandidas finally told Bhattacharyya of a manuscript he had been working on. After a quick read, Bhattacharyya found the unconventionally written text to be stunningly original. He postponed his return journey from Tirupati and began reading the text seriously. Realizing it was novel and dense, he asked for a typed copy to be sent to Santiniketan. He spent more than a year studying the manuscript and wrote a long introduction. During this period, he wrote 12 letters. They were imbued with a deep affection reminiscent of the Paramahansa’s attitude towards Vivekananda. Reading these letters can bring tears to one’s eyes. There are two aspects to Bhattacharyya’s assessment of this text: its originality and philosophical density. Regarding the former, he declared in his introduction that he was surprised to find — amidst all the hostility towards metaphysical thinking and the spread of historical scholarship in India — in this text “a new complete system of metaphysics, presented though in an extraordinary concise form, almost in the way of ancient Indian Sutras.” In one of the letters he writes, “All costliest gems are very artistically arranged into a cosmic necklace — or, better, a profoundest swinging necklace perpetually throwing into radiance the freeze-point pearls.” Regarding the philosophical depth of the text, he says, “As I began to read the typescript, within five minutes I got lost in its profundities… such is the wonderful style of your writing.” In another letter, he admits, “I can’t read your paper for more than three hours a day at a stretch — it is so thought-provoking at every step, indeed at every word, and the last few pages are literally staggering. Do you know that after these three hours, I read, for nine hours, lighter things to ease myself? This is not an exaggeration, no patronizing — far less any flattery.” Regarding the impact of the text on him, Bhattacharyya says, “I often boasted that I carried with me a philosophical map where I could easily place every philosopher in his fitting position. I have been humbled. This is the first time I feel I have to recast the whole map that I have drawn so carefully... to place you in the proper place.” These show the two essential characteristics that made Bhattacharyya a remarkable teacher. One is his ingenuity in finding a new philosophical text from an unknown young philosophy teacher which is rare. Two, his perseverance in trying to understand and evaluate the text and prepare it for publication. Without the contribution of Bhattacharyya, it is not possible to think of Chandidas’s Desire and Liberation: The Fundamentals of Cosmicontolgy, first published by the author in 1975 and reprinted by Oxford University Press in 2018. There is something special about Bhattacharyya’s contribution. Modernity was brought to India by colonialism. Behind Macaulay’s façade of modernity was the other face that legitimized colonialism. His education policy erased anything Indian, including its philosophies, and attempted to replace them with Western ideas. Subsequently, many Indian scholars did capitulate and the academic syllabus was inundated with Western philosophy. In response, some Indian academics presented the history of Indian philosophers. Some others, like Ganganath Jha, translated many classical Indian philosophical texts into English. Here it is necessary to recognize that Macaulay had not only discarded everything from India when proposing modernity; modernity, in turn, had ruthlessly discarded everything from the past, including Greek metaphysics and Christian theology. So the texts from India that sought to counter this imposition from the West had to consider Macaulay and modernity. Bhattacharyya’s contribution fell outside these domains. He did not turn to the past. Further, he did not propose a new philosophy like Lord Buddha or offer a new interpretation like the Adi Sankara. He trod a new path of discovering an unknown text. This path provides important challenges to explore. It demands rigorous discipline in polishing writings and texts from modern India and preparing them to be launched to a larger audience. I was drawn towards this path laid by Bhattacharrya very early in my career. Since then, I have not looked back as I find this path both productive and rewarding. And I remain in debt to Bhattacharyya, an ‘exemplar’. Teachers’ Day was a propitious occasion to remember the contributions of Kalidas Bhattacharyya “Mahasaya,” who was in line with the Paramahamsa and Gurudev in identifying and nurturing new talent. Further, it is befitting to recognize the contribution of a philosopher on this occasion as it also is the birth anniversary of another renowned philosopher, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega to host 11th national junior women's hockey meet ||Simdega, considered as the state’s hockey nursery, will host the 11th national junior women’s hockey meet from October 30, Hockey India announced on Monday. The statement paves the way for a national level meet in Jharkhand post the second wave of Covid-19. The district last hosted the big ticket tournament in March this year, before the outbreak of the second wave of the covid-19 pandemic in the state, by successfully organising the 11th sub junior and junior women’s tournaments. Welcoming the announcement of the meet, Hockey Jharkhand secretary Vijay Shankar Singh said that over 600 players from different states along with technical officials are expected to be at the tournament. “Even though Covid-19 cases have dipped, we are keeping our fingers crossed that the situation doesn’t turn ugly once again. The state hockey outfit will ensure all the prescribed health protocols are maintained to put up a great show during the tournament,” he said. The upcoming tournament will also be important as it will also pave the way for selection of players for the national junior team said Hockey Jharkhand officials. Hockey Simdega President Manoj Konbegi informed that the upcoming meet was originally scheduled from April 3 but had to be postponed due to the pandemic. “In 2016, when Ranchi hosted the national junior women’s meet, Salima Tete got a break in the national squad based on her performance. Gradually, she ended up playing in the Tokyo Olympics this year. We hope that the 11th edition will be another opportunity for our players to get through the national side,” said Konbegi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||JMM founder's family donates land for Dhanbad cricket stadium||The descendants of JMM founder and renowned educationist of Dhanbad, Binod Bihari Mahto have offered land for the development of a cricket stadium in Dhanbad. Vinita Singh, daughter-in-law of former Tundi MLA, late Rajkishore Mahto  who is also granddaughter-in-law of Late Binod Bihari Mahto had offered over 11 acres of her ancestral land in Baliapur for developing a cricket stadium in the district as the administration is yet to find land for the establishment of a stadium in the district. Singh, a graduate in Political Science from Banaras Hindu University, who was married to Late Rajnish Mahto grandson of Binod Bihari Mahto in 1997 and announced her plan to contest Municipal Election for the post of mayor recently, announced she will provide altogether 23 acres of land in Baliapur that will be used for establishing a cricket stadium (11 acres) besides an engineering college (8 acres) and a museum (4 acres) in memory of Binod Bihari Mahto. Talking to The Telegraph  Online on Monday, Singh, who decided to come in public life after the death of her husband in April this year while elaborating over the issue said, “The coal capital of India despite having so many players including that of the ilk of team India player Shahbaz Nadim is devoid of cricket stadium due to lack of land and since the stadium besides promoting the sports will also generate the source of employment for local people I have decided to provide the land as part of charity work which is tradition of our family.” Binod Bihari Mahto provided land for establishment of a large number of educational institutions across Dhanbad and himself developed several educational institutions on his land for the development of the area including,  Binod Bihari Mahto College at Baliapur, Dhanbad law college and a large number of schools. The tradition continued during the tenure of Tundi MLA late Rajkishore Mahto, son of Late Binod Bihari Mahto who also headed Binod Bihari Mahto Smarak Samiti to carry out education and social activities. Circle officer of Baliapur, Ram Pravesh Ram said, “Though the family owns around 33 acres of land at Bandarchuan area of Baliapur Block, Vinita Singh declared to provide 11 acres of land from her share but for developing an international cricket stadium at least 20 acres of land is required.” The Dhanbad Cricket Association has been demanding land for a cricket stadium for the last several years. On August 24, a delegation from the association met Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Singh demanding land for a cricket stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Depression triggers heavy showers across Jharkhand||Heavy rain, triggered by a depression, drenched Jharkhand for the second day on Monday. According to IMD officials, the low-pressure area which originated from  Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression, and later a deep depression, that crossed the coasts of West Bengal and Odisha, leading to heavy rain in Jharkand and the two neighbouring states from Sunday. Jagannathpur in West Singhbhum topped the rain chart with 71 mm recorded during the past 24 hours (8.30 am of Sunday to 8.30 am of Monday). Madhupur in Deoghar district recorded 63 mm rain while several places in the Kolhan region in southern Jharkand including Chakradharpur and Chaibasa recorded over 45 mm rain. Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Latehar, Khunti, Simdega and its adjoining areas recorded over 30mm of rain. Ghatshila, Tenughat in Bokaro,Chandil in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Chatra and several other places recorded over 20 mm of rain. Met data indicated that over 20 IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 8mm and 15 mm. The heavy showers in Jharkhand and neighbouring Odisha resulted in sudden rise of water levels in both Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers. Three radial gates of Chandil dam in Seraikela-Kharsawan district  and Bankabal dam in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha were opened on Monday due to the incessant rains. Officials of the state  water resources department said water levels of both the rivers were flowing close to the danger mark on Monday afternoon. Rain water entered several low lying areas. The East Singhbhum district administration issued an alert and asked people residing in low-lying areas to move to safer places. The depression was crossing through Jharkhand on Monday and was likely to move towards north Chhattisgarh before reaching Madhya Pradesh in the next 48 hours. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the  system  turned into the strongest rain-bearing system of the month so far. He said the impact of the depression would be felt in Jharkhand till Tuesday after which rainfall would reduce as the system weakened. Satellite pictures suggested that the  monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Saturday passing through Balaghat, Raipur and Sambalpur in neighbouring Odisha extending 0.9 km above mean sea level. The Met centre also issued an alert of moderate lightning and thunder in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next 24- hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC to kick-off ISL campaign against SC East Bengal||The Jamshedpur FC will launch their Indian Super League (ISL) 2021-22 campaign against SC East Bengal at Tilak Maidan in Vasco da Gama, Goa on November 21. Football Sports Development Limited (FSDL) on Monday announced fixtures for the first 11 rounds of the tournament which will be played at three stadiums in Goa. The tournament starts on November 19 with a match between ATK Mohun Bagan and Kerala Blasters FC at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. In their second match, the Men of Steel will square off against hosts FC Goa at Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on November 26 before taking on Hyderabad FC at the same venue on December 2. The Tata Steel-owned club's next engagement is versus ATK Mohun Bagan at Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on December 6 after which the team travels to Fatorda to cross swords with Mumbai City FC on December 9. Jamshedpur will face Odisha FC at Tilak Maidan on December 14. The Red Miners will lock horns with Bengaluru FC at Bambolim on December 20 before taking on Kerala Blasters FC at Tilak Maidan on December 26. Jamshedpur's next match is scheduled against Chennaiyin FC at Bambolim on January 2 next year. The Owen Coyle-mentored side will finish off their first 10 matches with a tie against Northeast United FC at Bambolim on January 6. Rest of the fixture will be announced later. Barring the match versus Chennaiyin FC, all matches of Jamshedpur will kick-off at 7.30 pm. The engagement against Chennai will commence at 9.30 pm. The tournament will feature 115 games. Jamshedpur, who are desperate to make it to the knock-out round this season, finished sixth with 27 points last ISL. The team has never qualified for the knock-out round after making their ISL debut in the season of 2017-18. Jamshedpur have experimented with four coaches namely Steve Coppell (United Kingdom), Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo (both from Spain) and the current incumbent Owen Coyle (Scotland) but are yet to make it to the knock-outs. The Men of Steel will be off to Goa for the pre-season at the end of this month or first week of October. “We have stitched out a crack unit with some solid players with proven track records. We are hopeful of positive results this time,” a team management member said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Black fungus cases halve in four days in Jharkhand||The active caseload of mucormycosis, a disease notified as an epidemic in Jharkhand, has halved in the past four days with at least eight patients getting discharged from hospital during this period, data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted on Monday. There were at least 16 patients of black fungus in Jharkhand on September 9. Cut to Monday, the count of patients dropped to eight. At least six of the eight patients, according to IDSP, were from Ranchi, while Dhanbad and Gumla had one patient each. East Singhbhum, a district that reported the second highest number of mucormycosis cases, did not have any active cases of this fungal infection on Monday. As per government data, this district reported at least 25 cases of mucormycosis in 2021 and at least five patients died of this disease there. With at least 66 reported cases, Ranchi was the worst-affected district in terms of mucormycosis caseload and fatality in Jharkhand. At least 11 of the 66 patients died of black fungus in Ranchi, as per IDSP data. Besides a significant fall in the count of active cases, the state has also put a check on fatalities caused by the lethal disease, officials said. Black fungus has claimed at least 31 lives in Jharkhand so far, but no deaths caused by this disease were reported in August and September. As many as 168 cases of black fungus have been reported in Jharkhand so far. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Following an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline, the state government has also included Posaconazole injections in the list of medicines that can be administered to mucormycosis patients. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India earlier this year and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. In almost all these cases, the fungus affected either eyes, nose or brain of the patient. However, Jharkhand also reported rare cases of black fungus affecting lungs of Covid survivors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.67 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated more than 1.67 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of SARS-CoV-2 infections dropped to 127, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,14,575, while the second dose was administered to at least 52,694 beneficiaries. More than 1.20 lakh beneficiaries were between 18 and 44. A document from NHM highlighted that East Singhbhum alone vaccinated more than 35,000 residents on Sunday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. At least 12 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and 11 people were found infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand on Sunday, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. While none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases, Ranchi, Dhanbad, West Singhbhum and East Singhbhum reported two Covid cases each. Ramgarh, Deoghar and Khunti reported one case of the viral infection each. At least 17 districts did not report fresh Covid cases. As per government data, at least 74 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by Sunday night, while the count of active cases in East Singhbhum was nine. In Dhanbad also, nine people were suffering from Covid-19. According to a press communique released by the health department on Sunday evening, the state has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 1.17 crore residents and at least 31 lakh of them have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Govt money for OBC scholarships embezzled in Chatra district||Government money meant for payment of scholarships to backward class students was embezzled in Jharkhand’s Chatra district. This was revealed in the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India for 2018-19 that was tabled in the Jharkhand Assembly last week. Chatra district welfare officer (DWO) maintained 12 bank accounts in which Rs 95.05 crore was credited and Rs 85.85 crore withdrawn from it and misappropriated during 2013-18, the CAG report informed. “Of these, payments worth Rs 70.01 crore made to individuals, agencies etc could not be vouchsafed in absence of related records,” it further informed, adding those records were not made available to the audit team and told those were destroyed in a fire. “Audit observed that the remaining amount of Rs 15.84 crore was withdrawn and fraudulently transferred into bank accounts of NGOs, institutes, suppliers, teachers, officials and individuals,” the report further informed, indicating the extent of collusion among them. The ST, SC, minority and backward class welfare department of the state government had instructed in May 2015 that scholarship would be paid directly to bank accounts of the beneficiary students through DBT (direct bank transfer) mode but the DWO instead asked the banks to make credit to accounts of certain schools. But those accounts were found to be belonging to some individuals, not schools. The audit team also found that two persons who functioned as DWO Chatra between June 2017 and May 2018 fraudulently transferred Rs 6 crore to bank accounts of the cashier of the office, his relatives, NGOs, non-existent institutes and other individuals. “It was also noticed that DWO, Chatra maintained cash books for only three of the 12 bank accounts even after the fire incident and never did reconciliation with banks till March 2020,” the CAG report further said. “The accused DWOs did not adhere to internal control measures and the department also failed in monitoring the genuineness of expenditure reported by DWOs and ensuring that payments were made through DBT,” the report observed. It was revealed that DWO made fraudulent payments to 27 bank accounts maintained in 11 banks. Though the administration requested 7 banks to freeze 19 of those 27 bank accounts, only 3 banks suspended operation of 7 of those 19 accounts. This resulted in 20 accounts involved in the fraud remaining active. “Audit observed that Rs 2.89 crore out of the total fraudulent payments of Rs 15.84 crore were credited into 14 bank accounts of the cashier and his relatives and balance fraudulent payments of Rs 12.95 crore were made to the accused NGOs, individuals, non-existent schools, suppliers etc,” the CAG report informed, adding Rs 2.55 crore of Rs 12.95 crore were also later transferred to 18 bank accounts of cashier and his relatives. “We were told that the main accused cashier and head clerk have been dismissed from service and departmental inquiry initiated against the two DWOs,” state’s principal accountant general (audit) Indu Agrawal replied when asked about the action taken report. The embezzled amount of Rs 13.59 crore was not recovered till March this year (2021), she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
