14-09-2021||Business||Markets: Nifty inches up to record 17,380 points||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 69 points on Tuesday following gains in IT, bank and engineering stocks amid mixed global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 69.33 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 58,247.09. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.70 points or 0.14 per cent to its fresh closing record of 17,380. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, L&T and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, UltraTech Cement, HUL, HDFC, Tata Steel and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo closed in the positive territory, while Hong Kong and Shanghai ended in the red. Equities in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude climbed 0.80 per cent to USD 74.10 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,419.31 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Finance ministry gives nod to 11 states to borrow additional Rs 15,721 crore||The Finance Ministry has permitted 11 states to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore after these states achieved the capital expenditure target set for the June quarter. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. "11 states.... have achieved the target set by the Ministry of Finance for the capital expenditure in the 1st Quarter of 2021-22. As an incentive, these States have been granted permission by the Department of Expenditure to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore," the Ministry said in a statement. The additional open market borrowing permission granted is equivalent to 0.25 per cent of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Additional financial resources thus made available will help the States in pushing their capital expenditure further. The Ministry said capital expenditure has a high multiplier effect, enhances the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economic growth. Accordingly, out of the net borrowing ceiling (NBC) of 4 per cent of GSDP for the states for 2021-22, 0.50 per cent of GSDP was earmarked for incremental capital expenditure to be incurred by the States during 2021-22. The target for incremental capital expenditure for each state to qualify for this incremental borrowing was fixed by the Department of Expenditure. To become eligible for incremental borrowing, States were required to achieve at least 15 per cent of the target set for 2021-22 by the end of April-June quarter of 2021-22, 45 per cent by the end of second quarter, 70 per cent by the end of third quarter and 100 per cent by March 31, 2022. The next review of Capital expenditure of States will be undertaken by the Department of Expenditure in December, 2021. In this round, capital expenditure achieved by the States till September 30, 2021 will be assessed. Third review will be done in March, 2022 on the basis of capital expenditure incurred by the State during the first three quarters of the year 2021-22. The capital expenditure-linked borrowing ceiling of 0.50 per cent of GSDP will be allowed to those States who will achieve actual capital expenditure of at least 45 per cent of the target by September 30, 2021 or 70 per cent of the target by December 31, 2021. There would be a final review of actual capital expenditure by the States in the month of June, 2022. Any shortfall/deficiency in actual capital expenditure for the year 2021-22 by the State in comparison with the targeted capital expenditure for the year 2021-22, will be adjusted from the borrowing ceiling of the State for the year 2022-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 180 points in early trade on easing inflation, firm cues||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 180 points in early trade on Tuesday, as easing retail inflation triggered buying sentiment in the market. Besides, a firm trend on other Asian bourses also supported the uptick in domestic equities, brokers said. The 30-share Sensex was trading 186.98 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 58,364.74. Similarly, Nifty advanced 54.65 points or 0.31 per cent to 17,409.95 in initial deals. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.78 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, Axis Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Infosys, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and UltraTech Cement were trading with losses. Subdued prices of food items like vegetables pulled down retail inflation for the third month in a row to 5.3 per cent in August, within the Reserve Bank of India's comfort zone. The Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based retail inflation declined to 5.3 per cent in August from 6.69 per cent in the same month a year ago, food inflation dipped at a much faster pace to 3.11 per cent from 9.05 per cent in August 2020. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 127.31 points or 0.22 per cent lower at 58,177.76. The broader NSE Nifty dipped 13.95 points or 0.08 per cent to 17,355.30. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals. US equities ended largely in positive territory in the overnight session. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,419.31 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.44 per cent to USD 73.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||US govt $482 million bailout plan for aviation manufacturers||The Biden administration is making $482 million available to aviation industry manufacturers to help them avert job or pay cuts in the pandemic. The taxpayer-funded relief will cover up to half of the payroll costs at 313 companies, according to the Transportation Department, which said the move will help save up to 22,500 jobs. Air travel plummeted because of the spread of Covid-19. The delta variant has led to elevated cancellations and diminished travel in recent months. More than 100,000 aerospace jobs have been lost in an industry that had employed about 2.2 million people, according to the Transportation Department. The largest recipient of the funds announced Monday is Spirit Aerosystems, a Boeing supplier based in Kansas, which stands to get $75.5 million that the government says will help protect 3,214 jobs. Parker-Hannifin Corp of Ohio, which makes hydraulic systems for planes, will get $39.7 million. The avionics unit of Japan’s Panasonic, based in California, will get $25.8 million, and several US subsidiaries of France’s Safran SA will get a total of $24.8 million. Money for the aerospace companies is coming from a $1.9 trillion package approved by Congress and signed by President Joe Biden in March. The relief is similar to a much larger aid programme for US airlines, which have received $54 billion in the past year and a half. The airlines also agreed not to furlough any workers, but they eliminated tens of thousands of jobs anyway by offering incentives for employees to quit or retire early. Critics labeled the airline aid a bailout that amounted to several hundred thousand dollars for each job that was spared — 75,000 jobs, by some estimates. Defenders such as American Airlines CEO Doug Parker say that without the government’s help, airlines would have been forced to shut down when traffic fell to levels not seen since the 1950s. The Federal Aviation Administration, part of the Transportation Department, recently awarded $100 million to aerospace companies including Boeing, General Electric’s aviation division and jet engine maker Pratt & Whitney to make planes less polluting and quieter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||BPCL ties up with M Fuel Kart Pvt Ltd for doorstep diesel delivery||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd has tied up with the Noida-based fuel delivery start-up M Fuel Kart Pvt Ltd (Mobile Fuel Kart) for doorstep diesel delivery. The start-up will cater to hospitals, malls, educational institutes, residential societies, office buildings, construction sites, concrete mixer plants and factories. It will take a minimum order of 200 litres through its mobile application — www.mobilefuelkart.in or by phone call. On Monday both the companies signed an agreement to offer doorstep delivery of high-speed diesel. The start-up initially plans to offer the service in Delhi-NCR and later expand to smaller towns and cities. The start-up has multiple mobile dispensers of 6,000 litre and 4,000 litre capacity, which cater to various B2B customers who need diesel for their stationery equipment and heavy vehicles. “As the e-commerce segment witnessed a significant growth during Covid times, we felt that the fuel delivery at the doorstep will be extremely useful for the people,’’ Binod Singh, founder of M Fuel Kart Pvt Ltd, said at the launch. “Our aim is not to limit our  service in metro cities. We have plans to extend our service to smaller towns and cities,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Texmaco Rail and Engineering Ltd to double business over five years||Texmaco Rail and Engineering Limited — a diversified engineering and infrastructure company — is hoping to double its business over the next five years. Texmaco Rail, part of Saroj Poddar-led Adventz group, has strengthened its presence in EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) business and has plans to evaluate orders in the defence sector in the coming years. The company had posted a gross revenue from operations of Rs 1,829.3 crore in 2020-21 down from Rs 2,020.3 crore in 2019-20 with the Covid pandemic and cyclone Amphan affecting operations. “Our vision is to try to double the size of the business over five years. The company has so many good assets. From a predominantly wagon and signalling company we have diversified into EPC, which constitutes around 40 per cent of the business. “The company also has a healthy order book, including exports, with Africa and West Asia among the key markets. We have also strengthened the manufacturing side by acquiring the steel casting foundry at Urla in Raipur, Chhattisgarh (from Simplex Castings),” said the company’s managing director Indrajit Mookerjee. “We will evaluate orders in the defence business over the coming years,” he added. The thrust of Indian Railways towards electrification and switch to electric traction over the next two years along with plans for inducting specially designed container wagons to run on the freight corridors is also expected to push the demand for electric locomotives and wagons. “We are seeing a good demand for wagons, especially from the private sector. The company is focusing on developing new products. The schemes announced by the railways would lead to demand for various types of wagon. Work is also going on the dedicated freight corridors, particularly on the western side. On the EPC side we are seeing good growth prospects with the upgradation of rail infrastructure under the ambitious National Infrastructure Pipeline,” said  Ashish Gupta, deputy managing director of the company. Texmaco Rail had a consolidated order book of Rs 3,400 crore as of the quarter ended June 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank arm to invest Rs 1,000-crore into TVS-promoted third-party logistics||A Kotak Mahindra Bank arm on Monday announced a Rs 1,000-crore investment into a third-party logistics (3PL) business promoted by the south-based TVS family. Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) has invested Rs 200 crore in TVS Supply Chain Solutions and has provided a Rs 800 crore finance to TS Rajam Rubbers Private Ltd through a non-convertible debentures route. The loan will help TVS SCS promoter R Dinesh acquire Canadian pension fund CDPQ’s stake in TVS SCS, an official statement said. “The investments will help the TVS family consolidate their holdings in TVS SCS,” it said. “We are delighted to support the TVS group and R. Dinesh in consolidating their ownership in a valuable and high growth technology led business,” Srini Sriniwasan, managing director at KSSF's parent Kotak Investment Advisors, said. KSSF’s chief executive Eshwar Karra said the investment is in line with its objective of participating in growth-oriented businesses and partnering industry leaders by offering “customised solutions to fit the needs of each business” and creating a win-win for all. The fund is registered as an alternate investment fund with Sebi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Subdued prices of food items pull down retail inflation for third month in a row||Subdued prices of food items such as vegetables pulled down retail inflation for the third month in a row to 5.3 per cent in August, which is within the RBI’s comfort zone. While the Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based retail inflation declined to 5.3 per cent in August from 6.69 per cent in the same month a year ago, food inflation dipped at a much faster pace to 3.11 per cent from 9.05 per cent in August 2020. Food inflation was also lower than 3.96 per cent in the preceding month of July. Retail inflation, which rose sharply to 6.3 per cent in May from 4.23 per cent in April, has been on a downward trajectory since then. It was 6.26 per cent in June and 5.59 per cent in July this year. The Reserve Bank, which mainly takes into account retail inflation to decide the monetary policy every two months, has been tasked by the government to keep it at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side. Inflation in “vegetables” and “cereals and products” contracted by 11.68 per cent and 1.42 per cent, respectively. However, the rate of price rise was 33 per cent in the “oils and fats” segment in August  over the year-ago month. The government recently slashed the base custom duties on palm, soyabean and sunflower oils to control rising edible oil prices during the festival season. Radhika Rao, economist and senior vice-president, DBS Singapore, said inflation decelerated on the back of favourable base effects and moderate food price pressures as most sub-segments trended down, barring oil and fats. “The inflation tailwind will allow the central bank to remain accommodative at the October policy review, with a bigger focus on liquidity management via absorption measures. “On sequential basis, pipeline forces remain under watch, particularly due to the domestic fuel tax rigidity, service reopening gains and pass through of higher costs on account of supply bottlenecks alongside firm input prices,” Rao said. The Reserve Bank had kept the key interest rate unchanged in its monetary policy review in August. Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, expects the subsequent readings to remain fairly benign and much lower than RBI estimates. “The softer inflation would provide relief to the policymakers and more room to move much slower in terms of policy normalisation,” she added. The RBI has projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. ICRA expects policy normalisation to commence from February next year, with a change in the stance of monetary policy to neutral from accommodative. It can be followed by a hike in the repo rate of 25 bps each in the April 2022 and June 2022 meetings. “Once the lift-off starts, we believe that the MPC will stagger rate increases over a period of time,” said Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries Ltd to launch Rs 400 crore rights issue||Kesoram Industries Ltd will launch its Rs 400 crore rights issue on September 27 and allow eligible shareholders to participate in the share sale for two weeks. The board of the company, which met on Monday, approved the issue whereby shareholders will be offered 133 shares for every 274 held in the company as on September 17. Cement producer Kesoram will issue close to 8 crore fresh shares priced at Rs 50 a piece. The payment for the rights will be made in two parts of Rs 25 each. The first and final call will be made within a period of 6 months from the date of allotment of rights equity shares. The issue price is going to be attractive compared to the prevailing market price of Kesoram. The stock closed at Rs 86.05, up by 3.12 per cent or Rs 2.6 a piece, offering 41 per cent discount to the Monday’s closing price. Manjushree Khaitan led Kesoram is raising equity in order to bring down high cost debt which carries a crushing interest rate of close to 20 per cent. It had earlier planned to launch a preferential issue to a section of the promoters prior to the rights issue. However, the plan was scrapped while a cross section of shareholders, including promoter group entities, wanted to participate in the fundraising plan. Accordingly, the Kesoram board announced a rights issue but doubled the size of the fund raising to Rs 400 crore in an attempt to deleverage the balance sheet faster. Electrosteel merger Equity shareholders, secured and unsecured creditors of ductile iron pipe maker Electrosteel Castings Ltd approved the scheme for merger of Shreekalahasti Pipes Ltd with the company by way of requisite majority on September 10. The creditors and shareholders of SPL, also a ductile iron pipe maker based in south India, had previously approved the merger with ECL, which has a plant in Khardah near Calcutta. The companies will now await formal approvals from the respective benches of the National Company Law Tribunal before completing the merger. SPL, promoted by ECL promoter Kejriwal family, will consolidate ECL’s business in the fast growing DI pipe market in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||CoC-approved IBC plan submitted to NCLT cannot be withdrawn: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday held that a CoC-approved resolution plan submitted to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) cannot be modified or withdrawn as it would create another tier of negotiations, which will be wholly unregulated by the statute. The top court said that a submitted resolution plan is binding and irrevocable as between the committee of creditors (CoC) and the successful resolution applicant in terms of the provisions of the IBC and the CIRP Regulations. It quoted a report of the Parliamentary standing committee on finance which stated that 71 per cent cases are pending for more than 180 days before the NCLT and added this is in deviation from the original objective and timeline of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Proceedings (CIRP) envisaged by the IBC. Urging the NCLT and NCLAT to be sensitive to the effect of such delays, the top court said, “Judicial delay was one of the major reasons for the failure of the insolvency regime that was in effect prior to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). We cannot let the present insolvency regime meet the same fate.” A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the legislative intent of the statute cannot be overridden by the court to render outcomes that can have grave economic implications for the viability of the IBC. “The existing insolvency framework provides no scope for effecting further modifications of CoC-approved resolution plans, at the behest of the successful resolution applicant, once the plan has been submitted to the adjudicating Authority,” the bench said. The pandemic would have had a significant impact on the businesses of corporate debtors and of successful resolution applicants, whose plans may not have been sanctioned in time. “The residual powers of the adjudicating authority cannot be exercised to create procedural remedies which have substantive outcomes on the process of insolvency,” it said. Varghese Thomas, partner at J Sagar Associates, said the judgment settles the issue that the IBC framework does not permit a withdrawal or modification of a resolution plan once approved by the CoC and is submitted to the NCLT. “It reiterates the urgent need for a time bound resolution of corporate debtors and urges the NCLT & NCLAT to expedite the approval of plans and avoid endless adjournments as delay hampers revival and is value destructive. “The judgment is a shot in the arm for the IBC just when vacancies and delays were stalling the process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||Jet Airways to resume operations from first quarter of 2022||Jet Airways will resume operations from the first quarter of 2022 starting with domestic flights and then fly overseas by the last quarter of the year, the winning bidder for the airline said on Monday. The airline was grounded in April 2019 and went into insolvency as it could not repay its rising debt. In October last year, the committee of creditors approved a resolution plan submitted by the Jalan-Kalrock consortium. Subsequently in June this year, the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) gave the green signal to the plan. Shares of Jet Airways on Monday jumped 5 per cent.   The stock gained 4.97 per cent to close at Rs 83.50 — its upper circuit — on the BSE. On the NSE, it jumped 4.98 per cent to close at Rs 84.40. The statement said the first flight would be on the Delhi-Mumbai route and the airline would have its headquarters in Gurgaon. Jet plans to have 50-plus aircraft in three years and more than 100 in five years. The aircraft will be leased, and on domestic routes it  would choose narrow-body planes. On the crucial matter of obtaining slots, the consortium said it was working closely with the authorities and airport co-ordinators on slot allocation, required airport infrastructure, and night parking. Senior members of the consortium along with the operations team have already visited key airports last month and held “productive meetings” with the authorities, the statement said. Before it went bust, Jet Airways held prime slots in airports such as Mumbai and Delhi, but these were re-allocated to other airlines. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had reportedly said that the airline cannot claim historicity for the slots and they will be allocated based on existing guidelines. Jet Airways will have to apply for fresh slots which may not give higher yields. The consortium said that the process of reviving the grounded carrier is on track with the existing air operator certificate (AOC) already under process for revalidation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||Ajay Singh reportedly looking to form consortium to acquire AI||With just two days left to submit bids for Air India, SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh is reportedly looking to form a consortium to acquire the national carrier. Apart from Singh, Tata Sons is keen on the airline. The central government, which has set an ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal, is looking to complete the Air India sale by December. In July, minister of state for civil aviation V.K. Singh had informed Parliament the government would receive financial bids till September 15. The Centre recently said for Air India it would not extend the deadline. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India which has been in the red. The sale process got delayed because of the pandemic, with the deadline to submit the preliminary bid extended five times. While there were four bidders in the fray initially, the Tata group and Ajay Singh are now the only two players left in the race. Singh reportedly is looking to invite partners in a special purpose vehicle (SPV) that will bid for Air India, after creating a $1 billion war chest for the national carrier. He is, however, making this bid in his personal capacity and is not looking to strain the balance sheet of loss making SpiceJet. Max plans SpiceJet said in a separate announcement that it had entered into a settlement with CDB Aviation, a major lessor of Boeing 737 Max aircraft. Last month, the airline had said that it has agreed to a settlement with Avolon, another major lessor of this aircraft. In a statement on Monday, the budget carrier said that it expects to start operations with the Max aircraft around the end of September, subject to regulatory approvals. On August 26, the directorate-general of civil aviation (DGCA) had lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max planes’ commercial flight operations after almost two-and-half years. The regulator on March 13, 2019, had grounded all Boeing 737 Max planes following the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max on March 10 near Addis Ababa. SpiceJet is the only carrier that has Boeing 737 Max aircraft in its fleet. The airline said it has commercially agreed a settlement with CDB Aviation and “this will add to already announced settlement with Avolon and grow its fleet of 737 MAX aircraft”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||GST Council to hold first physical meeting since pandemic||The GST Council will hold its first physical meeting on Friday since the outbreak of the pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will chair the 45th meeting in Lucknow. The last meeting of the council was held virtually on June 12, where it was decided to reduce the rates on Covid-19 essentials including medicines, oxygen and related medical equipment, Covid testing kits and related materials till September. On Friday, the council is widely expected to take up the extension of compensation cess for states beyond 2022 with most states likely to pitch for a five-year extension, amid several fiscal constraints. At its meeting (the 42nd) in October 2020, the council had recommended the extension of compensation cess beyond June 2022 without specifying a time period. With collections affected by the pandemic,  the Centre in October — based on the deliberations of the council — decided to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore under a special window and passed it on to the states to meet the shortfall in compensation At the 43rd council meeting in May, it was decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore from the market through a special window and pass it to the states as loan in tranches. The government said it had already released Rs 75,000 crore by July 15. The meeting may also deliberate on extending the lower GST rates on specified items being used in Covid-19 relief beyond September 30. With instances of fake input tax credit claims on the rise, the council is  expected to announce measures to tighten the anti evasion policies. The meeting may also consider the Group of Ministers’ report to allow special cess on pharma and electricity in Sikkim. The GoM is in favour of a 1 per cent cess on intra-state supply of pharmaceutical items for a period of two years up to 2022-23. According to a report of CNBC TV18, the council may also announce a common electronic portal where one can register, file returns and claim input tax credit. SC on refund The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the plea of the Centre by holding that goods and services under the CGST law and rules cannot be treated on a par for the purposes of refund of unutilised input tax credit (ITC), saying there is “no constitutional entitlement to seek a refund”. The top court upheld the validity of Section 54(3) of the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Act, which deals with refund of unutilised ITC, saying the judiciary should not enter into the “legislative discretion of Parliament to fashion the rate of tax, concessions and exemptions” . GST revenue collected in August 2021 was Rs 1.12 lakh crore, up 30 per cent compared with August 2020. The revenue collected in July 2021 was Rs 1.16 lakh crore. According to government data, GST collection was above Rs 1 lakh crore for nine months in a row before dropping below Rs 1 lakh crore in June 2021 due to the second wave of Covid. In August, Central GST was Rs 20,522 crore, state GST, Rs 26,605 crore and integrated GST Rs 56,247 crore, including Rs 26,884 crore collected on import of goods.  The cess collected was is Rs 8,646 crore, including Rs 646 crore collected on import of goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||India||Bengal police acting at TMC MP's behest to derail probe in illegal coal mining case: ED to Delhi HC||Enforcement Directorate Tuesday alleged before the Delhi High Court that West Bengal Police is acting at the behest of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who enjoys clout in the state government, to derail the probe into an alleged coal pilferage scam. The submission was made by the probe agency in its petition seeking a direction to quash two notices issued against its officers pursuant to an FIR lodged by Banerjee. The High Court said that it will hear the ED's challenge to the police notices issued against its officers, arising from an FIR by the TMC MP, on September 21. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for ED, contended before Justice Yogesh Khanna that the notices issued pursuant to the FIR are patently illegal, malafide and a counter blast to the investigation in the coal pilferage case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), in its petition before the high court, said that in order to pressurize its officers probing the case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Banerjee, who is the nephew of chief minister Mamta Banerjee and under scanner in the case, lodged an FIR in April. ED has sought a direction to quash two notices issued against its officers and any other subsequent notices that may be issued in the FIR, saying that they amount to abuse of process of law. The notices will not stand scrutiny even for a minute, Raju told the judge who deferred hearing on the petition, saying that the senior counsel for West Bengal will take care of the notices issued to the ED officers on July 22 and August 21. Once they are saying there is no other notice, we can fix (the plea for hearing) on Friday or Monday. Mr. (Sidharth) Luthra (appearing for West Bengal) will take care of it, said the judge after taking note of Luthra's submission. I don't think there will be a problem. Mr Raju, take it from me, said Luthra who also contended that the legal view was against the ED's stand. In April, on a complaint by the TMC MP, an FIR was lodged by local police in West Bengal under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code for alleged commission of offences of forgery of records, forgery for purpose of harming reputation, defamation etc. The petition, filed through Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan, said that pursuant to this FIR, two notices were issued by the Sub Inspector, Special Cell (GS), DD of Kalighat Police Station, Kolkata to ED officers performing their statutory functions in the Headquarters in Delhi. The complainant in the instant FIR is a political heavy weight and enjoys clout in the State Government of West Bengal. The West Bengal Police is acting at his behest to derail the investigation being carried out by Enforcement Directorate, the plea said. It is pertinent to mention that the investigation into the illegal coal mining and the role of the complainant therein Abhishek Banerjee is being investigated by the Directorate of Enforcement in exercise of its statutory powers under PMLA in the Headquarters at New Delhi, it added. The petition said that based on reasonable belief and evidences , the probe agency issued summons to Banerjee for his appearance on three occasions, out of which he appeared only once on September 6. In order to pressurize the Petitioners/ IOs investigating the case related to illegal coal mining, Abhishek Banerjee lodged an FIR on date 05.04.2021, against a News Channel and in furtherance of the same, notices have been issued to the IOs investigating the case of illegal coal mining by the West Bengal Police. The said FIR has been registered with a malafide intention to derail the investigation under PMLA being conducted by the Directorate of Enforcement, the plea said. The petition alleged that the issuance of notices against ED officers is malafide and with the oblique motive and intent at stifling the fair and impartial investigation being undertaken by Enforcement Directorate for unearthing large financial scams / frauds taking place in the State of West Bengal and the country. It also argued that the motive behind registration of the FIR and the subsequent issuance of notices is only to harass the officers of the Directorate and to use the State Police Machinery to halt the investigation being conducted by the officers of the Directorate against highly placed persons in the State Government of West Bengal & their suspected role in the offence of money laundering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Over 700 MoD hutments vacated for PM's new residence ||Over 700 hutments belonging to the Ministry of Defence (MoD) located around Dalhousie Road in Delhi are being cleared by the ministry and the space will be developed for the Prime Minister's new residence and office as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment project. The new offices of close to 7,000 ministry officials will now be located at Kasturba Gandhi Marg in Central Delhi and at Africa Avenue near Chanakyapuri. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the two complexes on Thursday. As per information, over 50 acres, vacated near South Block, will be used to develop the "Executive Enclave" of the Central Vista Project. The new Executive Enclave, apart from the PM residence, will have offices of the Cabinet Secretariat and other senior officers. "All these hutments around Dalhousie Road will be vacated over the next two months and the new offices will be permanent," a senior government official said. According to him, over 7,000 officers and staff belonging to 27 different organizations - attached offices of the Defence Ministry, service headquarters and other subordinate offices - are being shifted. At Africa Avenue in Chanakyapuri, the new MoD complex is a seven-storey building and will house only defence ministry offices. However, the other office in Central Delhi will be an eight-storey building and will be shared by Parivahan Bhawan and Shram Shakti Bhavan till their new offices are operational at the Central Secretariat Complex. The new buildings will also provide modern amenities, connectivity and welfare facilities like canteens, banks, etc. The location and spaces of these buildings have been so designed that they do not disturb the pre-existing trees. As part of the plan, the KG Marg complex will be used to relocate 14 different offices with a built-up area of 4.52 lakh square feet. Thirteen offices are being relocated to Africa Avenue with a built-up area of 5.08 lakh square feet, officials said, adding, these office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹ 775 crore provided by the Defence Ministry. "The work has been carried out by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development as part of their Central Vista project. In addition to the office space for the officers and staff, there is provision for multi-level car parking for over 1,500 cars in these complexes," an official told NDTV. Currently under the Central Vista Redevelopment project, work to rebuild the new Parliament is underway at Rajpath. While the Parliament building is expected to be ready by 2022 - in time for celebrations of the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, the Central Vista Avenue is expected to be ready by 26th January 2022||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Delhi police bust Pakistan-backed terror plot, 6 held ||The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Tuesday busted a Pakistan-organised terror module with the arrest of six men, including two Pak-ISI trained terrorists, officials said. The terrorists were allegedly planning several blasts across the country during the upcoming festivals, police said. The accused, identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47) alias 'Sameer', Osama (22), Moolchand (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohd Abu Bakar (23) and Mohd Amir Javed (31), were arrested following raids in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh, they said. Among the arrested, Osama and Qamar, are Pakistan-trained terror operatives working under the instructions of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). They were tasked to conduct the reconnaissance of different suitable locations in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for placing IEDs, police said. "The arrest of the four accused has exposed the nexus of the Pakistan's ISI-sponsored and trained terror modules with underworld operatives and averted a slew of serial blasts and targeted killings in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and other states in India," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah. "Pakistan-organised terror module has been busted and six persons have been arrested, including two Pakistan-trained terrorists," he said. Explosives and firearms have been recovered from Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh in a multi-state operation, Khushwah added. Police said that the arrested men were tasked separately to execute different aspects of the terror plan. The underworld operative Sameer, a close contact of Anees Ibrahim, who is brother of Dawood Ibrahim, was tasked by a Pak-based person connected with underworld operatives hiding in Pakistan, to ensure smooth delivery of improvised explosive devices (IED), sophisticated weapons and grenades to different entities in India. Anees Ibrahim, who is presently based in Pakistan, is stated to be the underworld connect of this module, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Special CBI court convicts 5 in a 2003 coal scam case||A CBI special court here on Tuesday convicted five persons in connection with a coal scam case related to Lalgarh (North) coal block allocated during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2003, officials said. The CBI special judge convicted Binay Prakash, the then managing director of Ranchi-based Domco Pvt. Ltd.; the then directors Vasant Diwakar Manjrekar and Paramananda Mondal; chartered accountant Sanjay Khandewal and the company Domco Pvt. Ltd. The court will hear arguments on the quantum of sentences on Wednesday. "This case was registered on the basis of a preliminary enquiry initiated by CBI on the directions received from CVC related to coal blocks allocated during the period from 1993 to 2005. During enquiry, it was revealed that the Lalgarh (North) Coal block was identified in favour of the company by the 19th Screening Committee and accordingly, the company was intimated vide MoC letter dated November 24, 2003," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. The CBI had alleged that Prakash, promoter director of Domco Pvt. Ltd., entered into conspiracy with unidentified persons and submitted false information to authorities while applying for the block. It is alleged that the Prakash made gains of Rs 7 crore by selling shares of the company on premium, after the allocation of the coal block. "After investigation, charge sheet was filed on December 22, 2015 against the accused. The trial court found the five accused guilty and convicted them," Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Hybrid work will positively impact work-life balance, say Indian professionals||Majority of Indian professionals believe that hybrid work is essential for work-life balance, as this model would allow them to strike the right balance between their personal and professional lives, according to a LinkedIn survey. According to LinkedIn's "Future of Work" Study 2021, nearly 9 in 10 (86 per cent) respondents think that hybrid work will positively impact their work-life balance. Moreover, professionals are prioritising their well-being so much so that half of India's workforce believes that work-life balance is just as important as their salary, the survey that covered 1,108 respondents in the age group of 16 to 68, noted. The survey further said with a majority of professionals continuing to work remotely, 1 in 3 professionals in India is burnt out due to increased workload (35 per cent) and stress (34 per cent) while working remotely in India, the study said. "To shelter from such distressing times, professionals are prioritising their well-being and finding ways to strike the right balance. In fact, half of India's workforce believes that work-life balance (52 per cent) is just as important as their salary (52 per cent) today," it noted. The Future of Work perception study was conducted by research firm Censuswide, and surveyed 1,108 respondents in India, who worked in an office before the pandemic and who had to work from home at some point during the pandemic due to COVID-19 restrictions/guidelines. The respondents were surveyed between July 27 and July 29, 2021. "Long-term remote work has left professionals fatigued in India. This has caused a shift in the idea of what is important in our lives and has led to what we call 'The Great Talent Reshuffle'. Organisations are rethinking their entire work models, culture, and values, while employees are rethinking not just how they work, but why they work. "At this time, we encourage companies to explore stronger flexible offerings and more mental health time off, as professionals are now seeking a greater balance and more fulfillment in their lives," says Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn. As per the survey, professionals in India are keen to go back to the office. The study noted that 72 per cent of respondents think working from home would negatively impact their career growth, while 55 per cent said their professional learnings had already taken a severe hit. The study further reveals that nearly half (46 per cent) of India's workforce wants to go back to the office, full time because it makes them feel more productive and successful in a workplace setting. In fact, 71 per cent of respondents agree that those who choose to work more from the office are more likely to be favoured by bosses or leaders. Around 89 per cent of professionals also think going back to the workplace will help their finances because it will allow them to work more hours and make more money. As per the study, 93 per cent of professionals agree that working from home during the pandemic has positively impacted their physical health. They feel healthier and get extra time to exercise more frequently when working remotely. In fact, two in five professionals say they want to work remotely going forward because it allows them to choose work hours and location', and spend more time with their loved ones', the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Govt mulls increasing monthly stipend of Covid orphans||The central government is planning to increase the monthly financial support given to children who lost their parents to COVID-19 from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000, a senior official said on Tuesday. The official said a proposal may go to the Cabinet for approval in the next few weeks. The Women and Child Development Ministry has proposed that the monthly stipend given to children who lost their parents to the pandemic be increased from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000, the official said. The government in May had announced that children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to COVID-19 will be supported under the 'PM-CARES for Children' scheme. Till now, out of 3,250 applications received under the scheme, a total of 667 have been approved by district magistrates concerned, according to ministry data. The data also showed that applications have been received from 467 districts till now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Another Tamil Nadu girl dies by suicide after taking NEET exam||A day after she appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, a 17-year old girl died by suicide at a village near here, police said on Tuesday. The girl, Kanimozhi, took the extreme step when her parents were away on Monday night and they returned home to find her hanging, a police official here said. Daughter of a lawyer, Kanimozhi is the 16th medical aspirant from Tamil Nadu to end her life fearing outcome of the test, coupled with dejection that their dream to pursue medical education may not fructify. She appeared for the national test on Sunday and had told her parents that some questions were tough and that she was concerned about the outcome, he said adding "investigation is still on." Another official told PTI that police received information early today and the body was sent for post-mortem to a government hospital and later handed over to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||PM Modi remembers Aligarh’s muslim lock seller||Taking a walk down memory lane, PM Narendra Modi recalled his connection with Aligarh, saying a Muslim salesman dealing in locks made in the city used to visit his village and leave his earnings with his father for safekeeping. Addressing a gathering after visiting an exhibition of the UP Defence Industrial Corridor in Aligarh, Modi said besides the city, Sitapur was the other place about which he had heard in his childhood. Modi said when he was a child, around 55 to 60 years ago, a Muslim salesman dealing in locks of Aligarh used to visit his village after every three months. "I still remember that he used to wear a black jacket," he said. "He used to leave the locks in shops and again come after three months to take money. He used to go to traders in neighbouring villages. He had a good friendship with my father. He used to stop for four to six days in our village and leave the money he had collected with my father. Before leaving the village, he used to collect the money from my father and depart via a train," the prime minister said. "In childhood, two cities of UP were very familiar. One was Aligarh and the other was Sitapur. If anybody from our village had an eye ailment and need to get medical treatment, everybody used to tell him to go to Sitapur," Modi said. "Though I did not understand much. But, we used to hear the word Sitapur and the second one was Aligarh because of the gentleman," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Chirag Paswan’s cousin Prince Raj booked in rape case||Lok Janshakti Party MP Prince Raj has been booked on rape charges by the Delhi Police while the lawmaker moved a court here on Tuesday for anticipatory bail alleging that he had been blackmailed by the complainant. The police said a complaint was filed three months ago by the alleged victim, who is a party worker, and the case was registered on the directions of a court under sections related to rape, criminal conspiracy and destruction of evidence. LJP spokesperson Shravan Kumar defended Prince Raj, claiming that the allegations against him are a "political conspiracy" to malign him, and suggested it could be a case of "honey trapping". He said the Member of Parliament from Samastipur in Bihar had lodged a complaint of "extortion and blackmailing" with Delhi Police on February 10 against the woman who has accused him of rape. Prince had in June tweeted denying all the allegations levelled by her. The alleged rape took place in 2020, according to the woman complainant. The court's direction came on September 9 and a case has been registered (against Prince Raj) under relevant sections at the Connaught Place Police Station," a police officer said. Police said that an investigation is underway and nobody has been questioned in this regard yet. On Tuesday, Prince filed an anticipatory bail application which is likely to come up for hearing before Special Judge M K Nagpal on Thursday. The application, moved by advocate Nitesh Rana, claims that the alleged victim and her male friend were extorting money and blackmailing Prince and a case had already been filed in that regard earlier, in which the woman and her associate were granted anticipatory bail. Prince Raj is the cousin of LJP leader Chirag Paswan who, according to police, was also mentioned named in the FIR. The victim alleged that Chirag pressured her not to file the complaint against Prince, the police said. Chirag Paswan had earlier said that he had spoken to his cousin and the complainant when the matter was brought before him. He had asked both of them to pursue the matter with police, he had said. Chirag Paswan and Prince Raj are estranged now with the latter joining the party faction headed by their uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras. Advocate Sudesh Kumari Jethwa, who is representing the woman, said, A complaint was filed at Connaught Place Police Station by the victim in May this year. When no action was taken, we moved an application before Rouse Avenue court in July. The court then directed the police to lodge an FIR and carry out the investigation in a fair and unbiased manner. In her complaint, the victim claimed that she met Prince first at the party office. They later met on many occasions and at one such meeting, the accused allegedly gave her something to drink. When she became unconscious, he made physical relations with her, the police said. When she confronted him later, he showed her a video recorded by him in which he was seen making physical relations with her. She also alleged that he proposed to marry her and threatened her that he would put the video on the internet, they said. She also alleged that Prince then started visiting her at odd hours. Without naming anyone, LJP's Shravan Kumar alleged that it was a political conspiracy and said the police should swiftly probe the case lodged by Prince. "We have absolute faith in the judiciary," he added. In his police complaint filed in February, Prince had alleged that the woman developed a physical relationship with him after taking him into confidence. The act was also videographed by her with the help of a man with whom she was in live-in-relationship, according to police officials. Prince further alleged the woman and the man also demanded Rs 1 crore from him but he gave them Rs two lakh. Later on the advice of his legal team, he approached the police, the officer said. On June 17, Prince had tweeted, "It has come to my knowledge that a certain woman has been making defamatory statements against me before various media houses claiming harassment and abuse. "I categorically deny any such claim or assertion that has been made against me. All such claims are blatantly false, fabricated, and are part of a larger criminal conspiracy to pressure me professionally and personally by threatening my reputation." he said in the post. Such attempts have also been made previously by the same woman along with her fianc . Back in February 2021, I had filed a police complaint against the woman and her fianc . On basis of my complaint, FIR was also registered at the Parliament Street Police Station, New Delhi. I am extremely saddened by these repeated and malevolent attempts to misuse the well-intended laws for the protection of women of our country. I have full faith in the judicial system of our country and if required, will take additional legal recourse as and when advised. I am confident that justice and truth will prevail, he had tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||TMC nominates Sushmita Dev to Rajya Sabha||Trinamul Congress (TMC) on Tuesday nominated Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the party after quitting the Congress, to the upper house of Parliament. "We are extremely pleased to nominate @SushmitaDevAITC to the Upper House of the Parliament. @MamataOfficial's vision to empower women and ensure their maximum participation in politics shall help our society to achieve much more!" the party tweeted. Dev, a Congress veteran, was one of the national spokespersons of the grand-old party and its women's wing chief, till she switched over to the Mamata Banerjee-led camp last month. In the resignation letterShe sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said, but offered no reason for her quitting. She has now been assigned the job of looking after the party's functioning in Assam and Tripura, by the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||SC refuses to reopen decision on granting reservation in promotion to SCs and STs||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it would not reopen its decision on granting reservation in promotions to Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) as it was for the states to decide how they implement it. Taking up various pleas pertaining to alleged hurdles in granting reservation in promotions to SCs and STs in various states, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Nageswara Rao directed the Advocate on Records of state governments to identify issues peculiar to them and submit those within two weeks. "We are making it very clear that we are not going to reopen Nagraj or Jarnail Singh (cases) because the idea was only to decide these cases in accordance with the law laid down by the court," said the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjiv Khannna and B R Gavai. The top court noted that in its earlier order, the state governments were directed to finalise the issues which are peculiar to them so that the court can proceed in the matter. The issues framed by Attorney General K K Venugopal and the ones circulated by others are enhancing the scope of cases, it said. "We are not willing to do that. There are certain issues which are already decided in Nagraj that also we are not going to take up. We are very clear that we are not going to permit any arguments for reopening of cases or arguing that law laid down from Indira Sahney is wrong because the very scope of these cases is to apply the law as laid down by this court," the court said. Venugopal submitted before the apex court that nearly all these issues have been covered by judgements of the top court and he would give a background of all the cases on issue of reservation since the Indira Sawhney case. Senior advocate Indira Jaising contended that the issue which remains open is benchmark for adequacy on how a state will decide on which groups are backwards. "It is not a question of disputed facts anymore. In some cases HCs have struck down on the ground that backwardness has not been shown. How any state will establish that representation is adequate and in that sense there will have to be benchmarks for adequacy which will require detailed consideration," she said. Responding to the submission, the bench said, "We are not here to advise the government what they should do. It's not for us to tell the government how to implement policy. It has been specifically held as to how the states have to implement it and consider backwardness and representation. States have to decide what to do subject to judicial review." Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan said he does not want to get into the question of representation as Indira Sawhney judgment is clear that it's not proportionate representation. "In the Madhya Pradesh case it's very that you cannot rely on the census. This is not the first time that a large batch of cases has come. In each case let written submission be given to the court. The State of Maharashtra says we have set up a committee to decide on 'adequacy of representation'. Why was this not done earlier? As far as the principles are concerned they were enumerated in the Nagraj judgment," he said. The Attorney General said the problem of Union of India is that there are three interim HC orders passed out which two say that promotions can continue to be made, while one HC has issued status quo orders on promotions. "The Government of India has 1,400 posts (secretariat level) stagnating where no promotions could be made on a regular basis because all three orders dealt with regular promotions. The issue is whether the promotions for regular appointments can be continued to be made, and whether it affects the reserved seats. "There are another 2,500 posts stagnating for years due to status quo orders relating to regular promotions. Government wants to make those promotions on ad hoc basis without any rights," Venugopal said while seeking a stay on a contempt plea against the government official. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora said if the matter is being kept after two weeks then the contempt plea can be heard on that date. Senior advocate P S Patwalia, appearing for Maharashtra and Bihar, said the court will have to examine how you arrive at what is the quantifiable data, adding that 60 per cent posts are lying vacant in Bihar. The top court said it has already passed orders on how to consider backwardness and it cannot prescribe policy further. The top court then ordered, "Pursuant to earlier orders passed by this court, AG has circulated a note on the issues that arise for consideration in these matters. Issues identified by the states of Maharashtra and Tripura were also placed before this court. Issues have been given separately to AG by Sr Lawyer Indira Jaising and Rajeev Dhavan. The AG submitted that there is no need for reopening the law laid down by this court. "In respect of interpretation of Article 16 and 16(4)(a) it is submitted that judgment delivered by this court would clear all issues which arise for consideration. It has been brought to our notice that issues peculiar to states can be grouped in 11 categories. There is an order already on order passed by this court that states have to identify the issues which arise in each state and furnish a copy to AG". The bench directed the AoRs of state governments to identify issues peculiar to the states and submit the same before this court in two weeks from today. It directed the counsels to submit written notes not exceeding five pages citing judgments within two weeks and posted the matter for hearing on October 5. Earlier, Maharashtra and other states had said the promotions have been made in unreserved categories, but promotions have not been granted in reserved categories for SC and ST employees. In 2018, a five-judge Constitution bench had paved the way for grant of quota for promotions in the government jobs to SCs and STs, holding that the states were not required to "collect quantifiable data" reflecting the backwardness among these communities. The apex court said that there was no need to revisit its 2006 verdict in the M Nagaraj case on the issue. It had held however that the conclusion arrived at in the Nagaraj case that the states have to collect quantifiable data showing backwardness of SCs and STs was "contrary" to the nine-judge bench judgement in the Indra Sawhney verdict of 1992, popularly known as Mandal Commission case. "Thus, we conclude that the judgment in Nagaraj does not need to be referred to a seven-judge bench. However, the conclusion in Nagaraj that the state has to collect quantifiable data showing backwardness of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, being contrary to the nine-judge bench in Indra Sawhney, is held to be invalid to this extent," the bench had held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Modi praises Yogi govt, says UP reaping 'double benefits of double-engine govt'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said Uttar Pradesh was run by gangsters and mafias before 2017, but now things have changed under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and such elements are behind the bars. He also said that earlier roadblocks were created in the implementation of welfare schemes meant for the poor, but now there are no such hurdles and the benefits of these schemes are reaching the needy. Elaborating on the achievements of the BJP governments at the centre and the state, the Prime Minister further said, "Uttar Pradesh is increasingly emerging as a favourable destination for national and international investors. This happens when a conducive environment is nurtured... and necessary resources are provided. Today, Uttar Pradesh has become a shining example of (the) double benefits of the double-engine government." Modi was addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University here. The university is being established by the state government in the memory and honour of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, the great freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer. It is being set up in a total area of over 92 acres at Lodha village and Musepur Kareem Jarouli village of Aligarh's Kol tehsil. The university will provide affiliation to 395 colleges of the Aligarh division. The prime minister also visited an exhibition on the Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. He said India was earlier seen as an importer of defence equipment, but today it is considered a leading defence exporter. "Today not only India, but the world is watching how equipment ranging from modern grenades, rifles, fighter planes, drones and warships, are manufactured in the country itself," he noted. Modi also remembered veteran BJP leader Kalyan Singh and said had he been there on this occasion, he would have appreciated a university coming up in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, in his home district. The Adityanath government's decision to set up the university after the noted Jat figure is being politically seen as part of the ruling BJP's bid to win over the community ahead of the crucial state assembly polls early next year. A section of Jats, who live in sizeable numbers in western Uttar Pradesh, is seen to be aggrieved with the BJP over the farmers issue. Meanwhile, Adityanath and Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma briefed Modi about the upcoming university. Governor Anandiben Patel was also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||All regional languages must be promoted, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said Hindi is a friend of India's regional languages and all of them should be promoted and encouraged. Addressing a function on the occasion of Hindi Diwas, Shah also appealed to parents to communicate with their children at home in their mother tongue even if they study in English medium schools. Otherwise, the children will be cut-off from their roots, he said. Hindi has no difference with any regional language. Hindi is the 'Sakhi' (friend) of all Indian regional languages, he said. Shah said all Indian regional languages complement and complete Hindi and all regional languages must be promoted and encouraged. Since 2014, more MPs are speaking in their own regional language in Parliament and they are being translated verbatim to English and Hindi, he said and added that this has helped people's representatives to highlight the problems of their respective areas in the highest forum. The home minister said people should not only be 'Atma Nirbhar' (self-reliant) in producing goods but also for languages. He cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi's example of speaking only in Hindi at all international forums to convey his thoughts. Hesitation over Hindi is a passe, he said. Referring to the New Education Policy (NEP) envisaged by Modi, Shah said it has provisions for promotion of regional and Hindi languages. On dealing with the pandemic situation, he said India has been successful in handling COVID-19 with minimum damage due to joint efforts of the central and state governments and with the active cooperation of 130 crore population. The prime minister, whenever he addressed the nation, talked with all stakeholders doctors, experts and others in Hindi which resulted in the message reaching the grassroots level, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Defamation: Court to issue warrant against Kangana if she fails to appear on September 20||A Mumbai court on Tuesday allowed actor Kangana Ranaut's plea seeking exemption from personal appearance for the day in a criminal defamation complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar and said it will issue a warrant against her if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. As the matter came up for hearing, Ranaut's lawyer sought that she be exempted from appearance for the day as she was not keeping well. The lawyer submitted a medical certificate before the court and said the actor has been traveling for the promotion of her film and has "developed COVID-19 symptoms". However, Akhtar's lawyer said this is an orchestrated tactic to delay the case proceedings. The lyricist's lawyer further said Ranaut has refused to appear before the court for one reason or the other since summons were issued to her in February this year. After hearing the submissions, metropolitan magistrate R R Khan allowed Ranaut to be exempted from appearance for the day. He then posted the matter for hearing on September 20. The magistrate said if the actor fails to appear on the next hearing, a warrant will be issued against her. Last Thursday, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking the quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) filed a complaint in the magistrate's court in November last year, claiming that Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Modi lays foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Aligarh. The university is being established by the Uttar Pradesh government in the memory and honour of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, the great freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer. It is being set up in a total area of over 92 acres at Lodha village and Musepur Kareem Jarouli village of Aligarh's Kol tehsil. The university will provide affiliation to 395 colleges of the Aligarh division. The Yogi Adityanath government's decision to set up the university after the noted Jat figure is being politically seen as part of the ruling BJP's bid to win over the community ahead of the crucial state assembly polls early next year. A section of Jats, who live in sizeable numbers in western Uttar Pradesh, is seen to be aggrieved with the BJP over the issues of farmers. The prime minister also visited exhibition models of Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma briefed Modi about the upcoming university. UP Governor Anandiben Patel was also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Nizamuddin Markaz case has cross border implications, Centre tells HC||The case registered in relation to the alleged violation of COVID-19 protocols at Nizamuddin Markaz -- where the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held in March last year amid COVID-19 pandemic is serious and has cross borders implications, the Centre told the Delhi High Court which Monday remarked that the premises can't be kept locked forever. Justice Mukta Gupta, who was hearing the Delhi Waqf Board's plea to re-open the markaz which has remained shut since March 31 last year, questioned the Centre as to how long it intended to keep the Nizamuddin Markaz locked, saying it can't be kept forever. Counsel for the Centre stated that a legal action to re-open the markaz can only be initiated by the lessee of the property and a resident of the premises has already filed a plea to handover the residential portion of the markaz, which is pending final adjudication before another judge of the high court. Only on legal view, the petition can be disposed of. The Waqf Board has no power to overstep the lessee, said the counsel for the Centre Rajat Nair. However, the judge said some persons were in possession of the property. "Due to the pandemic, an FIR was registered.. (and) you take possession as case property. It has to be handed over. It can't be that the property is kept forever (subject to court orders). What is your stand on the facts of the case? You tell me from whom you took it. How long will you keep it locked as case property?" The court issued notice on an application filed by a member of the Managing Committee of the markaz in question for his impleadment and allowed the Waqf Board to file its reply to the Centre's affidavit and posted the matter for next hearing on November 16. Senior counsel Ramesh Gupta, representing the Board, argued that the petition has remained pending for more than a year and a half and clarified that his petition pertained to the release of the entire markaz property comprising the masjid, the madrasa and the residential portion. "Now they should release the property to us. UOI has no role to play," he stated. Senior counsel Salman Khurshid, representing the intervening member, added that he is on the same page as the Waqf and when allowed to be re-opened, the markaz would adhere to the relevant protocols. In its affidavit affirmed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime, the Centre has maintained that it is necessary and incumbent to preserve the Markaz property as the investigation in the case registered for violation of the COVID-19 protocols has cross borders implications and involves the nation's diplomatic relations with other countries. As such, in view of the seriousness of the case which has trans-border implication and diplomatic consideration, it is just and necessary that the case property in such a case is preserved in letter and spirit so that due process of law in dealing with such cases is followed, the affidavit said. Since about 1300 foreigners were found to be residing in the said premises and cases against them have cross borders implications and involves nation's diplomatic relationship with other countries, it is necessary and incumbent on the part of the Respondent to preserve the said premises for the purpose of Section 310 of Cr.PC, it added. It said since the issue of keeping the markaz premises locked is pending adjudication before another bench, it cannot be agitated by the petitioner (Waqf) in guise of its power of superintendence . It added that the right to administer the markaz is subject to law, public order and health and that the authorities have always relaxed the entry norms upon a proper application made by the person administering the religious affair as and when the organizers apply for a relaxation in view of any ensuing religious festival or for any other reason. On April 15, the court had allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan, saying there is no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notification to close down places of worship. The board, in its plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, contended that even after unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz -- comprising the Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and attached hostel -- continues to be locked up. It has further contended that even if the premises as part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it "under lock as an out of bound area" was a "primitive method" of the enquiry process. Several FIRs have been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the COVID-19 lockdown last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Odisha orders evacuation from low-lying areas as rain batters state||With heavy rain pounding Odisha for the last 36 hours leading to a rise in water levels in most rivers, the state government on Tuesday asked all the district collectors to evacuate people from low-lying areas as three persons were killed in incidents related to the downpour, officials said. As many as 17 areas in the state received more than 200 mm rainfall each in the last 24 hours till 8.30 AM on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Centre said. While two locations received more than 300 mm of rain -- Talcher (394 mm) and Birmaharajpur (372 mm) 15 other stations received downpour of 200-300 mm. Fearing that more low-lying areas might get inundated, Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena asked the collectors to ensure prompt evacuation of the vulnerable population. "In case water enters villages and habitations, there is a need to evacuate people from such areas and provide them with cooked or dry food and other basic necessities as per the relief code," Jena told collectors, adding that any damage to communication be restored at the earliest. The state government, which had by Monday evening evacuated 3,819 people, issued the fresh instruction as rain continued throughout the night. Baitarani River was flowing at 17.84 m against the danger level of 17.83 m at Akhuapada, while Vansadhara was gushing at 53.92 m against the danger level of 54.6 m, and Jalaka was flowing at 6.22 m against the danger mark of 5.5 m at Mathani, Water Resources Department officials said. Field officials have informed the government that nullahs, ponds and agricultural fields are filled with water which may ingress into low-lying areas. The deep depression over north interior Odisha moved in the west-northwest direction and now laid 50 km from Jharsuguda. It is likely to move across north Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh and weaken into a depression, the weatherman said. The IMD forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at most places in the state till 8.30 AM on Wednesday. It issued a yellow warning (be updated) for Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Mayurbhanj, Bhadrak, Balasore, Kendrapada, Jajpur, Deogarh, Sambalpur, Nuapada, Nabarangpur, Bolangir, and Keonjhar districts. Wind speeds are likely to reach 40-50 kmph gushing up to 60 kmph along the Odisha-West Bengal coast and the sea condition will be very rough, it said, warning fishermen against venturing into the sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||India logs over 25,000 fresh Covid cases, 339 casualties in a day||India logged 25,404 new COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the country to 3,32,89,579, while the count of active cases declined to 3,62,207, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,213, with 339 fresh fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The tally of active cases has declined to 3,62,207, which comprises 1.09 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.58 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 12,062 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,30,891 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Monday, taking the total of such examinations to 54,44,44,967. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.78 per cent. This has been below three per cent for the last 15 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. The figure has been below three per cent for the last 81 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,24,84,159, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 75.22 crore, according to the ministry. \India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one crore-mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 339 new fatalities include 121 from Haryana, 99 from Kerala and 27 from Maharashtra. Haryana's Director General of Health Services Veena Singh had said on Monday that the 121 deaths, which have been added to the daily bulletin, were under audit earlier. A total of 4,43,213 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,169 from Maharashtra, 37,517 From Karnataka, 35,190 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,883 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,650 from Kerala and 18,587 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Goods train derails, falls into river in Odisha||At least six coaches of a goods train running on the Angul-Talcher Road route of East Coast Railways derailed in the early hours of Tuesday and fell into a river, officials said. Six coaches of the train carrying wheat plunged into the river around 2.30 am, but the loco pilot and other staff were reported to be safe as the engine remained on the track, they said. Heavy rain in the wake of a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal is likely to have caused the accident on a bridge over river Nandira when the goods train was on its way from Firozpur to Khurda Road, the officials said. Talcher recorded 160 mm of rainfall on Monday followed by Angul (74 mm). Following the incident, the ECoR has cancelled 12 trains, diverted routes of eight others and short terminated another, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Delhi likely to experience light rains today||Light rains are likely on Tuesday in the national capital which recorded a minimum temperature of 26.4 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity in the morning was recorded at 90 per cent, according to the India Meteorological Department. Parts of Delhi had received rainfall on Monday.The Safdarjung Observatory in the city, recorded 3.5 mm rainfall from 8:30 AM on Monday to 8:30 AM on Tuesday, an IMD official said. The minimum temperature on Monday had settled at 26.5 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was recorded at 33.4 degrees Celsius. The weather office has forecast light rains later in the day and the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 35 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Pegasus: SC gives Centre three days to 'stop beating around the bush’||The Centre on Monday cited “national security” and declined to file a fresh affidavit admitting or denying snooping on citizens with the Israeli spyware Pegasus, prompting the Supreme Court to give it three days to reconsider or face a judicial order. If the Centre misses the deadline, the apex court will have the option of forming a special investigation team (SIT) for a court-monitored probe into allegations of illegal, Pegasus-enabled surveillance on judges, journalists, politicians, activists and others. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli handed the ultimatum to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who had persistently maintained during the nearly two-hour arguments that the Centre did not want to file a fresh affidavit. When Mehta said the government was instead willing to appoint a committee of “independent” domain experts to investigate the allegations, Justice Ramana said: “Mr Mehta, beating around the bush is not the question here….” The petitioners who have sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the Pegasus controversy have already rejected any investigation by a committee formed by the government “We are not interested to know about national interest issues; we are only (concerned with) allegations that some software was used to snoop on certain citizens like lawyers, etc. We wanted to know if it’s done and, if so, to see if it is permissible under law,” Justice Ramana said. “We also don’t want security issues to be put here.” The court had directed the government to file a fresh affidavit after its two-page affidavit failed to clarify whether the Centre had used Pegasus to spy on citizens. On Monday, the CJI questioned the Centre’s reluctance to file an affidavit, underlining that even if a government-appointed expert committee conducted the probe, it would still have to hand in its report to the court and “everything will be in public”. “We reserve orders. This is for interim orders. You have two-three days, Mr Mehta, if you have any rethinking you can mention before this court,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Kant told Mehta the court had already made it clear it did not want issues relating to national security made public. “We were only expecting a limited affidavit since there are petitioners before us who say their rights have been infringed by A or B agency. You had to say whether it’s done lawfully or unlawfully…. National security is not a part of present proceedings,” Justice Kant said. When Mehta maintained that revealing details “will not serve national interests”, Justice Ramana remarked: “We are going back to, again and again, the same issue. We are not interested to know what you are doing to protect the interests of the country, etc, etc.” “Your minister admitted in Parliament that government has taken note of the software being used…. If you file an affidavit, then we know where you stand as per your minister’s statement,” Ramana added. Justice Ramana then said: “Now they don’t want to file an affidavit. So we will pass an order — what to do?” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for petitioners N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, had earlier countered the Centre’s national interest line, saying that using Pegasus against citizens was detrimental to justice and the right to privacy. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing petitioner Jagdeep Chhokar, said Pegasus enabled not just surveillance but also the implanting of false data in a target’s device. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for certain other petitioners, cited the Civil Procedure Code to argue the Centre ought to categorically deny the allegations through an affidavit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Concor: Charge of bid to help suitors of PSU, alleges Congress||The Congress has flagged multiple concerns, including an abrupt cut in a fee, linked to the proposed divestment in Container Corporation of India Ltd (Concor), a profit-making Navratna public sector unit and the market leader in which the Adanis have evinced interest. “The Modi government is considering a change in the lease policy for industrial use of railway land. A change that will bring LLF (land licensing fee) to 2 to 3 per cent from the current 6 per cent,” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said. On March 10, this year, the railways, which own Concor, came up with the new land licensing fee policy. Under this, the railways propose to levy an annual land licence fee at the rate of 3 per cent of the industrial land value per acre. Piyush Goyal, the then railways minister, extended this policy to Concor and other private train operators who set up terminals on land leased from the railways. Concor boasts the country’s largest network of 60 inland container depots. Land usage rights and terms have been a critical element in the selloff process for Concor. The Modi government has approved selling 30.8 per cent out of its 54.8 per cent stake in Concor and transferring the management control to strategic buyers. The annual report of Concor for 2020-21 says that the corporation has been paying a land licensing fee “at 6 per cent of land value” since April 1, 2020. The latest cut in the fee is being made within one year of the previous change. The Concor annual report says it paid a land licence fee of Rs 652.84 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021 (against Rs 39.65 crore in the previous year, marking an increase of 1,546.51 per cent). After the cut in March this year, the amount any prospective buyer of Concor will have to pay to the railways will be considerably less. Sweetening terms for prospective bidders need not always involve foul play; it can be a business decision meant to attract more investors. Besides, the Centre can contend that under the plan, it will get the money upfront (99 per cent of the amount) rather than have it paid over the entire period of the 35-year lease. Vallabh, the Congress spokesperson, asked: “Once (Concor has been chosen) for disinvestment, why is the government considering changing the LLF and the lease period? Is the proposal to reduce the LLF an indirect way of handing over developed government land to private parties for the long term?” Vallabh said farmers had given their land to the government for railway projects at a concession — even free of cost in many instances. “How can railway land acquired from farmers be handed over to a private party for commercial use in a backdoor arrangement? This valuable land belongs to the farmers of our country and if it is not used by the railways, it should be returned to the original owners,” Vallabh said. Hinting at who the buyer might be, Vallabh said: “It is of more significance when Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd says… it can easily acquire strategic target Concor. Who gave them this idea that they can easily acquire Concor?” (Last month, Karan Adani, the CEO of Adani Ports, had said in response to a question during an earnings call that the company could easily raise debt to pay for the acquisition of Concor without stretching its balance sheet and impairing its credit rating. “In our view, Concor is a very strategic acquisition and we do believe that raising funds and without stretching the balance sheet, we should easily be able to do that acquisition,” Adani had said.) On Monday, Vallabh said: “The same group already has ports and airports; if Concor and its dry ports also go to them, they will have a monopoly over the export-import (sector) of the entire country. What ensures that they will not exploit this monopoly for commercial gain?” In addition to providing rail transport for containers, Concor has expanded to managing ports and air cargo complexes and establishing cold chains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||One year of incarceration of rights defender Umar Khalid||Eminent civil society members addressed a media conference on Monday to mark one year of the incarceration of rights defender Umar Khalid, who was arrested on terrorism charges for allegedly inciting last year’s communal violence in Delhi. Those at the event included RJD parliamentarian and Delhi University professor Manoj Jha, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed and legal activist Prashant Bhushan. Khalid and 12 others, including several students, are in jail facing trial in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. “(My) thanks to the people of this country, not to any political party, who gave hope to Parliament — which was made defunct on both occasions (during the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act and the farm laws),” Jha said. “The government could not deal with Shaheen Bagh, only demonise (it). The solution found was Umar Khalid’s speech in Amravati (where he called for peaceful protests against the CAA during then US President Donald Trump’s visit in February 2020, which coincided with the start of the Delhi riots).” Jha called Khalid “one of the brightest and most uncontaminated minds of this age” and asked people not to forget student activists like Meeran Haider — of the RJD student wing in Jamia Millia Islamia — and others who too are in Tihar prison awaiting trial. In an apparent jibe at some Opposition leaders, he said: “You cannot defeat the politics of this regime by being a photocopy of this regime…. Both can’t happen — that I pay obeisance there and say the same things... but the words will be different. People want a clear-cut position. That clarity can only come if civil society puts pressure.... When Shaheen Bagh was at its peak, many political parties felt they had made a mistake by remaining invisible.” Former Delhi Minorities Commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan echoed Jha’s views. He spoke about the less well-known undertrials and the police’s inaction against BJP and Sangh parivar leaders accused of fanning the Delhi riots. “All black laws like the UAPA need to be repealed. We regret that the Congress, which repealed the Prevention of Terrorism Act, brought in (made more stringent) the UAPA, which is much worse,” Khan said. Bhushan said: “It seems that the brief to the police was clear — to first target the activists who helped the (anti-CAA) protests, and then target Muslims so we can blame Muslims for the riots…. It is now necessary to demand accountability from the officers who did the (riot) investigations and punish them, and those who ordered them to do so.” Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of The Wire, said: “The reason for criminalising the anti-CAA protesters is to cover up the real perpetrators of the Delhi riots. Umar can be arrested under the UAPA but Hindutva leaders who called for genocide against Muslims were booked under flimsy sections so that they could get easy bail.” Syeda Hameed said: “His (Khalid’s) only fault was to uphold the Constitution and oppose the CAA, NPR, NRC (which represent the new citizenship matrix). He saluted the women of Shaheen Bagh in Amravati and called for upholding Gandhiji’s ideals. He saluted the women who came out on the streets when the students of Jamia were brutally repressed, and stayed outside for 101 days. The regime was scared of this courage. For them an educated Muslim is an eyesore.” Jasbir Kaur Nat of the CPIML Liberation’s Punjab Kisan Union — a prominent women’s organiser of peasants at the Tikri Border — and senior journalist Bharat Bhushan too spoke at the event. Nat said: “The protesting farmers too were branded as terrorists and Khalistanis. They wanted to derail our movement too. Shaheen Bagh, just like the farmer, too had raised its voice against an unjust law. It is (BJP leader) Kapil Mishra and the rioters who should have been sent to prison, not Umar.” Bhushan said: “The BJP is threatened by a young crop of leadership that has emerged from the people’s movement. Devangana (Kalita, a student out on bail), Umar and the others are all part of the educated, articulate, non-institutionalised organic leadership vouching for secularism and constitutionalism, for religious pluralism, ecological justice, gender justice, justice for Dalits. (They) scare this government. That is why he (Umar) is in jail.” Several people tweeted with the hashtag #Umar1YearInjustice, demanding the release of all political prisoners, reversal of the new citizenship regime, and prosecution of the Hindutva activists for the Delhi riots that claimed 53 lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||SC asks Centre to consider Covid suicide aid for families||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to consider granting compensation to the families of even those who had died by suicide after contracting Covid, saying an exclusionary clause introduced in the health ministry’s recent guidelines needed a rethink. A two-judge bench told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, that while some of the guidelines were fair enough, others needed to be modified to give succour to certain segments of Covid-affected people. “You have specifically stated that irrespective of the fact that the person who had Covid has committed suicide, (they) will not be entitled to compensation. This needs to be revisited,” Justice M.R. Shah, who headed the bench, told Mehta. The bench, which included Justice A.S. Bopanna, was hearing two petitions moved by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Bansal that have sought compensation for the families of all those who have died after contracting Covid. India’s official Covid death toll is 4.4 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||UP: Modi tapping socialist's legacy to pacify Jats is ironical||The BJP’s attempt to appropriate the legacy of freedom fighter Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh to woo the powerful Jat community ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections is steeped in irony because the Jat leader was a “proclaimed socialist”, a senior historian told The Telegraph. “He (Mahendra Pratap) is being portrayed as a Jat icon as the community’s votes are slipping out of the BJP’s hands,” historian S. Irfan Habib, former Abul Kalam Azad Chair at the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, said. “He was associated with the All India Jat Mahasabha which had many prominent Jats as office-bearers. Yet he never spoke of his Jat identity as he was a cosmopolitan man who spent 32 years outside India striving for our freedom.” Habib added: “He was a proclaimed socialist and was in touch with Lenin as well. Although he never became a Marxist, he remained a Left sympathiser who wanted a pluralist, secular India.” He noted that Mahendra Pratap had defeated Jana Sangh candidate Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the 1957 Lok Sabha polls as an Independent candidate. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation for the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh on Tuesday. The city is home to the Aligarh Muslim University, a central university which the BJP accuses of ignoring Mahendra Pratap, considered an alumnus of sorts and a benefactor. The BJP has been championing the cause of celebrating Mahendra Pratap’s birth anniversary ever since the 2013 communal riots in western Uttar Pradesh breached the long alliance between the region’s Jats and Muslims and helped catapult the party to power at the Centre in 2014. Some local BJP politicians had demanded that AMU — not the party’s favourite university at the best of times — be renamed after him. The current farmer agitation draws its strength from the Jats of the region. The establishment of a university in Mahendra Pratap’s name — two years after its announcement by chief minister Yogi Adityanath — is being seen as a BJP attempt to rebuild its image among the community before the Assembly polls, due in March. Habib explained why the BJP was desperate to woo the Jats back. “To weaken the farm agitation, the BJP has tried to project it as a movement by Jat Sikhs and Jat Hindus that other farming communities, such as Gujjars, should keep away from. This has alienated the Jats from the BJP,” he said. The BJP is known for its efforts to appropriate unlikely icons from the freedom struggle – from the socialist Bhagat Singh to the staunch Gandhian Vallabhbhai Patel – to paper over its lack of involvement in the independence movement and to try and embarrass the Nehru-Gandhis. Mahendra Pratap (1886-1979), a Jat noble from the Mursan estate in Aligarh district, is perhaps best known for heading a rebel Indian government-in-exile in Kabul from 1915 to 1919. “His prime minister was (Bhopal’s) Mohamed Barakatullah and his home minister was (Punjab’s) Ubaidullah Sindhi. His work in Europe and Japan laid the groundwork for Netaji (Subhas Chandra) Bose to later raise the Azad Hind Fauj,” said Habib, who had met Mahendra Pratap in 1977, two years before his death. “After Independence, he never joined a party and was elected to Parliament from Mathura in 1957. Vajpayee came fourth.” Mahendra Pratap studied from 1895 to 1905 at the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental College, which became Aligarh Muslim University in 1920. After attending the Congress session in Calcutta in 1906, Mahendra Pratap campaigned against untouchability. He started an indigenous technical institute, the Prem Mahavidyalaya, in Vrindavan in 1909. He left India in 1914 and led the German-backed and short-lived Provisional Government of India in Kabul. As its president, he was received by Lenin and Trotsky in Petrograd (now St Petersburg) in 1917. Unable to return to India where there was a bounty on him, he fled to Japan in 1925 where he published a magazine. He remained there during the Second World War, returning to India in 1946. His family had leased more than 30 acres of land to AMU in 1929 at the rate of Rs 2 a year. This land is now a playground used by a school run by the university. Mahendra Pratap’s father Raja Ghanshiam Singh had donated towards the construction of a hostel in the university. Mahendra Pratap’s family, which has stayed out of politics, however, demanded the return of the land or its cost at the market rate after the lease expired in 2019, by when the rent had risen only to Rs 200 a year. “The BJP tried hard to appropriate Bhagat Singh as well but with his reality, writings and work coming into the picture, they are not talking about him as much,” Habib said. “In the Raja’s case, the Jats have themselves forgotten about him.” In the Hindu Jat pantheon of leaders, Sir Chhotu Ram and former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh have come to occupy the central positions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Yogesh Singh, frontrunner to become Delhi University VC||Yogesh Singh, vice-chancellor of the Delhi Technological University, is the frontrunner to become vice-chancellor of Delhi University, two government officials have told The Telegraph. They said Yogesh, considered close to RSS teachers wing Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal, was on a panel of candidates that the education ministry had recommended to the President, the Visitor of the university. Yogesh had been appointed vice-chancellor of M.S. University in Baroda in 2009 by the then Gujarat government headed by Narendra Modi. Yogesh has had “a sound career” as academic and researcher, said K.K. Aggarwal, chairman of the National Board of Accreditation and Yogesh’s former PhD supervisor at NIT Kurukshetra. Asked about Yogesh’s performance as a student, Aggarwal said he had come across the younger man first when he enrolled in an MTech course at the NIT after earning his BTech from Pune University in five years, taking a year longer than the normal four years. “He completed his BTech in five years. But I found him a fine researcher. As an administrator, he has been a team player. I’m satisfied with him as an academic,” Aggarwal said. WhatsApp and text messages and a call to Yogesh’s number, to find out whether and why he had needed an extra year to compete his graduation, remained unanswered. Delhi University has not had a regular vice-chancellor since last October when the incumbent, Yogesh Tyagi, was suspended on the charge of non-performance. P.C. Joshi has been functioning as the acting VC. Many central universities and IITs have in recent years spent lengthy periods without official heads, hurting their academic functioning, with government officials attributing the delays in appointments to the Prime Minister’s Office, which they said took the final decision despite lacking any official role in the process. Senior officials have suggested that the delays often resulted from the PMO’s struggles to find ideologically compliant candidates. Yogesh Singh earned his master’s in electronics and communication engineering, and his PhD in computer engineering. He was director of the Netaji Subhas Institute of Technolgy, Delhi, from December 2014 till July 2017, when he was appointed vice-chancellor of Delhi Technological University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Scientists demonstrate cattle can be toilet trained||Cows may be potty-trained, scientists have demonstrated through a unique set of experiments that they say reveals an unrealised opportunity to harness the cognitive capacities of cattle to address environmental concerns, including soil and water contamination. Scientists at the Leibniz Institute for Farm Animal Biology, Germany, announced on Monday that they had successfully trained 11 of 16 calves to control their reflexes and urinate only in an area designated as a latrine. “The calves showed a level of performance comparable to that of children and superior to that of very young children,” animal psychologist Jan Langbein and his collaborators said, describing their study’s results in the research journal Current Biology. Cattle excretions, while valued in India for their myriad uses, including a product called Panchgavya made from curd, milk, ghee, cow dung and cow urine, can contaminate soil and water and contribute to earth-warming greenhouse gases through ammonia. The ammonia in cow waste does not directly contribute to climate change but when it leaches into soil, microbes turn it into nitrous oxide, the third most important greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide and methane. Livestock contribute to over half of the ammonia emissions from agriculture. The researchers tried a two-step process to train calves. They first confined the calves into a designated latrine area and rewarded them with food each time the calves urinated. This “in-latrine” training was designed to establish the latrine as the correct area for urination. In the next step, the researchers allowed the calves to access the latrine through an alley. They rewarded the calves with food each time they urinated in the latrine and exposed the calves to an unpleasant experience — a three-second water spray — each time they urinated in the alley. They found that 11 of 16 calves they had tried to train learned to control their urinary reflexes over a period of a few weeks. They have attributed the success to the establishment of strong reward-based control over the reflex and responsiveness to internal reflex cues in the cattle. “Our findings are original and reveal a hitherto unrealised opportunity to harness the cognitive capacities of animals to help resolve environmental issues without compromising animal welfare,” the researchers said in their study. Training cattle to deposit most of their urine in a defined location would enable the development of more effective methods to collect, treat and dispose waste than possible with current technical solutions, the researchers said. “This was only a feasibility study in cattle,” Birger Puppe, professor of behavioural psychology at the institute and the study’s co-author, told The Telegraph. “Our plan is to follow up to test the feasibility of toilet training under real-world conditions on a medium-sized cattle farm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Madras High Court orders to drop 2018 Sterlite protest cases||Madras High Court on Monday directed the authorities concerned to drop all the cases registered against the protesters involved in the anti-Sterlite agitation in 2018, in which 13 people were killed in alleged police firing, and ensure their future prospects. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam also orally observed that firing upon the innocent public was a scar on Indian democracy and it should not be forgotten. The protest might not have been legal or legitimate, but citizens could not be fired at on behalf of a corporate body. The State should ensure that this kind of an incident does not happen again, it added. “The cases against the protesters should be dropped and the institution of the cases should not stand in the way of the future prospects of any of the protesters to disqualify them from any employment or other opportunities that may be available,” the bench said. The bench was passing further interim orders on a PIL petition from Henry Tiphagne, executive director of the NGO People’s Watch, on Monday. Protests by locals against Vedanta’s copper unit Sterlite in Tuticorin over pollution concerns on May 22, 2018, had ended in 13 deaths in police firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Karnataka BJP lawmaker spills ‘cash’ offer, retracts a day later||A BJP lawmaker in Karnataka has claimed he was offered money to leave the Congress two years ago when the BJP toppled H.D. Kumaraswamy’s Congress-JDS government through defections, only to do an about-turn a day later. The Congress has pounced on Shrimant Patil’s initial statement, claiming vindication of its allegation that the BJP had brought down Opposition governments in Karnataka and elsewhere through bribery, and demanded a police investigation. Patil, the MLA from Kagwad in Belgaum, about 500km from Bangalore, had on Saturday told reporters he had been offered money to defect to the BJP along with other Congress and Janata Dal Secular lawmakers in 2019. “They had asked me how much money I wanted. But I refused to accept a single paisa and sought only a good position (a cabinet berth) to serve the people,” Patil had said at Ainapur in his constituency. But after the Congress played up his statement and his BJP colleagues expressed surprise at his remark, Patil claimed on Sunday that no money had been offered to him. Asked about his reported initial statement, he merely said it was a “mistake” without clarifying whose mistake it was. “I had met BJP leaders on my own. When they asked me about my expectations I told them I needed only a position and nothing else,” he told reporters in Belgaum. “No money was offered to me…. I joined the BJP because I was impressed by Modi’s style of governance.” Patil has been nursing his wounds after being dropped from the cabinet following Basavaraj Bommai’s anointment as chief minister in July in place of B.S. Yediyurappa. He has since been lobbying to be taken back into the cabinet. On Saturday, Patil had said: “I don’t know why they dropped me, but they have promised to re-induct me during the next expansion.” Kumaraswamy’s government had collapsed in July 2019 after a month-long rebellion, with 17 lawmakers quitting the Congress and the JDS and 16 of them joining the BJP. Only Roshan Baig, who quit the Congress, could not join the BJP because of a pending corruption case. Most of the defectors had been flown to Mumbai and sequestered in a top hotel, while the BJP continued to deny it had engineered the defections. As promised by Yediyurappa, most of the turncoats were inducted into the cabinet after they won the December 2019 by-elections. Patil’s about-turn on Sunday came shortly after senior BJP leader Laxman Savadi told reporters: “Patil should identify those who offered him money. I don’t know why he made such a statement.” Former chief minister and senior BJP lawmaker Jagadish Shettar denied his party had offered money to the defectors. “I don’t know in what context he said so,” Shettar said. State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar said: “Patil has revealed the truth, at least now. I thank him for that.” State Congress spokesperson V.S. Ugrappa demanded a police investigation into Patil’s original claim “since taking and offering bribes is a crime”. “He had made it clear there was an offer, but then made a U-turn because of pressure from his party,” Ugrappa, a lawyer by profession, told The Telegraph on Monday. “Even if it was an inadvertent admission, Patil has only reiterated what we have been saying about the BJP using money and other allurements to poach our MLAs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Congress leader Oscar Fernandes passes away at 80||Veteran Congress leader and former Union minister Oscar Fernandes, an MP, died at a private hospital in Mangalore on Monday afternoon, family sources said. He was 80. Fernandes is survived by his wife and two children. Fernandes was hospitalised in July after suffering a fall at his house while doing his regular exercise. As he was found to have an internal injury, a surgery was carried out by doctors. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said it is a huge loss for each and every party worker and the country. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet: “It is a personal loss for me. He was a guide and mentor to many of us in the Congress party.” Fernandes represented Udupi constituency in the Lok Sabha five times and was elected to the Rajya Sabha four times. He had served as Union minister for labour and employment from 2006 to 2009 and had held different portfolios in the UPA-II government led by Manmohan Singh. He also served as parliament secretary to Rajiv Gandhi. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and former chief ministers B.S. Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah expressed grief over the passing away of Fernandes. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Fernandes was one of the national leaders who always maintained close ties with the southern state. The mortal remains of Fernandes would be kept at the district Congress committee offices at Udupi and Mangalore on Tuesday for the public to pay homage. The remains would be later shifted to the KPCC office in Bangalore for public homage. Sources said the final rites would be conducted at St Patrick Church, Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Teenager hit by a vehicle of cow vigilantes in Rajasthan||A teenager was killed after being hit by a vehicle of cow vigilantes, who were chasing a truck that was reportedly smuggling the bovine animals in Alwar district of Rajasthan, the victim’s family has alleged. The incident occurred on Sunday in the Chupanki police station area in Bhiwadi near the Rajasthan-Haryana border where Sabir Khan, 17, was hit by the speeding vehicle in which the cow vigilantes were chasing the truck, police said. A case of murder was registered against seven persons on the basis of the complaint filed by Khan’s family, police said, adding that three of them have been arrested. “Sonu, Harkesh and Narendra have been arrested while four others are absconding. The matter is being investigated,” station house officer Mukesh Kumar Verma said. Khan’s body was handed over to his family after post-mortem. Bhiwadi circle officer Hari Ram Kumawat said the truck, which was carrying 15 cows, rammed a tree and stopped in Tauru area of Haryan’s Nuh district and the matter was being probed by the Haryana police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Gujarat: CM change bares challenges for 'Modi-Shah BJP'||Bhupendra Patel, the low-profile leader believed to have been handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, took oath as chief minister of Gujarat on Monday, highlighting in the process the challenges for the “Modi-Shah BJP”. Patel was the only one to take oath, underlining that the BJP high command was still in the process of finalising the new council of ministers to strike a balance in the state party unit and send out the right message among the voters ahead of next year’s polls. The change of leadership in Gujarat has once again underlined that Brand Modi may not be enough to turn the electoral tide, even on Modi’s home turf, and diversions were needed to counter governance failures, party sources said. Old-timers said though Modi continued to be popular nationally, he had lost most of his power to influence state elections and the recent change of chief ministers was the result of this realisation. Apart from governance issues, internal bickering in many state party units has been intensifying despite the complete dominance of Modi and Shah, the sources said. “Bhupendra Patel is not a dynamic leader. If Vijay Rupani was Amit Shah’s yes-man, he is Modi’s yes-man,” one old-time party leader, now sidelined, said. “He (Bhupendra) has only been picked to hoodwink the Patels to win the elections and ensure the infighting in the state unit is kept under check,” the leader added. This leader argued that had Modi genuinely wanted a strong Patel leader, he would have picked outgoing deputy chief minister Nitin Patel or some other known Patel face. “If Nitin Patel had been elevated, it would have angered the other prominent Patel leaders,” another leader said. Appearing upset, Nitin Patel said at an event in his constituency on Sunday that he would “not be ousted” as long as he received the love of the people, indicating that the internal problems for the BJP in Gujarat were far from over. Despite Modi pulling off a bigger win in the 2019 general election, the BJP has lost a string of state elections, starting from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in 2018 to Jharkhand in 2019, Delhi in 2020 and Bengal in 2021. In all these elections, Modi had canvassed tirelessly. In Haryana, the BJP managed to retain power in 2019 only through a post-poll tie-up with regional party JJP. “In Jharkhand, the leadership stubbornly refused to change the chief minister despite unfavourable reports from the ground. Same happened in Haryana,” one party leader said. “Taking lessons from these states, prompt action has been taken in other states based on feedback,” the leader added. Seeking to show that all was well in Gujarat, home minister Amit Shah on Monday participated in the swearing-in of the new chief minister whose elevation has been seen as a snub to his dominance in the state’s affairs. Outgoing chief minister Vijay Rupani was known to be his choice. Shah tweeted pictures with the new chief minister and said he was sure Patel would serve the state’s “poor, farmers and marginalised sections” and take forward Gujarat’s growth story. Modi, besides congratulating the new chief minister, also had good words for Rupani, commending him for undertaking “people-friendly measures” and working “tirelessly for all sections of the society”. Party leaders in Delhi said this was aimed at assuaging the hurt to Shah’s lobby in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Covid: International experts’ panel rules out the need for booster dose ||Vaccines remain highly effective against severe Covid-19 despite any waning of vaccine-generated antibodies, an international experts’ panel said on Monday, underlining that the current evidence does not show the need for booster doses for the general population. The 18-member expert panel has also said that vaccine efficacy against severe Covid-19 is so high even for the highly contagious Delta variant that booster doses for the general population are not appropriate at this stage of the pandemic. Vaccination had 95 per cent efficacy against severe disease from the Delta and the Alpha variants and over 80 per cent efficacy at protecting against any infection from these variants, the panel said after reviewing available observational evidence. Both these variants are highly transmissible. “Currently available studies do not provide credible evidence of substantially declining protection against severe disease, which is the primary goal of vaccination,” said Ana-Maria Henao-Restrepo, a senior World Health Organisation official and panel member. The current limited supply of Covid-19 vaccines will save most lives if made available to people who are at risk of serious disease and have not yet received any vaccine, she said. Any gain from booster doses will not outweigh the benefits of providing the initial protection to the unvaccinated. The review comes amid findings that vaccine-generated antibodies wane over several months. An Indian study to systematically measure antibodies in vaccine recipients has found a significant decline in antibodies that block the infection about six months after the second doses of Covaxin and Covishield, the main vaccines used in India’s immunisation campaign. Despite the decline, recipients of both vaccines showed detectable antibodies, indicating that their immune systems remained primed to fight the infection, the study by the Indian Council of Medical Research Regional Centre, Bhubaneswar, suggested. “Our findings are on expected lines — antibodies have been seen to wane after full immunisation with other Covid-19 vaccines elsewhere in the world,” said Sanghamitra Pati, a physician-epidemiologist and the director of public health at the ICMR Regional Centre. But the 18-member panel has underlined that even if the levels of vaccine-generated antibodies wane over time, this does not necessarily predict reductions in efficacy of vaccines against severe disease. This could be because protection against severe disease depends not only on antibodies, which might be short-lived for some vaccines, but also through other arms of the immune system called memory responses and cell-mediated immunity that are long-lived. The panel included two Indian health researchers — Narendra Arora, a senior paediatrician and public health specialist who is currently advising the Centre on vaccination policy and Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the WHO. India’s Covid-19 vaccination policy makers have said any decision on boosters will depend on the scientific evidence for their need, in line with the WHO’s position that the introduction of boosters should be guided by evidence of waning vaccine effectiveness. “We need to determine through research who would need a booster and when would a booster be needed, particularly in a country where over 70 per cent of the population has already been exposed to the natural infection,” Arora told The Telegraph. The ICMR Regional Centre’s study has shown the impact of natural infections on even vaccine recipients. While antibody concentrations dropped significantly in 533 recipients of Covaxin or Covishield about 24 weeks after the second doses, 81 recipients who had developed post-vaccination infections showed spikes in their antibody concentrations. The ICMR group is currently pursuing a larger two-year follow up of vaccine recipients, hoping to generate more data on the persistence or waning of immune responses to the vaccines and infection. “A decision on booster doses requires evidence,” said Debdutta Bhattacharya, a scientist at the ICMR Regional Centre. “Through this study and other planned follow-ups we’ll look for evidence on whether and when booster doses are required.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Congress replies to Adityanath with Taliban barb ||The Congress on Monday said there is nobody in Indian politics who has “such cheap, vulgar and low-grade mentality” as Yogi Adityanath, setting the stage for a bitter confrontation in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh election, which has the potential to define India’s future politics. The sharp reaction follows the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s statement at a public event on Sunday where he said: “Congress is the mother of terrorism in India. There is no need to tolerate those who inflicted wounds on the country. Only the BJP can ensure respect for everybody, respect for faith.” This left the Congress leaders furious, triggering acerbic responses from many. The official response was the harshest with party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh saying: “I am pained to say this about the chief minister of India’s largest state. But I feel compelled to say this. Yogi Adityanath se sasti, ghatiya aur ochhi mansikta wala vyakti Bharatiya rajniti mein nahin hai.” The BJP does not have the credentials to question the Congress on terrorism, he said, pointing out that the Opposition party had lost Mahatma Gandhi, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Beant Singh, V.C. Shukla, Mahendra Karma and many others to terrorism. Asking the RSS-BJP whether they had shed a single drop of blood in the fight against terror, Vallabh said: “Sitting in the lap of the British when the Congress was fighting for freedom was a compromise with terror. Nathuram Godse was the terrorist of independent India. Who patronised Godse? Who escorted Masood Azhar to Kandahar? Who made Asia Andrabi (an extremist Kashmiri) the poster girl?” Many Congress leaders posted on social media the photograph of the incumbent national security adviser Ajit Doval escorting Masood Azhar. The Congress spokesperson then raised a point that will hurt the BJP. “What is the Modi government’s compromise with the Taliban? Why was Narendra Modi silent at the recent Brics summit when Russian President (Vladimir) Putin raised the Taliban issue?” Modi had earlier said there is nothing like good Taliban and bad Taliban, but his government has shown willingness to work with the new regime in Afghanistan. Adityanath did not elaborate on why he described the Congress as the mother of terrorism. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday dared the Prime Minister to a debate on terrorism on facts and asserted that organisations that fomented bigotry and religious fanaticism were responsible for terror. While the Congress leadership has decided to stick to real concerns like Covid mismanagement, unemployment, agrarian distress and rising crimes in the Uttar Pradesh election, they haven’t been able to avoid getting sucked into emotive discourse despite the firm belief that the BJP intends to escape from governance failures. There is always a dilemma whether the party should respond to the BJP’s propaganda on religious issues, nationalism and terrorism. The Congress ridiculed Adityanath for using the photographs from Bengal and the US to show fake development in the state. The party ran a campaign on social media on Adityanath’s Covid mismanagement, crime against women in Uttar Pradesh, infrastructural mess and healthcare crisis to counter his publicity blitz. Priyanka Gandhi, who is leading the Congress campaign in Uttar Pradesh, has asked the party workers to give voice to the people’s concerns and stand with them in their struggles instead of responding to the BJP’s demagoguery. Senior Congress leaders are touring the state to feel the pulse on the ground before finalising the manifesto. Priyanka who wrapped up her two-day visit to the state on Sunday, will return in a week and finally shift to Lucknow by next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Top brass calls for excluding J&K, Ladakh from theatre commands||The top brass in the security establishment have suggested that Kashmir and Ladakh should not be included in the proposed theatre commands of the armed forces, sources in the defence ministry have said. “There is a consensus among officials of the security establishment that the Northern Command in charge of the security in Kashmir and Ladakh should not be part of the Centre’s theaterisation drive of the three armed forces,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. He said the Northern Command was too “sensitive”. “Security officials have suggested that Kashmir and Ladakh frontiers are too sensitive to be tinkered with and should be left alone,” the official said. He also cited the ongoing heightened tensions along the Line of Control with Pakistan and the border standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Udhampur-based Northern Command looks after Jammu and Kashmir, the LoC and Actual Ground Position Level (AGPL) with Pakistan and the LAC with China in Ladakh. Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services — the army, the navy and the air force — under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower. Sources in the government said the theaterisation of the armed forces was aimed at ensuring synergy among the tri-services chiefs to deal with security challenges and future wars. The plan, according to sources, is to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force, and all of them will work as a single entity looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. At present, the armed forces have 17 service commands across the country, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each while the Indian Navy has three. Besides, there are two existing tri-service commands as well — the Andaman and Nicobar Command which is headed by rotation by officers from the tri-services and the Strategic Force Command which is responsible for India’s nuclear assets. The air force is said to have apprehensions about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. The IAF does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s. Besides, the IAF is said to have issues over who would lead the particular theatres and has contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. In the wake of the differences, the Narendra Modi government has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military. “The IAF has said that their apprehensions and concerns need to be addressed first before creation of unified commands,” said an IAF official. The army top brass, however, are in full agreement with the theaterisation plan on the ground that multiple commands lead to confusion. They argue that China has a single Western Theatre Command for the entire Indian frontier. On the other hand, India’s army alone has four commands on the China frontier — Northern, Western (which mainly looks after the Pakistan front), Central and Eastern. The IAF has three commands for the China frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||‘Custody death’ whiff in Bhojpur district of Bihar||A 50-year-old woman was found dead inside a toilet in a police station in Bhojpur district of Bihar after being allegedly detained for three days though there was no complaint or FIR registered against her. Shobha Devi was allegedly found hanging from a gamcha inside the women’s restroom in Piro police station, around 92km southwest of Patna, on Sunday. The incident again raises questions on the claims of chief minister Nitish Kumar about better policing and law and order in the state. According to her family members, the police forcibly took away Shobha and her son Prakash Kumar from their residence at Mothi village on the night of September 9 without giving any reason. They said Shobha was fasting that day on account of Teej festival. Her husband Munna Prasad Chandravanshi, who works as a labourer in Jharkhand, was not at home. He hails from one of the Extremely Backward Castes in the state. “We went to the police station. But the police officials did not allow us to meet my sister or her son. We were threatened and shooed away,” Shobha’s brother Munna Kumar told reporters. “Days passed but we were still not allowed to meet them. The police did not give us any information. Suddenly, some policeman called and informed us on Sunday (September 12) that she had died,” he added. Prakash said that both of them were kept at different places in the police station and alleged that they were beaten up by the officers. Police sources said that Shobha and her son were brought to the police station in connection with the murder of a rural medical practitioner Mantosh Kumar of the same village around 10 days ago. Mantosh’s brother Shekhar Suman had registered an FIR against two persons — one named and another unnamed — but the complaint did not include the names of either Shobha or Prakash. After local people came to know about the woman’s death, they assembled outside the Piro police station in large numbers. Several local CPM leaders also joined them in support. Sensing that a possible law and order situation might arise, senior administrative and police officers rushed to the spot and took away Shobha’s body for post-mortem at Ara Sadar Hospital. Since Shobha died inside the police station, it technically becomes a case of custodial death. The police also did not produce her before any magistrate within 24 hours of taking her away from her house — making it a case of illegal detention. Bhojpur superintendent of police Vinay Tiwari has asked Piro sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Ashok Kumar to enquire into the incident. Several police officials were suspended on Monday on the basis of preliminary findings. “We have suspended Piro station house officer (SHO), another officer on duty and four women constables who were supposed to safeguard her, on the basis of the preliminary findings of the SDPO in the death of Shobha Devi,” Tiwari told The Telegraph on Monday. Asked about Shobha’s detention, Tiwari said: “She was not detained. She was brought for interrogation in the murder case of one Mantosh Kumar. She confessed to her involvement and told the police about four other persons being involved in the crime.” Tiwari admitted that the deceased woman was kept for three days at the police station and the SDPO’s findings also corroborated it. However, he claimed that it was a case of “suicidal death”. The police are yet to receive Shobha’s post-mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain lashes Calcutta and its suburbs||The city along with several districts of south Bengal experienced heavy rainfall on Tuesday owing to a depression that lay centred over Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The Met office said in a bulletin that an "intense spell of thunderstorm with moderate to heavy rainfall", during the day, battered different parts of Kolkata and its neighbouring districts of North 24 Parganas, South 24 Paraganas, Howrah and Hooghly. Commuters had a harrowing time reaching their destinations as many areas in the metropolis, including Sector V in Salt Lake, were left waterlogged. Fewer buses and auto-rickshaws were seen plying the roads in the morning. An official of the Kolkata Police traffic department said that the downpour led to traffic snarls that lasted for hours on the city's thoroughfares. According to the weatherman, north Kolkata and its suburbs recorded 116 mm rainfall in approximately six hours till 2.30 pm. Similarly, 45 mm rainfall was recorded during that period in Alipore, reflecting the pattern of showers across south Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal advocate-general quits before his time for 'personal reasons' ||Senior lawyer Kishore Datta ended his “wonderful experience” as the advocate general of the West Bengal government on Tuesday, citing personal reasons. Datta, who was involved in defending the state government in several high-profile cases, submitted his resignation to the state, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “In terms of Article 165 of the Constitution I have accepted with immediate effect resignation submitted by Kishore Datta, senior advocate, as Advocate General of State of West Bengal with immediate effect,” tweeted the governor. Datta, was representing the state in legal matters ever since  his predecessor, barrister Jayanta Mitra, had stepped down in 2017 before completion of his tenure, citing “differences with the government.” Datta has been replaced by Gopal Mukherjee, senior advocate of Calcutta High Court, as advocate general of the state. On Monday, Datta was arguing against a petition filed by  BJP legislator Ambika Roy, challenging the appointment of defected MLA Mukul Roy as chairperson of the Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. “To challenge anything in the Assembly an independent motion has to be moved in the Assembly itself as matter pertaining to Legislative Assembly proceedings cannot be subjected to judicial review due to the bar under Article 212 of the Constitution,” Datta had argued. Hours before the senior advocate submitted his resignation, Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee summoned officers belonging to the CBI and the ED investigating the Narada bribery case, for not taking permission of the Speaker before initiating action against elected representatives. Sources said the state’s poor track record in defending its decisions in court and challenging orders had often taken a toll on the incumbent advocate general. As recently as September 3, a three-member bench of the Supreme Court had rebuked the state government and refused to entertain the Bengal government’s plea challenging the authority of the Union Public Service Commission to shortlist names of Directors General of Police, as directed by the apex court. In over a decade since Mamata Banerjee took charge as chief minister none of the advocate generals has completed their terms. Anindya Mitra, Bimal Chatterjee, Jayanta Mitra, and now Datta,  all resigned for various reasons at a time when the government was involved in several legal battles. The Mamata Banerjee government also faced major embarrassment when the Calcutta High Court ordered the CBI, and set up a special investigation team,  to probe allegations of murder and rape and other instances of post-poll violence. Though Datta has cited personal reasons behind his decision to step down, those in the legal circles believe the change was on the way as there has been a "cleansing act" in the government’s legal team. Little over a month after Mamata Banerjee took over, Abhratosh Majumdar resigned from the post of additional advocate general. Days before that his brother, Jayatosh Majumdar, who was the government pleader, had been removed by the state government. Trinamul sources said legal matters pertaining to the government were earlier handled by senior lawyer and Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee. However, with the wind of change blowing in Trinamul, advocate Sanjay Ghosh, who is close to the Trinamul’s all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, has gained the upper hand and is now handling the legal affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP complains to EC about discrepancy on Mamata's Bhawanipur bypoll papers ||The BJP on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, alleging that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did not make a mention about pending criminal cases in her nomination papers for the Bhabanipur by-poll. Sajal Ghosh, the chief election agent of the saffron party's candidate for the constituency, Priyanka Tibrewal, wrote to the EC, raising objections to Banerjee's declaration. "I beg to object to the nomination/declaration filed by Mamata Banerjee on the ground that the candidate has failed to disclose particulars of the pending criminal proceedings against her," he said. Ghosh, in his letter, also made a note of the number of cases filed at different police stations in Assam against Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Another bomb explosion outside Bengal BJP MP's residence||Less than a week after miscreants hurled bombs at BJP MP Arjun Singh's residence in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas, similar explosions were reported outside his home on Tuesday morning, with the saffron party leader claiming that members of the ruling TMC were trying to take his life. Around 9.10 am, bombs exploded on a vacant patch of land, which is just about 200 metres away from Singh's Bhatpara residence, a police officer said. "We are investigating the matter. Our officers are there," he added. The NIA on Monday took over the probe into the incident on September 8, which left the gate at the BJP MP's residence partially damaged. Singh alleged that it was an attack planned by the Trinamool Congress to kill him, his family members and people close to him. "This is nothing but a planned attack. The TMC is behind this... they are trying to kill me and my people. It's goondaraaj (lawlessness) in Bengal," Singh claimed. The TMC's North 24 Parganas president, Partha Bhowmick, rubbished the allegations, and said that the BJP MP was in some way or the other responsible for the explosions outside his home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP plea: Central forces in booths of three constituencies||The BJP has written to Bengal’s chief electoral officer demanding the deployment of central forces in all the booths of the three constituencies — Bhowanipore, Samsherganj and Jangipur — where bypolls will be held on September 30. The party has also demanded that Bengal or Calcutta police not be allowed within 200 metres of the bypoll booths. “The CAPF should arrive well in time to ensure area domination else they will have no other option but to be guided by the local police that is fully politicised,” read the BJP letter. BJP MPs Arjun Singh, Saumitra Khan, Trinamul turncoat Dinesh Trivedi and BJP leader Shishir Bajoria on Monday met chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab and handed over the letter to him. The letter also demanded  no officer or staff of the state government be deputed on poll duty “…specially inside a polling station and as sector officers”. This appeal was made in reference to a statement made by the state government employees and teachers' unions, who had committed their support to “ensure her (Mamata Banerjee) victory”. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari also filed two petitions with Biman Banerjee, the Speaker of the Bengal Assembly, urging him to disqualify the memberships of BJP MLAs Tanmoy Ghosh and Biswajit Das. Ghosh, the MLA from Bishnupur, and Das, the MLA from Bagda — both Trinamul turncoats — went back to their old party on August 30 and 31, respectively. Sources said Adhikari had written to both, demanding clarifications within a week, but received no reply. Nominations filed BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate Priyanka Tibrewal filed her nomination papers on Monday, accompanied by party leaders Suvendu Adhikari, Arjun Singh and others. She sought blessings at a temple before filing her nomination at the Survey Building in Alipore. The CPM’s Bhowanipore candidate, Shreejib Biswas, also submitted his nomination papers on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa’s new party plans 45 public meetings across the hills||New hill party Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, formed last Thursday by Anit Thapa, will hold 45 public meetings across the hills to kick-start its first phase of activities. The decision was taken at the party’s first indoor meeting in Darjeeling where various party posts were also filled up. Political veteran and lawyer Amar Lama, who was appointed as the party’s general secretary on Monday, said: “We have decided to hold 45 public meetings in 45 GTA constituencies starting from this week.” Sources said the first meeting would be held on September 15 at Rimbick which will be followed by continuous public meetings across the hills. “The newly floated party is stressing on reaching out to every nook and corner of the hills,” said a source. At the central committee meeting, the party also “adopted” its constitution and appointed leaders in key positions. Col (retd) Keshab Rai, D.K. Pradhan, former Darjeeling MLA and civic chairman, Ruden Sada Lepcha, Kalimpong MLA and Satish Pokhrel, former GTA Sabha member, were appointed as the vice-presidents of the party. For many observers of hill politics, however, the most important development was the formation of a 12-member advisory committee, which largely consisted of apolitical faces from different walks of life. Literary figures like Gokul Sinha and Jiwan Labar, drama personality Lalit Golay and educationist Geeta Chhetri and social worker Asha Mukhia Lama have been accommodated in the advisory committee. Sources said that the new party wants to go for an image makeover as most of its leaders are from one of the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. “Their attempt towards an image makeover is reflected from the nominations made in the advisory committee,” said a source. The women’s wing of the new party has been christened Bharatiya Gorkha Nari Shakti with Tshering Dahal Lama being appointed as the president and Prativa Kumai, formerly with the Jan Andalon Party (JAP) as its general secretary. Dahal had unsuccessfully contested the last Bengal Assembly polls from Kurseong constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 506 new cases, 587 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 85 straight days of a fall in its total number of active cases, with 506 new infections, 587 recoveries and 10 deaths. Bengal’s total of active cases fell by 91 on Monday to touch 8,096. Bengal now has 2.27 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh on among the states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 93 new infections on Monday, fewer than 125 on Sunday and 119 on Saturday. North 24-Parganas, with 104 cases, was the only one among the state’s 23 districts on Monday with a three-digit figure of new Covid infections detected in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas two. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its  highest ever this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.56 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.87 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state now has over 15.57 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March 2020, and includes more than 15.3 lakh recoveries and 18,587 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Minister Sabina Yeasmin check on erosion in Malda district||Sabina Yeasmin, the minister of state for irrigation, waterways and north Bengal development, on Monday lashed out at the Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) for its failure to commence anti-erosion works along the Ganga ahead of the monsoon. Yeasmin on Monday visited Birnagar 1 panchayat under Kaliachak 3 block of Malda district to take stock of the situation, a day after the Ganga had swallowed around 250 houses at various villages. Sources said during this year’s monsoon, villages in the panchayat faced acute erosion caused by the swollen river. “Around 700 families have become homeless as the river has gobbled their houses and also vast patches of agricultural land,” said a source. “The FBPA, a central government undertaking that maintains the barrage and is entrusted with the responsibility of carrying out anti-erosion works in Birnagar 1 and adjoining areas which are on the left bank of the Ganga, cannot shun their responsibility. We fail to understand why they did not take up anti-erosion works ahead of the monsoons,” Yeasmin said. Calls to senior FBPA officials from this newspaper went unanswered. She was accompanied by Trinamul MLA and district party president Abdur Rahim Boxi, officials of district administration and engineers of the state irrigation department. Later in the day, Yeasmin, along with district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra and some others, visited the FBPA office in Farakka. There, they held a meeting with officials of the barrage authority on a number of issues. “We have mentioned that hundreds of families have become homeless because of erosion. The FBPA has offered us land where these families can be rehabilitated. I have visited two such plots but those are in Murshidabad district and most of the victims are reluctant to shift from Malda,” Yeasmin said. The sources said an emergency meeting would be held here on Tuesday to discuss availability of an alternative land in Malda district which could be given to erosion victims. Mitra, the DM, said the FBPA will resume anti-erosion work on Tuesday. “If work is carried out on war footing, we believe at the least the high school building at Birnagar-I could be saved. The Ganga has been steadily aggressing at the building for the past few days,” he said. Back in villages of Birnagar-I panchayat, hundreds of homeless residents were seen sitting under open sky with their belongings. “Those who had lost their homes earlier had taken accommodation at the high school and primary school buildings. But it seems both these buildings would be swallowed by the river soon. We don’t know where to go and find a shelter,” said Minnatulnesha, a housewife. The administration, sources said, has sent relief materials to the affected areas. “We are also trying to find alternative temporary shelters for these families,” said the DM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Post-results violence: CBI arrests seven Trinamul Congress workers ||A CBI  team probing incidents of post-results violence in Cooch Behar arrested seven Trinamul workers on Sunday night in connection with a murder of a BJP worker in Dinhata. In the past 24 hours, it was the second round of arrests. Early on Sunday, the central team arrested four BJP workers for alleged involvement in the murder of a Trinamul worker. Sources said on Sunday night, CBI sleuths had called seven Trinamul workers for interrogation in connection with the May 3 murder of BJP’s Haradhan Roy. Later, all seven were arrested. On Monday, they were produced at a Dinhata court, which ordered two days of CBI custody. On Monday, the CBI in Birbhum arrested one Dilip Mirdha, 30, for his alleged involvement in post-results violence where a BJP worker of Illambazar was reportedly killed on the night of May 2, when poll results came out.  The CBI was tight-lipped on Mirdha’s political affiliation. He was produced before a Bolpur court and sent to four days of CBI custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI quizzes Partha Chatterjee in his office on Camac Street||CBI officers probing the I-Core deposit mobilisation scam questioned Bengal industries minister Partha Chatterjee in Calcutta on Monday. The two-hour-long questioning was held in the minister’s office on Camac Street. On September 8, the CBI had summoned Chatterjee to present himself before the agency on September 13 for a round of interrogation. Chatterjee had expressed his inability to appear for interrogation saying he was preoccupied with preparations for Bhowanipore byelections on behalf of the Trinamul Congress. He had also said he was a senior citizen and if the officers wanted, they could meet him at his office, where the summons had been sent. Accordingly, a team of three officers led by the investigating officer of the I-Core scam case turned up at Shilpa Sadan, the office of the industries minister, and also the address of the state’s directorate of industries. “The officers showed courtesy and turned up at my office. I have told them that I will extend whatever help is required in their probe,” Chatterjee later said. CBI officers said they wanted to know why Chatterjee had heaped praises on Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, at one of the programmes organised by the company. The CBI had arrested Maity and he later died while in jail custody in Odhisha last November. “The programme was held around the time when several complaints were lodged against the I-Core for allegedly duping investors,” said an officer. “We wanted to know a few things from Chatterjee, including how long he had known Maity and whether there had been any financial transaction between the two.” Chatterjee, sources said, told the sleuths that in 2011, he had attended the I-Core event to attract investment to Bengal. The CBI has claimed that besides praising Maity, Chatterjee had also assured help to the I-Core while attending the programme. The officers carried a video clip of the event to Chatterjee’s office before questioning him in the presence of his lawyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Care for babies at Duare Sarkar camp in South 24-Parganas ||Sagar block administration in South 24-Parganas has gone out of its way to take care of kids who are accompanying their mothers to a Duare Sarkar camp that has been witnessing long queues and prolonged waiting hours. The first Duare Sarkar camp was held in the block on August 16 and since then, thelocal administration has set up tents, named “Maa o Sishu Alay (Mother and Child Shelter)”. Women can take their babies to the tents to feed milk and baby food offered by the administration and also breastfeed them in covered facilities so that no children are left hungry during their visit to the camps. The block authorities with the support of local gram panchayats officials and health workers are taking care of the children. The local administration has also enlisted the services of senior students of Kanyashree clubs of local schools to serve milk and assist mothers in feeding children. Sagar resident Putul Mondal, a woman who fed her child at the tent, said: “The gesture from the administration was a big relief.… I live more than 5km away from the camp. I left home early in the morning to join the queue with my five-year-old child. My child had to stand along with me in the queue for over two hours. After I collected the form, a schoolgirl took me to the tent and offered milk to my child.” “The girls also helped me fill in my application form. The initiative was a big help.” The initiative was planned by the Sagar administration as it had anticipated a huge rush of women to obtain and submit forms to avail themselves of benefits under the newly launched ‘Lakshmir Bhandar’ scheme. The brain behind the initiative, Sagar’s BDO Sudipto Mondal, said: “Lakshmir Bhandar scheme has been drawing huge applicants across the state. The picture is quite the same on Sagar island. We always try to render fast service, particularly to women who attend camps with children. But one has to wait for over an hour to complete formalities at the camp. We felt the long wait might leave the kids hungry and we conceived a plan to arrange milk for them. We also provided a space for mothers to breastfeed their kids in privacy.” At a Duare Sarkar camp at Daskshin Haradhanpur village, around 50 women took the special service offered by the block administration. He said girls of “Kanyashree” club had been engaged at the camps to spot women carrying children and bring them to the tent. At the tents, health workers are taking care of the children and feeding them milk. Mondal said: “Our objective is to ensure comprehensive service for the people. ‘Maa o Sishu Alay’ is a step in this direction. We included Kanyashree girls in the initiative to boost their confidence and empower them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Supreme Court asks Bengal govt to file a short note on CBI probes||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Bengal government to file a short note on its plea challenging Calcutta High Court’s order of CBI probes into alleged incidents of murder and rape following the publication of Assembly poll results on May 2. The Supreme Court bench of Justice Vineet Saran and Justice Aniruddha Bose passed the directive. Justice Saran told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Bengal government, that a short note in the form of a chart highlighting the objections raised by the state on the high court directions could be placed before the bench for consideration. Accordingly, the court adjourned the matter to September 20. The high court had ordered the CBI probes based on a report submitted by the NHRC. Sibal told the court in his brief oral submission that the NHRC panel had several members who owed allegiance to the BJP. It was more of a “BJP Committee”, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll hearing in Calcutta HC set for next week||Calcutta High Court rejected a plea to hear on Monday itself a petition seeking judicial intervention in alleged irregularities on the part of the Election Commission of India in declaring bypoll only to the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency when by-elections were pending for two other seats in Bengal. Before fixing the hearing on September 20, Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, who headed a division bench, told the petitioner: “Notification declaring Bhowanipore bypoll date was published a few days back. Why didn’t you come then?” The petition was moved by advocate Sabyasachi Chatterjee. The Bhowanipore bypoll is scheduled for September 30. Chatterjee claimed that the Election Commission had announced the Bhowanipore bypoll date on the basis of a letter sent by the Bengal chief secretary. The petitioner asked why the chief secretary had not sought dates for all constituencies where bypolls were due. In reply, state advocate-general Kishore Dutta said: “After declaration of bypoll dates, courts do not have power to entertain such a petition.” He also argued that to avoid a constitutional crisis, immediate bypoll to the Bhowanipore constituency was necessary. Advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar moved another petition on Monday, seeking an order for postponement of the bypoll as the Covid-19 pandemic was still prevailing in the state. The court asked him to come with his petition after six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||RTI plea on Uttar Pradesh ad with Maa flyover visual||Trinamul Congress member and RTI activist Saket Gokhale on Monday filed an application under the Right to Information Act with the Uttar Pradesh government, seeking clarification on the origin of its advertisement on the front page of The Indian Express on Sunday. The advertisement — with an image of the state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath — boasted how he had transformed Uttar Pradesh, but it included the visual of the Maa flyover of Calcutta. “Filed an RTI with UP Govt asking: (a) if the fake ad y’day was made by UP govt or Indian Express (b) who approved the ad from Ajay Bisht’s (Adityanath) team (c) copy of contract with Indian Express specifying who’s in charge of what. We need to stand up if media is being bullied by Bisht,” Gokhale tweeted along with an image of his RTI application. The RTI, according to sources in Trinamul, was filed in a bid to corner the BJP and its Hindutva poster boy Adityanath. “Adityanath had come to Bengal 11 times ahead of the Assembly polls and said Mamata Banerjee’s government had done nothing. Now, an advertisement from his government depicts the image of a flyover inaugurated by Mamata Banerjee herself. What can be better than this for us to prove that the BJP is all about lies and misinformation,” a Trinamul leader said. This person added that Trinamul wished to keep the controversy alive. Gokhale’s RTI application demands the public information officer of the information and publicity department to share a copy of the contract signed between the UP government and the daily with all details. He has also asked if the content of the advertisement was decided by the government or “left to the discretion of marketing/other departments” of the newspaper. Additionally, he has demanded to know if the ad had been approved by the government before it was published, and the details of the official or the committee which did the final check. These questions come in regard to a clarification provided by the newspaper through a tweet in which it had apologised for the inadvertent inclusion of the image of the flyover in the “advertorial… produced by the marketing department of the newspaper”. Trinamul Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien had on Sunday rejected the possibility that the mistake was on the newspaper’s part. He had said a government ad, or any ad for that matter, wouldn’t go to print without the final approval of the client. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, another Trinamul Rajya Sabha member, on Monday said: “We have documents to prove that it cannot be the newspaper’s fault.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Five-member team of doctors call on children with flu in Jalpaiguri||A five-member team of doctors from the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) visited the Jalpaiguri district hospital on Monday to check on some 100 children suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) to find out how so many got infected with it amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In the past four-five days, around 200 children from different parts of the district, mostly aged between one and four years, have been admitted to the hospital with symptoms like fever, cough and cold. Some of them also had diarrhoea. Sources at the hospital said only one child among them was detected Covid-19 positive so far earlier this week and has been isolated. On Monday, 96 children with ILI were present at the Jalpaiguri hospital’s paediatric ward.  “Twenty-two children were discharged today (Monday) but another 22 got admitted,” said a doctor. Gautam Das, an NBMCH paediatrician and a member of the visiting team, said they suspected an outbreak of viral fever. “Even so, we have suggested tests for Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya and dengue for all children (locally). This apart, swab samples of 10 children will be sent to Calcutta for specialised viral tests. So far, as the discharge rate is high, we are suspecting viral fever,” said Das. Earlier in the day, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu visited the hospital to speak to doctors and the mothers of the admitted children. “All possible arrangements have been made for their treatment. We are keeping close watch on the situation,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Mooted: Plan to transport tea by train to Bangladesh and beyond||A delegation of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) held a meeting with representatives of the tea industry here on Monday and proposed that tea from north Bengal and the Northeast could be exported to Bangladesh and beyond via the Haldibari-Chilahati route that was reopened last month. ' Sources in the NFR said the proposal to use the rail network for transporting tea gained traction after the reopening of Haldibari-Chilahati route that links Bangladesh with north Bengal. “Teas can be exported to Bangladesh and to the Mongla port (in Bagerhat district of Bangladesh) via this rail route from the Northeast, which in turn, would be sent to other countries by sea. It can be a good alternative as so far, teas from Assam are sent via road to Calcutta port, located around 1,500 kilometres away,” said a source. The distance from Chilahati to Mongla port, on the other hand, is around 525 kilometres. The NFR officials also tried to convince tea industry representatives that using the rail route to send tea to different parts of the country would be more “efficient” for them in terms of cost and time saved. Mohan Thakur, the senior commercial manager of the Katihar division of the NFR, who attended the meeting, said the Union railway and  Union commerce ministries want the rail network to be used to transport teas. “We are in a position to transport teas from here to Jammu & Kashmir in 36 hours while teas sent to Delhi via trains will reach the destination in 24 hours. The idea is to send teas at lower transport cost and faster,” said Thakur. He also said that if companies, which sell teas, book 15 goods coaches or more, they will run a separate parcel van to carry the consignment. “If the number of coaches is less than 15, those would be attached with long-distance express and superfast trains,” the railway official added. At the meeting, railway officials also informed the tea planters’ associations that if required, appropriate infrastructure would be set up in stations spread across north Bengal for loading teas in goods coaches. “The facility to load teas will be introduced in a number of stations in this region. There is a similar plan for the Northeast, especially Assam,” said a source. Assam and Bengal are the two major tea producing states in India. In all, over 80 per cent of the total tea produced in India comes from these two states. The proposal from railway officials has been welcomed by the local business fraternity of Jalpaiguri. After the meeting, members of Jalpaiguri District Chambers of Commerce booked parcel vans which will be used to send teas to various locations of the country. “It is true that it takes more time to send tea by road. Also, fuel prices have escalated in recent times and the trains are a good alternative at this point. We appreciate that the railway authorities themselves have approached us and hope the tea industry will respond to the proposal,” said Amritangshu Chakraborty, principal adviser, Indian Tea Planters’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet to extend incentives to private industrial parks ||The Bengal cabinet on Monday decided to extend incentives to private industrial parks set up on five acres of land and industrial park status to cold stores, fisheries and poultry if they were established on five acres. The twin decisions are aimed at meting the target of setting up of 100 new industrial parks in the current financial year, said sources in the government. Earlier, the incentive scheme was for private industrial parks that came up on at least 20 acres. “Many of the investors who wished to set up industrial parks were requesting the government to reduce the land criterion from 20 acres as land is not available in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area. Now, the cabinet has decided to extend the benefits of the government incentive scheme to private industrial parks that are set up on at east five acres,” said H.K. Dwivedi, the chief secretary. The chief secretary also said cold stores, poultry, fisheries and warehouses set up on five acres would also be accorded the status of industrial parks, which had not been allowed previously. Sources at Nabanna said the government had relaxed the criteria for setting up of industrial parks in a bid to promote more industrial parks in the state. “As the industrial parks are labour-intensive, the government has decided to encourage investors to set up industrial parks in the state. Ahead of the Assembly polls, the chief minister had promised to generate 1.5 crore jobs in the next five years. If more industrial parks come up, it would help us in achieving the target,” said a senior government official. The state government made it clear that the decision to continue with the incentive scheme for private industrial parks was taken only to ensure that more jobs were created in the state. According to the existing incentive scheme for industrial parks, the investors can claim cash back of Rs 2 crore for parks set up on land measuring between 20 and 39 acres. Besides, the state reimburses 100 per cent stamp duty and lays 1.5 km road to connect with nearest major road and sets up power substation free of cost. “All these incentives were for industrial parks established on at least 20 acres of land. New incentive schemes would be framed for smaller parks, which would be set up on less than 20 areas,” said a senior official. The state government has also decided to give incentives in three installments, instead of paying it at one go, on completion of the project, said the chief secretary. The Bengal cabinet also decided to keep scooping up of soil up to 1.5 meter for use in brick kilns out of the ambit of mining activities. “As scooping up of land up to 1.5 meter would not come under mining activity, it would not require environmental clearance. Many brick kilns operating without permission would be regularised,” said the chief secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
14-09-2021||North East||Tripura police nix Abhishek’s September 15 march||West Tripura police on Monday denied permission to Trinamul for its proposed September 15 march to be led by its national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Agartala on the grounds that a rally by another political party was scheduled for the “same day, same time and same route”. Police informed Trinamul leader and former MLA Subal Bhowmik on Monday of their  inability to grant permission. In response, Trinamul leaders Kunal Ghosh and Sushmita Dev held a news meet in Agartala, terming the refusal  a “conspiracy”. Both said the police action reflected Trinamul’s “growing” acceptance by people in Tripura, which “scared” the ruling BJP in that state. Trinamul has decided to hold a rally on September 16 even if the police again denied it permission. Late on Monday, Abhishek took to Twitter to slam Tripura’s Biplab Deb government and dared the Tripura chief minister to “stop him”. The Trinamul MP tweeted: “.@BJP4India is SCARED TO DEATH and @BjpBiplab is using all his might & resources to prevent me from entering Tripura. Keep trying but you CANNOT stop me. Your fear of @AITCofficial shows that your days in governance are numbered. Truth be told, YEH DARR HUMEIN ACHHA LAGA!” Dev told this paper that they would hold the event on September 16, “permission or no permission”. “We have applied afresh for permission but will hit the streets even if we don’t receive police nod because we want to send a message to people that we are for peace and progress, not violence,” she said. Dev also asked the police to name the political party that got permission for the rally on September 15. “It is hard to believe that the rally by  another party was scheduled for the same day, same time and same route,” she said. Tripura minister Sushanta Chowdhury said Mamata Banerjee’s party did not get police permission as they did not apply properly. The BJP leader accused Trinamul of trying to get people from Bengal and Assam for the rally and create unrest. Trinamul leader in Tripura Ashish Lal Singh said preparations for the rally were on and the party expected a turnout of 50,000 people. Trinamul’s proposed march was announced a day after the attack on offices of the CPM and a few media houses offices on Wednesday by suspected BJP members.  The CPM already held a protest rally in Agartala last Thursday and would organise further programmes “to establish the rule of law” in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
14-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Darker hour||India was adjudged the most dangerous nation for women by a global poll in 2018. The situation, dishearteningly, seems to have worsened. According to data released by the National Commission for Women, the country witnessed a rise of 46 per cent in complaints of crimes against women in the first eight months of this year in comparison to the corresponding period of last year. Of the total complaints received, the highest number were recorded under the ‘right to live with dignity’ clause, followed by complaints of domestic violence and, then, of harassment of married women or dowry-related coercion. The highest number of complaints were registered in states and Union territories that are laggards in this regard: Uttar Pradesh tops the list, followed by Delhi and Haryana. The spike in registered cases can be attributed to several factors, not least of which is the versatile nature of violent crimes against women. The violence can be disproportionate though. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau show that in 2019 there were over 4,05,861 cases of assaults on women — a 7 per cent spike over the figure reported in 2018. Of these, 13,273 attacks, including 3,486 rapes, were perpetrated against Dalit women. The pandemic has exacerbated the crisis, with domestic violence — it witnessed a massive surge during the lockdown — labelled a “shadow pandemic”. Another challenge is posed by the subtler forms of violence — emotional abuse and mental cruelties — many of which are not even recognized as crime by the law. Marital rape, for one, still enjoys legal sanction. Then, there are systemic failures. The conviction rate for rape was a paltry 27.8 per cent for 2019, even though 88 cases of rape were recorded every day on an average. These systemic failures have led to a worrying demand for instant justice. Even though activists have made several arguments against the efficacy of capital punishment as a deterrent, the death penalty is still repeatedly proposed by political parties in an attempt to deflect attention from the structural and systemic challenges. India’s anti-rape laws are already stringent; putting effective deterrents in place would require more than symbolic gestures. These would involve addressing the lacunae on multiple fronts: shoddy investigation, the lack of sensitization among the police and the public about the dangers of ‘instant justice’ and, crucially, the embedded inequalities of gender and economics fuelling such crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: M.K. Stalin keps photos of political rivals on schoolbags||Astute leader Sir — In the past, a change of dispensation in Tamil Nadu has often been accompanied by attempts to erase photographs and mentions of previous occupants of high posts from government doles. It was thus surprising that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam supremo and incumbent chief minister, M.K. Stalin, chose to keep around 65 lakh school bags embossed with images of former chief ministers from All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, J. Jayalalithaa and E. Palaniswami. With this gesture, Stalin has proven that he stands apart from his predecessors. Not only does this move show that the chief minister is respectful of the Opposition, but it also points to his commitment to the economic well-being of the state. Stalin has saved a significant chunk of taxpayers’ money — Rs 13 crore — that can now be better spent on public policy initiatives. It is noteworthy that at a time when the Centre is attempting to erase the contributions of past leaders, Stalin is reverent towards the political legacy of the state. Unlike other leaders, Stalin refrains from self-eulogizing. This has endeared him to the people of Tamil Nadu. One hopes that this marks the beginning of a new era in the state’s political landscape. So far, Stalin has shown that the people were justified in reposing their faith in him in such troubling times. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, must be lauded for his decision to keep with the pictures of his political rivals, J. Jayalalithaa and E. Palaniswami, on school bags. Hopefully, other politicians will learn from him. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — M.K. Stalin exhibited true statesmanship when he chose to keep the old school bags issued by his political rivals. The people of Tamil Nadu have made the right choice by voting him to power. Mehul Patel,Pondicherry  Food wars Sir — Internet ‘food hacks’ seem to have pushed Italians to the edge. From tamer experiments like pasta chips to more outrageous recipes like spaghetti cooked in Coke or Nutella, the crimes against them are numerous. Some have defended the offenders by saying that they were simply trying to be creative and should not be taken seriously. But this reveals a lack of understanding about the deep emotional and cultural bonds that people have with food. A strawberry lasagna may rack up views on YouTube, but it will certainly not endear the cook to those who love food.Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Privileged few||Politicians often strive to resurrect tried-and-tested formulae, especially when the chips are down. This seems to be the case with Mayawati and her Bahujan Samaj Party. The BSP’s electoral tally has been dismal in recent times. It performed miserably both in the assembly elections in 2017 as well as in the parliamentary polls two years later. The debacles seem to have forced Ms Mayawati to return to an old trick: forge a broader solidarity between Brahmins and Dalits. At least, her recent overtures to Brahmins — she pledged to protect the interests of the community at a function — are indicative of her endeavour to breathe life into that famed rainbow alliance. The political compulsions are obvious. In a state where political fortunes are usually determined by caste equations, there are persistent rumours of the Bharatiya Janata Party under Yogi Adityanath alienating its Brahmin supporters on account of the chief minister’s patronage to their rivals. Political attempts to woo Brahmins are, however, not limited to Uttar Pradesh. Several welfare schemes have been launched in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka that cater exclusively to the interests of the community. Exclusion is the hallmark of these welfare programmes, be they for education or entrepreneurship. Initiatives to promote Vedic education in all three states, for instance, remain the sole prerogative of Brahmin students. What makes this surge in neo-Brahminism in welfare curious is India’s history of affirmative action. The current argument — a perverted one — appears to be that if Dalits can stake claim for State assistance, so can other caste groups. Aggravating economic distress and the erosion of the State as a guarantor of some kinds of employment have, undoubtedly, heightened the pitch for such demands. But the point is that the principle of social justice is distorted by such a proposition. There is no denying the fact that Dalits have been — and continue to be — victims of unprecedented discrimination. The scale of the injustice and their underprivileged status justify the State’s affirmative interventions. But ascriptive identity cannot be used as a yardstick to address complaints of penury and backwardness — real or imagined — of other castes historically associated with embedded social privileges. The ultimate goal of reservation — its execution, but not its spirit, may have been faulty — was to create, at some point in the future, an even playing field for all social groups. That constitutional vision is in shreds. Competitive politics and populist welfarism, both of which are inimical to the social fabric, are two principal causes of this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Waste not||It’s better to bin it than bag it. We generate millions of tonnes of biodegradable solid and liquid waste every day. What do we do with those large mounds of rot? Some small towns are showing us a way — Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Karad, Nashik or Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, to name a few. They are converting their waste into compost and selling it to farmers. Maharashtra has even begun to brand its city compost as ‘Harit’. The key lies in segregation of our waste, and in turn, our behaviour. Solid and wet waste on one side, plastic and medical waste on the other side. It takes 21 to 30 days to convert it into organic manure. We don’t do it. Worms, animals and microorganisms do it. What we can do is responsibly manage our waste. What began in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, with C. Srinivasan’s ‘Zero Waste Management’ model, or what he calls the Solid and Liquid Resource Management, is now slowly catching up. Most states are floating their policies for the urban local bodies, but their actions aren’t being matched by investments. The Centre’s two thematic focus areas match: Clean India Mission and improving soil health. Which means the Centre can incentivize both — the urban local bodies and farmers or their collectives. India would do well to give city compost a big thrust: at least half our waste could go back into our fatigued soils as compost and drastically improve organic content. Degrading soil fertility is playing havoc with yields in most parts of our country and is connected to the climate and nutrient cycle. Twin problems Early studies on the outcomes — such as in the GIZ-Nabard supported ProSoil programme which is currently in vogue in a few districts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra — show that urban compost is not only good, but its affordability in the light of rising chemical fertilizer prices is also pushing the demand from among the small farmers, primarily those who do not have livestock for organic manure. Just this one factor — improving organic carbon in the soil — can marginally enhance yields. India has huge and growing neighbourhood markets for farmers as the Karad model shows. The municipality of this small Satara town, home to the former chief minister, Prithviraj Chavan, converts its waste into compost and sells it directly to the neighbourhood farmers from its disposal facility. Since the fertilizer companies have a mandate to sell organic matter along with chemical and inorganic soil feed, there’s going to be interest in this sector. Most cities on the other hand are under pressure from citizens’ groups and green tribunals to do something about their piling up waste. At least 50 per cent of the massive amounts of solid and liquid waste can be converted into compost. The process might address our twin problems: piling-up waste and degraded soils. According to the New Delhi-based National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, the annual soil loss rate in our country is about 15.35 tonnes per hectares, resulting in a loss of 5.37 to 8.4 million tonnes of nutrients. This has long-term implications for farm-yields in the era of climate change. Right now, supply is a constraint and the quality of the compost and composting facilities are nagging issues, but they can be addressed with public and private sector investments in state-of-the-art laboratories, automation, better process management, and targeted incentives. Urban compost could be a game changer and not just from the point of view of the urban local bodies’ headache with its efficient disposal, but also from the point of view of improving soil health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Way out of the vaccine crisis||As on September 1, 2021, India had fully vaccinated 15,07,81,981 people — around 10.8 per cent of the population — as per data from the Union health ministry. This suggests that we have a long way to go to extend primary protection to the people from the Covid-19 virus. There is a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Kerala and in rural India. Vaccination has become crucial given that the fatality rate could be reduced through a wider vaccination programme across different ages. The Centre has planned to complete full-dose vaccination for 94 crore adults within December, 2021. For this, it needs about 188 crore vaccine doses. A comprehensive rural vaccination plan is also necessary. At present, only two companies — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — are manufacturing Covid vaccines. There is an acute supply shortage of vaccines in India. In view of this problem, the chief minister of Delhi as well as a former prime minister had suggested that the Centre should give licences to other pharmaceutical companies to ramp up vaccine production. Even the Supreme Court has offered a similar suggestion. As per the Doha Declaration of 2001, in the context of the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, under the World Trade Organization, WTO member countries can waive off intellectual property rights and grant compulsory licence in matters related to public health emergencies. Within Intellectual Property Rights, more specifically within the Patents Act, 1970 — amended by the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 —there is a unique provision for compulsory licence to remedy the abuse of monopoly patent rights. In October 2020, India and South Africa jointly demanded for IPR waiver to the WTO to temporarily suspend patent rights in the case of Covid-19 vaccines-related technology and medicines. Even the United States of America and some European countries have supported the waiver of the IPR, but it could take months before a consensus is reached. In the first phase of the Covid-19 crisis, Remdesivir was considered as an important drug in the treatment of patients. Its patent right was held by Gilead Sciences, based in the US. Russia decided to step up the supply of Remdesivir in public interest and in January, 2021 it granted compulsory license to Pharmasynthez, a Russian company. Gilead has filed a lawsuit against this action in Russia’s Supreme Court. Moderna, an American company, waived off the patent right for its vaccine and said that the company was willing to give license to other interested parties for vaccine production upon request. Till date, no company has come forward to acquire the license. Lifting IPR or granting compulsory license may thus not facilitate the entry of new manufacturers to supply more vaccines. Secondly, vaccine supply chains are international. The BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine contains around 280 ingredients that are exported from around 19 countries. This makes compulsory licensing the wrong strategy to increase vaccine production. A company’s patent right can be waived off by government order. But one cannot force the inventor company to reveal its trade secrets. When the innovator company drafts the patent, it often lays down broad steps. But the finer points of production are not disclosed often. Hence, it is difficult to know the exact process of manufacturing a vaccine from the original patent draft unless the inventor company agrees to transfer the details of the mechanism. Vaccine manufacturing being a complex process, no company has come forward to produce the vaccine even though Moderna waived off its IPR in October, 2020. Vaccine development also requires a lot of money; another reason why we do not have generic Covid-19 vaccines, as of now. What we need along with IPR waiver is technology transfer and training facilities to enable new companies to adopt vaccine-production technology. Cooperation between and assistance from the government and the corporate sector are also necessary. The government should step in and facilitate the technology transfer process. In order to tide over the vaccine crisis, the Central government has, of late, permitted the import of foreign vaccines like Sputnik V and those developed by Pfizer and Moderna. Some of these are already being marketed. But these foreign vaccines are not affordable for all. There is also the challenge of storage. Some of these vaccines require storage at specific cold temperatures for which then infrastructure is not readily available in most parts of India. It would be wise to expedite the production of indigenously developed vaccines and use the compulsory licensing route if existing manufacturers fail to supply the required quantities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Hopes tempered||The rise of Indian unicorns — start-ups that reach $1 billion in valuation — has raised hopes of innovation and entrepreneurship-driven growth at a time when Covid-19 has caused much damage. This is not without foundation. Historically, recessions and pandemics are associated with both business failures and successes: natural forces arise from within and upset existing processes and arrangements, replacing these with profit-seeking innovations that increase productivity. This is the idea of creative destruction characterized by the Austrian economist, Joseph Schumpeter. India now has 100 unicorns, according to the investment bank, Credit Suisse; the Reserve Bank of India counts 10 new ones that emerged in 2019, 13 in 2020, while this year, three start-ups became unicorns each month! India hosts the third largest number of unicorns globally, after the United States of America and China, albeit at considerable distance from the former. What is the macroeconomic significance of their emergence? To be sure, it is difficult to anticipate aggregate outcomes of disruptive forces as impacts are observed over time. The growth pivot expected from the technology-driven transformations is exceptional, although the combined market valuation of unicorns is presently a minuscule share of the total despite robust future assessments by their venture capital investors. The unicorns are primarily located in consumer, technology, finance, hospitality, retail, and communications — domestic market-oriented services, although some look abroad as discerned from the foreign acquisitions. This contrasts with the emergence of India’s information technology sector nearly three decades ago. That was solely geared towards foreign demand, lifted the global share of India’s services’ exports and stabilized external balances with receipts that partly offset a secular expansion of the goods’ trade deficit. It also triggered IT-enabled, business process outsourcing and related services, created high- and medium-skilled jobs tapping into a vast engineering pool, language and low-wage advantages, and established an ecosystem in Bangalore, the crucible of present-day unicorns. At the same time, its post-2000s boom pushed up skilled-wages premium that fed back to the manufacturing sector, lowering its competitiveness with the steep rise in wages. The IT example illustrates how structural transformations unleash positive and countervailing forces. The aggregate outcome depends upon how the economy — workers, firms and government — responds to fundamental change. Given the limited export potential, the tech-driven and private equity-financed unicorns will mainly grow through domestic market expansion. Their external competitiveness is unknown, but it is true that their deep-pocketed investors are willing to back losses in the process of gaining market share in India’s large market where they have a long way to go before plateauing. The competitive interplay between incumbent and new firms will no doubt raise within-sector productivity due to greater efficient use of resources — lesser labour and capital input to produce the same unit of output. Less clear are the inter-sectoral elements of structural change, a process in which the resources spared from less-productive tasks, firms and sectors are redirected towards productive ones. The shift of worker-households or consumers, the firms or investors, and government policy interventions are material in this context. The macroeconomic effects are observed in respective contributions of capital and labour to raise the value of a product (goods or service), which increases the incomes of the owners of these factors of production — profits and wages — that sum up to gross value added, including product taxes, subtracting subsidies yields GDP, growth which measures improvement in living standards. Productivity increase is good for the economy despite increasing slack in some segments in the process. From a demand perspective, a lot depends on whether digitalization and aggregation of economic activities, which characterize most start-ups, are attracting new or additional consumers to expand the consumer base or shifting existing ones online. The breathless pace of mergers-acquisitions to gain market share indicates this may be more physical-to-online substitution for now. The continuous slowdown in aggregate consumption from 2017-18 supports this conjecture. Even in the pandemic-induced shift to online retail, for example, growth of Indian consumer numbers is assessed to be less-than-half the pace in the US and China. It follows that fresh and/or existing capacity expansion — investment — will respond to the enlarging of the consumption base. New technologies and applications also activate new investments — for instance in logistics, distribution, warehousing, which are visible. What is unknown though is whether investments are retreating or have altogether stopped elsewhere because they’ve become unproductive or are too inefficient to compete — there’s no significant increase in aggregate investment, which remains unprovoked. Evidence from the US, the longstanding leader of unicorns, provides some clues. Real GDP grew 2.3 per cent annually on average in 1990-2020; this masks the decadal average growth slowing from 3.23 per cent in the 1990s to 1.9 per cent in 2000-09 and to 2.3 per cent in the recent decade. In this time, unicorns evolved into present-day, big-tech firms whose investment spending outpaces the biggest spenders 20 years ago while their monopoly or near-monopoly positions and tax avoidance practices increasingly attract regulatory and public ire. Notably, productivity growth in the US has slipped below 1 per cent since 2005; the reasons, be it technical change or investment slowdown, are debated. Labour’s share in the national income (wages) has steadily declined, that of profits has risen; so has inequality, while there’s a lasting decline in workforce participation. Thus, there’s evidence of reduced competition in the long run, but also signs of limits in some spheres, such as the sustenance of the retail giant, Walmart, against Amazon, which is now turning to physical retail, even as many others — clothing and multi-brand retailers — succumbed. Fundamental changes are often also mixed with a myriad other factors impacting growth, eluding identification. The secular stagnation of the US, for example, is attributed to long-term structural forces such as globalization, demographics and technological change. The examples serve to illuminate that the effects of structural transformations are never straightforward, but non-linear. For India, economic structure, stage of development and timing are equally important — shift from informal to formal activities amidst a severe slowdown could dampen income gains, the relative employment-wealth effects could be misaligned, and so on. These indicate cautious celebration and tempering unicorn expectations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand allows shrines to open to public||The Jharkhand government announced a series of relaxations on Tuesday, allowing entry   of devotees to places of worship, classroom teaching in colleges and universities in addition to schools for classes 6 to 8. With Covid cases coming down in the state, the state government also issued guidelines for the upcoming Durga Puja and extended the timing of restaurants to do business by an hour till 11pm. These decisions were announced on Tuesday after a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) under the aegis of chief minister Hemant Soren. According to a statement issued by the state IPRD, all functionaries of religious places must be vaccinated at least with the first dose before reopening their premises. "Religious places must adhere to all the Covid appropriate norms while at places that draw large crowds, such as Baba Baidhyanath dham in Deoghar, the district administration is directed to ensure entry of a maximum of 100 people through e-passes per hour. "Those below 18 years of age will not be allowed entry and all religious places can only host a crowd of up to 50 per cent of its capacity, " the statement said. Till now, in-person classes were allowed in schools only for class 9 and above. While the state school education department sent a proposal for reopening all junior classes, but SDMA chose to consider it only for class six to eight for the time being. “The state government has taken a conscious decision to go for staggered reopening of schools even though there have been surveys and reports by different agencies citing how online classes have failed to help children in our state,” said an official, adding that even though Covid-19 cases have dipped the government was keeping a strict watch in developments. With regard to Durga puja in October, the state government has banned the entry of devotees to pandals which must be closed from three sides. Immersion processions will be banned too. "Organisers can build pandals without adhering to any theme. Idol sizes can’t exceed five feet, and there should be no fairs or distribution of bhog,” said the government statement. Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti, an umbrella outfit of puja organizers in the city, sounded upset with the guidelines. “Five-feet high Durga idols is impractical. We will oppose it. Last year, the government initially said four feet but later on backed down. We will hold a meeting soon to take a further call,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to impose toll tax on trucks carrying minerals||Heavy vehicles carrying minerals from various mining zones of Jharkhand will now have to pay toll tax, according to a decision taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday. The state cabinet also gave its nod to set up e-FIR police stations in 22 out of 24 districts to make it convenient for people to file police complaints. State cabinet coordination department secretary Vandana Dadel said modalities of their operations were being worked out. On the levy of toll tax on vehicles carrying minerals, she said the state government was expecting to raise about Rs 700 crore revenue annually. “Rates of toll taxes differ from place to place. These were approved by the cabinet on Tuesday. The road construction department will set up earmarked points for collection of toll on select roads,” she said. About e-FIR police stations, Dadel said, “E-FIR police stations will come up in 22 districts except Khunti and Ramgarh. People can file e-FIRs in cases where the identity of the accused is unknown without having the need to come to police stations.” A total of 17 proposals were taken up by the state cabinet on Tuesday. The cabinet sanctioned Rs 80.75 crore to Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Authority (JREDA) for implementation of the Union government’s solar city project. “In the first phase, Giridih district will be developed as solar city. As per the Center’s guidelines, households having annual income less than Rs 3 lakh will be given 100 per cent subsidy for installing rooftop solar power systems. Households with incomes of more than Rs 3 lakhs will be given 70 per cent subsidy of which the Centre and state’s shares will be 40 and 30 per cent respectively,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to implement new auto rules from September 20||A new set of rules that limit the number of autos that will ply within Dhanbad town will come into effect from September 20, deputy commissioner Sandip Singh has announced but operators alleged on Tuesday that the district administration was reneging from the agreement reached with them on September 7. “As the per the new regulations, only 1,500 auto-rickshaws will be allowed to enter Dhanbad town from September 20. But as per the negotiations held with us on September 7, the number agreed upon was 3,000," claimed Chhotan Singh, the president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahasangh. He also accused the district administration of reducing the number of auto-rickshaws by more than half in almost all the six agreed upon routes. As per new regulations, each of the six finalised routes had been further curtailed for operational convenience.  For instance, autos running from Lodna to Bhowra, Sindri and Patherdih will have to stop at Jharia and return. From Jharia, 400 autos will ply to Dhanbad town. Similarly, in other routes too autos would stop their journey at intermediate stations from where a limited number of three-wheelers would ferry passengers to Dhanbad. District transport officer Om Prakash Yadav said, "We have completed all preparations to implement the new regulations after taking data from the auto-rickshaw association. The number of autos finalised for each route will be communicated to the association in a day or two.” On Tuesday, a delegation of auto drivers went to the office of the district transport officer to meet him. But the DTO was away on official work. Sources said drivers and operators have decided to hold a meeting of all auto unions and present a joint memo to the authorities in a day or two. “How will the auto operators eke out a living if they are banned from entering the town. Due to lack of sufficient passengers in suburban areas, they will not be able to make sufficient income," said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Special teams to inspect ultrasound clinics across Jharkhand||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday directed deputy commissioners of all 24 districts to constitute special teams and conduct surprise inspection of ultrasound clinics in a bid to check if norms of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act were being adhered to. Chairing a meeting of the PC-PNDT State Supervisory Board, Gupta said that legislation could also be introduced in the e Assembly to make necessary changes in laws related to pre-natal diagnosis if the concerned officials feel the need of certain changes for proper implementation of the law. “First of all, every district should constitute a team and inspect all ultrasound centres running under their jurisdiction. A state team should also be constituted to see if the teams are doing their job,” said Gupta. The meeting on Tuesday was also attended by three legislators – Deepika Pandey, Mamta Devi, Sita Soren. Besides, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, National Health Mission (NHM) director Umashankar Singh and doctors from the radiology wing of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) were also present. Addressing the supervisory board, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh directed all district administrations to take strict action against ultrasound clinics and diagnostic centres that flout PC-PNDT Act norms. Sources present in the meeting said inspection of ultrasound clinics would be started within a week and facilities found violating the law would be sealed until further notice. “All teams inspecting ultrasound centres have to follow the set rule for evidence collection and documentation,” he said. NHM director Umashankar Singh said that at least 836 ultrasound clinics will be inspected in the next two months in Jharkhand. “Teams constituted at the state level as well as district level will conduct these inspections,” he said. Some of the stakeholders attending the meeting raised concern over the misuse of portable ultrasound machines and requested the government to ensure that such machines stay only within licensed diagnostic centres and clinics. The PC-PNDT Act was passed in 1984 to put a check on female foeticide by making identification of the gender of a baby before birth a legal offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Women not safe in Jharkhand, says Babulal Marandi ||Senior BJP leader Babulal Marandi on Tuesday said the law and order situation in Jharkhand had collapsed and that the Hemant Soren government was a total failure. Addressing the media at Circuit House, Marandi said women, particularly adivasis and dalits, were frightened since they were falling victim to crime almost every day. "Women are frightened and are becoming victims of rape and murder almost every day. The state government has failed to control the rising crime graph in Jharkhand. It’s a total failure on part of the government,” the leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly stated. Marandi, who was in the steel city to attend a scheduled caste and scheduled tribe conference, alleged the development projects have not taken off in the state in the name of Covid-19."Moreover, the government has also failed to give shape to development projects of the Centre," he added. Criticising the state government, Marandi termed the allotment of a room for namaz in the legislative Assembly unconstitutional. "We will continue to protest against this issue in a constitutional manner," he said and called upon party workers to work together and get ready for the next assembly polls. On the issue of the leader of Opposition not being recognised by the Speaker, he alleged the  chief minister and his father (Shibu Soren) do not want any adivasi leader to make progress. “This is the reason why they are stopping me. If they (Hemant and Shibu) will, they can make Basant Soren and Sita Soren ministers and no one else,” Marandi said. Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto, state party spokesperson Kunal Sarangi, senior leader Abhay Singh, district president Gunjan Yadav, general secretary Anil Modi and city spokesperson Prem Jha were among those present on the occasion. Marandi on Monday attended a conference of scheduled caste and tribe.in the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Water levels of Maithon, Panchet dams rise following heavy downpour||Incessant rains since Sunday led to the rise in water levels of different water bodies including Maithon and Panchet dam situated on the Barakar and Damodar river respectively at Nirsa block of Dhanbad. The water level in Maithon rose to 481.8 feet, the highest in the last six years in the month of September though it is still flowing 9 feet below the danger level. The water level in Panchet which rose to 411.7 feet and is 14 feet lower than the danger level. The situation is also the same in Topchanchi lake, a natural lake located around 35 km from district headquarters which is overflowing at the height level of 75 feet. Meanwhile, the heavy downpour also caused the water level of river Damodar to rise and preparations have been made to raise the level of two motors situated outside the Jamadoba Based Water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. The move has been made to prevent the submergence of the motors which would result in thwarting the water supply to more than 10,000 residents of Jharia and Katras. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Apurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC),said, “Heavy rainfall in the upper valley including Koderma, Giridih, Chatra etc led to the rise in water level but the situation is under control and we have also yet not received any direction from our regulatory Body, Central Water Commission (CWC) with regard to the increase in Water level of Maithon.” “As rain is still continuing, we are expecting more rise in water level today and accordingly will take decisions,” Saha said. Regarding the rise in water level of river Damodar, Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA said, “We have made arrangements for the lifting of motors situated outside the Water Treatment Plant of Jamadoba to avert any Water Supply disruption in Jharia and Katras." Meanwhile, the safety department of coal company BCCL has also sounded alert in its different operational areas in Barora, Block 2, Govindpur, Katras, Sijua, Kusnuda, West Jharia, Putki Balihari, Bastacola, Lodna, East Jharia and Chanch Victoria area. AK Singh, General Manage (Safety) of BCCL said, “All 12 area level control rooms besides the headquarter level control rooms have been put on alert while sufficient deployment motors pumps for carrying out dewatering have also been made” Meanwhile, the incessant rains have also led to waterlogging in several parts of the district including, the Tapovan Colony of  Dhanbad, Barmasia, Jahaztand in Bhowra, DRM Chowk etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Nearly 1.8 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated close to 1.8 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped further down to 117 in the state as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,22,354 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 57,210 beneficiaries. At least 1856 session sites remained operational across Jharkhand on Monday. East Singhbhum vaccinated over 25,000 residents, the highest among the 24 districts. On the other hand, at least 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Ranchi. About 8,000 residents got vaccinated in Dhanbad. Jharkhand on Monday reported at least 16 Covid recoveries against six fresh cases of coronavirus infection, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone reported at least five of the six cases, but the count of active cases here dropped as at least six Covid patients recovered in the district. East Singhbhum reported one Covid cases against five recoveries and the active caseload dropped to five. According to a press communique released by the health department on Monday evening, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 1.18 crore residents and at least 31.58 lakh of them have also received the second jab. So far, more than 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. As per government data, at least nine of 24 districts had zero active cases of Covid-19 by the end of Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Union industries secretary visits Heavy Engineering Corporation||Ranchi: Arun Goel, secretary of Union ministry of heavy industries, visited Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) here on Monday to review operations of the ailing PSU which is hoping for a central package for its revival.  Goel reached Ranchi after a two-day tour of Chatra district where he inspected National Thermal Power Corporation projects in North Karanpura. While the HEC management remained tight-lipped about the visit, sources said that Goel was given a full tour of the company premises and was briefed about its current fiscal health and work orders. Later, HEC Hatia Mazdoor Union  submitted a memorandum to the secretary underlining the hardship faced by workers who have not been paid salaries for five months. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: The indefinite dharna being staged in front of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University headquarters at Dhanbad by semester three B Ed students of three different colleges, including RSP College Jharia, B.S. City College, Bokaro and SSLNT Women’s College Dhanbad continued for the third consecutive day as talks between the agitators and university authorities held to end the deadlock remained inconclusive. The agitators who are demanding 20% concession in the course fee were adamant in their demand for concession before filling up of the examination form while university authorities expressed their inability to take any decision in the absence of Vice Chancellor Kamal John Lakra and assured them that a decision is likely to be taken on Tuesday after the arrival of the VC to Dhanbad from Hazaribagh. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Seven persons were arrested from different parts of the district in connection with the murder of Katras criminal Niraj Tiwari of September 2. The arrested persons included, Raunak Gupta, the arch rival of Niraj Tiwari, who recently came out of jail and was apprehending an attack from Niraj Tiwari against him. Police also admitted the involvement of UP based shooter Aman Singh behind the case who provided arms etc for executing the crime. (Praduman Choubey) Garhwa: Ranka police on Monday arrested two JJMP extremists accused of circulating notices against L&T Construction Company for collection of levy in Garhwa district. Udai Paswan  and Vijay Bhuiyan both residents of Baghwar village under Bhandariya police station were taken into custody from Hurdag and Tamge Khurd village under Ranka police station on Monday. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt plan to launch free app-based ambulance service||The Jharkhand government is planning to launch a free app-based ambulance service, which would make it the first state to offer such a facility. The project named “Jeevan Doot 108 Emergency Medical Ambulance Seva” would be on the lines of app-based cab aggregators like Uber and Ola. “We are ready for the rollout of the first phase of the app-based interactive ambulance service. We will seek a time for its launch during the review meeting of the health department projects with chief minister Hemant Soren. We would become the first state government to roll out a free app-based ambulance service in the country,” additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh, told The Telegraph. Doctor turned bureaucrat Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, who is the brain behind the project, said that in the first phase they would roll out the nearly 330 ambulances under the 108 emergency service. “We are ready to launch the service any day with 330 ambulances under the 108 emergency service. However, in the second phase we would integrate it the ambulances under the Mamta Vahan project, bike ambulances and also private ambulances in various districts,” said Bhuvnesh Pratap. According to data available with the health department, there are nearly 3,000 ambulances under Mamta Vahan (round-the-clock ambulance facility at panchayats to bring pregnant women to health centres for institutional delivery and is a joint collaboration of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and Unicef) and around 3,000 in private hospitals across all the 24 districts of Jharkhand. As of now, after receiving a call under the 108 service, it is routed to the nearest ambulance driver through the call centre, which reaches the spot. “The chief minister felt the need for an app-based free ambulance service after cases of ambulance drivers charging exorbitant amounts during the first and second wave of the Covid pandemic were reported from several parts of the state,” said a senior health department official. All the ambulances will have updated GPS and GPRS systems. The mobile application will be linked to the existing 108 toll-free number operated by the Jharkhand Emergency Medical Ambulance Service. “One would have to download the app from the Google Play Store as in the case of Ola and Uber. Then they would have to log in using the mobile number and OTP for registration. “The app will detect the location of the caller using GPS and the call centre would call the individual seeking details about the patient’s health condition and direct the nearest ambulance to reach the spot. The caller can track the location of the ambulance and also call the ambulance driver and guide him to the location. “The app will also inform the caller about the nearest hospitals. The app will have features for doctor consultation so that the hospital where the patient is being brought is in a state of readiness and if necessary a green corridor can be made to bypass a traffic snarl,” said Arun Kumar. The review meeting of the health department schemes scheduled on Monday afternoon (3pm) by Soren has been postponed and is likely to be held after the cabinet meeting scheduled on Tuesday. The health department will seek a date from the chief minister for launching the first phase of the app-based ambulance service during the review meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||AIKS leader calls to focus on cooperative farming, agro industry||The Jharkhand government should adopt an alternative policy of development based on cooperative farming and crop-based agro industries, an All India Kisan Sabha leader has said. P. Krishna Prasad, finance secretary of the AIKS (the farmers’ wing of CPI) and chairman of the Wayanad-based Brahmagiri Development Society, a worker-peasant cooperative in Kerala, who was in Ranchi to attend the two-day state-level farmers’ convention, said on Monday that cooperative farming and crop-based agro industries are the only way to prevent an agrarian crisis in the state and the country. “The alternative policy is essential to resist corporatisation of agriculture backed by the three new ‘black’ farm acts adopted by the BJP-led Union government. Without developing large-scale production and modernising agriculture under cooperative farming, the present alienation of tribal land, displacement and pauperisation of peasantry, converting them into migrant workers, cannot be resisted,” said Prasad, the former CPM legislator from Sultan Bathery in Kerala. Prasad, who will be meeting Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday before leaving for Kerala, added: “Cooperative farming will provide relief and prevent the crisis in agriculture to a certain extent.” Prasad, who is known as one of the major proponents of the cooperative movement in India, told farmers at the convention: “The crop-based agro industry especially food industry and the growth of domestic market are inevitable to find a solution to the present crisis. This will help Jharkhand to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and enhance the purchasing power of workers and peasants.” He said that he would submit a recommendation to the state agriculture minister. “The state government should adopt a law in support of cooperative farming and modernisation of agriculture production by linking with agro-based industry especially food industry to ensure more employment and increased wage to agriculture workers and facilitate surplus sharing to enhance MSP on all crops to farmers. The state government should come forward to save farmers and agricultural workers from the cooperative loot under the (Narendra) Modi-led Union government,” said Prasad. He also had a suggestion for Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren who has often expressed support for the farmers’ agitation in Delhi. “In solidarity with the peasants, especially tribal farmers and agricultural workers, the chief minister should consider calling a special session of Assembly to adopt an alternative law based on cooperative farming” said Prasad. The convention in Ranchi asked all farmers to come out in all the blocks of Jharkhand during the Bharat Bandh called by the Samykta Kisan Morcha in Delhi against the new farm laws and against the central government on September 27. “The farmers’ movement will go beyond 2024 if the Modi government does not repeal the new farm laws. Jharkhand’s farmers have decided to extend full support to the bandh. The bandh would be historic,” said Prasad. “The nine months of the farmers’ movement and the martyrdom of 600 farmers will not go in vain. A large number of farmers will hit the road on September 27,” said Sufal Mahato, state coordinator of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity, an outfit coordinating the agitation against the three farm laws in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to have new pharma policy and develop a pharma park||Jharkhand will soon have its new pharma policy and develop a pharma park, around 50km from Ranchi. “We are drafting a dedicated pharma policy with necessary incentive provisions for medical equipment manufacturers. Chief minister Hemant Soren has directed the industry department to ready the dedicated pharma policy at the earliest. The officials have been directed to include provisions for plot allocation for medical equipment manufacturers in the upcoming pharma park,” said a close aide of the chief minister. The industry department has identified area for the pharma park. “We have identified site for developing a pharma park and a food processing park in the Barhe village in Chanho Block of Ranchi. The department has reserved an open area of 35 acres for the creation of pharma park. As per the plan, the government has reserved 55 plots for allocation to micro, small, medium and large-scale pharma industries. Out of these 55 plots, 30 plots are reserved for the micro pharma industry, 14 plots for small units, 7 plots for medium units and 4 plots are reserved for large scale pharma production units,” the aide added. The park will be equipped with all the necessary infrastructure facilities, including an administrative building, a canteen, utility centre, effluent treatment plant, a road network, drainage system, bridges, street lights and many more. Sources in the industry department informed that during the recent Investors’ Meet held in Delhi for the launch of the Jharkhand Industrial Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP-2021), interested investors raised their concern about the lack of provisions for medical equipment manufacturers in the old pharma policy. “Chief minister Shri Soren assured them of solution and directed officials to work on drafting a dedicated pharma policy and include necessary incentive provisions for medical equipment manufacturers,” said a source in the industry department. The pharma park will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 34.94 crore. Of this amount, the state government will give Rs 13.47 crore. Spread across 50 acres of land, the pharma park will increase Jharkhand’s share in the pharmaceutical business in the country. It currently stands at just one per cent. Jharkhand’s share in the pharmaceutical sector across eastern India is five per cent. Companies that are interested in investing in the upcoming facility can also avail several government benefits. The state government has made a provision of up to 20 per cent subsidy on project investment while giving 100 per cent exemption on stamp duty and registration. Companies can also get the assistance of up to Rs 10 lakh on quality certification. A rebate of Rs 10 lakh on patent registration is also being offered. At present, Jharkhand depends on Sikkim, Gujarat and West Bengal for a major part of its medicinal requirements. The state has about 80 pharma manufacturing units, but all of them are operating in small-scale sector with not much high profile products. But the government wants to establish a pharma park and attract big players from Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad to invest in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
