15-09-2021||Business||Swiggy, Zomato may soon have to pay Goods and Services Tax||The all-powerful GST Council is likely to discuss on Friday a proposal to treat food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy as restaurants and levy 5 per cent GST on supplies made by them, an official said. A proposal to make the delivery platforms liable to pay the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on restaurant services supplied through them is one of over four-dozen proposals that will be taken up by the Council at its meeting in Lucknow on September 17. If approved, the apps would be given certain time to make changes in their software to allow for such tax to be charged. Once approved by the GST Council, food delivery apps will have to collect and deposit GST with the government, in place of restaurants, for deliveries made by them. There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumers. As per estimates, tax loss to exchequer due to alleged under-reporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 crore over the past two years. Under GST, these apps are currently registered as Tax Collectors at Source (TCS). One of the reasons for designing such a proposal was that there was no mandatory registration check by Swiggy / Zomato and there were unregistered restaurants supplying through these apps. Even though the rate of tax is low, since food delivery volumes are high, the tax evasion amount is also substantial, the official said. Analysis of returns filed by delivery apps and the restaurant services for the state of Haryana showed that for Zomato, the gap in taxable turnover for suppliers where TCS was deducted by Zomato was greater than the turnover declared by such suppliers. Therefore, there was evasion of tax. Similarly, in the case of Swiggy, there was a gap in taxable turnover for suppliers where TCS deducted by the app was greater than the turnover declared by such restaurant suppliers. Accordingly, the suggestion of food delivery apps collecting and depositing GST with the government would be placed before the GST Council, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Tata Sons bid to acquire loss-making Air India||Tata Sons -- the holding company of India's largest conglomerate -- on Wednesday submitted a financial bid to acquire loss-making state airline Air India. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary of the department that is running the privatisation process, tweeted of financial "bids" being received but did not say how many companies were in fray. A Tata Sons spokesperson confirmed that the group has put in a bid for the national carrier. No-frills airline SpiceJet's Ajay Singh was considered to be another interested party in buying out the debt-laden airline. He did not respond to messages sent seeking confirmation if he had in his individual capacity put in a bid. The financial bids will be evaluated against an undisclosed reserve price and the bid offering the highest price above that benchmark would be accepted. The bid will be initially examined by the transaction advisor before the recommendation is sent to the Cabinet for approval. If successful, this will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. Tatas operate a premier full-service carrier, Vistara, in partnership with Singapore Airlines. It was not immediately known if the group put in the bid on its own or through budget carrier AirAsia India. Singapore Airlines was said to be not keen on participating in the privatisation programme as it would only add to Vistara's and its own financial troubles. "Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by Transaction Adviser. Process now moves to concluding stage," Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. He neither identified the bidders nor said how many bids have been received. In the past, when more than one bid was received. as was the case when the initial expressions of interest (EoIs) came in for Air India, he had tweeted of "multiple bids" coming in. The phrase 'multiple bids' was also used when three firms, including the Vedanta group, put in EoI for Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL). The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India's 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids. Wednesday (September 15) was the last day for putting in financial bids. Tata Group was among the multiple entities that had put in an initial expression of interest in December 2020 for buying the Maharaja. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest and after receiving feedback from potential investors, the government had in October last year sweetened the EoI clause relating to the transfer of Air India's debt to the new investor, giving bidders flexibility to decide on the quantum of humongous debt they want to absorb. As per the Air India EoI floated by DIPAM in January 2020, of the airline's total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore. The rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. Air India has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The airline will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||No leadership structural changes on the anvil, says Tata Sons||Tata Sons Chairman N Chanrasekaran on Wednesday said there are no leadership structural changes on the anvil at the holding company of the USD 106 billion salt-to-software conglomerate. Ratan Tata, the octogenarian chairman of Tata Trusts that have controlling stake in Tata Sons, separately said he was extremely disappointed over reports speculating a major revamp in the leadership structure at the group. "I would like to state that no leadership structural changes are on the anvil," Chandrasekaran said in a brief statement. The statement came in relation to a Bloomberg report that said Tata Sons was considering a "historic revamp of its leadership structure by creating a chief executive officer's role to help improve corporate governance." The CEO position, it said, was to be created below the current position of chairman, to "guide the sprawling businesses of the 153-year-old Tata empire." Chandrasekaran said any such decisions are taken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the board. "Any such decision, if relevant, are taken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee," he said. "We are extremely disappointed with such stories that create disruption to regular operations." In a separate statement, Ratan Tata said "such speculation can only serve to cause disruption amongst a team that has been operating smoothly with impressive growth in market value." "I am extremely disappointed with the recent media reports regarding a major revamp in the Tata groups organisation framework through a speculative company wise restructure with me seen to be critical to implementing this change," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Telecom sector reforms will ensure industry to invest fearlessly, says Sunil Mittal||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel Chairman Sunil Mittal on Wednesday said the telecom sector reforms approved by the Cabinet will ensure that the industry is able to invest fearlessly, and the company will respond to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to invest and accelerate the country's growth. Among a series of breathers for the stressed telecom sector, the Cabinet has approved the inclusion of revenues earned only from telecom services in the adjusted gross revenue (AGR), and the removal of penalty on dues to be paid to the government prospectively. Mittal congratulated and thanked the government for undertaking these seminal reforms to lift an industry that is at the core of his Digital India vision. "The latest reforms ensure that the industry is able to invest fearlessly and support India's digital ambitions. We also compliment the Minister of Communications and the Finance Minister for their leadership and support," Mittal said in a statement. The government on Wednesday also gave a four-year moratorium to pay government dues but with interest. "Bharti Airtel is fully committed to responding to the call by the Prime Minister to invest in and accelerate India's growth. What lies ahead is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to build the digital infrastructure that is a catalyst for the digital aspirations of over one billion Indians," Mittal said. Bharti Airtel said the reform package heralds a new dawn for the Indian telecom industry and will catalyse explosive growth of this vital sector. He further said the reforms pave the way for a sustainable three private plus one state-owned telecom operator structure to serve a large market like India. "These bold initiatives are reminiscent of the decisions taken by the NDA government in 1999 when the telecom sector was at a crossroads which resulted in an era of affordable mobile services for all Indians," Airtel said. From October, delayed payments of licence fee and spectrum usage charge will attract an interest rate of State Bank of Inda's MCLR plus two per cent, instead of MCLR plus four per cent, compounded annually instead of monthly. MCLR stands for marginal cost of funds-based lending rate. The government has prospectively removed penalty and interest on penalty on delay in payment of government dues. This provision has led to telecom operators bleeding after the Supreme Court decision upholding the government's view on AGR definition. The Cabinet eased customer acquisition norms for telecom operators by replacing the need to fill physical forms with digital forms. "These fresh reforms will further boost our efforts to invest in this exciting digital future and enable us to be one of the leading players in India's digital economy. More needs to be done, however, towards a sustainable tariff regime to ensure the industry gets a fair return. "This will, in turn, allow it to continue investing in new technologies and innovation to bring world-class services to customers," Bharti Airtel India and South Asia MD and CEO Gopal Vittal said. Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that as part of the reforms in the telecom sector, the Cabinet has allowed a four-year moratorium on all dues that telecom operators have to pay to the government, including annual payments of dues arising out of the AGR judgment and spectrum purchased in past auctions excluding the March 2021 auction. The government has given the option to telecom operators to pay the interest amount arising due to deferment of payment by way of equity. The minister said 100 per cent FDI (foreign direct investment) in telecom via the automatic route was approved by the Cabinet. Earlier, automatic investment routes were limited to 49 per cent level, and approval from concerned authorities was required for foreign investment beyond 49 per cent level. The Cabinet has approved the allocation of spectrum through an auction for a period of 30 years, compared with the 20-year period prevalent at present. Also, telecom operators will be allowed to surrender the spectrum that will be acquired in future auctions after 10 years of the lock-in period. There will be no spectrum usage charges levied for spectrum acquired in future auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale fresh lifetime peaks||Equity benchmark Sensex soared over 475 points to close at its new lifetime high on Wednesday, driven by gains in TCS, Bharti Airtel and Titan amid persistent foreign capital inflows. The 30-share index settled 476.11 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 58,723.20. It touched an intra-day record of 58,777.06. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 139.45 points or 0.80 per cent to its new closing high of 17,519.45. During the session, it touched an all-time peak of 17,532.70. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 7 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Titan, HCL Tech, SBI, PowerGrid, TCS and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Axis Bank, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India were among the laggards. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a relief package for the telecom sector that includes a four-year moratorium on payment of statutory dues by telecom companies as well as allowing 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The Cabinet also approved a Rs 26,058 crore production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the auto, auto-components and drone industry to enhance India's manufacturing capabilities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul closed in the green. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,649.60 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude spurted 1.05 per cent to USD 74.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Cairn, Air India seek stay on New York court proceedings||Cairn Energy and Air India have jointly asked a New York federal court to stay further proceedings in the British firm's US lawsuit targeting the airline for enforcement of a USD 1.2-billion arbitral award. The move follows the government enacting a law to scrap retrospective taxation in the country, which in effect will result in withdrawal of the Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn, according to court documents reviewed by PTI. The British company had won an international arbitration award against levy of such taxes and sought to take over Air India assets when the government refused to honour the award and pay it USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. But, last month, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, that scraps all such retrospective tax demands and has agreed to refund Rs 7,900 crore it had seized from Cairn to enforce such demand. Cairn has indicated that the refund, without interest and penalty, was acceptable to it opening an avenue to settle the seven-year-old dispute. Cairn and Air India in a joint request to US District Judge Paul Gardephe on September 13 stated that a stay on proceedings would give them "additional time to evaluate the effects and implications" of legislation that repealed the retroactive tax. In return for the Rs 7,900 crore, Cairn would drop lawsuits threatening court-ordered seizures of Indian government property abroad. One of those suits was filed in May against state-owned Air India Ltd, which Cairn has said should be considered alter ego of the Indian government. "The implementing regulations are in the rulemaking process and will take some time," the two said in the petition seeking extension of the October 21 deadline for the presentation of case papers and initial pretrial conference on October 28. They requested the court to "stay any further proceedings in this matter through October 31, 2021, and reschedule the initial pretrial conference and, respectively, the deadline for the parties to submit their Joint Pretrial Letter and Proposed Case Management Plan, for new dates in November 2021." "The Parties have conferred and agreed that the stay will facilitate the efficient resolution of the dispute, conserve the Court's and Parties' resources, and is not intended to obstruct or delay," they added. Cairn had on May 14 brought a lawsuit in the New York district court to hold Air India liable as the alter ego of the Republic of India for the obligations the government owes under a foreign arbitral award. The firm separately filed a petition before the District Court for the District of Columbia to recognise and enforce the arbitration award against India on February 12, 2021. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government last month enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecom group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. An international arbitration tribunal in December overturned a levy of Rs 10,247 crore in taxes on a 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India business prior to its listing. It also asked the Indian government to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld. This totalled USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. The government initially refused to honour the award, forcing Cairn to identify USD 70 billion of Indian assets from the US to Singapore to enforce the ruling, including taking flag carrier Air India Ltd to a US court in May. A French court in July paved the way for Cairn to seize real estate belonging to the Indian government in Paris. All these litigations will be dropped once Rs 7,900 crore is paid, Cairn CEO Simon Thomson had told PTI earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Big bang relief package announced for telecom sector ||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions. Among procedural reforms, shifting from prepaid to post-paid connections and vice-versa will not require fresh KYC. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said nine structural reforms for the telecom sector have been approved that are aimed at fostering healthy competition in the sector to provide choice to customers and pave the way for the entry of new players. The government excluded non-telecom revenues from the definition of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) prospectively. Telecom companies have to pay a pre-fixed percentage of AGR to the government as statutory levies but this will apply prospectively. The inclusion of non-telecom revenues had led to thousands of crores of dues piling up on companies like Vodafone Idea, pushing them to the verge of bankruptcy. For the past dues, the Cabinet allowed a moratorium or deferment of up to four years in annual payments. But the telecom companies will have to pay a small interest during the moratorium period. Also, the government will have an option to convert the due amount pertaining to the deferred payment into equity at the end of the moratorium/deferment period. A moratorium on AGR-related dues will offer space to the cash-strapped firms to improve its business and clear dues over a longer period. "The telecom relief package is revenue neutral for the government," the minister said. The Cabinet also allowed 100 per cent FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in the sector under the automatic route. So far, up to 49 per cent was allowed through the automatic route and anything thereafter had to necessarily go through the government route. The latest measures are expected to ease the cash flow issues being faced by some players in the industry. Spectrum user charges have been rationalised and there will be now an annual compounding of rates. Spectrum can now be surrendered as well as shared. Spectrum auction calendar will be created while tower set up process is now simplified on the basis of self-approval. Rationalising spectrum charges, the Cabinet replaced monthly compounding of interest on spectrum usage charges with annual compounding as well as brought down the interest rate. The package is also expected to boost 4G proliferation, infuse liquidity and create an enabling environment for investment in 5G networks. The announcement came after the Supreme Court last year ordered payment of statutory dues on the basis of the old definition of AGR. The telecom firms -- Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Communications -- owed nearly Rs 92,000 crore to the Centre as license fee and Rs 41,000 crore as spectrum usage fees. The Telecom Minister said spectrum auction will be held in the last quarter of the financial year. He said the Cabinet approved a number of structural and process reforms in the telecom sector. "These are expected to protect and generate employment opportunities, promote healthy competition, protect interests of consumers, infuse liquidity, encourage investment and reduce the regulatory burden on Telecom Service Providers (TSPs)," he said. The nine structural reforms include rationalisation of AGR definition, reduction in bank guarantees to be made against license fee and other levies, rationalisation of interest rates and removal of penalties on delayed payment of license fee and Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) and no bank guarantee for future auctions. Others are tenure of spectrum increased from 20 to 30 years, surrender of airwaves allowed after 10 years, no SUC for spectrum acquired in future auctions, additional SUC of 0.5 per cent for spectrum sharing removed, and 100 per cent FDI. Procedural reforms include a fixed calendar for spectrum auction, removal of cumbersome requirement of licenses for wireless equipment, allowing self-KYC (app-based), e-KYC rate revised to only Re 1, paper Customer Acquisition Forms (CAF) to be replaced by digital storage of data, and the Department of Telecom will accept data on a portal based on self-declaration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||InvestoXpert Brings Comprehensive Real Estate Solutions To Transform Realty||The real estate sector’s contribution to India’s GDP is reportedly expected to go up to 10% by 2030, thereby, contributing about 1 trillion dollars to the nation’s economy which makes it all the more important to invest in unerring profitable deals in the sector. Catering to this, a lot of Real Estate consultancy platforms arose to provide special assistance and recommendations to potential investors who are searching for property either to purchase or to sell. InvestoXpert, an eminent name in the real estate consultancy business offers comprehensive solutions to fulfill innumerable requirements of customers with contrasting choices. With a team of experienced professionals, InvestoXpert provides clients a cornerstone on resolving every conundrum regarding which property they should invest in. They also guide them with the finest choices at affordable prices in a simultaneous manner. Entrenched on its aim, InvestoXpert is a one-stop-destination to fulfill all client needs, With its online platform, www.investoxpert.com, the company addresses all kinds of client queries including any residential, commercial, loan, rental, leasing, and all the procedures standing under the real estate umbrella. Redefining realty with excellence Conceding the advent of extensively emerging digitization, the firm is affirmed to make the process rapid and trouble-free for all the clients. The founder of InvestoXpert, Vishal Raheja, an Amity University graduate has always had a prescient vision for the real estate industry. Having worked with the financial industry for over ten years, he turned into a zestful leader with the potential to bring a change. With InvestoXpert, he is working passionately to bring his intent into reality. There are a variety of services being bestowed to the clients by the firm. Reigning the realty sector with five years of commendable services, InvestoXpert has redefined how the market acknowledged the growth of the domain. From providing effective solutions to all real estate needs to yielding resources and consultancies for home buying, InvestoXpert has become the torchbearer in the industry. With its directional approach, it has manifested a strong foothold in the industry procuring clients with the best they could get their hands on giving the realty market a much-required boost. One Roof With All Solutions The firm makes sure to maintain uniform steadiness and transparency in the transaction. With the support of top-quality expert professionals and adroit real estate agents, who deliver pre-eminent services, they have made investing in commercial and residential properties even more reliable. InvestoXpert solely believes in providing each and every client with the best of its caliber at reasonable and bargain-basement prices. They consider it to be their responsibility to ensure that your hard-earned money is fruitfully being invested in property at the right cost. They also make sure that their clients don't need to pay even a penny for the brokerage fee on any kind of trade. The firm furnishes its clients with all that they want under one roof making sure all requirements are fulfilled unreservedly. The team of competent and efficient professionals with an evident history of working in three different real estate categories, namely- Commercial, Retail, and Resident help you accomplish the dream of buying the property you always desired. InvestoXpert makes sure that all the queries are addressed, varying from incertitude regarding residential or commercial property, loan proceedings, rent, and leasing, etc, making the experience worth remembering. Talking about the current market situation, Vishal Raheja says, “With stock markets showing signs of fatigue, and deposit rates falling below 6-7%, NRI investors should focus on real estate. We at InvestoXpert have adopted technology as our medium of servicing. With vetted industry experts, we yield unbiased advice and 360-degree comprehensive solutions to our clients, focusing that our assets are delivered at a reasonable rate”. InvestoXpert has evolved and demonstrated itself as the pioneer consultancy for all types of real estate property requirements. The company has a credible and genuine image with the intent to rectify all the conundrum of all the queries. Continuing to walk along the same line, InvestoXpert is bound to touch the skies of success reviving the real estate sector with a refurnishing outlook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty rise in early trade on sustained foreign fund inflows||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a positive note on Wednesday supported by persistent foreign capital inflows. However, gains were capped as most of the Asian shares turned negative in line with an overnight drop in US stocks. Rising crude oil prices also weighed on investor sentiment. The 30-share Sensex was trading 64.24 points or 0.11 per cent higher at 58,311.33. Similarly, Nifty advanced 22.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 17,402.05 in initial deals. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.93 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, L&T, M&M, Infosys, Nestle India, Reliance Industries and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC twins, HCL Tech and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 69.33 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 58,247.09. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.70 points or 0.14 per cent to its fresh closing record of 17,380. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the green. US equities ended with losses in the overnight session. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,649.60 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.38 per cent to USD 73.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Deloitte study flags lopsided FDI flow||The country will need $8 trillion, or Rs 588 lakh crore, of gross capital formation or new factories to become a $5 trillion economy by 2026-27, Deloitte said in a report. The report pointed out that despite the Covid-19 disruption, foreign direct investment (FDI) into the country provides the grounds for optimism on the economy. During 2020-21, FDI inflows, including equity, re-invested earnings and capital, stood at a record $81.72 billion, 10 per cent higher than a year ago, it said. While India remains a favoured FDI destination, it must enact more reforms to ensure these flows not only continue but also play a meaningful role in attaining the $5 trillion economy target. Deloitte surveyed 1,200 business leaders of MNCs in the US, the UK, Japan and Singapore for the report. The report said India remained an attractive destination for investments, scoring highly for its skilled workforce and prospects for economic growth. The report suggested the country must continue to enact reforms and implement initiatives that drive improvement and builds confidence in the economy, while enhancing its competitiveness. According to the report, the inflows were driven primarily by the services sector. Funds for manufacturing will, however, ensure a greater amount of gross capital formation and more exports. Average FDI from 2014-15 to 2020-21 in manufacturing was $8.6 billion compared with about $25 billion for services. “Our analysis shows that India will require at least $8 trillion of cumulative gross capital formation to grow into a $5 trillion economy, assuming we are on the fastest growth track. Based on past trends, our research suggests India needs approximately $400 billion of foreign capital cumulatively over the next six years," it said. The country can target attracting greater FDI into seven capital-intensive sectors —textile & apparel, food processing industry, electronic goods, pharmaceuticals, vehicles & parts, chemicals & API, and capital goods that have contributed $181 billion of merchandise exports in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||India and Singapore are linking respective fast payment systems||India and Singapore are linking their respective fast payment systems — Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and PayNow — in a move that will boost remittances between the two nations. The step will enable users to make instant, low-cost fund transfers on a reciprocal basis, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Tuesday. Both the RBI and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) announced the project to link the fast payment systems. The Indian central bank said in a statement that the linkage is targeted for operationalisation by July 2022. The RBI added that the UPI-PayNow linkage is a significant milestone in the development of infrastructure for cross-border payments between India and Singapore, and closely aligns with the G20’s financial inclusion priorities of driving faster, cheaper and more transparent cross-border payments. The linkage builds upon the earlier efforts of NPCI International Pvt Ltd (NIPL) and Network for Electronic Transfers (NETS) to foster cross-border interoperability of payments using cards and QR codes, between India and Singapore. It is expected to further anchor trade, travel and remittance flows between the two countries. This initiative is also in line with the RBI’s vision of reviewing corridors and charges for inbound cross-border remittances outlined in the Payment Systems Vision Document 2019-21. UPI is a mobile-based fast payment system that facilitates customers to make round the clock payments instantly using a Virtual Payment Address (VPA) created by the customer. This eliminates the risk of sharing bank account details by the remitter. UPI supports both Person-to-Person (P2P) and Person-to-Merchant (P2M) payments and enables a user to send or receive money. On the other hand, PayNow is the fast payment system of Singapore which enables peer-to-peer funds transfer service, available to retail customers through participating banks and Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NFIs) in the nation. It enables users to send and receive instant funds from one bank or e-wallet account to another in Singapore by using just their mobile number, or their VPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Wholesale price inflation in August marginally rises to 11.39%||The wholesale price inflation marginally rose to 11.39 per cent in August from the previous month’s 11.16 per cent because of an increase in the cost of fuel and manufactured items, government data showed. The high inflation rate in August was largely because of the low base effect as inflation in August 2020 was 0.41 per cent. Fuel and power prices rose 26.09 per cent in August year-on-year compared with 26.02 per cent in July, while manufactured product prices rose 11.39 per cent compared with 11.20 per cent in the previous month. However, wholesale prices of food rose at a slower pace of 3.43 per cent in August compared with 4.46 per cent in the previous month. “The high rate is primarily due to rise in prices of non-food articles, mineral oils, crude petroleum and natural gas, manufactured products like basic metals, food products, textiles, chemicals and chemical products ,” the commerce ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||State Bank of India revises base rate to 7.45 per cent ||The State Bank of India has revised its base rate to 7.45 per cent and benchmark prime lending rate to 12.20 per cent. The new rates come into effect from Wednesday (September 15, 2021). According to historical data available on the SBI website, the base rate was 7.4 per cent and the benchmark prime lending rate was 12.15 per cent, effective March 10, 2021. The interest rates — both base rate and prime lending rates — have been on a decline since December 2018. The bank, however, has kept the MCLR rates unchanged with one year MCLR rate at 7 per cent per annum. The external benchmark Rate (EBR) of the bank is 6.65 per cent effective July 1, 2021. The development comes at a time retail inflation has eased to 5.3 per cent in August from 5.6 per cent in July and WPI inflation is marginally up at 11.39 per cent in August from 11.2 per cent in July after two consecutive months of easing.  Market analysts anticipate no further action from the Reserve Bank of India on the policy rates. “We continue to hold to our view that the RBI is unlikely to take any action of tightening policy interest rates till the end of FY2022, but it can continue to manage surplus overnight liquidity via modulations in VRRR (variable reverse repo rate) instrument,” Yes Bank analysts Indranil Pan and Radhika Piplani said in a report on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Staff retention emerging as key challenge at Srei||Staff retention is emerging as a key challenge at Srei Infrastructure Finance. The non bank finance company’s CEO Rakesh Kumar Bhutoria has reportedly resigned at a time the Covid pandemic and a cash flow mismatch have affected the business of the company. Since the lenders took control of the company to recover their dues, the Srei group has suffered staff exits amid salary delays and caps on remuneration, particularly at the top level. According to a PTI report, Bhutoria has resigned as the CEO of Srei Infrastructure Finance and the company is looking for a replacement. Srei declined to comment on the development. Earlier in April, Srei Equipment Finance had said private equity firms from the US and Singapore were keen to invest in the company. Srei Infrastructure Finance has reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 971.05 crore for the quarter ended June 2021.  The chief operating officer of Srei Equipment Finance Limited had left in April and the company secretaries of Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance had resigned in March and May. There have been resignations from other departments and it is estimated that around 230-250 employees have resigned since December, 2020. Srei chairman Hemant Kanoria had said in the company’s annual report that senior employees have taken voluntary pay cuts and relinquished compensation to support other employees to avoid retrenchment. “We are operating in an environment which is completely adversarial in all respects, but we are confident that we will address the issues of our creditors, customers, employees, shareholders and all stakeholders in an appropriate manner befitting the long history of the company,” said Kanoria in the chairman’s communique. The company has submitted a scheme with the the NCLT for the payment to creditors. The board of directors of Srei Infrastructure Finance in July had cleared a proposal to raise Rs 2,500 crore from the markets through various means including qualified institutional placement. Earlier in April, Srei Equipment Finance had said private equity firms from the US and Singapore were keen to invest in the company. Srei Infrastructure Finance has reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 971.05 crore for the quarter ended June 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Punit Goenka battling for control over Zee Entertainment ||Punit Goenka is battling for control over Zee Entertainment Enterprise Ltd (ZEEL) as the managing director and chief executive officer of the Rs 7730 crore broadcasting outfit tries to fight off demands from two of the company's largest shareholders to replace him and introduce a new slate of six independent directors. Zee Entertainment has become embroiled in a bitter boardroom battle after Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC -- which together hold 17.88 per cent of the company's equity -- sought an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders seeking to remove Goenka and two other directors, Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien. Late on Monday, the two directors -- Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien -- announced their decision to step down from the board of directors. According to a regulatory filing, Chokhani resigned "due to changed life circumstances and perspective post Covid" while Kurien cited "pre-occupation" as the reason for stepping down from the board. Both have been under fire from Invesco and proxy shareholder advisory firms for failing to stem losses arising from certain related party transactions in 2019-20 as members of the audit committee and granting a 46 per cent increase in Punit Goenka's remuneration as members of the nomination and remuneration committee. In their letter to Zee Entertainment, the two overseas investment firms sought to appoint six of their nominees -- Surendra Singh Sirohi, Naina Krishna Murthy, Rohan Dhamija, Aruna Sharma, Srinivasa Rao Addepalli and Gaurav Mehta -- as independent directors.  On Tuesday, Goenka tried hard to placate shareholders before a crucial vote on a handful of resolutions at the company's annual general meeting with the promise to beef up corporate governance through its Zee 4.0 organisation restructuring strategy that is currently under implementation. Shareholders have voted on several resolutions at the AGM and the outcome will be known only on Thursday. If these resolutions are carried, Goenka may be able to survive the crisis. At the AGM, ZEEL had initially proposed eight resolutions for shareholder approval. These included adoption of standalone and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021, confirm dividend on preference shares, declare a final dividend of Rs 2.50 per share and ratification of cost auditors' remuneration. Four directors were also seeking reappointment -- Vivek Mehra, Sasha Mirchandani, Ashok Kurien and Manish Chokhani. The last two were withdrawn after they stepped down. Rescue move? Two other developments during the day added fizz to the speculation over Zee Entertainment's future. Ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's Rare Enterprises bought 50 lakh shares of Zee Entertainment through a bulk deal transacted on the National Stock Exchange at a price of Rs 220.40 per share on a day when the stock soared by 40 per cent. In a related move, BofA Securities also picked up 48.6 lakh shares at a price of Rs 236.20 per share through a bulk deal on the NSE. It wasn't immediately clear whether friends and associates of the Goenka family were rallying in support to squelch the shareholder revolt. Subhash Chandra and his family hold only around 4 per cent in Zee Entertainment and are on shaky ground as Punit Goenka fights for control over the company. The promoters had to sell down their stake to repay loans taken by other companies in the family-owned Essel Group. Public shareholders hold as much as 96 per cent of the company; foreign portfolio investors are the largest stakeholders with 57.46 per cent. Indian mutual funds own 8.1 per cent and insurers hold 10 per cent, of which state-owned Life Insurance Corporation has the largest chunk of 4.89 per cent. Commenting on the latest developments, Kotak Institutional Equities said it expects Zee Entertainment to call an EGM within the next three months where shareholders will get to vote on the Invesco resolutions which will be carried if 51 per cent of those voting come out in support. The Kotak report said three scenarios could now play out: in the first, there is a change in management. "This scenario assumes the appointment of a new CEO by the new Board. There is also a possibility that the new board receives interest from strategic/financial investors to acquire a majority stake and management control," it said. The second scenario is a change in board with continuity of management where the new Board continues with the existing management (Punit Goenka as MD & CEO) but seeks better cash generation and tighter control on capital allocation. The third possibility is continuity of management with a new set of investors. This case assumes shareholder churn and a new set of investors or shareholders backing Punit Goenka as MD & CEO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Zomato co-founder Gaurav Gupta resigns||Gaurav Gupta, co-founder of online food delivery platform Zomato and a key figure in the run-up to the company’s IPO in July, has resigned. In an email sent to staff at Zomato, Gupta — who was the head of supply — said he will be starting a new chapter after spending six years at the company. Gupta’s exit comes days after Zomato decided to stop its grocery delivery service from September 17, mainly due to gaps in order fulfilment, leading to poor customer experience. “I am taking a new turn in my life and will be starting a new chapter, taking a lot from this defining chapter of my life — the last 6 years at Zomato. We have a great team now to take Zomato forward, and it’s time for me to take an alternate path in my journey,” Gupta said. The co-founder said he couldn’t have asked for more and is grateful for all the experiences and thankful to all the folks around him for helping him become a much better person. “I am in love with Zomato and will always be. Came in 6 years back not knowing what this would turn out to be. And what a mind-blowing and amazing journey this has been. Feel proud of where we are today, what we have overcome to get here and feel even more proud of what we will achieve in the future,” Gupta said in the mail posted on the blog of the company. He also thanked the company's founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal for making him a part of the journey. “Thank you Deepi for making me a part of this journey. I will always cherish the amazing times we have had together. I have learnt a lot from you all along and I know in my heart that you will take Zomato to heights that most cannot even imagine,” Gupta said. Replying to the mail, Deepinder Goyal thanked him for his efforts in helping in the company’s journey. The online food delivery platform had announced on Sunday its decision to stop its grocery delivery service, marking its exit from the segment for the second time since last year. The company had entered the segment during the lockdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, but exited the business once its food delivery business recovered. The company said it believes that its investment in Grofers will generate better outcomes for its shareholders than in-house grocery efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
15-09-2021||Business||Govt to come out with PLI scheme for auto sector with focus on EVs||The government is likely to come out with a production linked incentive scheme for the auto sector on Wednesday which would focus on promoting manufacturing and export of electric vehicles (EVs) and cars running on hydrogen-fuel cells as well as auto parts requiring advanced production technologies. However, officials indicated that the government is believed to have slashed by half the outlay for this PLI scheme to about Rs 26,000 crore. The move, analysts said, would be a signal to the US-based electric car major Tesla to first start manufacturing its iconic electric vehicles in India before any tax concessions can be considered. Tesla has demanded reduction in import duties on electric vehicles (EVs) in India. While announcing the broad sectors to be covered under the PLI scheme, the government last year had announced the scheme for the automobile and auto components sector with an outlay of Rs 57,043 crore, earmarked for five years. The component segments that are expected to be covered under the scheme include automatic transmission assembly, electronic power steering system, sensors, supercapacitors, sunroofs, adaptive front lighting, automatic braking, tyre pressure monitoring system, and collision warning system. The scheme may also incentivise EV parts such as high-voltage connectors and cables, AC and DC charging inlet and outlet ports, hydrogen fuel cell and its components and flex-fuel kits. Industry sources said there was a murmur of disappointment among auto firms as it would benefit only those companies making investments in EVs, hydrogen fuel cell and greater safety features, but those who have a large portfolio of internal combustion engines or of internal combustion components are likely to be left out as a result. They were surprised that CNG vehicles, which run on environmentally friendly fuel,  were being left out of the scheme. Earlier, auto industry body SIAM said the scheme announced by the government will increase competitiveness and take the growth of the sector to the next level. The scheme for the sector is part of the overall production-linked incentives announced for 13 sectors in the Union Budget 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore. Last week, the Cabinet cleared Rs 10,683-crore PLI scheme for the man-made fibre and technical textiles sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
15-09-2021||Business||Govt to consider 4-year moratorium on AGR dues of telecom players||The government is considering the possibility of a four-year moratorium on adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues of telecom players and scrapping the spectrum usage charge (SUC) for radio waves acquired in future auctions. Indications are the government is unlikely to reduce or waive AGR or the interest, penalty, and interest on penalty on existing dues that were upheld by the Supreme Court in its September 2020 judgement. The deferred payment would have to be made up in the subsequent years. The relief to the telecom sector could be taken up by the cabinet at its meeting on Wednesday. There is no immediate relief for the industry on spectrum usage charges (SUC) or bank guarantees. The usage charge may be scrapped only for spectrum acquired in future auctions. There is likely to be no relief on the levy on revenues from existing spectrum. Meanwhile, banks led by the State Bank of India have called on the Centre to give debt-laden Vodafone Idea more time to clear its tax dues and spectrum fees, two bankers and a government official familiar with the matter said, according to Reuters. The Supreme Court last year ordered the mobile carrier, a joint venture between the Indian unit of Britain’s Vodafone Group and Aditya Birla Group’s Idea Cellular, to pay just over $8 billion to the government to settle long-standing dues. Vodafone has a stake of about 44 per cent in the company and Aditya Birla owns nearly 27 per cent. In June, Vodafone Idea's then non-executive chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla warned that without a government reprieve the Indian mobile carrier's “financial situation will drive its operations to an irretrievable point of collapse”. Vodafone Idea, in its annual report, has flagged the industry's “unsustainable financial duress” and hoped that the government would provide the necessary support to address “all structural issues” faced by the sector. The total gross debt (excluding lease liabilities and including interest accrued but not due) as of June 30, 2021 of VIL stood at Rs 1,91,590 crore, comprising of deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 1,06,010 crore and adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 62,180 crore that are due to the government. Senior SBI officials and representatives of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) met finance and telecom department officials this month and proposed an immediate breather on the repayment of spectrum dues. “We’ve had these discussions with the banks but the issue is the finance ministry needs to be comfortable with the measures,” the government official said. Apex association COAI recently made a strong pitch for cut in levies, doubling tenure of auctioned radiowave holdings, along with 7-10 year moratorium for spectrum payments to address viability concerns of the sector. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
15-09-2021||India||Farmers demand repeal of three central farm laws in Kisan Sansad at Jaipur||A Kisan Sansad' was organised in Jaipur's Birla Auditorium on Wednesday with the farmers reiterating their demand for the repeal of the three central farm laws.  The event was organised on International Day of Democracy by the Rajasthan Kisan Morcha and attended by hundreds of farmers.  Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act were discussed in detail in the meeting and participants expressed their views on each law.  Disadvantages of the laws were highlighted and the farmers demanded the withdrawal of the three laws, Himmat Singh, a representative of the Kisan Morcha said.  The proceedings of the Kisan Sansad were held like that of Parliament. At the end of the discussion, the chairperson conducted voting and all rejected the laws unanimously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Covid will start becoming endemic in India in next 6 months: Expert||Covid will start becoming endemic in India in the next six months, a top expert has said, asserting that a new variant can't alone bring a third wave of infections. "This pandemic has defied most of our predictions but in the next six months, we will approach endemic status," Sujeet Singh, the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) told NDTV in an exclusive interview. Dr Singh said Covid becoming endemic would mean the infection becoming more manageable and easier on the health infrastructure. "If the mortality and morbidity is under control, then we can manage the disease," he said, adding that Kerala, which had a large susceptible pool, is also emerging from the raging Covid crisis it was battling a few weeks ago. Vaccination is the biggest protection against the coronavirus, stressed Singh. "75 crore people have been vaccinated. If vaccine effectiveness is 70 per cent, then around 50 crore people in India have got immunity. A single dose gives 30-31% immunity. So the 30 crore people, who have received a single dose, are also immunised," he said. The expert warned that even after vaccination people need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Breakthrough infections, or fully-vaccinated people getting infected, will happen in 20-30 per cent of cases, Dr Singh said. "Breakthrough infections are also because of the new variants. Scientists say within 70 to 100 days of vaccination the immunity level starts dropping," he explained. It is through more exposure to the virus and vaccination that the infections would reduce, Singh said. According to the NCDC chief, there is no new variant in India. The C1.2 and Mu strains that are currently raising concern have not been found in the country. "Just a new variant cannot cause a third wave. The factor will be a mix of behaviour and antibodies. There is some worry because of the festival season," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Modi, Mamata, Poonawalla in Time magazine's list of 100 most influential ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla have been named among the world's 100 most influential people of 2021 by TIME magazine. TIME on Wednesday unveiled its annual list of The 100 Most Influential People of 2021', a global list that includes US President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Duke and Duchess of Sussex Prince Harry and Meghan, former US president Donald Trump and co-founder of the Taliban Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. TIME's profile of Modi says that in its 74 years as an independent nation, India has had three pivotal leaders - Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Modi. "Narendra Modi is the third, dominating the country's politics like no one since them. The profile written by noted CNN journalist Fareed Zakaria alleges that Mod has "pushed the country away from secularism and toward Hindu nationalism." It also accuses the 69-year-old leader of "eroding the rights of India's Muslim minority and imprisoning and intimidating journalists. On Mamata Banerjee, her profile for the 100 most influential list says that the 66-year-old leader "has become the face of fierceness in Indian politics." "Of Banerjee, it is said, she doesn't lead her party, the Trinamool Congress - she is the party. The street-fighter spirit and self-made life in a patriarchal culture set her apart," the profile says. Poonawalla's TIME profile says that from the beginning of the COVID19 pandemic, the 40-year-old head of the world's largest vaccine maker sought to meet the moment. "The pandemic is not over yet, and Poonawalla could still help end it. Vaccine inequality is stark, and delayed immunisation in one part of the world can have global consequences including the risk of more dangerous variants emerging," it says. The Time profile describes the Taliban co-founder Baradar as a "quiet, secretive man who rarely gives public statements or interviews." "Baradar nonetheless represents a more moderate current within the Taliban, the one that will be thrust into the limelight to win Western support and desperately needed financial aid. The question is whether the man who coaxed the Americans out of Afghanistan can sway his own movement," says Baradar's profile. The list also includes tennis player Naomi Osaka, Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny, music icon Britney Spears, executive director of the Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council Manjusha P. Kulkarni, Apple CEO Tim Cook, actor Kate Winslet and the first African and first woman to lead the World Trade Organization Ngozi Oko||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||IT officials raid six premises linked to Sonu Sood in Mumbai||Income Tax Department officials descended on the premises linked to actor Sonu Sood in Mumbai and some other places on Wednesday in connection with an alleged tax evasion probe, official sources. They said the action is being carried out in at least half a dozen locations in the metropolitan city and Lucknow. It was not immediately clear if the action was being undertaken at Sood's residence also. “A real estate deal is under the scanner of the department,” they said. The actor grabbed the national spotlight for helping migrants reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi government, led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had recently declared that 48-year-old Sood will be the brand ambassador of the Aam Aadmi Party government's 'Desh ka mentors' programme under which students will be guided in making their career choices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||BJP-RSS 'fake Hindus', they 'use' religion, alleges Rahul Gandhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday banned the storage, sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali owing to the "dangerous pollution levels" in the national capital around the time of the festival. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that like last year, it was essential to implement the ban in order to save lives. "In view of the dangerous condition of pollution in Delhi during the Diwali period for the last three years, and like last year, a complete ban is being imposed on the storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers. So that people's lives can be saved," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Last year, a complete ban on firecrackers was imposed late after assessing the seriousness of the situation. This caused losses to the traders. It is an appeal to all the traders that this time in view of the complete ban, please do not stock," he said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the National Green Tribunal had called for a complete ban on firecrackers in poor air quality regions throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. "The data of CPCB for the last three years shows Delhi is almost in the poor pollution index. Last year, besides Delhi - Rajasthan, Orissa, Sikkim, West Bengal, Chandigarh, 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh had imposed a complete ban on firecrackers," he said. Rai said that last year, the Delhi government decided in favour of the complete ban on November 6, which was just before Diwali. "The Delhi Police had already issued temporary licences for sale of firecrackers and because of this, traders and dealers suffered losses. There were also incidents of bursting of firecrackers in Delhi by the residents due to easy availability. To avoid any such situation, we decided that the DPCC, like last year, will issue directions for complete ban on sale, use and storage of all types of firecrackers with immediate effect," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Delhi govt bans storage, sale, use of firecrackers during Diwali||The Delhi government on Wednesday banned the storage, sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali owing to the "dangerous pollution levels" in the national capital around the time of the festival. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that like last year, it was essential to implement the ban in order to save lives. "In view of the dangerous condition of pollution in Delhi during the Diwali period for the last three years, and like last year, a complete ban is being imposed on the storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers. So that people's lives can be saved," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Last year, a complete ban on firecrackers was imposed late after assessing the seriousness of the situation. This caused losses to the traders. It is an appeal to all the traders that this time in view of the complete ban, please do not stock," he said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the National Green Tribunal had called for a complete ban on firecrackers in poor air quality regions throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. "The data of CPCB for the last three years shows Delhi is almost in the poor pollution index. Last year, besides Delhi - Rajasthan, Orissa, Sikkim, West Bengal, Chandigarh, 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh had imposed a complete ban on firecrackers," he said. Rai said that last year, the Delhi government decided in favour of the complete ban on November 6, which was just before Diwali. "The Delhi Police had already issued temporary licences for sale of firecrackers and because of this, traders and dealers suffered losses. There were also incidents of bursting of firecrackers in Delhi by the residents due to easy availability. To avoid any such situation, we decided that the DPCC, like last year, will issue directions for complete ban on sale, use and storage of all types of firecrackers with immediate effect," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Dissent on the rise, says National Crime Records Bureau report||The Coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown resulted in a drop in traditional crimes like theft, robbery, and assault on women and children in 2020, but there was a drastic jump in disobedience to government orders, primarily arising due to violations of COVID-19 norms, official data showed. According to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on 'Crime in India 2020', a total of 66,01,285 cognisable crimes comprising 42,54,356 Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes and 23,46,929 Special and Local Laws (SLL) crimes were registered in 2020. It shows an increase of 14,45,127 (28 per cent) in registration of cases over 2019 (51,56,158 cases), while the crime rate registered per lakh population increased from 385.5 in 2019 to 487.8 in 2020. During 2020, registration of cases under IPC increased by 31.9 per cent whereas SLL crimes rose by 21.6 per cent over 2019. Percentage share of IPC cases was 64.4 per cent while that of SLL cases was 35.6 per cent of total cognisable crimes during 2020. Major increase was seen in the cases registered under disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant from 29,469 cases in 2019 to 6,12,179 cases in 2020 and under 'other IPC crimes' from 2,52,268 cases in 2019 to 10,62,399 cases in 2020, the report said. Similarly, under SLL category, more cases were registered under 'other state local acts' from 89,553 in 2019 to 4,14,589 in 2020. These together have resulted in 16,43,690 more cases registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. These cases are primarily those arising out of violations of Covid norms. Effectively therefore, there is a decrease in registration of traditional crime by about two lakh cases, it said. During 2020, a total of 55,84,135 IPC cases (13,27,167 cases pending from previous year, 42,54,356 reported during the year and 2,612 cases re-opened for investigation) were under investigation, of which 34,47,285 cases were disposed of by police including 26,11,925 cases which were charge-sheeted, resulting in the charge-sheeting rate of 75.8 per cent. The country remained under complete lockdown from March 25 to May 31, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic (first wave), during which movement in public space was very limited. The cases registered under crimes against women, children, and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity declined, whereas Covid-related enforcement resulted in an increase of cases registered under 'disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Sec. 188 IPC)', under 'other IPC crimes' and under 'other state local acts', it said. A total of 10,47,216 cases of offences affecting the human body were registered which accounted for 24.6 per cent of the total IPC crimes during 2020, of which hurt (5,78,641 cases) accounted for the maximum cases -- 55.3 per cent -- followed by cases of causing death by negligence (1,26,779 or 12.1 per cent) and cases of assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty (85,392 or 8.2 per cent). The cases registered under offences against human body depict a marginal decrease of 0.5 per cent in 2020 over 2019 (10,52,016 cases) and the crime rate has declined from 78.6 in 2019 to 77.4 in 2020. A total of 29,193 cases of murder were registered during 2020, showing a marginal increase of 1 per cent over 2019 (28,915 cases) with disputes' (10,404 cases) being the motive in the maximum cases followed by 'personal vendetta or enmity' (4,034 cases) and 'gain' (1,876 cases). A total of 84,805 cases of kidnapping and abduction were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 19.3 per cent over 2019 (1,05,036 cases). A total of 88,590 people (14,869 males and 73,721 females) were reported kidnapped or abducted during 2020, of which 56,591 (8,715 males and 47,876 females) victims were children and 31,999 (6,154 males and 25,845 females) were adult. During 2020, a total of 91,739 kidnapped or abducted people (22,872 males and 68,867 females) were rescued, of which 91,458 people were rescued alive and 281 found dead. A total of 3,71,503 cases of crime against women were registered during 2020, showing a decline of 8.3 per cent over 2019 (4,05,326 cases). Majority of crimes against women under IPC were registered under 'cruelty by husband or his relatives' (30 per cent) followed by 'assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty' (23 per cent), 'kidnapping and abduction of women' (16.8 per cent) and 'rape' (7.5 per cent). A total of 1,28,531 cases of crime against children were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 13.2 per cent over 2019 (1,48,090 cases). In percentage terms, major crime heads under 'crime against children' during 2020 were kidnapping and abduction (42.6 per cent) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (38.8 per cent) including child rape. A total of 29,768 cases were registered against juveniles during 2020, depicting a decrease of 7.8 per cent over 2019 (32,269 cases). The crime rate also depicts a decrease from 7.2 in 2019 to 6.7 in 2020. A total of 35,352 juveniles were apprehended in 29,768 cases, of which 31,618 juveniles were apprehended under cases of IPC and 3,734 under cases of SLL during 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Javed Akhtar opposed to Muslim fundamentalists as well as Hindu extremism||Noted film personality Javed Akhtar says he is as opposed to Muslim fundamentalists as he is to Hindu extremism, noting that he has even received death threats from Muslims because of his outspokenness. Defending his recent interview in which he drew parallels between the Taliban and Hindu extremists, he said Hindus are the most decent and tolerant people in the world but while the Taliban have a free hand in Afghanistan, India's secularism is protected by its Constitution and courts. Akhtar expressed the views in a statement to PTI, days after remarking on a TV channel that while the Taliban were barbaric, those in India supporting Hindu right-wing organisations were all the same. "India can never become like Afghanistan because Indians by nature, are not extremists; it is in their DNA to be moderate, to keep to the middle of the road," he said in the emailed statement. "Yes, in this interview I expressed my reservations against organizations affiliated to the Sangh Parivar. I am opposed to any school of thought that divides people on the basis of religion, caste and creed and I stand by all those who are against any such discrimination," he added. The noted screenwriter and lyricist said he finds many commonalities between the mindsets of the Taliban and the Hindu right-wing. "My critics are also outraged that I find a lot of commonalities between the mindsets of Taliban and the Hindu right-wing. As a matter of fact, there is a lot of commonalities. The Taliban is forming an Islamic government based on religion, the Hindu right-wing wants a Hindu Rashtra," Akhtar said. "The Taliban wants to curb women rights and put them on the margin, the Hindu right-wing has also made it clear that they don't like the freedom of women and girls; right from UP, Gujarat to Karnataka young men and women have been beaten mercilessly for sitting together in a restaurant or a garden or any public place." Like the Muslim fanatics, even the Hindu right-wing does not accept the right of women to choose their spouse, he said. Recently a very important right-wing leader said that women are not capable of being left on their own or being independent. Like the Taliban the Hindu right-wing also claims the superiority of faith and astha' over any man-made law or court, Akhtar wrote. "The Taliban has no love lost for any minority; similarly, what kind of thoughts and feelings the Hindu right-wing nurtures for the minority is evident from their speeches and slogans and whenever they get an opportunity, by their actions," he said. The only difference between the Taliban and these extremist groups is that the Taliban today have unchallenged power in Afghanistan with no one to question them while in India there is a huge resistance against the Indian version of this Talibani ideology which is totally in conflict with the Constitution of India, he said. Our constitution does not discriminate on the basis of religion, community, caste or gender. We have institutions like the judiciary and media too. The key point of departure between the two is the Taliban has achieved its goal in Afghanistan. The Hindu right-wing is doing its best to get us there. Fortunately, this is India and there are the Indian people who are providing a stiff resistance, he said. Speaking to NDTV on September 3 about the rising hate crimes against Muslims in India, Akhtar had warned that such incidents were kind of a dress rehearsal for becoming like full-fledged Taliban. Akhtar said he had no idea that his comments would generate such sharp reactions. On one hand, there are some people who have expressed their outrage and anger in the strongest language possible, on the other hand, there are people from every nook and corner of the country who have given me messages of solidarity and expressed their total agreement with my point of view, he said in the statement. "My detractors have said that while I am criticizing the Hindu right-wing I have never stood against fanatics among the Muslim fold. They have accused me of not saying anything about triple talaq, of not speaking on purdah or any other regressive practice within the Muslim community. I am not surprised at the fact that they are totally unaware of my activities over the years," he said. "Over the past two decades, I have been given police protection twice because of the threats to my life from fanatical Muslims: first, because not only had I vociferously opposed triple talaq when the issue was not on the national radar, but I had, along with an organisation named Muslims for Secular Democracy (MSD), toured several cities across India like Hyderabad, Allahabad, Kanpur and Aligarh and from a variety of public platforms spoken out against this retrograde practice," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Big drop in Covid antibodies within four months of vaccination, finds study||A study of 614 fully vaccinated health workers in India found a "significant" drop in their COVID-fighting antibodies within four months of the first shot. The findings could help the Indian government decide whether to provide booster doses as some Western countries have done. Waning antibodies do not necessarily mean that immunised people lose their ability to counter the disease, as the body's memory cells may still kick in to offer substantial protection, said the director of a state-run institute that did the study. "After six months, we should be able to tell you more clearly whether and when a booster would be needed," Sanghamitra Pati of the Regional Medical Research Centre, based in the eastern city of Bhubaneswar, told Reuters on Tuesday. "After six months, we should be able to tell you more clearly whether and when a booster would be needed," Sanghamitra Pati of the Regional Medical Research Centre, based in the eastern city of Bhubaneswar, told Reuters on Tuesday. "And we would urge similar studies in different areas for pan-India data." British researchers said last month that protection offered by two doses of the Pfizer (PFE.N)/BioNTech (22UAy.DE) and the AstraZeneca (AZN.L) vaccines begins to fade within six months. The Indian study, published in the Research Square pre-print platform but yet to be peer-reviewed, is one of the first such done in the country involving its main two vaccines - Covishield, a licensed version of the AstraZeneca shot, and domestically developed Covaxin. Health officials say though they are studying the evolving science on booster doses, the priority is to fully immunise India's 944 million adults. More than 60% of them have received at least one dose and 19% the required two doses. Till yesterday, the cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 75.81 crores, the Union Health Ministry said in a bulletin. More than 54 lakh (54,72,356) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm yesterday, it said. Meanwhile, India on Wednesday recorded 27,176 fresh Covid cases, 284 new casualties. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,33,16,755, while the death toll has climbed to 4,43,497, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,51,087 comprising 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.62 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 11,120 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,10,829 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,60,55,796. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 16 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 82 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,25,22,171, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||736 Afghans recorded for new registration in India from August 1 to September 11, says UN refugee agency||A total of 736 Afghans were recorded for new registration from August 1 to September 11, the UNHCR said here, adding that it is scaling up its capacity to meet increasing requests for registration and assistance of Afghans in India. The UN refugee agency said it is in constant dialogue with the government on matters pertaining to Afghan nationals, including issuance and extensions of visa, assistance, and solutions. According to the data, the total number of persons of concern to UNHCR in India stands at 43,157. Among them, 15,559 refugees and asylum seekers are from Afghanistan. "From August 1 until September 11, 736 Afghans were recorded by UNHCR for new registration," the UN body said in a statement. Among those who have approached the UNHCR are Afghan individuals who have newly arrived in 2021, those seeking reopening of previously closed asylum cases, students, businessmen, or people on medical or other types of visa who are unable to go back due to the current situation in Afghanistan. The UNHCR further said that it is scaling up its capacity to meet the increasing requests for registration and assistance of Afghans in India. "UNHCR is increasing its humanitarian response programme for vulnerable new arrivals from Afghanistan. Basic assistance such as food, cash-based assistance and core relief items are being provided to the most vulnerable new arrivals from Afghanistan and those already in India," the UN body said. The UNHCR said it has also set up an Afghanistan emergency cell and a dedicated help page for Afghans with comprehensive information on registration and assistance available. "Additional 24/7 helplines were established to answer queries around the clock and direct engagement with Afghan communities scaled up. Over 130 calls are received per day, mainly enquiring about assistance and registration," it said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, against the backdrop of the withdrawal of US forces. India also evacuated people on military transport aircraft of the IAF under the government's 'Operation Devi Shakti'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Water supply in southwest Delhi to be affected till September 20||Water supply will not be available in several areas of southwest Delhi till September 20 due to a disruption at the Dichaon Kalan underground reservoir because of heavy rains, the Delhi Jal Board said on Wednesday. Residents can call on toll-free numbers -- 18001217744 and 8527995818 -- to book water tankers. "Water will not be available through the pipeline till September 20 tentatively till repairs are completed. Till then, water will be made available to the residents through tankers," the DJB said in a statement. The affected areas are Gopal Nagar, Lokesh Park, Dichaon village, Mitraon village, Kair village, Surakhpur, Shiv Enclave, Hira Park, Najafgarh Park, Nirmal Vihar, Gupta Market, Aggarwal Colony, Ekta Vihar, Gopal Nagar group of colonies, Krishna Vihar and Shri Krishan Colony. Water supply has also been disrupted in Aradhna Enclave, Baba Haridass Nagar, Baba Haridass Colony, Sainik Enclave, Naveen Palace, Vinobha Enclave and Extension, Surya Kunj and Sarswati Kunj, Jharoda village, Mahesh Garden, Janta Vihar and Extension and Satyam Puram and the adjoining group of colonies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||SC asks Centre to make appointments in two weeks in tribunals across nation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over non-filling of vacancies at the tribunals across the nation and said the manner in which appointments have been made clearly indicates "cherry picking" of names. The top asked the Centre to make appointments within two weeks to the tribunals which are facing severe crunch of presiding officers as well as judicial and technical members, and apprise it of reasons if persons from the recommended list are left out in the process. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao said the condition is pitiable at the tribunals due to the vacancies and the litigants cannot be left in the lurch. "The appointment letters which have been issued clearly indicate they have selected cherry picking three names from the select list and others from the waitlist, ignoring others in the select list. In service law, you can't go to the waitlist ignoring the select list. What kind of selection and appointment is this?" the bench asked the Attorney General K K Venugopal. Venugopal assured the bench that the Centre would make appointments in two weeks to the tribunals from the list of persons recommended by the search and selection committee. Senior advocate Arvind datar said that for the ITAT, the search cum selection committee selected 41 people but only 13 have been chosen on basis which "we don't know". "This is nothing new. Every time it is the same story," the bench said. The CJI said the Supreme Court judges undertook an elaborate exercise to shortlist the names during the COVID and the entire efforts are going in vain. "We travelled across the country. We spent a lot of time. During Covid, your government requested us to conduct interviews as early as possible. We wasted so much time," the CJI expressed exasperation. The CJI said that as per the latest appointment the members will have a tenure of only one year and said, "Which judge will go to join this job for one year?" On the issue of the non-acceptance of names recommended by the selection committee, Venugopal said the government has the power not to accept the recommendations made. "We are a democratic country in which rule of law is followed and we are working under the Constitution. You can't say that I don't accept," the CJI said. "What is the sanctity of the process if the government has the last word? The selection committee undertakes an elaborate process to short-list the names," the bench said. There are around 250 posts lying vacant in various key tribunals and appellate tribunals across the country. The top court was hearing a clutch of petitions on the issue of vacancies in tribunals and the new law governing quasi-judicial bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||IAF to hold air show over Srinagar's Dal Lake on Sept 26||The Indian Air Force will hold an air show over the famous Dal Lake here on September 26 that will help motivate the youth of Jammu and Kashmir to join the IAF, according to officials. More than 3,000 schoolchildren and college students will attend the show, the officials said. "The main aim of the air show is to motivate the youth of the Valley to join the Indian Air Force and to promote tourism in the region," Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole said. On Tuesday, Pole chaired a meeting of principals of various educational institutions regarding students' participation in the air show that is being conducted by the IAF as part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' celebrations. The theme of the show is 'Give Wings to Your Dreams'. More than 3,000 college and school students are expected to participate in the programme to witness the impressive manoeuvres of the IAF aircraft that will motivate them to dream about a career in the IAF and in the aviation sector, an official spokesperson said. "The show will also develop a passion among the students to give wings to their dreams. Along with the students, 700 teachers will also be present at the venue," he said. The spokesperson said Pole directed the heads of educational institutions to ensure the participation of NCC cadets. Stalls will be set up at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre and students will be familiarised with the achievements of the IAF, employment opportunities in the force, recruitment rules and eligibility criteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||India logs over 27,000 fresh Covid cases, 284 casualties in a day||Daily new cases of coronavirus in India continued to remain below 30,000 with the country recording 27,176 fresh COVID-19 cases, while 284 new fatalities were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,33,16,755, while the death toll has climbed to 4,43,497, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,51,087 comprising 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.62 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 11,120 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,10,829 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,60,55,796. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 16 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 82 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,25,22,171, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 75.89 crore according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 284 new fatalities include 129 from Kerala and 52 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,43,497 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,221 from Maharashtra, 37,529 From Karnataka, 35,217 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,884 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,779 from Kerala and 18,599 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Delhi likely to witness another spell of rain||Having already received a copious amount of rain this month, Delhi is likely to witness another spell of light to moderate precipitation starting Wednesday night, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). An orange alert has been issued for moderate rain in the city on Thursday. Heavy rain is also expected at isolated places. An orange alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 25.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Strong winds are predicted to sweep the city during the day and the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 34 degrees Celsius, a MeT forecast said. Light rain is likely at night. Moderate rain is predicted over the next two days, which means Delhi is likely to witness another record for monsoon precipitation, an IMD official said. The capital has already recorded 1,146.4 mm of rainfall so far this monsoon season, the highest in 46 years and almost double the precipitation gauged last year. The Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, had gauged 1,150 mm of rainfall in the monsoon season in 1975. Normally, Delhi records 653.6 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. Between June 1, when the monsoon starts, and September 14, the city normally gets 607.7 mm of rainfall. The monsoon has dumped 390 mm of rainfall in Delhi this month till Tuesday, the highest in September in 77 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||JEE-Main result: 44 candidates score 100 percentile||A total of 44 candidates have scored 100 percentile in the engineering entrance exam JEE-Main this year while 18 candidates have shared the top rank, Ministry of Education (MoE) officials said on Tuesday midnight. The first rank holders included Gaurab Das (Karnataka), Vaibhav Vishal (Bihar), Duggineni Venkata Paneesh (Andhra Pradesh), Siddhant Mukherjee, Anshul Verma and Mridul Agarwal (Rajasthan), Ruchir Bansal and Kavya Chopra (Delhi), Amaiya Singhal and Pal Agarwal (Uttar Pradesh), , Komma Sharanya and Joysula Venkata Aditya (Telangana), Pasala Veera Siva, Karnam Lokesh and Kanchanapalli Rahul Naidu, (Andhra Pradesh), Pulkit Goyal (Punjab) and Guramrit Singh (Chandigarh). Starting this year, Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but those were postponed in view of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic that raged through the country affecting lakhs. The third edition was held from July 20-25 while the fourth edition was conducted from August 26 to September 2. The ranks of the candidates have been released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy already made. The examination was conducted in 13 languages -- English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. Over 9.34 lakh candidates appeared in four editions of JEE-Main.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Politics overrode science as Covid second wave neared||The forecast was mathematically based, government-approved and deeply, tragically wrong. In September 2020, eight months before a deadly Covid-19 second wave struck India, government-appointed scientists downplayed the possibility of a new outbreak. Previous infections and early lockdown efforts had tamed the spread, the scientists wrote in a study that was widely covered by the Indian news media after it was released last year. The results dovetailed neatly with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two main goals: restart India’s stricken economy and kick off campaigning for his party in state elections that coming spring. But Anup Agarwal, a physician then working for India’s top science agency, which reviewed and published the study, worried that its conclusions would lull the country into a false sense of security. Dr Agarwal took his concerns to the agency’s top official in October. The response: He and another concerned scientist were reprimanded, he said. In the wake of the devastating second wave, which killed hundreds of thousands of people, many in India are asking how the Modi government missed the warning signs. Part of the answer, according to current and former government researchers and documents reviewed by The New York Times, is that senior officials forced scientists at elite institutions to downplay the threat to prioritise Modi’s political goals. “Science is being used as a political weapon to forward the government narrative rather than help people,” said Dr Agarwal, 32. Senior officials at Dr Agarwal’s agency — the Indian Council of Medical Research, or ICMR — suppressed data showing the risks, according to the researchers and documents. They pressured scientists to withdraw another study that called the government’s efforts into question, the researchers said, and distanced the agency from a third study that foresaw a second wave. Agency scientists interviewed by The Times described a culture of silence. Mid-level researchers worried that they would be passed over for promotions and other opportunities if they questioned superiors, they said. “Science thrives in an environment where you can openly question evidence and discuss it dispassionately and objectively,” said Shahid Jameel, one of India’s top virologists and a former government adviser, who has been critical of the ICMR. “That, sadly, at so many levels, has been missing,” he said. The ICMR declined to answer detailed questions. In a statement, it said it was a “premier research organisation” that had helped to expand India’s testing capacity. The health ministry, which oversees the agency, did not respond to requests for comment. India is hardly the first country where virus science has become politicised. The US remains far short of taming the disease as politicians and anti-vaccine activists, fuelled by disinformation and credulous media, challenge the scientific consensus on vaccines and wearing masks. The Chinese government has tried to obscure the outbreak’s origin, while vaccine sceptics have won audiences from Russia to Spain to Tanzania. India, a vast country with an underfunded healthcare system, would have struggled to contain the second wave no matter what. A more contagious new variant fuelled the spread. People had stopped wearing masks and socially distancing. “Prime Minister Modi has never, ever said to lower the guard,” said Vijay Chauthaiwale, a BJP member. Still, the government contributed to complacency. Modi boasted in January, just months before the devastating second wave hit, that India had “saved humanity from a big disaster”. Harsh Vardhan, then the health minister, said in March that the country was “in the endgame of Covid-19”. Amid criticism over the government’s response, Vardhan stepped down in July. The ICMR, which conducts and reviews research for the government, played a major role in shaping perceptions. India has not released granular data on the virus’s spread, hampering the ability of scientists to study it. In that vacuum, the agency offered projections that often steered debate. Politics began to influence the agency’s approach early last year, according to scientists familiar with its deliberations. In April 2020, in the midst of a nationwide lockdown ordered by Modi, the government blamed an early outbreak on an Islamic gathering at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, spurring attacks against Muslims by some Hindu nationalists, who provide the core of the Prime Minister’s support. Amid that anger, some officials within the science agency said the gathering had undermined containment efforts. The gathering “has undone the benefits of lockdown”, said one news outlet, citing an agency source. Raman Gangakhedkar, then the ICMR’s chief scientist, in an interview singled out the gathering as an “unexpected surprise”. In an interview with The Times, Dr Gangakhedkar said he had expressed “anguish” over the government’s statements targeting Muslims but added that the science agency’s director-general, Balram Bhargava, told him that the matter should not concern him. Dr Bhargava did not respond to requests for comment. The lockdown did severe economic damage. Once it ebbed, Modi moved to rekindle the economy and start election campaigning — and government scientists, researchers within the agency said, helped pave the way. In June 2020, a study commissioned by the ICMR concluded that Modi’s lockdown had slowed but would not stop the virus’s spread. Within days, the authors withdrew it. The agency, saying the study’s modelling had not been peer-reviewed, wrote in a tweet that it “does not reflect the official position of ICMR”. One of the study’s authors, along with a scientist familiar with it, said the authors had withdrawn it amid pressure from the agency’s leaders, who questioned its findings and complained that it had been published before they had reviewed it. The move was unusual, the scientists said, adding that the agency’s leadership would typically adjust problematic language rather than demand a paper be withdrawn. In July 2020, Dr Bhargava issued two directives to agency scientists that his internal critics saw as politically motivated. The first called on scientists at a number of institutions to help approve, in just six weeks, a coronavirus vaccine developed by Indian scientists. In a memo dated July 2 and reviewed by The Times, Dr Bhargava said the agency aimed to approve the vaccine — Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in association with the ICMR — by Independence Day, during which Modi frequently urges the country towards greater self-reliance. “Kindly note that non-compliance will be viewed very seriously,” the directive read. The request alarmed agency scientists. Regulators in other countries were still months away from approving their own vaccines. The ICMR’s top leaders backed off once the timetable became public. (The vaccine was approved by the Indian authorities months later, in January.) Dr Bhargava’s second directive, issued in late July 2020, forced scientists to withhold data that suggested the virus was still spreading in 10 cities, according to emails and scientists familiar with the work. The data came from the agency’s serological studies, which tracked the disease based on antibodies in blood samples. The data showed high infection rates in some neighbourhoods, including Delhi and Mumbai, despite containment efforts. In a July 25 email reviewed by The Times, Dr Bhargava told the scientists that “I have not got approval” to publish the data. “You are sitting in an ivory tower and not understanding the sensitivity,” Dr Bhargava wrote. “I am sincerely disappointed.” Naman Shah, a physician who worked on the studies, said withholding the data worked against science and democracy. “This is a government which clearly has a philosophy and history of trying to assert power by capturing every institution and making it an arena for political struggle,” he said. The data that the ICMR did release helped officials argue incorrectly, to the country and the world, that the coronavirus wasn’t spreading in India as virulently as in the US, Brazil, Britain and France. Then, last autumn, an ICMR-approved study wrongly suggested that the worst was over. Known as the Supermodel in India, the study projected that the pandemic would ebb in India by mid-February. It cited Modi’s lockdown earlier in 2020. It said the country may have reached herd immunity because more than 350 million people had already been infected or developed antibodies. The science agency fast-tracked the study’s approval, said Dr Agarwal and other people familiar with its progress. Scientists inside and outside the ICMR picked the study apart. Other countries were nowhere close to herd immunity. Plenty of people in India still hadn’t been infected. None of the study’s authors were epidemiologists. Its model appeared to have been designed to fit the conclusion, some scientists said. “They had parameters which can’t be measured and whenever the curve was not matching, they changed that parameter,” said Somdatta Sinha, a retired scientist who studies infectious disease models and who wrote a rebuttal. “I mean, we don’t do modelling like that. This is misguiding people.” Dr Agarwal, the ICMR physician, said he took his concerns in October to Dr Bhargava, who told him it was “none of his business”. Dr Bhargava, he said, then summoned another scientist who had raised concerns about the study with Dr Agarwal and reprimanded them both. M. Vidyasagar, chairman of the committee that produced the Supermodel, declined to comment. Indian science officials said in May, as the second wave tore through the country, that the panel’s mathematical model “can only predict future with some certainty so long as virus dynamics and its transmissibility don’t change substantially over time”. One study, published in January 2021, did predict a second wave. Published in the journal Nature, it said that such an outbreak could strike if restrictions were “lifted without any other mitigations in place” and called for more testing. One of its authors worked for the ICMR, but its leadership pressured him to remove his affiliation with the agency from the paper, said people familiar with the matter. The second wave struck in April. With hospitals overwhelmed, health officials recommended treatments that the government’s own scientists had found ineffective. One was blood plasma. Dr Agarwal and his colleagues had concluded months before that blood plasma did not help Covid-19 patients, a finding that echoed others. The agency dropped the recommendation in May. The government still recommends a second treatment, the Indian-made malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, despite overwhelming scientific evidence that it is ineffective. Desperate families scrambled to find both during the second wave, creating black markets where prices soared. Current and former agency scientists said they didn’t speak out because they considered the treatments politically protected. The BJP had organised plasma donation camps last year to mark Modi’s 70th birthday. The government also used hydroxychloroquine as a diplomatic tool, winning points with Donald J. Trump, then the American President, and Jair M. Bolsonaro, the Brazilian leader, who both pressured New Delhi last year to lift its export limits on the drug. “If you want to work somewhere for the rest of your life, you want a good relationship with people,” Dr Agarwal said. “You just be non-confrontational about everything.” Dr Agarwal resigned in October and later worked in Gallup, N.M. Now a physician in Baltimore, he said his experience with the ICMR had driven him to leave India. “You start questioning your work, you know,” he said. “And then, you get disillusioned by it.” Amit Shah said India had been successful in handling Covid-19 with minimum damage because of the joint efforts by the central and state governments with the cooperation of the 130-crore Indians. He said the Prime Minister, whenever he addressed the nation, talked with all the stakeholders in Hindi, which had resulted in the message reaching the grassroots. A social media user felt that had the Prime Minister spoken in Marathi and Malayalam, too, the outbreaks in Maharashtra and Kerala would have been contained faster This is a shorter version of a report originally published in The New York Times New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Govt engineering college contract teachers fear job loss||Over 100 contract teachers from government engineering colleges in several states, all equipped with IIT and NIT degrees, hit the streets in Delhi on Tuesday to protest an imminent job loss for themselves and about 1,300 colleagues. They alleged they had got caught in a “tussle” between the Centre and state governments after taking up their jobs three years ago on the strength of an assurance that a veteran academic on Tuesday described as “misleading”. “We are facing ouster from our jobs on September 30. We’ll agitate at Mandi House every day until the government promises to retain us in our jobs,” said Amarjeet Jhajhariya, assistant professor at the MLV Textile College in Bhilwara, Rajasthan. Jhajhariya is one of nearly 1,400 contractual engineering teachers whom the Centre recruited in January 2018. Jhajhariya was recruited under the World Bank-assisted TEQIP III scheme to state-run colleges in 12 states and Union Territories where the quality of engineering education was poor. These were Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Tripura, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. One of the requirements was that the candidates must have earned at least one of their degrees — BTech, MTech or PhD — from either an IIT or an NIT. All the selected candidates, some of whom had given up corporate jobs, were MTech or PhD holders and were appointed assistant professors. The Union education ministry (then human resource development ministry) paid their salary under the Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) III. Under a memorandum of understanding signed between the Centre and the states, the Union education ministry was to pay the salaries for two years and nine months till the TEQIP III project ended in September 2020. After that, the states would retain the “well-performing faculty hired using the project funds”, the MoU said rather vaguely. Eventually, the Centre gave two six-month extensions to these teachers, the second of which expires at the end of this month. Neither the states nor the Centre are now keen to retain them even as contract teachers, let alone regularise them, the agitating teachers said. Shivam Dubey, a teacher from Ujjain Engineering College, Madhya Pradesh, said he had signed up because he was confident about figuring among the “well-performing faculty” who would be retained. “I was a structural designer at a private company. Before I completed my probation period, I joined the government college because I felt I would serve the country better by teaching there,” Dubey, who did his MTech in structural engineering from IIT Kanpur in 2017, said. “Now I’m on the verge of losing my job. Is this the reward for quitting a corporate job? I would never have taken up the post had there been no provision for retention.” Former NIT Rourkela director Sunil Sarangi, a member of the committee in Odisha that reviews the implementation of TEQIP III in the state, said the provision for retention in the MoU was “misleading” and that the Centre and state governments should have avoided it. “Regular government posts cannot be filled without open competition. The provision for retaining well-performing faculty members after the project period was misleading,” he said. “This provision trapped many candidates. A government is not supposed to use such misleading language in an MoU.” Sarangi said that state governments had sanctioned posts at their engineering colleges; there was no reason for them to engage teachers on contract. Jhajhariya and his peers are paid around Rs 75,000 a month but get no paid leave or the benefits of provident fund, pension or medical insurance. They said a few states had offered them positions as guest faculty with remunerations of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 a month. Jhajhariya said that ironically, the desire for “job security” had prompted him to quit his teacher’s post with a private university in Jaipur and join the government job. “Now I’m in the most insecure of situations. My wife is a homemaker and my son is enrolled in a school there. Where will I go now?” he said. Jhajhariya said his college now had two teachers for 240 BTech students of information technology. If he leaves, the students would suffer because one teacher cannot possibly conduct all the classes and handle other academic work, he said. “The states are saying we have been recruited by the Centre, so the Centre should address our concerns. The Centre is saying the TEQIP project is over. We are caught in the tussle,” said Anshul Awasti, a teacher from a Madhya Pradesh college. He said the teachers had written to the Prime Minister’s Office and the Union education minister. They met the new minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, on Teachers’ Day this month. “There’s no assurance from any quarter; so we have started an agitation,” he said. An email sent to the Union education ministry asking whether it planned any relief for the agitating teachers evoked no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Ministry to ease inter-country adoption process under Hama||The women and child development ministry will soon notify a mechanism to deal with inter-country adoptions under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, bridging a legislative gap in this 1956 law with the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. Once the Adoption (Amendment) Regulation 2021 is gazetted, the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (Hama) — which applies to Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains — will become compliant with the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Inter-country Adoption. Earlier this month, Delhi High Court had directed the ministry to set up such a mechanism and also directed the Central Adoption Resource Authority (Cara) to facilitate inter-country adoptions under Hama. While Cara represents an institutional adoption process that involves rigorous scrutiny of the adoptive parents, Hama mostly relates to family adoption without a State-mandated procedure for verifying whether the adoptive parents are fit to adopt. Since adoption under Hama is private and is carried out without going through Cara, it is not compliant with the Hague Convention. So, the adoptive parents need to go to court for a no-objection certificate if they are to relocate overseas with the adopted child. Now, apart from setting up a new mechanism that will involve the district administration in conducting the verification, the external affairs ministry has been enlisted to get its overseas missions to monitor the adopted children in the countries they have moved to. Since last month, these missions have been drafted in to monitor inter-country adoptions where the adoptive parents have moved out of India within two years of the adoption. Earlier, couples could not leave the country with their adopted child before the completion of two years — a restriction aimed at ensuring that the child had adjusted to his or her new home. Now, that task has been passed on to the diplomatic missions, with which the adoptive parents have to register if two years have not elapsed since the adoption. The women and child development ministry also plans to move a cabinet note seeking an increase in the sum paid monthly, under the PM Cares for Children scheme, to kids who have lost both parents to Covid. Currently, such children who live with their extended family are entitled to Rs 2,000 a month, and those in institutional care Rs 2,160. Till date, 667 children from across the country have been cleared by the district administrations for coverage under this scheme, which seeks to take care of them until they turn 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Healthcare survey reveals lag in child cancer diagnosis||Three-fourths of parents of children with cancer approach healthcare providers within 10 days of symptoms, yet a quarter receive their diagnosis after more than three months, a research consortium said on Tuesday after a survey across northern and eastern India, including Bengal. The survey by the Indian Paediatric Oncology Group (InPOG), a collaboration among healthcare professionals involved in childhood cancers, has also found that a quarter of a sample of children with cancer had to wait 112 days or longer between the start of their symptoms and their treatment. For some children, the interval between the onset of symptoms and start of treatment stretched to more than a year, the survey has found, quantifying delays parents encounter as they navigate from primary and secondary healthcare providers to a cancer treatment centre. “Once diagnosed, half the children received treatment within three days and three-fourths received it within nine days — but the extent of delay between symptoms’ onset and diagnosis are unacceptable,” said Ramandeep Arora, a consultant paediatric oncologist, InPOG member and the study’s principal investigator. The doctors analysed the time intervals between the onset of symptoms, first visit to healthcare providers, diagnosis and treatment for over 2,700 children registered across 70-plus cancer treatment centres in 19 states, including 528 children from 21 centres across Bengal and the northeastern states. Leukaemia, or blood cancer, made up 53 per cent of the cancers, followed by lymphomas in 13 per cent of the children and malignant bone tumours in 10 per cent. The other cancers diagnosed included brain tumours, tumours of the central nervous system and retinoblastomas. Arora is set to present the findings of the study at the annual meeting of the International Society of Paediatric Oncology next month. The study was supported by Cankids Kidscan, a national society for childhood cancers, and other non-government organisations. The Indian Cancer Society estimates that over 50,000 children are diagnosed with cancer in the country every year. Doctors say that childhood cancers, while rare, are typically curable if detected early and treated effectively. In the developed countries, survival rates are 80 to 90 per cent for some paediatric cancers. While top institutions such as the Tata Memorial Centre have similar survival rates as those in the developed countries, those numbers cannot be extrapolated to the whole of India because delays in diagnosis, quality of treatment and patients abandoning treatment affect survival. A decade ago, data from a nationwide cancer registry suggested a five-year survival rate of 50 per cent. Some oncologists believe that around 50 per cent of children with cancer in India remain undiagnosed and thus have no access to treatment. Cankids Kidscan chairperson Poonam Bagai said the findings of the study and the planned follow-ups were intended to help guide policy to improve access to treatment for childhood cancers. “Our initial findings underscore the need to train healthcare workers at the primary and secondary institutions to facilitate early diagnosis,” she said. Multiple factors could impact the interval between the onset of symptoms and the start of treatment. “Is diagnosis or treatment faster when children access treatment closer to home rather than going to distant hospitals? Is it faster when parents first approach paediatricians rather than other healthcare practitioners — those are future research questions,” Arora said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||US and India discuss staging area for 'over-the-horizon' forces||Washington is discussing with India a possible staging area for “over-the-horizon” forces that are being talked about by the Joe Biden administration for maintaining the security situation in Afghanistan, US secretary of state Antony Blinken has indicated. “Over-the-horizon” operations are missions launched from another country aimed at surveillance or other targets beyond the visual and radar range of the operational base. Blinken referred to the discussions with India while testifying on Monday before the House foreign affairs committee on Afghanistan. The secretary of state had been asked by a Republican Congressman from Tennessee whether, given Pakistani agency ISI’s support for the Taliban, the Biden administration had “reached out to India as a possible staging area for the over-the-horizon forces — I’m talking northwest India as a potential — because we all know Qatar and Doha and the other places are just a little bit too far”. In response, Blinken said: “Let me just say generally, Congressman, we’re deeply engaged with India across the board. With regard to any specifics about over-the-horizon capabilities and the plans that we put in place and will continue to put in place, I’d rather take that up in a different setting.” Blinken used the phrase “across the board” and did not qualify the nature of engagement with India while avoiding specifics. Nearly two decades ago in 2003, the Vajpayee government had come under pressure from the Bush administration to send troops to Iraq but the plan was eventually abandoned. In 1991 during the first Gulf War, a decision by the Chandra Shekhar government to allow US military aircraft to refuel at the airport in the then Bombay had caused an uproar in India. In recent weeks, President Biden and several serving American generals have talked about maintaining “over-the-horizon capacity” to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a threat to other countries. Prior to the collapse of the Afghan National Army and the Taliban takeover, the Pentagon had envisaged over-the-horizon capability as a back-up to the government in Kabul. In a briefing on July 6, Pentagon spokesperson John F. Kirby had said that “as for the over-the-horizon capability”, the department of defence was in active discussion with the state department on the nature of what that capability would be. The US currently lacks any military base in the countries adjoining Afghanistan in Central Asia. Pakistan, which has had to deal with the blowback of facilitating America’s war on terror while providing a safe haven to some terror groups, has said it will not host an American base. Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Washington next week for the first physical summit of the Quad leadership on September 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Congress leader joins CPM in Kerala||A second senior Congress leader has quit the party in Kerala and joined the CPM in less than two weeks due to differences over organisational restructuring helmed by a new set of leaders. State Congress general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar resigned from the party on Tuesday and immediately joined the CPM where he was welcomed by senior leaders. He is the second Congressman to turn red after P.S. Prashanth, who was the party’s losing candidate in the recent Assembly polls, joined the CPM on September 3. The Congress quickly sacked Kumar from the party. The latest trend is one that precludes the usual practice of moving to a Left ally like the Nationalist Congress Party instead of making a direct entry to the CPM. Party veteran P.C. Chacko who had donned national roles for several years and former state Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash had resigned ahead of the April state polls. While Lathika contested the polls as an Independent after being denied a ticket before joining the NCP, Chacko worked for the LDF in the election that gave a rare second consecutive term for the alliance. Like Prashanth, Kumar too blamed the new leadership for ignoring him while re-jigging the party organisation. The Congress had earlier suspended both of them for their scathing criticism of the appointment of district party chiefs that had opened a can of worms with even veterans such as Oomen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala expressing displeasure over the changes made by state president K. Sudhakaran. “I am ending my 43-year career with Congress that started when I was in Class 4 since the new leadership is targeting leaders like me. He didn’t even revoke my suspension even after I gave an explanation,” he said, terming Sudhakaran as a dictator. “Sudhakaran’s dictatorial grip on the party is like that of the Taliban. I don’t want to die by getting stabbed in the back,” he said. Kumar said he was joining the CPM since “it is a truly secular party”. A.V. Gopinath was the other senior leader who resigned in the last two weeks. But unlike Prashanth and Kumar, Gopinath who is an influential leader from Palakkad has yet to take a call on joining any party. While heading to the AKG Centre, the state headquarters of CPM, Kumar told reporters that he was making the move without any conditions. “I will work (with the CPM) unconditionally, with dignity and holding aloft my self respect.” He was received by politburo members Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and S.R. Ramachandran Pillai who later held a closed-door discussion with the new entrant. Balakrishnan told reporters that the CPM was not in the business of luring leaders from other parties. “We are not luring anyone. He (Kumar) took the decision without our intervention and decided to join us unconditionally,” he said. To a question on whether the incoming leaders have now found a direct route to join the CPM, unlike Chacko and Lathika, Balakrishnan recalled several others had made similar moves to his party. “AICC member Peelipose Thomas, former district Congress presidents T.K. Hamza and Abdul Khader had joined us directly in the past,” he pointed out alluding to the entrants a few decades ago. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said nothing could be done when someone decides to leave the party. “The Congress is not just a crowd. It is a major institution. So if someone is leaving us we can’t say anything. That is their decision (to leave),” he told reporters on the latest exit. He said the explanations provided by both Kumar and Prashanth were not satisfactory. “The KPCC president said their explanations were not satisfactory,” he said, responding to a query on why the party failed to revoke their suspension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine quota in govt job promotions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine the contention of the Centre and the states that recruitments for various government jobs have come to a standstill owing to disputes over grant of reservation in promotions to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B.R. Gavai asked the states and the Centre to file short notes not exceeding five pages each, explaining the guidelines formulated by the respective authorities for granting quota benefits to SCs and STs. The court posted the matter for further hearing to October 5 for a detailed analysis. The issue relates to interpretation of Articles 16 and 16(4)(a) that provide for reservation in promotions under public employment subject to certain conditions. In all, 133 petitions and applications relating to such reservation have been filed by the Centre, states, Union Territories, individuals and organisations before the bench. They have sought an authoritative pronouncement and clarification from the top court on the grant of reservation in promotions to SCs and STs as multiple high courts have passed conflicting orders. While some high courts have quashed circulars issued by certain states allowing such a quota, some others have permitted reservation benefits in promotions to the two communities. Appearing for the Centre on Tuesday, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal submitted that 4,100 employees have been promoted by the central government on an ad hoc basis subject to the outcome of the case, with no reservation offered to SCs and STs. Another 2,500 posts have remained vacant due to status quo orders on promotions because of conflicting high court verdicts, Venugopal said. The AG said reservation in promotions had been adequately covered by a constitution bench ruling in the 2006 V. Nagaraj case, yet there was confusion on the guidelines to be followed. In the 2006 judgment, the apex court had ruled that the government can provide reservation in promotions to SCs and STs provided it was justified through quantifiable data collected by the State on inadequate representation of the two communities in various posts. This was iterated by another five-judge bench in 2018. Venugopal said all facets had been covered in the earlier judgments, yet it seemed there was confusion over their interpretation, which needed to be sorted out by the top court. Justice Rao, heading the bench, made it clear that there would be no reconsideration of the Nagaraj judgment. “My problem, the government of India’s problem is that there are three high court orders passed which say that promotions can continue to be made, while one high court has issued status quo orders on promotions. This opens up the government to contempt,” Venugopal submitted. He also wanted the court to recall a notice issued by it in 2019 to the Union home secretary in a contempt petition relating to one such petition filed in Bihar. Senior advocate P.S. Patwalia, appearing for Bihar and Maharashtra, said the Supreme Court would have to decide the core issue of how the states should quantify data and provide adequate reservation benefits to SC and STs. “That question has been answered in the Nagaraj case. We are not going to handhold the government and say how it will be implemented,” Justice Rao remarked. Patwalia, however, said that in Bihar about 60 per cent posts were lying vacant in government departments on account of the confusion. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for some of the petitioners, said the top court had to examine the benchmarks to be evolved by the states for ensuring implementation of the quota policy in promotions. The bench replied: “It is not for us to tell the government how to implement the policy. Directions have been passed in the Nagaraj judgment and it is for each state to finalise how they will implement it.” The court agreed with the suggestion of senior advocate Rajeev Dhawan, appearing for some pro-reservation petitioners, that the petitions could be segregated into batches and heard on different dates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||NHRC directs Centre and states to file reports on farmers’ protests||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday directed the Centre, the governments of Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and various statutory authorities to file reports on the farmers’ protests and their fallout on people, industrial production and jobs. Farmers have been picketing Delhi’s borders since November last year to protest three controversial central farm laws. The movement has spread to other states as well. The peasants believe the new laws will deprive them of their land and livelihood and facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture. In a statement issued in New Delhi, the NHRC said it had received several complaints regarding the farmers’ protest. “There are allegations of adverse impact on industrial units, seriously affecting more than 9,000 micro, medium and large companies. Allegedly, transportation is also adversely impacted, causing commuters, patients, physically challenged people and senior citizens to suffer due to the heavy congestion on roads,” the rights panel said. “There are also reports that people have to travel long distances to reach their destinations due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and barricades have been put on the borders,” it added. The commission issued notices to the chief secretaries and the police directors-general of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi (police commissioner), calling upon them to submit action-taken reports. “There is an allegation that there is breach of corona protocols by the agitating farmers at the protest sites. There is further allegation that the inhabitants are not being allowed to move out of their houses due to the blockade of the passages,” it said. “Since the agitation involves the issue of human rights whereas the right to agitate in a peaceful manner is also to be respected. The commission needs to take care of various human rights issues,” the NHRC said in its statement. The commission also took the following actions: ⚫ The NHRC requested the Institute of Economic Growth to examine the adverse impacts of the farmers’ agitation on industrial and commercial activities and production, and how it has disrupted transport services and affected commercial and normal consumers, including inconvenience and additional expenditure. The IEG has to submit a report by October 10. ⚫ The National Disaster Management Authority and the ministries of home affairs and health are to submit reports on the adverse impact of the farmers’ movement on adherence to Covid protocols. ⚫ The NHRC reminded the district magistrate of Jhajjar in Haryana to file by October 10 a report whether compensation had been paid to the family of a human rights activist allegedly gang-raped at a protest site. ⚫ The commission requested the Delhi School of Social Work of Delhi University to conduct a survey and submit a report assessing the disruption of livelihood, lives and the impact on the aged and the infirm due to the farm protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Modi plays on fear of displacement in Uttar Pradesh speech ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday referred to people being “forced to flee leaving behind their ancestral houses” some “four-five years ago” as he laid the foundation stone for the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh town. The comment prompted many to wonder whether Modi was repeating the discredited allegation by late BJP lawmaker Hukum Singh in 2016 about Hindu families being forced out of Shamli, a district adjacent to Aligarh. Most of what Modi said could be construed as a pat for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s handling of law and order, especially crime against women. The Prime Minister had dispensed such praise earlier too although Adityanath’s rule has been marked by the horrific Hathras and Unnao rapes and official records have shown no decline in crimes against women in the state. “There was a time... (pause) I especially want to remind you of four-five years ago when families used to live in fear in their own houses. Sisters and daughters would be scared to step out of their homes; they would be afraid to go to school and college,” Modi said. “Parents would be restless till their daughters returned home. The atmosphere was such that many people ran away, leaving behind their ancestral houses. They were forced to flee (palayan karna pada). Today, criminals think a hundred times before doing this.” It’s the part about people running away “leaving behind their ancestral houses” that appeared to some to contain a more sinister implication than merely questionable praise for a party chief minister. “Since Modi has not done anything worthy of mention in seven years, he is raising the old communal and fake issue of forced migration,” Samajwadi Party spokesperson I.P. Singh said. Hukum, MP from Kairana in Shamli, had claimed in 2016 that 409 Hindu families had fled the district for fear of Muslim criminals. This was parroted by many BJP leaders. The then Akhilesh Yadav government had dismissed the allegation, saying a physical verification by the local administration had found it to be false. Investigations by media outlets had corroborated the state government findings. The 2013 riots breached the long alliance between the region’s Jats and Muslims and helped catapult the BJP to power at the Centre in 2014. But the farmers’ agitation appears to have brought the two communities together again. The BJP is hoping to woo the Jats with the establishment of the university in the name of Mahendra Pratap, a freedom fighter who was a Jat, before the Assembly polls. However, Mahendra Pratap — a secular and cosmopolitan socialist  — was always going to be difficult for the BJP to appropriate. Modi on Tuesday briefly mentioned Mahendra Pratap as a great freedom fighter and educationist but did not dwell on his Jat identity. Sitapur claim Modi said that during his childhood days, Sitapur in central Uttar Pradesh was famous in Gujarat as a hub of eye treatment. The statement appeared to conflict with his repeated assertions in the past that Uttar Pradesh had nothing to boast of in the 70 years before Yogi Adityanath became chief minister in 2017. “We used to know two cities of Uttar Pradesh. One was Sitapur, as everybody would say if you need eye treatment you should go to Sitapur. The second was Aligarh….” However, authorities at the Sitapur Eye Hospital said they were facing so much “humiliation” getting the annual donation of Rs 80 lakh from the Adityanath administration that they had decided not to seek it any more. Colonel (retired) Ranbir Singh Bhadauria, the hospital director, said: “We have decided not to demand the annual donation any more.” Dr P.K. Singh, deputy chief medical officer of Sitapur, said: “We don’t delay their payments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting in the Rashtrapati Bhavan auditorium||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting of his council of ministers in the Rashtrapati Bhavan auditorium, the first time the venue had been used for such a session. Officially no reason was cited for opting for the auditorium at the President’s residence. Sources in the government, however, said the sprawling venue was chosen for better adherence to Covid protocols. Meetings of the Union cabinet and the council of ministers are usually held at the Prime Minister’s Office or his residence or Parliament (when it is in session) or some other government facility. “The council of ministers has a strength of more than 75 and so we needed a big hall to maintain physical distancing. Nothing more should be read into it,” a government official said, adding that Rashtrapati Bhavan has a big auditorium. However, big meeting auditoriums are available at government facilities such as Vigyan Bhavan. This was the first physical meeting of the council of ministers since the expansion and rejig in July. Meetings were being held virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Vigilance reveals crorepati anganwadi worker in Odisha||Odisha vigilance sleuths on Tuesday conducted simultaneous raids on the houses owned by Kabita Mathan, an anganwadi worker, on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. Raids revealed property worth more than a crore. An official release from the state vigilance said that raids were on at six places in Khordha, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts. So far the vigilance has unearthed four buildings, including two three-storeyed buildings, one two-storeyed building and one single-storeyed building owned by the anganwadi worker. It has also seized a four-wheeler and a two-wheeler from her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Four killed in Odisha rain; goods train derails in Angul||Incessant rains triggered by a deep depression over the Bay of Bengal have claimed four lives in Odisha in the past three days. The latest casualty was a six-year-old girl who reportedly died when the wall of a house collapsed on her on Tuesday morning. The rain has left a trail of devastation in the state. Nine coaches of a goods train were derailed and one of them fell in a rivulet in Angul-Talcher single line section around 2.30am on Tuesday. Following the derailment, several trains were diverted and 12 were cancelled. The goods train was travelling from Ferozepur to Khurda Road. Six coaches of the train were carrying wheat. The rains have thrown normal life out of gear in large parts of the state with most of the urban areas, including smart city Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri witnessing heavy water logging because of lack of a proper drainage system. The situation is likely to be worsened as the meteorological department predicting another low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal on September 17. In the last two days, 10 districts of Odisha received over 200mm rainfall and the highest over 500mm rainfall was reported in two blocks of Puri district. Odisha experienced a severe water logging and flood-like situation. However, the situation is still under control. The state government has empowered the collectors to initiate steps to evacuate people from the low lying areas if the situation gets worsened. The block level officials have been asked to provide food to the distressed and displaced people. Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena asked the collectors to furnish the damage assessment report within a week by September 22 positively for allotment of funds, for disbursement. Geo-tagged and time-stamped photographs of damaged houses and crop area must be taken during assessment. Agriculture land in 28 districts except Ganjam and Sundergarh have been inundated and houses have been damaged. Livestocks have also been killed. However, the matter of relief at this point is the deep depression weakened into a depression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-09-2021||India||Delhi police books Chirag's cousin for  allegedly raping a woman||The Delhi police have registered an FIR against Lok Janshakti Party MP from Samastipur, Prince Raj, for allegedly raping a woman. The FIR also named LJP leader and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan for allegedly conspiring to save his cousin Prince from lawful action. The case was registered on September 9 at Connaught Place police station after a Delhi court expressed displeasure over the delay and directed the police to lodge an FIR. The victim, who claims to be an LJP worker, had submitted a complaint to the police around four months ago. The charges slapped in the FIR are under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 376 (sexual assault), 376(2)(k) (persistent sexual assault), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (removing evidence, screening of offender from legal action) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). According to the complainant, she had joined the LJP in 2019 and Prince first met her in January 2020. Later both met at Western Court at Janpath in New Delhi where Prince allegedly sexually assaulted her after drugging her, and also made a video of the incident. The FIR states that Prince started visiting her regularly and threatened her when she tried to stop him. She then apprised Chirag of the issue, who assured to look into the matter and persuaded her not to approach the police. She left the LJP in February 2020 when no action was taken. Later in the same month, Prince filed an FIR against her, allegedly detained her forcefully in collusion with the police and tampered with the evidence against him. The victim approached the Parliament Street police station in May 2021 and submitted a formal complaint. When no action was initiated against Prince, she moved court in July. Efforts by this newspaper to contact Prince proved unsuccessful as his mobile phones were switched off. One of his aides at his Delhi residence said that he was visiting Ladakh on an official tour. However, in June, Prince had issued a media release over the matter. “I categorically deny any such claim or assertion that has been made against me. All such claims are blatantly false, fabricated, and are part of a larger criminal conspiracy to pressurise me professionally and personally by threatening my reputation,” he had said in the release. Prince got elected from Samastipur in a bypoll in 2019 riding a sympathy wave after the death his father and then MP Ram Chandra Paswan (younger brother of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan). The 31-year-old is a postgraduate in international business, and apart from different parts of the country, has also studied at the University of Hertfordshire in the UK. Prince had sided with uncle and Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, who split the LJP around two months ago, walking away with five of the six Lok Sabha members of the party, and leaving Chirag to fend for himself. Chirag had mentioned the allegations against Prince at a news conference soon after the split. LJP’s Bihar unit chief Raju Tiwari said: “The allegations against Chirag trying to brush the case under the carpet are baseless.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Jadavpur University urges to hold meeting with state government on Covid vaccination drive||All the stakeholders of Jadavpur University have urged its Executive Council (EC) to hold a tripartite meeting with the West Bengal Higher Education Department regarding vaccination of students, research scholars, faculty and staff along with matters related to reopen the campus.  The EC is the highest decision-making body of the university.  "Updates regarding different steps taken for the preparedness of reopening the campus be made on a regular basis to all the stakeholders," said a resolution taken at the meeting held on Tuesday.  Participants at the meeting demanded that a policy decision regarding the priority of a vaccination drive against Covid-19 be made by a committee appointed by the EC within this week.  The possibility of a 'Decentralized Vaccination Drive' should be explored by the same committee, the resolution said.  The participants included Dean of Science, Prof Subenoy Chakraborty, Dean of Arts Prof Madhumita Chattopadhyay, Dean of Students Dr Rajat Roy, Registrar Dr Snehamanju Basu, besides representatives of Arts, Science and Engineering students and those of teachers' bodies JUTA and ABUTA. The SFI recently demonstrated in front of Jadavpur University demanding gradual reopening of the campus which is closed for the past one and a half years due to the pandemic and free vaccination of all students.  The JUTA had also written to the state education minister urging him to take steps for free vaccination of students and expressed concern that not all pupils can avail of online classes at UG and PG levels due to digital divide, severely affecting their academic career.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal extends Covid restrictions till September 30||The West Bengal government on Wednesday extended the COVID-related restrictions till September 30 with the existing relaxations, as per official notification. The restrictions, first imposed on May 16 and extended at regular intervals, were set to expire on Wednesday. "Wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distancing and health and hygiene protocols must be followed at all times," the notification said. The state government has allowed offices, both government and private, to function with half the manpower, as per the order. "All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 11 pm to 5 am except for health services, law and order, essential commodities including agriculture produce and other emergency services," the order said. District administrations, police commissionerates and local authorities shall ensure strict compliance with the state directives of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, it said. "Any violation of the restriction measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and relevant sections of the IPC," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||One more held for Minto Park firing at businessman ||A 22-year-old man was arrested for his alleged involvement in a firing incident in which a businessman was injured on the night of September 12 in south Kolkata, police said on Wednesday. The person was apprehended on Tuesday night from Bhawanipore area, a senior officer said. Kolkata police has so far arrested two persons in the firing incident, and they are being interrogated, he said. The first arrested person, who is a food delivery boy, had admitted that he was part of a group of men on six motorcycles, who were going for the immersion of a Ganesh idol on Sunday night, the officer said. They had an argument with businessman Pankaj Singh and his friends over manoeuvring his car and the latter slapped one of the bikers. He then called others and one of them fired at Singh injuring him, the officer said. Singh, a resident of Howrah, is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The incident happened near Gorky Sadan in the southern part of the city when Singh, along with a couple of his friends, was returning home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Soumendra Nath Mookherjee appointed as the new AG of Bengal||Advocate Soumendra Nath Mookherjee was appointed as the new advocate-general of Bengal after Kishore Datta resigned from the post on Tuesday. Soumendra Nath, better known as Gopal Mookherjee, is the son of Satyabrata (Julu) Mookherjee, the BJP leader who was a minister in Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s cabinet. Trinamul sources said they expected the new AG to bolster the state’s legal team, which had suffered a few embarrassing defeats in the courtrooms in recent months. “Gopalda is an ace corporate lawyer and is very much respected by the Bar.… His appointment is indeed good news for us,” said a member of the government’s legal team. Datta sent his resignation letter, citing personal grounds, to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in the morning. Within an hour, Dhankhar tweeted that he had accepted the resignation. Datta is the fourth advocate-general to have resigned during the 10-year-old tenure of Trinamul. Anindya Mitra, Jayanta Mitra and Bimal Chatterjee had left the post earlier on personal grounds. “There is a consensus that Datta was very sincere about his job,” said a source in the high court. A source said Datta had taken up the post of AG following a request from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He led the state’s legal team with help and guidance from state law minister Moloy Ghatak and Kalyan Banerjee, senior lawyer and Trinamul MP, with whom he had a good working relationship. “The scene changed after the government came to power for a third term. A section of lawyers from the ruling party’s camp started saying openly that they were unhappy with the composition of the government’s legal team,” said a source. Recently, the government pleader was replaced and the additional advocate-general too resigned. “It was just a matter of time for a change in the position of the government’s top law officer. A new legal team has taken guard,” said a source. In its 34-year innings, the Left Front had only three AGs — Snehangshu Kanta Acharya, Naranarayan Gooptu and Bali Ray. After Acharya’s death, barrister Sadhan Gupta had briefly been appointed additional advocate-general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: SSB jawans arrest two men from Panitanki check-post ||The Sashastra Seem Bal intercepted two persons, one of whom is suspected to be of Chinese origin holding a United States of America passport, while they were trying to cross over to Nepal from Panitanki on the Indian side on Monday evening. One  has been identified as Pempa Bhutia, 57, a resident of Darjeeling More in Siliguri. The other person was identified as Choejor Woeser, 46, who also had documents with the name Choejer Budha. Choejer is suspected to be of Chinese origin possessing US documents and an Indian PAN. Panitaki is 26km from Siliguri. “Two persons were trying to cross over to Nepal from the Panitanki check-post around 7pm on Monday. They told the SSB jawans guarding the borders that they would go to the Nepal check post to collect some money from one of their friends on the other side of the border ``, said a source. However, when the Indian guards asked for papers to prove their nationality, they smelled something amiss. “Chinese birth certificate, parents’ Chinese documents, photocopy of US passport, study visa, driving license of New York and even Indian PAN card of Choejer, was recovered from his phone, along with some Nepal and India currency and air tickets from Bhadrapur to Kathmandu (two cities in Nepal),” said the source. The duo was handed over to Kharibari police station. “On Tuesday, the duo was produced in Siliguri court and were sent to seven days in police custody,” said Subrata Roy Basunia, assistant public prosecutor. The Siliguri corridor is considered a strategic location with many referring to it as a “chicken’s neck” given the narrow stretch that separates China and Bangladesh. The region is a gateway to north eastern states of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission to deploy central forces for Bengal bypolls||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday decided to deploy 52 companies of central forces for the three Assembly bypolls in Bengal on September 30, sources in the poll panel said. According to officials in the ECI, 15 companies of central forces will be deployed for the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, where Trinamul Congress has fielded chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The development comes a day after the BJP had written to the poll panel seeking deployment of central forces at all booths of the three constituencies. “Bhowanipore constituency has the least number of booths, 288. Thus, we are planning to deploy 15 companies of the forces for this seat,” a poll panel official said. “Since the number of booths in Samsherganj and Jangipur are more, the deployment will also be higher,” the official added. Samsherganj and Jangipur have 329 and 363 booths, respectively. For Jangipur, 18 companies will be allotted, whereas for Samsherganj, the allotment will be 19 companies. The ECI official said 15 companies had already reached the state for area domination. These companies include seven from the CRPF, four from the BSF, two from the SSB and one each from the ITBP and the CISF. The Trinamul Congress has criticised the poll panel’s decision. The party spokesperson and state general secretary, Kunal Ghosh, alleged that the ECI was acting under the influence of the BJP. “Let them deploy two armed personnel for each voter.... Let them withdraw all the forces from the borders as well and task them with blocking Trinamul. They will still not be able to influence the people who will vote for Mamata Banerjee,” Ghosh said. The BJP on the other hand claimed that the ECI had offered a “consolation prize” to Trinamul by agreeing to conduct the bypoll in Bhowanipore and hence, its allegations weren’t justified. “Let them come up with something new.... The people do not buy these anymore,” said chief spokesperson of state BJP Shamik Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
15-09-2021||West Bengal||1 kid dead, hundreds hospitalised with influenza-like illness ||A six-year-old girl died at the Jalpaiguri District Hospital on Tuesday, at a time when over 100 children have been admitted to the facility allegedly suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI). Most of the children are down with fever and health authorities are concerned with the development amid Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said Kaveri Roy, a resident of Kuchlibari village in Cooch Behar district, was admitted to the paediatric unit of the hospital on Monday. “She breathed her last on Tuesday morning,” said a source. Susanta Roy, the officer-on-special duty, north Bengal, said: “We are saddened by every death. The child was down with pneumonia but she had a hole in her heart since birth. The doctors tried their best but they could not save her.” Kamini Roy, father of the deceased, said that her daughter was suffering from high fever for the past three-four days. “We admitted her to the sub-divisional hospital at Mekhligang on Sunday with high fever. She was referred to the Jalpaiguri hospital on Monday.” On Tuesday, 101, children were admitted with high fever at the Jalpaiguri district hospital. Health authorities have taken swab samples of 10 children which have been sent to Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine for examination. Sources said on Tuesday, blood samples of another 41 children were collected to check for vector diseases like Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya, dengue, scrub typhoid and even Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri district to promote religious tourism||Jalpaiguri District Tourism Development Committee has decided to improve infrastructure of religious places across the district to promote religious tourism. “I have instructed the tourism development committee to submit a report within two weeks on how the infrastructure of religious places across the district that includes temples, monastery and other religious sited can be upgraded so that we can develop a religious tourism circuit,” Moumita Godara Bose, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said after the committee’s meeting with different tourism stakeholders in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. Jalpaiguri district is known for its temples at Jalpesh, Bateswar, Jatileswar of Mainaguri, the Ban Durga temple of Bodaganj, Debi Choudhurani and Bhawani Pathak’s temple at Shikarpur. Old churches, Buddhist monasteries and mosques located on the outskirts of the town at Chekenda-Bhandani area were also some sites identified by stakeholders at the meeting to be included in the proposed circuit. “We will keep in close contact with the representatives of local bodies, so that any land dispute can be avoided while developing the area. After getting necessary consent from the local boards or panchayats, the respective area will be included in the circuit,” Jyoti Ghosh, the deputy director of the state tourism department, said. Jalpaiguri, which includes Dooars — meaning “the door to Bhutan” — is mostly famous for its wildlife sanctuaries and tea gardens. The Gorumara National Park in the district is famous for its one-horned Indian rhino and the ministry of environment and forest had declared Gorumara as the best among the protected areas in India for the year 2009. Gorumara was declared a reserve forest in 1895, a wildlife sanctuary in 1949 and a national park in 1994. Another famous destination is Chapramari wildlife sanctuary which is known for sighting of elephants, spotted and barking deer, rhino and gaur (Indian Bison) among other animals. “Jalpaiguri has immense potential. It has its own folk form called Chor Chunni. Dham Gaan is another popular folk song of Jalpaiguri along with Bhawaiya folk song of the Rajbangshis and Dhol-Sanai, an instrumental performance by Rajbangshi artists,” said a local. Bisha-Hara Pala is another very popular stage drama of Jalpaiguri, songs and dances of the Rava community are also gaining popularity, he added. Rajesh Rajak, a veteran in the tourism industry, said integrating religious tourism with wildlife and also folk culture would be a huge attraction for the region. Park reopens The Bengal Safari Park, located on the outskirts of Siliguri, will re-open for the visitors from September 15. Badal Debnath, the director of the park, said visitors will have to follow strict Covid-19 protocol. “The visitors will have to wear masks, keep safe physical distance and maintain hygiene during their visit at the park.” The Park is famous for royal Bengal tigers, Asiatic black bear, deer, Gharial  (fish eating crocodile) and its avian population of different species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Appeal to give local touch in joy rides||The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway-India Support Group, which consists of aficionados of the hill train, has sought involvement of local art, culture and cuisine to make the joy rides more alluring for tourists. Raj Basu, a veteran in the tourism industry and the secretary-general of the support group, said a team recently took a recce in the toy train from Siliguri-Rongtong, a 16km ride, and prepared a report. In its report, the support group has suggested that cultural programmes involving local artists could be arranged at Rongtong station. “Along with cultural events, if local handicraft and cuisines are made available at the stations, it would make the whole journey more enjoyable and memorable for locals and tourists,” said Basu. He has sought involvement of local stakeholders in the initiative. Recently, the DHR has introduced jungle tea safari rides with vistadome coaches. The group has also proposed that a guide be introduced for the journey. “The jungle tea safari runs on a steam engine. If the history of the steam engines and its unique features are highlighted, it would be an icing on the cake,” said Basu. The group will hand over their proposal to the DHR and Railway Board very soon. The support group’s suggestion comes at a time when the Centre had recently proposed “monetisation” of the DHR along with other hill railways like Kalka-Shimla, Nilgiri Mountain Railway and Neral Matheran Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Fresh bomb attack on my home: BJP MP Arjun Singh||Unidentified goons allegedly hurled a bomb near Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence at Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning, barely 24 hours after the Union ministry of home affairs had ordered an NIA probe into a similar incident five days ago. Although police rejected claims of the bomb attack, the incident prompted them to launch a raid during which at least three crude bombs were recovered from a house close to the MP’s. A large team of Barrackpore police commissionerate, along with personnel of bomb squad, forensic experts, sniffer dog squad, and CID officials launched a combing drive in the area. Arjun and BJP sources claimed that around 9am, a powerful bomb had exploded in a bush barely 50 meters from the MP’s house Majdoor Bhawan, located near Meghna more in Jagaddal, unleashing fresh panic among his family members and people living in adjacent areas. While Arjun said goons backed by the Trinamul Congress had hurled the bomb to kill him, the police rejected the claim. Police officers examined the blast site and said a crude bomb hidden in a bush behind the MP’s residence went off on Tuesday morning. Arjun said: “A group of goons close to a ruling party MLA and involved in a theft racket are hurling bombs to kill me. But I am not afraid”. DC (North) Barrackpore commissionerate Shrihari Pandey refused to speak in detail. “An incident occurred. There was a blast and smoke.... A team of experts is investigating it. Nothing can be said until it completes the job and submits report,” he told reporters. On September 8 morning, goons had allegedly hurled at least three crude bombs at Arjun’s residence. MP's son Pawan Singh, BJP’s Bhatpara MLA, however, blamed the police for the repeated attacks. “People have realised that the police have no control over the law and order situation here and goons enjoying free run here,” he told the reporters. Jagaddal Trinamul MLA Somnath Shyam, however, refuted the allegations and accused the MP of staging a fake drama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Finger at BJP on interference in Gorkha National Liberation Front||A senior leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front, the largest ally of the BJP in Darjeeling, has accused the saffron camp of “controlling” the hill party to the extent that the GNLF has been forced to compromise on its ideology and regionalism. Mahendra Chhetri, a spokesman for the GNLF, said his party’s leaders were functioning only under the direction of the BJP, which in turn was allegedly trying to fool the hill people in the name of “permanent political solution”. “The GNLF leadership has compromised on the party’s stand and is functioning solely on the direction of some BJP leaders, who are trying to fool the hill people in the name of ‘permanent political solution’,” said Chhetri. Chhetri, who joined the GNLF in 2011, is considered a senior leader of the party. His statement against the GNLF’s ally suggests that a section of the leadership even among the BJP’s allies are getting disillusioned with the BJP. The BJP had promised a “permanent political solution” for the region in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Recently, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista from the BJP party had said a tripartite meeting would be convened by the first week of September but the promise has not been kept. “If the BJP is sincere about the permanent political solution, what is the harm in clearly mentioning the agenda of the proposed tripartite meeting,” said Chhetri. The BJP has not defined what it means by permanent political solution even though its allies in the hills believe that it is a separate state of Gorkhaland. Chhetri claimed that ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, BJP leaders had told them it would be difficult “for them (BJP) to mention specifics like “union territory” or “a declaration of a separate state” or even “sixth schedule status” because of election compulsion. “They should now be clear of the agenda of the tripartite meeting if they are sincere about the sentiments of the hill people. There are no political compulsions, too, for the BJP as there are no immediate major elections scheduled in Bengal,” said Chhetri who added that he still believed in the GNLF leader’s ideology of politics for protection of “land and its people and culture.” Most plain centric parties believe that if they support a separate state of Gorkhaland or even union territory status it could have a severe backlash on the party in the rest of Bengal. The GNLF leader was also critical of his own leadership and stated that the GNLF’s decision to allow the BJP field its candidate in the three hills seat was a complete “surrender” by the party. The BJP fielded its own candidate from Kurseong and Kalimpong Assembly seats while GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba contested on a BJP ticket from Darjeeling. While Zimba and the BJP candidate from Kurseong won their seats, BJP candidate Suva Pradhan lost the Kalimpong seat to Ruden Sada Lepcha, who is now with the newly floated Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha. Chhetri has not resigned from the party. “I am still with the party (GNLF) and haven’t submitted my resignation. My loyalty will always be for the party that will work for the development of the residents of hills and redress their problem permanently,” Chhetri said when asked about his future plan. GNLF secretary-general, Zimba, refused to comment on Chhetri’s statement. “Let us first go through Chhetri’s comment before we comment,” said Zimba. New civic board The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM)  led by Anit Thapa formed the board at Kurseong municipality on Monday. All 14 councillors of the civic body who  belonged to the Thapa-backed faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha attended a board meeting of the civic body and decided to join the newly formed hill party. “An emergency board meeting was held at the civic body. Fourteen councillors participated in the meeting and they unanimously decided to work for the development of the civic area under the BGPP,” Subhash Pradhan, the vice-chairman of the civic board said. The tiny hill civic board has a total 20 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Contempt suit against Visva-Bharati university in Calcutta HC||One of the three students rusticated by Visva-Bharati filed a contempt petition in Calcutta High Court on Tuesday, accusing the university of not allowing them to resume academic activities even after the court had revoked the decision. Sources said the petition was scheduled to come up for hearing on Wednesday. “Despite repeated emails to the proctor and other senior varsity officials requesting them to allow us to resume our academic activities, the varsity continues to violate the court order. Left with no other option, we have been forced to file contempt petition against the varsity,” said Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students who filed the petition. A group of varsity students had started a gherao and demonstration in front of the official residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty from August 27 night as part of their protest against the rustication. Rupa Chakrabarty and Falguni Pan were the other two rusticated students. Sow and Pan are students of economics. Rupa studies Hindustani classical music. In an interim ruling issued on September 8, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha ordered dismantling of all platforms of agitation on the campus and asked students and others not to organise any protest on and around the campus. While keeping in abeyance the varsity’s decision to rusticate the three students, the court held that it found the punishment “excessive and disproportionate”. The Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text message from this correspondent seeking his opinion on the issue. However, a varsity official said they would also tell the court on how the car of the officiating registrar was stopped by the protesting students after the high court ruling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee roadshow: Trinamul plays rally date game||The Trinamul Congress has decided to organise a road show to be led by its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Agartala on September 22 and vowed to move court if police denied permission for the event. Earlier, the party had first planned to hold the programme on September 15 and then on the following day. But police had denied permission for the proposed show of strength. Trinamul leaders Kunal Ghosh, Sushmita Dev, Ashish Lal Singh and Sarmistha Dev Sarkar told the media on Tuesday that they had rescheduled their rally for September 22. “Let us see how long they can keep denying permission to scuttle a democratic process in the name of law and order and festival. It is clear from the denial of permission that the BJP-led government in Tripura is scared of Trinamul. They are only getting exposed,” Dev told The Telegraph. Singh said: “Till now, we have abided by what police have said. But we will move court if we are denied permission for the September 22 event or police do not suggest a date that is convenient for them.” In a fresh application seeking permission and adequate security for the rally, state Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik pointed out that the party had selected September 22 for the proposed rally to be led by Abhishek Banerjee after ensuring that it did not clash with any festival or other political event. Susmita RS candidate The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday announced Susmita Dev as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll from Bengal on October 24. She had left the Congress and joined Trinamul in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 703 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 86 successive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases with 703 new infections, 713 recoveries and a dozen deaths. The total of active cases fell by 22 to 8,074. Bengal has 2.34 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 127 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 138, the only two districts with three-digit figures of fresh cases. Nine districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, which is the highest ever and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.59. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Calcutta reported three deaths, while North 24-Parganas reported five. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Tourist dead, 10 hurt in collisions in East Midnapore’s Digha||A tourist from Sodepur died and at least 10 persons suffered injuries in two separate accidents that took place amid heavy showers in East Midnapore’s Digha and adjoining areas. Around 11pm on Monday night, a bus and a private car collided, reportedly after one of the vehicles skidded on slush, on NH116B near Chandipur. Sources said six passengers were grievously injured in the crash and had been admitted to Chandipur block hospital. No fatalities were reported. “The highway is covered with mud running down from adjoining areas following heavy rain which is dangerous for driving. The driver might have not noticed it at night,” said a police officer. In another incident, a 38-year-old businessman died when the vehicle he was driving rammed into an SUV on the same highway near Digha around 6am on Tuesday. Jyoti Sarkar, who hailed from Sodepur, along with his two friends were driving home after a vacation in Digha. Sarkar was at the wheel of the car. The SUV was from Burdwan. Sarkar’s two friends and two other who were travelling in the SUV have suffered injuries,” said officer-in-charge (Ramnagar), Sourav Cheena. “The injured are admitted to the local block hospital. Poor visibility amid heavy rainfall is said to have caused the accident. Sarkar’s body has been sent to Contai sub-divisional hospital for autopsy,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to kick-start Duare Ration from Wednesday||The Bengal government is set to kick-start Duare Ration (ration on doorsteps) project as a pilot initiative involving 3,000 ration dealers for two months from Wednesday to experience the impact on the ground before it is implemented across the state after Durga Puja. The Duare Ration scheme, a brainchild of Mamata Banerjee, was promised by the chief minister during the Assembly poll campaign this year. She promised the implementation of the scheme if she came to power for a third time. Sources in the food and supply department said all districts had been asked to involve 15 per cent of their existing ration dealers in the programme from Wednesday and submit a detailed report on the drive every day. “There are around 20,800 ration dealers in Bengal and over 3,000 of them would start the drive from Wednesday. It is a pilot project and we will observe the impact on the ground during September and October. Later, we will implement it for all dealers to reach 10.33 crore beneficiaries across the state,” state food and supply minister Rathin Ghosh said on Tuesday. According to the plan, the government asked all ration dealers to divide their total beneficiaries into 16 clusters and during the initial drive, they would reach out to their beneficiaries in the cluster concerned once in a month to deliver foodgrains at their door. “The dealers will carry POS machine and weigh machine along with foodgrains on a vehicle and deliver the items on the doorsteps,” said the minister. Sources said the rationing system got a boost after the Mamata Banerjee government introduced “Khadya Sathi” scheme to provide free rations to all in 2016. There are 10.33 crore people having ration cards across Bengal and they collect their deserved quantity of foodgrains under various categories from 20,800 ration shops. Earlier, the people had to visit the ration shops — many of which are a few kilometers away from their home in remote areas. “In remote areas like those in the Jungle Mahal and in north Bengal, people had to travel 6-10km to reach their ration shops and had problem commuting,” said an official. Officials in the food and supply department said foodgrains like rice, wheat, sugar, flour and kerosene were being distributed to the beneficiaries according to the allotments under various categories. But in the trial run, kerosene will not be distributed and people have to collect it from ration shops. “According to the instruction, every dealer will reach their clusters four days a week from Wednesday and they would keep their shop open full on Saturday and half on Sunday. People can also avail themselves of the old system,” said a senior official. The sources said the Bengal government was also facing a few challenges to implement the programme state-wide as a large number of ration dealers were not willing to join the scheme and demanded benefits like hike in commission and transport fees. Biswambhar Basu, national general secretary of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Federation, said he had written to the chief minister on Tuesday informing her that it would be impossible for dealers to implement the Duare Ration project if their demands were not considered. The dealers demanded that they be given commission of Rs 200 per one quintal foodgrains and another Rs 40 per quintal for packaging, which is quite high compared to what they get these days — Rs 75 a quintal. The amount demanded by the dealers, sources said, had been considered to be quite high as it could cost the state exchequer nearly Rs 3,000 crore every year. The sources said three ration dealers had already moved Calcutta High Court seeking its intervention to stop such a drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
15-09-2021||West Bengal||20% bonus for most tea workers in Dooars and Terai ||Most tea gardens in the Dooars and the Terai have agreed to pay workers bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of their annual wages. A virtual bipartite meeting between trade unions and tea planters on Tuesday also agreed that the bonus would be paid by October 4. There are over 195 tea gardens in the plains, which together employ more than 2 lakh people. Most estates had disbursed the bonus at the rate of 20 last year. Gopal Pradhan, the president of the Dooars Cha Bagan Workers’ Union, said: “Workers of Terai and Dooars tea gardens will receive bonus at 20 per cent of the annual wages. However, the management of 40-odd gardens sought concessions citing financial distress.” Last year, 27 sick gardens had paid bonuses ranging from 11 to 19 per cent. A meeting to decide on the bonus for tea garden workers in the Darjeeling hills has been scheduled for Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
15-09-2021||West Bengal||Forum for small states to meet in Darjeeling||The National Federation for New States (NFNS) has decided to hold a meeting in Darjeeling later this month, a move which could bring the spotlight back on the Gorkhaland discourse at a time when the statehood issues is no longer the predominant narrative for hill-based political parties. The federation is a pan-India body and composed of organisations that are demanding separate states across the country. It has representatives of organisations seeking Bodoland, Vidharbha, Bundelkhand, Tipraland, Ladakh and Gorkhaland states. Members from other regions in Northeast with statehood demands are also part of the federation. Earlier, leaders of Telangana and Jharkhand had been in the forum before the two states were formed. Munish Tamang, the national president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh and a proponent of a separate state of Gorkhaland, has been appointed the new president of the federation. “The meeting in Darjeeling will be attended by members of the NFNS which includes cabinet ministers from Tripura, elected representatives from Bodoland and Garo Autonomous Council and leaders from Ladakh, Bundelkhand, Telangana and Vidarbha and former MPs and MLAs from these regions,” said Tamang. On September 25, a business meeting of the federation will be held with the new president taking over charge. The following day, the federation will hold an interactive session with political and social organisations from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Dooars and the Terai. In the past, hill parties like the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) and Jan Andolan Party (JAP) had interacted with the federation. The NFNS will be coming up with a resolution “both at the national policy level and at individual statehood movement level” during the two-day meeting, said Tamang. At the moment, most of the hill-based parties are relatively silent on the statehood demand. Major parties in the hills like Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and the hill leader Binay Tamang are currently aligned with the Trinamul Congress which is opposed to the statehood demand. Other parties like the GNLF, CPRM, Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha, SUMETI Mukti Morcha and ABGL (Pratap faction) are with BJP, which is harping on a “permanent political solution” that has not yet been defined. The “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai was promised in the BJP’s manifesto for the 2019 general election Parties like JAP which are unattached to any camps are also silent on the Gorkhaland issue. “Against this background, the meeting by the NFNS could bring focus back on the statehood demand in the hills, which ultimately is the most important issue here,” said an observer. TMC joining Three former Darjeeling municipality councillors, Anup Hang Subba, Sanjeev Mothey and Ganesh Sarki, joined the Trinamul Congress  in Darjeeling on Tuesday in the presence of the party’s Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen. An administrator has been running the Darjeeling civic board after it was dissolved in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
15-09-2021||North East||Tripura TMC rally postponed to September 22||The Trinamul Congress has decided to organise a road show to be led by its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Agartala on September 22 and vowed to move court if police denied permission for the event. Earlier, the party had first planned to hold the programme on September 15 and then on the following day. But police had denied permission for the proposed show of strength. Trinamul leaders Kunal Ghosh, Sushmita Dev, Ashish Lal Singh and Sarmistha Dev Sarkar told the media on Tuesday that they had rescheduled their rally for September 22. “Let us see how long they can keep denying permission to scuttle a democratic process in the name of law and order and festival. It is clear from the denial of permission that the BJP-led government in Tripura is scared of Trinamul. They are only getting exposed,” Dev told The Telegraph. Singh said: “Till now, we have abided by what police have said. But we will move court if we are denied permission for the September 22 event or police do not suggest a date that is convenient for them.” In a fresh application seeking permission and adequate security for the rally, state Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik pointed out that the party had selected September 22 for the proposed rally to be led by Abhishek Banerjee after ensuring that it did not clash with any festival or other political event. Susmita RS candidate The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday announced Susmita Dev as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll from Bengal on October 24. She had left the Congress and joined Trinamul in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
15-09-2021||Opinion||Code Red||The United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has released a draft of the first volume of its Sixth Assessment Report. This report focuses exclusively on the latest scientific research on climate change. The next two volumes, due next year, will focus on the human impact and how societies can adapt to irreversible changes and, finally, on how to mitigate future global warming. This periodic set of reports puts together the latest developments in evidence available, knowledge inferred, and options open to humankind to save the planet from irreparable damage. The report is a joint effort by 234 scientists and other experts from 195 countries based on 14,000 scientific papers. Every time new results are published by the IPCC, the data and conclusions drawn from them look worse and more perilous. The last four decades have witnessed a continuous rise in average temperatures of the earth’s surface. Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have continued to increase. There are protests and debates and conferences by the dozens; yet nothing very concrete and enforceable is being done globally to tackle, what scientists are now referring to as, a climate emergency. The latest Assessment Report carries strong language that scientists normally refrain from using: so instead of claiming things with “moderate confidence”, the report has used words like “unequivocally true”. The UN has described the situation as a “code red” level of danger. There are two aspects of climate change that are important to understand and keep in mind. The first is that it is part of an even bigger problem of environmental degradation and destruction. The second is that since the natural environment is a shared resource for all inhabitants of the planet, it constitutes a global problem which requires global solutions. Hence, knowing the extent of the problem and acting collectively towards a solution are of the essence. According to the Sixth Assessment Report, the carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere is now at the highest level in at least two million years. The sea level has been rising at the fastest rate in at least 3,000 years. The Arctic sea ice area is the lowest in at least 1,000 years. Glaciers have been retreating at an unprecedented speed not seen in at least 2,000 years. These time scales are not hyperboles; they are based on  the latest scientific methods and models of estimation. It is indisputable that the activities of human beings are the root cause of extreme climate events, including heavy rainfalls, severe droughts, intense heat waves and massive wildfires. The oceans have been warming too. Since carbon dioxide is soluble in water, the seas are becoming more acidic and losing oxygen content. Clearly, not only are human beings at risk of being adversely affected, all forms of life on land, air and in the water are threatened. According to biologists, we are going through the sixth mass extinction of biological species. The point to note is that the earlier five took place before Homo sapiens ruled the earth. It is also estimated that the sixth one induced by human development is also the biggest known to biologists. The Sixth Assessment Report has many new features to make the technical report more accessible to general readers. For instance, there is an interactive world atlas, which allows one to navigate to the area where one resides and see the extent of measured climate change, the extent of damage according to various parameters, and a peek into the near future. South Asia remains extremely vulnerable. Even within South Asia, the Sunderbans area off the Bay of Bengal is especially threatened. The water level is rising and within the next one or two decades this part of the world could get completely submerged. Imagine the economic distress that it would cause to millions of poor people and the political conflict it could engender as millions travel as environmental refugees, competing for scarce resources with equally poor people, say, for instance, in North Bengal, Jharkhand or Bihar. India, like many other parts of the world, will be vulnerable to compound extreme events rarely seen before with increased intensity, durations, frequency and spatial extents. For example, extreme heat waves could be observed simultaneously with unusual flooding. Or there could be bitter cold spells with prolonged droughts. Although the problem appears to be complex and alarming, the solution, at least on paper, is patently obvious. Carbon dioxide emissions have to be reduced swiftly and decisively. Emissions have already gone beyond safety limits. However, despite many attempts at getting the global community of nations to reduce fossil-fuel use, success has not been attained. Some countries, like the rich nations, had contributed during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries large doses of carbon dioxide now hanging in the atmosphere. Relatively poorer countries, now beginning to aspire to the material development standards of Europe and North America — like China or India — are burning large amounts of fossil fuels to grow faster and attain higher material standards of living. China is the biggest polluter of carbon; India being a distant third. The second place goes to the United States of America. However, in terms of per capita emissions, the US is the largest with China a middling second (amongst these three nations) and India the last. India and China have claimed that the major burden of reduction of carbon emissions will have to be borne by the rich nations while other countries use more fossil fuels to catch up with them. That is the position of the Global South. India’s environment minister has claimed, after the Sixth Assessment Report was published, that it vindicates India’s stand that climate change is mainly caused by the cumulative emissions of the rich nations. The minister pointed out that India’s cumulative and current emissions are low. The developed nations argue that it is the total amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that matters, not per capita emissions. There is an ethical issue too. If India and China are allowed to pollute more as an opportunity to catch up, it might happen that 20 years from now some of the poorest countries of Africa start polluting much faster than they are doing now. The situation could get much worse. Would India and China then have the moral authority to request these countries to reduce pollution? India’s real position is even more fragile than what the IPCC claims. India has comprehensive policies on paper but they are not implemented in most cases. The nation has been increasing its forest cover but decides to clear forests to mine diamonds; it has ambitious plans for expanding solar power usage but has enormously inefficient electricity infrastructure. Whatever might be the official rhetoric, when it comes to a crunch, the environment is always given short shrift when the alternative is commercial exploitation. There is a myopic vision of development, beginning with making large dams to paving wide highways; from extensive use of hydropower to mining in forest areas. Doublespeak and near-sightedness can be a lethal combination. The Sixth Assessment Report is, arguably, one final warning about the urgency of appropriate global action. In not being able to change our lifestyles and consumption patterns, human beings will be behaving irresponsibly toward future generations, yet unborn, who cannot vote against us, or sue us in a court of law. Our generation may leave behind an environmentally broken planet for the future. If, indeed, we do so, it will not be on account of ignorance; rather it will be a matter of deliberate choice. Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Uttar Pradesh assembly elections||Divisive tactics Sir — The poll bugle for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections has officially been blown. Unsurprisingly, the incumbent chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, the most strident face of Hindutva in the country, has intensified his attack on the largest minority community to polarize the electorate along communal lines. His latest remark, that under the earlier dispensation “people who say ‘abba jaan’ used to digest the rations” — abba jaan is commonly the way fathers are addressed by the Muslim community — has to be seen as a part of his and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s strategy for the upcoming elections. In a country where sedition charges are levied on the flimsiest of reasons, it would be a mockery of the rule of law if a chief minister is allowed to go scot free after making such a statement. His remark causes hurt and incites hatred against members of the Muslim community, which is a criminal offence under the Indian Penal Code. It is evident that given Adityanath’s poor track record in governance, he is not confident about contesting the election on bread and butter issues. Instead, he has taken recourse to communalism and hatred. This is dangerous. The courts should take suo motu cognizance of the matter and order the filing of a first information report to bring the errant chief minister to justice. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Slippery customer Sir — When the Pegasus scandal was first exposed, I remember a TV debate in which an Opposition leader had said that if this matter is taken to court, it will go into cold storage because the government will refuse to disclose any information, citing the security of the country. This fear was realized in the Supreme Court when the Centre refused to file a fresh affidavit admitting or denying snooping on citizens (“Deadline for govt on Pegasus”, Sept 14). The government’s reluctance makes the matter more suspicious. The Supreme Court bench led by the Chief Justice of India has asked a simple question: whether the government had used Pegasus to snoop on citizens? Had the government been innocent of the charges, it could have simply denied them. Can it then be assumed that the Israeli spy software had indeed been used to invade the privacy of Indian citizens? The top court’s interim order is still awaited. In the meantime, the government should have a very good reason as to why it infringed on the privacy of citizens. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The Centre is testing the patience of the Supreme Court in the Pegasus issue by deliberately avoiding a very basic question about whether Pegasus has been used to spy on judges, journalists, politicians and activists. The court was right to admonish the solicitor-general, Tushar Mehta, for beating around the bush by repeating that the Centre could not speak about the issue as it concerned ‘national security’. The need of the hour is to conduct a court-monitored probe into the matter. The interim order of the apex court in this regard is eagerly awaited. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — The Centre must explain exactly how revealing whether it used Pegasus to spy on those who did not see eye to eye with the government is a matter of ‘national security’. The bogey of ‘national security’ has become too hackneyed for even the most die-hard admirer of the current dispensation to believe. By now, everyone knows that the government is crying wolf. The Supreme Court was absolutely right in rubbishing the claims of the solicitor-general and telling him off for beating around the bush instead of answering the court’s questions. One hopes that the Supreme Court will set up an independent probe into the matter — given the climate in the country, no State agency can be trusted any longer — which will be monitored by the court itself. Moreover, steps must be taken to ensure that while the fracas continues over whether or not people have been spied upon, more people are not being subjected to the same snooping. The sanctity of the democracy is at stake here. P. Gundu Rao,Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh Sir — The apex court has regained some of its lost trust with its recent statements. This is encouraging as an upright judiciary is the last hope of saving the Indian democracy. Jayanta Biswas,Calcutta  Sunken ship Sir — Camels were once a prized possession for breeders in Rajasthan. But that ended with the passage of the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015. As with most legislations formulated without any idea of the pastoral ecosystem, this law has ensured a precipitous dip in camel breeding and, in turn, its population. Reports suggest that the number of camels in the state has gone from 3.25 lakh in 2012 to 1.5 lakh in 2019. If Satyajit Ray had filmed Sonar Kella now, Feluda would never have reached Ramdevra on time. Amit Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Central tax||All is — not — well in Gujarat. That seems to be the signal emanating from the Bharatiya Janata Party’s decision to change yet another of its serving chief ministers — Gujarat is the third state after Uttarakhand and Karnataka to do so — with Bhupendra Patel taking on the baton from Vijay Rupani. One of the immediate reasons for Mr Rupani’s ouster could be the feedback from the ground. Mr Rupani’s government was particularly ineffective in its management of the pandemic: so much so that the high court had to express its displeasure. The BJP would be hoping that with Mr Patel’s elevation, it has succeeded in deflecting the public anger, especially from within the Patidar community which, on account of its influence and numbers, has traditionally been an important electoral constituency in the state. But there is also a case to view this development in a larger context. The BJP loves to trumpet itself as a ‘party with a difference’. The claim is made to argue that unlike its principal rival, the Congress, the BJP encourages the culture of inner democracy. By this logic, the BJP central leadership — essentially the duopoly of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah — should have respected the autonomy of regional leaders. Yet, under Mr Modi’s leadership, there are distinct signs of greater centralization — autocracy? — within the BJP’s rank and file. The choice of the new chief minister’s — they are, often, vassals with minimal political weight of their own — is indicative of the fact that in spite of its zeal to create a Congress-mukt Bharat, the BJP is increasingly mirroring the Congress’s inner party structure with a domineering high command of its own. The other point concerns the hollowness of the BJP’s claim of representative welfarism. ‘Sabka Vikas’, the prime minister’s heartening rhetoric of inclusivity, is turning out to be another  Headline:    with the BJP toeing the traditional strategy of appeasing dominant caste groups such as the Patidars in Gujarat. The shadow, as is usual with the BJP, has fallen between word and deed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Pure vision||Visionaries may be mortal. But their visions are meant to endure. This could be one way of interpreting the seminal message that was conveyed by the Chief Justice of India at an event organized by the Ramakrishna Mission. N.V. Ramana iterated the need for ‘contemporary India’ — perhaps New India should also pay attention — to imbibe tolerance and shun the spectre of sectarianism: these were some of the elementary lessons that were imparted by Swami Vivekananda. Indeed, as was pointed out by Mr Ramana, the richness of the Swami’s legacy can be attributed not only to its humane nature —compassion and respect for all are integral to his philosophy — but also his ability to communicate the fundamental elements of the philosophy of Vedanta in a practical way. None can deny that Narendra Modi’s India is in dire need of embracing Vivekananda’s vision, which, significantly, converges with some of the principles of constitutionalism that lie at the heart of India’s democratic project. This is so because the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party has coincided with an unprecedented strain on India’s pluralist, accommodating social fabric. In the last few years, the vilification of Muslims as well as of socially disadvantaged groups has, shockingly, become commonplace, and is manifested through lynchings, segregation, everyday indignities and other kinds of discrimination. Neither can it be said that the powers that be have always been innocent in this crazed witch-hunt. The persistent communal tenor in the speeches of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh or the BJP’s willingness to milk the objectionable remark — that of drug jihad — made by a member of the clergy in Kerala reveal this complicity. The rise in communalism has attracted international attention and censure. The International Religious Freedom Report 2021, for instance, tagged India as a ‘country of particular concern’. The turn towards a majoritarian democratic polity is, however, not the only concern. What sectarianism — abhorred by Vivekananda and other apostles of co-existence — has brought in its wake is the threat of distortion of the wisdom of luminaries. There have been various attempts to co-opt Vivekananda’s legacy by the fraternity that confuses Hindutva, an ideological and political project, with Hinduism. This appropriation must be resisted at every level — social, cultural and academic. Otherwise, India would fail to preserve some of the basic teachings of Vivekananda who espoused the causes of tolerance — what else did he speak about in his famous Chicago address? The best way to commemorate Vivekananda would be for India to shun cosmetic shows of veneration for its sages: it should instead, as the CJI said, heed the Swami’s call for universal inclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||A case for police reform||An operation carried out by the Meghalaya police to arrest a former militant of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council resulted in an accused being shot dead. Following allegations of human rights abuse, a judicial inquiry was constituted alongside an independent inquiry by the Meghalaya Human Rights Commission. The unfortunate incident sparked a conversation on law-enforcement personnel’s commitment to human rights. The threat was recently voiced by the Chief Justice of India, who said that human rights are at the highest risk when the accused are in police custody. These threats are real, as we have recently seen in Manipur where journalists and activists were physically assaulted after being detained under the draconian National Security Act. The Supreme Court, which set the activist free after he was arrested for a Facebook post ridiculing the use of cow dung as a Covid-19 remedy, was also ready to hear pleas to award compensation for his illegal detention. The recent incident in Shillong leads us to examine some legal and ethical imperatives of police reform and modernization from a human rights perspective. The need for police reform has been discussed by the judiciary, human rights bodies, academics, and non-governmental organizations. Given that law enforcement is the responsibility of the state government, the onus lies on it to ensure necessary legal reforms. The Meghalaya Police Act of 2010 was enacted with this spirit in mind. The merit of discussing this Act in the light of the incident in Shillong lies in the fact that the Act provides a framework for ensuring accountability of the police force. The first paragraph of the Act considers the “respect for and promotion of the human rights of the people and protection of their civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights”. The legislation provides for the setting up of independent bodies to oversee the functioning of the state police, which is relevant to this discussion. First among these is the State Security Commission, tasked with being a watchdog to, inter alia, ensure observance of human rights standards. The second — the Accountability Commission — is responsible for inquiring into allegations of serious misconduct against police personnel. Two issues arise concerning the functioning of these two independent bodies which reflect the callous attitude of the state government. The SSC has not met in recent months, against the mandated tri-monthly sitting. The Accountability Commission, mandated to release public annual reports, is nowhere to be seen either. To ensure that law-enforcement personnel adhere to human rights standards, independent oversight of the state police is necessary. It is, therefore, important that these two bodies function in accordance with the Act. A series of measures must be implemented in addition to this. Personnel of the Meghalaya police must be regularly and effectively trained in using proportionate force during security operations. Latest reports from the Bureau of Police Research and Development show that between 2019-20, a miniscule 0.59 per cent of Meghalaya police’s expenditure was spent on the training of personnel. This figure indicates not just the lack of human rights training of personnel but also the general absence of regular training. Training programmes for all personnel must incorporate domestic and international standards and principles of law enforcement, including the preference of using non-lethal force to achieve an operation’s objective. Given the enhanced risk of sexual assault in police custody, personnel must also be trained in gender-sensitive policing. Accountability is incorporated into the police’s standard of operating procedures; there is also the need to implement mandatory after-action reviews. AARs are used to prevent, mitigate and address any human rights violation. They can be useful for the state police to strengthen future responses to security operations that involve hostiles. A mandatory AAR to be filled by the officer-in-charge of each police operation would serve as an important feeder for review by the independent bodies tasked with the oversight of the state police. These are a few measures through which the police can ensure that incidents such as the recent security operation do not occur again. One hopes that state police and civil society will learn crucial lessons from this incident and strive to attain actionable accountability in practice in the future. Jade Lyngdoh is an Honours candidate at National Law University, Jodhpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Rajrappa temple prasad now at your doorstep through speed post||Devotees across the country can now avail prasad from the famed Maa Chinnamastika temple in Rajrappa in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district sitting in the confines of their homes just by sending a money order. Jharkhand circle of India Post on Wednesday announced commencement of doorstep delivery of prasad from Rajrappa temple through their postal network as part of their prasadam yojana. Chief post master general Sanjeev Ranjan said that India Post has already been running prasadam yojana in 57 cities across the country under which they are delivering prasads at doorsteps of all key religious places such as Tirupati temple (Andhra Pradesh), Hanuman Gadi temple (Ayodhya) and even Baba Baidhyanath temple (Deoghar, Jharkhand) for quite some time. “Rajrappa temple is the new addition to this scheme,” said Ranjan, adding that a memorandum of understanding (MoU) has recently been signed between the postal department of Hazaribag circle and Maa Chinnamastika Nyas Samiti. On how one places their orders, he said, “Anyone can send a money order to the master of the sub-post office in Gola with their requirement for delivery through speed post. For 200 gm pack prasad, one has to pay Rs 251 and for 500 gm, a payment of Rs 500 needs to be sent through money order. Along with the prasad, the temple authorities will send items such as bangles, a photo of Maa Chinnamastika, belpatra etc.” The official maintained that the postal department had begun this unique scheme in view of the covid-19 outbreak which caused slew of travel restrictions since last year. Even though the state government yesterday announced opening of all the shrines and entry of devotees in strict adherence to covid norms, many will still be apprehensive to venture in such crowded places fearing infection. “Hence, we chose to run this scheme and are gradually adding up more religious sites in our list,” he said. Notably, Chhinnamastika temple dedicated to Goddess Chinnamasta is one of the revered pilgrimage sites in the state which draws lakhs of crowd annually from different states. The main attraction of the temple is the headless deity of the goddess standing on the body of Kamadeva and Rati in a lotus bed. The temple is popular for its Tantrik style of architectural design.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||After 2 days of heavy rain, some respite from Thursday||The weather condition will improve in most parts of Jharkhand from Thursday, said weathermen on Wednesday. According to weathermen, the depression which originated from the Bay of Bengal and resulted in widespread and heavy rain in Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal in the last two days, moved towards Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. "The impact of the depression would wane from tomorrow as the system is gradually weakening as it is moving towards Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. The intensity of rain over Jharkhand decreased today," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Anand said that some parts of Jharkhand were expected to witness light showers accompanied by lightning and thunder in the next 48 hours due to formation of convective clouds. "The depression has left behind a lot of moisture in the atmosphere due to bearing of land during day time; it will facilitate formation of convective clouds, "explained Anand. Rain data revealed that Kuru in Lohardaga district recorded the highest heavy rain of 128.4 mm in the past 24 hours (8.30am of Tuesday to 8.30am of Wednesday). The other places which recorded significant rain included Mandar in Ranchi district ( 126 mm), Arki in Khunti ( 115 mm ), Lohardaga ( 106 mm ) Latehar ( 105 mm ), Ramgarh ( 104 mm), Hazaribagh ( 80 mm ), Chaibasa ( 70 mm) and Ranchi ( 58 mm). Koderma, Jamtara, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Daltonganj, Giridih and Dumka experienced moderate rain during the last 24 hours. Several places in central and northern Jharkhand including Ranchi and Hazaribagh witnessed intermittent rains on Wednesday. Most parts of Jharkhand woke up to gloomy weather on Thursday. The sun was mostly cloaked behind cloud cover. But, weathermen said the Sun will come out tomorrow as the weather condition improves. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre in its sector-wise forecast issued an alert of moderate thunder and lightning in the next two days. According to the Met office data, Jharkhand has so far received 909 mm rainfall, against a normal of 952 mm, a deficit of four percent. The deficit figure dipped to four percent from yesterday's eight per cent due to a good shower show. The water level in river Subernarekha and Kharkai which had witnessed a rise was gradually receding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's first oxygen plant launched at Tata Central Hospital ||The first Pressure Swing Adsorption Oxygen plant of coal town established by Jharia Division of Tata Steel, since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic in March last year was commissioned on Wednesday at its Central Hospital at Jamadoba in Jharia. Set up over an area of 400 square feet in the hospital by Tata Steel Foundation, the PSA Oxygen plant of 833 litres per minute capacity launched in presence of Chanakya Chaudhary, Vice President (Corporate Services) as chief guest will not only make Tata Central Hospital fully sufficient in medical oxygen supply at the hospital but will also enhance the medical facility by providing continuous oxygen support to 15 beds (five ICU beds and 10 beds of Covid 19 ward) inside the hospital. Dr Alok, Chief Medical Officer of Jharia Division of Tata Steel was also present during the occasion along  with Dr Sudhir Rai, General Manager (medical services) of Tata Steel; Dr Rajan Chaudhary, advisor (medical services)  Tata Steel; Saurav Roy, Chief (Corporate Social Responsibility) and Sanjay Rajoria, General Manager (Jharia Division) of Tata Steel said that besides the PSA Oxygen Plant, Oxygen Manifolds and storage area for keeping filled and empty oxygen cylinder have also been developed at the Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba.   Chanakya Chaudhary, on the other hand said that the plant has been established as part of the effort of Tata Steel to combat Covid-19 and be future ready. Three other PSA Oxygen Plants have also been established by the district administration, including two at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) of Dhanbad of the capacity of 1000 litres per minute and 600 litres per minute and another plant of 600 litres at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad. The trail of all the three newly established PSA Oxygen plants, including two of SNMMCH and one of Sadar Hospital for which gas pipeline has already been laid and has also been completed during August end and is awaiting it’s formal inauguration which is likely to carried out online by Chief Minister Hemant Soren from Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stresses on socio-economic survey of mining areas||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday stressed on the need for socio-economic surveys in all mining strongholds of the state to evaluate the living conditions of local inhabitants so that effective intervention plans can be finalised for them. Speaking at a closed-door meeting with the members of Niti Aayog here, Hemant also suggested area-specific development plans as per the need of the state. Besides placing a host of demands before the Central team, he also raised the issue of dues amounting to crores the Centre and its agencies/companies owed the Jharkhand government. An eight-member team of Niti Aayog, under the aegis of senior member V K Paul, held its first consultation with the state government in Ranchi on Wednesday. The meeting which began at noon went on for about three hours. Addressing the Press later, Hemant said the meeting was forward looking and expressed the hope that such interactions would help strengthen the federal structure of the country. He said discussions took place on about 22 issues across various sectors, including agriculture, roads and railway projects. "The first and foremost issue before us was auto-debit of money from the state’s RBI account by the Centre since last year against pending payments to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Till date, Rs 2800 crore has been cut and Rs 2200 crore more will be taken out from our account. These deductions are arbitrary as the state government had exited the tripartite agreement. More so, the claims made by DVC has been contested by us. Till the time this is sorted out, such auto debits must stop,” the chief minister said. “On the contrary, Coal India, Central Coalfields, which operate here, haven’t paid us royalties worth thousands of crores for long. Similarly, some Rs 1,800 crore is pending as GST compensation. We must get those for the state’s development,” Hemant added. He said the Niti Aayog team promised to arrange a meeting with Central officials in the coming days to settle these issues. Hemant outlined his plans for mining belts of the state. "Since mining activities are happening here for decades, I have suggested holding socio-economic survey so that we can know if at all it benefitted locals or not. This will help us plan proper schemes,” he said. The chief minister also called for special incentives for the SC/ST people. “We have demanded relaxation of GST and other kinds of taxes to SC/ST entrepreneurs so that they too can get proper assistance to pursue start-ups. There is a need for a special policy to boost SC/STs. From our end, we have recently come up with a new industrial policy to boost trade and create jobs,” he said. Hemant said he had asked for more vaccine stocks to fight Covid-19. “Against our capacity of vaccinating over 3.5 lakh people per day, we are barely doing around 1.25 lakh a day. We must get good quantity of vaccines in advance so that  we can speed up the drive," he said. Since Jharkhand was a rebel infested state, the chief minister urged Niti Aayog to ensure that funds to tackle left wing extremism be extended for another two years. “Earlier, 13 districts were classified as highly rebel hit. But now, the Centre has revised it to eight."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Stir for amenities hits train services in Chakradharpur division||The train services in Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway, was affected on Wednesday due to a public agitation at Garposh station, close to Sambalpur in neighbouring Odisha. Apart from stoppages of a few mail and express trains, local residents of Garposh demanded improvement in passenger amenities at the station. The agitation which began at 7am continued till 3.30 pm. Several trains were cancelled due to the agitation. The Rourkela-Puri Special was cancelled both from Rourkela and Puri. The Jharsuguda-Rourkela Passenger train was cancelled both from Jharsuguda and Rourkela. The Ahmedabad –Howrah Special was detained for two hours in Chakradharpur division. Several other trains including  Bangalore Cantt-Hatia Special, Titlagah – Howrah Special, Howrah-Ahmedabad Special (Up train), Puri-Yog Nagari Rishikesh Special ,Rajendranagar-Durg Special,  Howrah- Mumbai CSMT Special  and Howrah-Titlagarh Special were also detained for several hours in Chakradharpur division, due to the public agitation. Director of Tatanagar railway station H.K. Balmuchu said several passenger trains including the Howrah-bound Jan Shatabdi Express were also running late, due to the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Centre sets up committee to review Jharia rehabilitation project||A nine-member technical committee constituted by the Union ministry of Coal  under the chairmanship of Coal Secretary Anil Kumar Jain, to find the way forward for accelerating the ongoing Jharia rehabilitation project has initiated the review in progress of the Jharia master plan. The committee of chairman and Managing Director of BCCL, P.M. Prasad besides experts from other relevant institutions including, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDIL) and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) will carry out inspection of underground fire affected sites within a day or two to ascertain the ground realities of the  underground fire situation, condition of residents of subsidence prone areas as well as newly developed colony for rehabilitation at Belgarhia to make a long-term as well as short-term plan to accelerate the rehab project. An introductory meeting of the technical committee was conducted on Tuesday at New Delhi during which the members were apprised by BCCL team led by its CMD PM Prasad about the activities of the ongoing rehabilitation work at 595 fire affected sites. So far, only around 2666 families out of the total 1.04 lakh families have been shifted to safer places ever since the launch of rehabilitation work by Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA), the agency constituted to carry out rehabilitation, comprising of officials of district administration, state government and district administration. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday, a senior member of committee said, “No comprehensive technical review of the Jharia Rehabilitation Project has so far been carried out and the committee having experts from background of diverse areas like, Krishna S. Vatsa, member of NMDA; Ram Madhav Bhattacharjee of IIT (ISM); Shekhar, Sharan, retired CMD of CMPDIL will analyze the project based on their experience and provide fresh inputs.” The committee comprising of others, like Pramod Agarwal, chairman of Coal India Limited; Anandji Prasad, Project Advisor of Ministry of Coal;  Sukhdev Singh, Chief Secretary, Jharkhand; Humum Singh Meena, additional secretary, Department of Land Resources (DOLA) of Jharkhand will hold several rounds of meetings and carry out ground inspection and present a report within two months. The committee will be preparing the report based on the ground inspection as well as deliberation with different people will suggest ways for ensuring constructive participation of the affected people of underground coal fire areas in the rehabilitation process and preparing rehabilitation schemes as the convenience. PM Prasad, CMD BCCL while talking to The Telegraph Online said, “As many of members of committee have not witnessed the fire affected sites they were scheduled to carry out immediate inspection of fire zones immediately after the introductory meeting which was postponed for one or two days due to incessant rains but will take place soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to conduct fever survey in 15 malaria-hit districts||Jharkhand will conduct a fever survey in villages across 15 malaria-affected districts from September 15 to 30 in a bid to identify cases of infection among rural residents, health officials said on Wednesday, adding that the survey was a part of the state’s plan for quick identification and treatment of malaria patients. Special testing kits have already been distributed among Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANMs), Sahiyas and Public Healthcare Centres (PHCs) across the districts for the survey, said State Malaria Officer Dr Shesh Narayan Jha, adding that all rural residents suffering from fever or other symptoms of malaria in these 15 districts will be tested during the survey. “As per guidelines from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, we need to conduct fever surveys in districts that have an Annual Parasite Index of more than five. People living in these areas are prone to malaria and other vector-borne diseases,” said Jha. Annual Parasite Index is the number of malaria patients found per 1000 population in a specific geographical location in a year. This means that all the 15 districts where fever survey would be conducted reported more than five malaria cases per 1,000 population in a year. The districts where this fever survey will be conducted are West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Palamau, Pakur, Latehar, Koderma, Khunti, Hazaribagh, Gumla, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, East Singhbhum and Dumka, a document from the health department stated. The teams constituted for conducting fever survey will adhere to Covid-19 protocols and wear necessary protective gear while visiting villages, officials said. While the kits distributed among the teams will give quick test results, the Sahiyas have also been trained to conduct slide tests for malaria, which gives more efficient results. “If a person suffering from fever tests negative for malaria on the test kit, the teams will conduct blood test on a microscopic slide as a confirmation (of the test result),” said Jha. As per data compiled by the Jharkhand unit of National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, the state reported 37,133 malaria cases in 2019. As many as 16,655 cases of malaria surfaced in Jharkhand in 2020. In 2021, the state has so far reported 6467 cases of malaria from January to July against 6692 cases reported from January to July in 2020, highlights government data. While figures indicate that measures taken to fight Covid-19 were partly responsible for the drop in cases of malaria, Jha said that intensified campaign against vector-borne diseases had a greater role to play in checking dengue and malaria cases than Covid-induced precautionary measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||5 charred to death as car catches fire after colliding with bus in Jharkhand||Five persons were charred to death as their car caught fire after a head-on collision with a bus in Jharkhand's Ramgarh district on Wednesday morning, police said. The accident happened at Murbanda in the Rajrappa police station area, they said. The driver of the bus was also critically injured and admitted to a hospital, police said. A WagonR car collided head-on with a bus on Ramgarh-Gola Main Road around 8 am, Superintendent of Police Prabhat Kumar told PTI. Soon after collision, the car caught fire, killing five persons, he said. The deceased include four adults -- two men and two women, and a teenage boy, the officer said. The victims were from Patna and police were find out their addresses and other details, he said. The cause of the accident was being investigated, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Child rights activist shot, his body hacked in Gumla||A 35-year-old child rights activist was shot and then his body hacked to pieces in broad daylight at his home-office at Gokulnagar in Gumla district on Tuesday. Mithilesh Kumar Sahu was associated with Bal Mazdoori Mukti Sansthan, an NGO. Officer in-charge of Gumla police station Manoj Kumar said the attack on him occurred between 9am and 9.30am. “We are probing the case from various angles. Prima facie, it looks like a case of personal enmity, judging by the manner in which he was killed. Attempts are on to identify his killers,” he said. A woman employee of the NGO, unwilling to be named, said that two persons came to thei office at 9 am, but left soon after. “A few minutes later, four others barged into his room, shot at him first and later hacked him to death and fled,” she said, adding that Sahu was operating his office from his residence located in Gokulnagar in Gumla town. Notably, Sahu had registered his  NGO this February, said associates. Sources in the NGO claimed that Sahu had rescued two child labourers (girls) from Delhi a month back. The suspected that his murder could be linked to that case. Police, however, told the media that Sahu also faced murder charges. “He was also in jail and had come out a few months back in connection with a murder case," added Gumla police station OC Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.30 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated more than 1.30 lakh residents against Covid-19 as at least 1,515 session sites remained operational across the state from morning to evening, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine to 88,641 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 42,523 beneficiaries. About 75,000 beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44. According to a press communique released by the health department on Tuesday evening, more than 1.20 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and more than 32 lakh of them have also got the second jab. The state had about 7 lakh vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on Tuesday, as per government data. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 111 in Jharkhand as the state reported at least 13 Covid recoveries against seven fresh cases of coronavirus infection, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone reported three of seven fresh cases of Covid-19, but at least six Covid recoveries brought the active caseload here down to 70. Khunti reported two cases of coronavirus infection, while Jamtara and Bokaro reported one case each. At least 20 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, highlighted NHM data. As per government data, at least nine of 24 districts, including Dumka, Giridih, Garhwa and Palamu, had zero active Covid cases by the end of Tuesday. On the other hand, Ranchi alone accounts for more than 60 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The active caseload of Covid-induced mucormycosis also dropped to seven on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet approves online registration of FIRs||Jharkhand has become the second state after Delhi to notify police stations where a complaint can be lodged online. The state cabinet at its meeting in Ranchi on Tuesday approved the home department’s proposal for formation of e-FIR police stations in 22 out of 24 districts. “Except Ramgarh and Khunti, all the remaining 22 districts will have e-FIR police stations. Now if someone wants to file an FIR, then he/she will not need to go to the police station. They can file a complaint online at the respective police station of the districts concerned,” Jharkhand cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel told the media after the cabinet meeting. Sources in the state police headquarters said that ideally they would have liked to notify e-FIR police stations in all the districts. However, since Khunti and Ramgarh, which were notified as separate districts in 2007 carved out from Ranchi and Hazaribagh districts respectively, did not have a composite control room of their own, the e-FIR concept could not be implemented. “However, we will soon be notifying e-FIR police stations in Ramgarh and Khunti districts too. We are the first state or Union Territory after Delhi to start e-FIR police stations across the state for the convenience of the masses,” said a senior IPS officer in the state police headquarters. In another important decision, life-size statues of three more tribal freedom fighters — Bhagirath Majhi, Ganga Ram and Pota Ho — will be installed at the newly constructed Birsa Munda Museum in the Old Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi. “These would be apart from the 11 statues of tribal freedom fighters already installed at the Birsa Munda Museum. The installation work would be done by renowned sculptors Ram V. Sutar Art Creation,” said Dadel. The 180-year-old jail, where freedom fighter Birsa Munda was hanged, was renovated and converted into a museum at an estimated cost of Rs 31 crore and inaugurated in 2020. The project was funded by the Union ministry of tribal affairs and executed by the Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company Limited. A total of 15 other proposals were sanctioned during the state cabinet meeting, prominent among which was the approval of the Jharkhand State Road Tax Amendment, 2021. “Under this amendment, toll tax would be levied on vehicles using roads in the mining area. The government has fixed rates for various vehicles and there will be no special barriers for these vehicles. The state aims at collecting an estimated revenue of nearly Rs 700 crore from such tax,” said Dadel. “Giridih was selected as the first district for the Solar City project of the Union energy ministry under which beneficiaries having an annual income of less than Rs 3 lakh will get 40 per cent of the amount from the Centre and 60 per cent from the state for installing rooftop solar power system. Those beneficiaries having annual income of more than Rs 3 lakh will get 40 per cent of the finance from the central government and 30 per cent from state, while the remaining 30 per cent would have to be borne by the beneficiary,” said Dadel. The cabinet also approved the operation of the Juvenile Justice Fund and a savings account was opened in the Ranchi branch of State Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel adopts carbon capture technology    ||Tata Steel on Tuesday became India’s first steel company to adopt carbon capture technology that extracts carbon dioxide directly from the blast furnace gas. The more than a century-old steel company commissioned a 5 tonnes per day (TPD) carbon capture plant at its Jamshedpur work and the will reuse the captured CO2 on-site to promote the circular carbon economy. “This Carbon Capture and Utilisation (CCU) facility uses amine-based technology and makes the captured carbon available for onsite reuse. The depleted CO2 gas is sent back to the gas network with increased calorific value. This project has been executed with the technological support from Carbon Clean, a global leader in low-cost CO2 capture technology,” said a company spokesperson. The CCU plant was inaugurated by CEO and MD Tata Steel T.V. Narendran in presence of company officials and other dignitaries. “In alignment with the Tata group’s pioneering values, we have taken this strategic step in our journey towards de-carbonisation. We will continue our quest to remain an industry leader in sustainability by setting new benchmarks for a better tomorrow. For the sustainability of the steel industry globally and particularly in a growing country like India, it is essential that we find economical solutions for capturing and use of CO2 at scale. Leadership in mitigating emissions, accessing low-cost clean energy, and providing circular economy solutions will define our sector’s journey going forward,” said Narendran after commissioning the CCU plant. “The operational experience gathered from this plant will give us the required data and confidence to establish larger carbon capture plants in future. As the next step, we aim to establish scaled up facilities of CO2 capture integrated with utilisation avenues,” Narendran added. Tata Steel continues to pursue its goal to be the industry leader in sustainability by reducing its CO2 emission intensity and specific freshwater consumption, developing a sustainable supply chain and contributing towards the future circular economy. The company has undertaken a two-pronged approach of Carbon Direct Avoidance (CDA) and CO2 capture and use in pursuit of the decarbonisation goal. “We are delighted to be working with Tata Steel on this breakthrough project. We are currently capturing 5 tonnes of CO2 per day, but following our successful demonstration, we plan to rapidly accelerate the number of carbon capture projects. Capturing CO2 from blast furnace gas will not only decarbonise the steel plants but will also open avenues for a hydrogen economy,” said CEO Carbon Clean Aniruddha Sharma. Over the past few years, Tata Steel has invested in multiple initiatives in harnessing clean and renewable energy, generation and use of Green Hydrogen and adopting waste heat recovery technologies. Tata Steel is a member of ResponsibleSteelTM, the industry’s first global multi-stakeholder standard and certification initiative, to further its sustainability goals. In September 2020, Tata Steel had joined hands with the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) to work in the field of Carbon Capture, Utilisation & Storage (CCUS), to build a strong ecosystem in the country for meeting the decarbonisation commitments under the Paris Agreement. “Tata Steel has also made progress in its steel recycling business initiative, which is a definitive step towards sustainable steel production. The company has set up its first steel recycling plant at Rohtak in Haryana which will enable lower carbon emissions, resource consumption and energy utilisation,” said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
