16-09-2021||Business||Union Cabinet clears proposal for government guarantee for bad bank||The Union Cabinet has cleared a proposal to provide Rs 30,600 crore government guarantee for security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of resolution of bad loans, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. The proposed bad bank or NARCL will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is loss against the threshold value. Briefing reporters on the decision, she said banks have recovered Rs 5.01 lakh crore of unpaid loans in the last six years. Of this, Rs 3.1 lakh crore has been recovered since March 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Sensex crosses 59,000 for first time||The BSE Sensex scaled the 59,000-mark for the first time on Thursday, propelled by gains in Reliance Industries, ITC and ICICI Bank amid unabated foreign fund inflows and positive cues from European markets. The 30-share index climbed 417.96 points or 0.71 per cent to close at 59,141.16. It touched an intra-day record of 59,204.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 110.05 points or 0.63 per cent to its new closing high of 17,629.50. During the session, it scaled an all-time peak of 17,644.60. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 7 per cent, followed by ITC, SBI, Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with significant losses. However, equities in Europe were trading with robust gains in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 232.84 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.16 per cent to USD 75.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||GST Council to meet on Friday, extension of tax concessions on 11 Covid drugs on cards||The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on Friday, which among other things may review tax rate of over four-dozen items and extend till December 31, tax concessions on 11 COVID drugs. Also, taxing petrol and diesel under the single national GST tax and a proposal to treat food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy as restaurants and levy a 5 per cent GST tax on supplies made by them would be taken up by the Council at its meeting in Lucknow on September 17. "Finance Minister Smt @nsitharaman will chair the 45th GST Council meeting at 11 AM in Lucknow tomorrow. The meeting will be attended by MOS Shri @mppchaudhary besides Finance Ministers of States & UTs and Senior officers from Union Government & States," the Finance Ministry tweeted. The Council, comprising central and state finance ministers, will deliberate on the proposal of extending the existing concessional tax rate structure on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab, Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin, till December 31, 2021, from the present September 30. Tax rate on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab was cut to 'Nil', while Remdesivir and Heparin was reduced to 5 per cent in June 2021. The Council on Friday may also discuss the proposal of reducing GST from 12 per cent to 5 per cent to seven more drugs till December 31, 2021. These are Itolizumab, Posaconazole, Infliximab, Bamlanivimab & Etesevimab, Casirivimab & Imdevimab, 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose and Favipiravir. To curb tax evasion, the proposal to make the food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato liable to pay the Goods and Services Tax on restaurant services supplied through them would also be considered by the Council. Once approved by the GST Council, food delivery apps will have to collect and deposit GST with the government, in place of restaurants, for deliveries made by them. There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumer. As per estimates, tax loss to exchequer due to alleged under-reporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 over the past two years. In light of the Kerala High Court order, the Council will also discuss taxing petrol and diesel under the GST, a move that may require huge compromises by both central and state governments on the revenues they collect from taxing these products. In June, the Kerala High Court, based on a writ petition, had asked the GST Council to decide on bringing petrol and diesel within the GST ambit. The Council will also discuss the interim report of a state-ministerial panel on capacity based taxation on pan masala and composition scheme for brick kilns and stone crushers. The Panel has recommended a Special Composition Scheme in the Brick Kiln sector with effect from April 1, 2022, prescribing a GST rate of 6 per cent, without ITC, similar to the rate in the services sector. It has also suggested hiking the GST rate on supply of bricks from 5 per cent to 12 per cent (with ITC), with effect from April 1. The council will review and also clarify regarding GST rates 32 goods and 29 services. The items under review are Zolgensma and Viltepso medicines for personal use, solar PV modules, copper concentrate, carbonated beverage with fruit juice, coconut oil, scented sweet supari, oncology medicine, and diesel-electric locomotives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises 150 points to hit fresh record in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade to scale a fresh lifetime high of 58,875.78 on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel and HCL Tech. The broader NSE Nifty too surged more than 50 points to reach its new peak in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 152.58 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 58,875.78. Similarly, Nifty advanced 50.30 points or 0.29 per cent to 17,569.75 in initial deals. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, ITC, HCL Tech, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Kotak Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, HUL, Titan, Asian Paints, HDFC were the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 476.11 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 58,723.20. The broader NSE Nifty climbed 139.45 points or 0.80 per cent to its new closing high of 17,519.45. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals. US equities ended with gains in the overnight session. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The Cabinet also approved a revised Rs 25,938 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for auto and auto-components industries to enhance the domestic manufacturing capabilities. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 232.84 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.48 per cent to USD 75.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Tata Sons rejig not on agenda, says Chairman N. Chandrasekaran||Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Wednesday said there are no leadership structural changes on the anvil at the holding company of the $106 billion salt-to-software conglomerate. Ratan Tata, the octogenarian chairman of Tata Trusts that have controlling stake in Tata Sons, separately said he was extremely disappointed over reports speculating a major revamp in the leadership structure at the group. The statement came in relation to a Bloomberg report that said Tata Sons was considering a “historic revamp of its leadership structure by creating a chief executive officer’s role to help improve corporate governance”. Chandrasekaran said any such decisions are taken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the board. In a separate statement, Ratan Tata said “such speculation can only serve to cause disruption among a team that has been operating smoothly with impressive growth in market value”. Tata Steel rating Moody’s Investors Service  has upgraded the corporate family rating of Tata Steel Ltd  to Ba1 from Ba2 even as it has retained the stable outlook. PTI The rating agency said the upgrade reflects its view that Tata Steel’s better-than-anticipated operating performance during this fiscal and a step-change reduction in gross debt have materially strengthened its credit metrics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Harsh Vardhan Lodha ousted from several MP Birla trusts & societies||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been removed from several trusts and societies of the MP Birla group, escalating the battle for the control of the entities belonging to the Calcutta-based industrial house. Lodha has opposed the move which has been orchestrated by a couple of trustees and has filed complaints before appropriate forums including Calcutta High Court. He has asserted that he remains a trustee of these societies. In a retaliatory move, companies controlled by Lodha have removed two of the trustees who were on their boards, sparking fresh legal battles before the company law tribunal. The trusts and societies are custodians of some of the venerable public institutions of Calcutta: Belle Vue Clinic, South Point School, and M.P. Birla Planetarium. They also hold close to 14 per cent in Birla Corporation (BCL), which has a market capitalisation of Rs 10,332 crore as on Wednesday. The latest round in this battle has erupted just before the annual general meetings of several MP Birla group’s manufacturing companies including BCL, Vindhya Telelinks, Universal Cable and Birla Cables that are scheduled to be held over the next fortnight. Trusts & Societies There are several trusts and societies within the M.P. Birla Group which have been under the effective control of the Lodha family after Priyamvada Birla died in 2004 leaving behind a purported will that made Rajendra Singh Lodha, Harsh’s late father, the executioner and beneficiary of her estate. Harsh and his wife Anamika are managing committee members of all the trusts and societies, notably Hindustan Medical Institution, Eastern India Educational Institution, Belle Vue Clinic, and South Point Foundation. A complaint filed by Anamika Lodha, which has been reviewed by this newspaper, blamed two trustees — Sushil Kumar Daga and Krishna Damani — for conniving to remove Harsh from these trusts and societies. The Lodha camp has strongly challenged his ouster. The rules of the trusts and societies are governed by trust deeds which provide, in this case, a trustee hold office for life. A trustee can only  be removed if all other members agree to it unanimously, a source in the camp, said. “Actions by such rogue executives who may have switched loyalties are mischievous; they amount to a breach of trust and they will be prosecuted criminally for their actions. These very employees have filed written affidavits over the last 15 years in which they have repeatedly noted that these trusts and societies are independent of any individual or individual estates,” the source added. Sources from Birla camp said trustee members have acted on the ‘guidance’ received by the administrator pendente lite (APL) committee which was appointed by court to oversee the estate of Priyamvada. “The single bench had ordered that HVL should be removed from all entities of the MP Birla group. The entities include trusts and societies,” a source in Birla camp said. The Lodha camp argued that the probate court has no jurisdiction over these trusts and societies. In his order of September 18 last year, the judge had made this observation multiple times, the source said. The appeal court, by its order of October 1, 2020, has gone ahead to clarify that the restriction on Lodha will extend to those entities where he assumed office on the strength of the estate’s shareholding. Following that, Lodha was removed from the investment companies by the APL committee, which Lodha has contested. Lodha’s response to his ouster from the trusts has been to remove Daga and Damani from the boards of the companies which together hold close to 24 per cent in BCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Zee Entertainment boss Punit Goenka smothers revolt||All the six resolutions put to vote at Zee’s annual general meeting on Tuesday have been passed by shareholders with an overwhelming majority — a trend that should offer some comfort to Punit Goenka, managing director of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd . The vote at the annual general meeting could cast a long shadow over Invesco’s move to overhaul the Zee board. Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, which are Zee’s largest shareholders, have asked the company to hold an extra-ordinary general meeting (EGM) for the removal of Goenka and the appointment of six independent directors. At the AGM, the  shareholders’ vote was sought for the appointment of Vivek Mehra and Sasha Mirchandani as independent directors. The resolution for the appointment of Mehra received 72.10 per cent of votes in favour and 27.89 per cent against, while that for the appointment of Mirchandani secured 87.3 per cent votes in favour and 12.7 per cent against the resolution. Two independent directors — Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien — who were under fire from Invesco and OFI Global China Fund resigned from the board a day before the vote. The resolutions pertaining to their re-appointment were not put to vote. The accounts for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 were adopted with an 86.8 per cent voting in favour and 13.1 per cent against. Shareholders also gave full support (99.7 per cent) to the payout of Rs 2.50 per share as dividend. A preference share dividend also received a similar 99.7 per cent backing. Similarly, the remuneration payable to the cost auditor was cleared with a 99.95 per cent in support . Zee will now have to decide on when to call the EGM sought by Invesco. The company is examining the letter sent by the two investors and said that it will take necessary action under applicable law. On Wednesday, the share of Zee ended 2.12 per cent lower at Rs 255.95 as a result of profit booking. This came after the counter hit a 52-week high of Rs 295.15 on the BSE. Observers said that though it is still early to say how shareholders will vote at the proposed EGM, the voting results at the shareholders meet does give an indication on which way the wind is blowing. Since the Invesco move, the well known investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala purchased 50 lakh shares of ZEEL worth over Rs 110 crore and BofA Securities Europe purchased 48.6 lakh shares. According to a note from the proxy advisory firm Institutional Investor Advisory Services (IiAS), the Companies Act 2013 has laid out the process for investors calling an EGM. It added that within 45 days, the company is required to hold an EGM and if they do not, then the investors have three months to organize the EGM for which the firm will have to bear expenses. Further, the removal of directors requires a simple majority to pass (more than 50 per cent of the votes cast). Promoters can vote their shares. However, this will have limited impact in the case of ZEEL since they own 3.99 per cent in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Tata Sons, Ajay Singh table bids for Air India||The Tatas and SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh have submitted financial bids to buy troubled national carrier Air India. The last date for submitting the bids was Wednesday. “Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by transaction adviser. Process now moves to the concluding stage,” selloff secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The government said it has received multiple financial bids for the national carrier. While a Tata Sons spokesperson confirmed its bid to The Telegraph, sources in SpiceJet said the budget carrier’s promoter has bid in his personal capacity. Eligible bidders under the current terms of sale will quote an enterprise value (EV) based on their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt. The winning bidder will be decided on the basis of who quotes the highest EV value, with 15 per cent of the sum to be paid in cash and the rest taken as debt. Finance ministry officials had said the reserve price would be decided after the “financial bids were received and not opened.” They said this would provide a fair chance to the bidders. The government had earlier appointed RBSA Advisors to set the reserve price for Air India. However, the final reserve price will be determined by a group of ministers after all the financial bids arrive, the officials said. The government is keen to hand over the airline to the highest bidder by December. The state is also likely to offer indemnity to the successful bidder from lawsuits filed by foreign companies against Air India to recover their arbitration awards they have won against the Indian government. Air India is contesting these claims. Cairn, AI drop case Cairn Energy and Air India have now jointly asked a New York federal court to stay further proceedings in the British firm’s US lawsuit targeting the airline for the enforcement of a $ 1.2-billion arbitral award. The move follows the government enacting a law to scrap retrospective taxation , which in effect will result in  the withdrawal of the Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn, according to court documents reviewed by PTI. The government is selling 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India's 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Income tax portal continues to be bedevilled by glitches||The new income tax portal continues to be bedevilled by glitches as assessees complained of problems in e-verification and digital signatures. One time passwords are not reaching taxpayers for the e-verification of returns, while there have been instances of errors in the registration of digital signature certificates for company directors. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had set September 15 as the deadline for Infosys, the tech developer of the new income tax portal, to sort out the glitches. The government last week extended the deadline for filing of returns to December 31, 2021 from the earlier extended date of September 30, 2021. While the functioning of the portal has improved, on Wednesday, the day of the stated deadline of the finance minister, tax practitioners pointed out at least 18 problems still affecting assessees. Kamal Jain, the newly elected president of Direct Tax Professionals Association (DTPA), said that a representation has been made to union finance minister and chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes regarding the multiple problems which are still persisting even after 3 months of the launch of the new income tax portal. “The deadline fixed for Infosys by the finance minister was September 15. But taxpayers as well as tax professionals are disappointed by the lack of performance by the vendor,” said Narayan Jain, chairman of the representation committee of DTPA “The government needs to take serious action including taking help from other competent IT companies. This is totally belying the slogan of ease of doing business.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Govt approves Rs 26,058 PLI scheme for auto sector||The government on Wednesday approved a Rs 26,058-crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the auto sector. Anurag Thakur, minister of information and broadcasting, told reporters after the cabinet meeting that “the incentive scheme has been designed to help India become a global player in the automobile sector and it would also boost local manufacturing”. The five-year PLI scheme is expected to boost the production of electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and also generate investment and employment in the sector that took a hit after the coronavirus outbreak. The auto sector could attract fresh investments of over Rs 42,500 crore in five years and incremental production of over Rs 2.3 lakh crore with the introduction of the PLI scheme, the statement said. The scheme has two components. The first component, called the Champion OEM Incentive Scheme, is a “sales value linked” scheme, applicable on battery electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles of all segments. The second component, the Component Champion Incentive Scheme, is also a sales value linked scheme applicable on the advanced automotive technology components of vehicles, completely-knocked down/ semi-knocked down kits, vehicle aggregates of two-wheelers, three-wheelers, passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles and tractors. Siam president, Kenichi Ayukawa said “the scheme will contribute towards reducing carbon emissions and oil imports with local manufacturing”. The cabinet has also approved a Rs 120-crore PLI scheme for the drone industry over a three-year period. The scheme for drones is expected to bring fresh investments of over Rs 5,000 crore in three years and incremental production of over Rs 1,500 crore. Bajaj criticism Outspoken industrialist Rajiv Bajaj has criticised the Narendra Modi government for handing out production-linked incentives to automobile makers to encourage investment in electric vehicles. “(I) find it peculiar that to bring in new tech, we need crutches worth 5 per cent incentive,” he said in an interview with a television channel. In a separate interview, he said that businesses should not be built on subsidies or sops, but sound strategy. He said the government has not come up with PLI but a TLI or a technology-linked incentive scheme. “I have been part of this industry for the last 30 years and I have seen or been part of many of the so-called technological advances.. so many advances take place on merit of strategy, technology and quality then why suddenly it is felt there is need to incentivise and subsidise development of technology,” he observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Reform blitz for telecom: Voda Idea offered a lifeline||The Narendra Modi-government threw a lifeline to the floundering telecom industry on Wednesday by cobbling a package of reforms that offers a four-year moratorium on the repayment of all outstanding dues, seeks to rationalise the definition of adjusted gross revenue (AGR), and promises guidelines to facilitate the conversion of unpaid dues into equity. The long awaited package of measures has ignited the hope that Vodafone Idea — weighed down by dues of over Rs 50,000 crore — will be able to survive, propping up a telecom triumvirate that has been at great risk of crumbling into a duopoly. Vodafone Idea chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla, who had offered his 27 per cent stake in the telecom company to government for free in a gesture of desperation, said the decision taken at a meeting of the Union cabinet would “go a long way in unshackling the telecom sector”. Both Sunil Mittal of Bharti Airtel and Mukesh Ambani of Reliance Jio felt that the measures would catalyse explosive growth in the sector and achieve the goals enshrined in Modi’s Digital India dream. The four-year moratorium will kick in from October 1 and delayed payments of licence fee and spectrum usage charge will attract an interest to be levied at 2 per cent above the SBI’s marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) which is currently pegged at 7 per cent. Earlier, the interest used to be levied at 4 per cent above the MCLR rate. “Competition is extremely important for the industry in order to offer choice to customers. This right has to be protected,” telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told reporters. “There will be more reforms when we auction 5G spectrum so that more players can enter the sector,” Vaishnaw said, adding the cost of the telecom package was revenue neutral to the government. Non-telecom revenue will be excluded from the definition of AGR on a prospective basis. The issue had boiled into a two-decade-old controversy that was finally decided by the Supreme Court in October 2019. The telecom players will need to wait for the fine print to find out which are going to be taken out of the definition of AGR. The big change is the decision to grant telcos to pay the interest on deferred payment of dues by way of equity. The dues-to-equity conversion plan will take a heavy burden off players like Vodafone Idea which will be eagerly waiting to see how this will work. Both the Aditya Birla group and Vodafone Plc have refused to funnel money into the loss-making telecom operation. It will be interesting to see whether they change their stand now — or wait for the end of the moratorium period to farm out equity to a government-nominated institution. Telecom expert Mahesh Uppal said: “The government needs to clarify on the conversion of interest amount by way of equity... one also needs to know whether it will allow the option of converting only the principal into equity or even the interest at the end of deferment period.” Nitesh Jain, director of Crisil, said: “The telcos will still need to raise tariffs to ensure an improvement in cash flows. We expect them to raise tariffs by 20 per cent, equivalent to a Rs 25-30 increase in the monthly ARPU (average revenue per user), by the end of this fiscal and dial up the sector’s return on capital employed from a paltry 3 per cent last fiscal to 8 per cent next fiscal.” Uppal believed that it would still be difficult for Vodafone Idea to survive with no commitment from the two promoters to pump in equity. Vodafone Idea is reeling under a huge debt of Rs 1.8 lakh crore, out of which a staggering 1.5 lakh crore has to be paid to the government. Deferred spectrum dues stand at Rs 96,270 crore, AGR dues at Rs 58,254 crore, and bank debt totals Rs 23,080 crore. The company has been unable to raise funds to overcome the crisis and is losing its customer base rapidly. Spectrum tenure The tenure of spectrum that is farmed out through auctions has been extended to 30 years from 20 years earlier and bank guarantees will no longer be required to secure instalment payments. Spectrum that is acquired in future auctions can be surrendered after a period  of 10 years. There will be no spectrum usage charge (SUC) in the case of radio waves awarded through future auctions. Spectrum sharing will be encouraged; the additional SUC of 0.5 per cent that is currently levied on spectrum sharing will no longer be charged. The government also decided to permit 100 per cent foreign direct investment under the automatic route in the telecom sector with the rider that all safeguards will apply. Until now, the government permitted FDI up to 49 per cent through the automatic route. Government approvals were required for investments above that level. Spectrum user charges have been rationalised and there will now be an annual compounding of rates A spectrum auction calendar will be created while tower setup process will be simplified on the basis of self-approval. As part of the procedural reforms, the government decided to remove the cumbersome requirement of licenses for wireless equipment. It also permitted app-based self-certification of identity as part of the Know Your Customer (KYC) reforms. The e-KYC rate has been slashed to one rupee while the system of customer acquisition through paper-based forms will be replaced by digital storage of data. The Department of Telecom will accept data on a portal based on self-declaration. Nitesh Jain, director of CRISIL Ratings said: “The telecom companies will still need to raise tariffs to ensure a sustainable improvement in cash flows. We expect the telcos to raise tariffs by at least 20 per cent, equivalent to a Rs 25-30 increase in the monthly ARPU (average revenue per user), by the end of this fiscal and dial up the sector's return on capital employed from a paltry 3 per cent last fiscal to 8 per cent next fiscal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||India||Govt's Rs 30,600 crore-guarantee for NARCL for buying stressed assets a landmark development: India Inc||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcement of Rs 30,600 crore-government guarantee for the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) for acquiring stressed loan assets is a landmark development and will help unclog the capital locked in the form of bad assets, India Inc said on Thursday. The decision to provide sovereign guarantee for security receipts issued by NARCL was taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General of CII, said that with this step, the initiative to clean up the books of the public sector banks which started with the asset quality review in 2015, has come a full circle. "PSBs being saddled with high NPAs has been one of the key reasons behind their risk averseness towards lending, leading to poor credit growth. With the mechanism of bad bank expected to be functional soon, this major roadblock in the recovery of the credit cycle is removed," Banerjee said. The announcement also re-assures the industry and investors that the government will keep on pushing ahead with bold reforms, he added. PHDCCI President Sanjay Aggarwal said the government's approval to provide the guarantee is "highly appreciable" as it would result in faster resolution of non-performing assets in the country. "This will unclog the capital locked in the form of bad assets that can be further leveraged for lending and spending on other priority areas. Since the guarantee is in a form of contingent liability, it will not lead to immediate cash outflow and therefore is unlikely to impact the fiscal position in near future. "This initiative will boost investments and unleash the 'animal spirits' to strengthen high economic growth," Aggarwal said. Ficci said it was a landmark development and signified the continuation of the reforms process in the banking sector of the country. "The government has over the last few years adopted a well thought out strategy to address the challenges facing the banking sector on account of NPAs and with the setting up of the NARCL this process will get a major boost," it said. Amongst the notable features attached to the setting up of NARCL, two areas stand out in particular, it said and that the backstop provided on the securitised receipts will ensure that a secondary market gets developed for such receipts and banks will be able to trade the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
16-09-2021||India||Difficult to say how to bring people back until Kabul airport resumes: MEA||Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, at a media briefing on Thursday, said it is difficult to say about bringing back remaining Indians and some other Afghan nationals till flight services are resumed in the Kabul airport. "Till operations at Kabul airport is not resumed, it is difficult to say how to bring them back. Our focus is that operations at Kabul airport resume. Then, it will be easier for us to bring back the people," Bagchi said. In its last update on August 27, the ministry had said that over 550 people, including more than 260 Indians, were evacuated from Afghanistan by India under the operation Devi Shakti. The airlift was carried out in six separate flights either from Kabul or Dushanbe. Bagchi had said that the number was excluding the Indian embassy personnel who were also being evacuated simultaneously. Further, Indian nationals were also evacuated through other “countries and partners,” he said. The ministry had also said that its focus was on evacuating Indian nationals from Afghanistan. On Thursday, India said it is in touch with all concerned following reports that an Indian national has been kidnapped from Kabul. According to reports, Bansri Lal Arendeh was kidnapped at gunpoint on Tuesday in the Afghan capital city. "We are in touch with all concerned. We have seen reports about local authorities undertaking investigations into this matter. We will continue to monitor the situation," Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. When specifically asked whether Arendeh is an Indian national, Bagchi said, "I am given to understand that he is an Indian citizen but we are also checking that part." Reports said that Arendeh's family lives in Faridabad, and he has been engaged in business in Kabul for the last two decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Let thousand flowers bloom: SC on plea for uniform vaccine code||“Let a thousand flowers bloom. Let wisdom come from any source,” the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it allowed a political party to intervene and give its suggestions in a matter on Covid preparedness. The top court refused to entertain a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) by the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) seeking a direction for a uniform pan-India free Covid vaccination policy and setting up a panel of epidemiologists and virologists to ascertain the impact of the virus and suggest measures to check its spread. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikaram Nath, and BV Nagarathna said that though the PIL was filed amid the second wave of Covid, "your purpose is subserved through our orders. We have already passed orders in the suo motu case on Covid preparedness. You can intervene in that matter and give your suggestions. Justice Chandrachud added that though the expression was used in a different context in World Political History, it can be used in this case in different contexts. In 1957, Chinese leader Mao Zedong had first used the expression, "Let a hundred flowers blossom" to invite different views of the intelligentsia on the country's political system. Justice Chandrachud told advocate A Selvin Raja, appearing for SDPI, "You can come and give your suggestions in that (suo motu) matter. We will allow your intervention. You are most welcome". The bench noted in its order that the petition was filed on May 10 and by several orders passed in the suo motu matter (taken up by the court on its own) on Covid preparedness, the concerns have been taken care of. “There has been a modification of the vaccination policy of the Union of India to ensure its maximum possible coverage. A National Task Force has also been constituted of prominent doctors across the country, virologists and epidemiologists by the orders of the court in suo motu proceedings,” it said. The top court said the petitioner does not press the plea at this stage and is reserving liberty to assist the court in the suo motu proceedings, if the need arises in the future, he can intervene in the matter. While disposing of the plea, it told Raja that the National Task Force constituted by the court has doctors from all over the country and they are experts in their domain, and the union cabinet secretary is its convenor. On May 8, the top court constituted a 12-member National Task Force of top medical experts to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories for saving lives of Covid-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic. On May 31, it criticized the vaccination policy and said that the Indian Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators when the rights of citizens are infringed upon by executive policies. The top court had said that in grappling with the second wave of the Covid pandemic, it does not intend to second-guess the wisdom of the executive when it chooses between two competing and efficacious policy measures. It had added however that it would continue to exercise jurisdiction to determine "if the chosen policy conforms to the standards of reasonableness, militates against manifest arbitrariness and protects the right to life of all persons". On June 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the central government will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories to inoculate all above 18 from June 21. He had said that the Centre will take over the 25% state procurement quota while asserting that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi to hold review meeting with secretaries on Sept 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with secretaries of various ministries and departments on September 18, according to sources.  The meeting comes days after Modi chaired a meeting with his council of ministers, which was termed as 'Chintan Shivir'.  The sources said the meeting with the secretaries is scheduled to be held in the evening on September 18.  Specific details about the meeting could not be immediately ascertained.  Against the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic that has ravaged lives and the economy, the government has been taking various measures to revive the situation, including steps to boost economic growth.  In July, Modi effected a reshuffle of his Cabinet ahead of seven states going for polls next year. Out of them, BJP is in power in six states, including Uttar Pradesh.  At the meeting with the ministers on September 14, Modi stressed that simplicity is the way of life.  Four more such 'Chintan Shivirs' will be held for further improving governance, sources had said.  At the meeting, Modi asked the ministers to learn from the best practices of their colleagues.  Stating that sharing is caring, the prime minister had also spoken about tiffin meetings during his Gujarat days where everyone used to bring their own tiffins in meetings and shared the food as well as ideas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi to hold bilateral talks with Joe Biden during US visit: Centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold bilateral meetings with Quad leaders including US President Joe Biden and other foreign leaders during his US visit later this month besides attending the first-in person meeting of Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the US next week. “PM (Modi) will participate in the first in-person Quad leaders’ summit in Washington on September 24. On September 25, he will address the general debate of the UN General Assembly at its 76th session. While the PM is in Washington, he will also have a bilateral meeting with President Biden,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said during a press briefing. “We also look forward to bilateral meetings with other Quad leaders as well as bilateral meetings with some other leaders while he is in New York on September 25,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be participating, along with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and US President Joseph R Biden, in the Leaders' Summit of the Quadrilateral Framework in Washington DC, USA, on September 24, 2021. During the discussion, the leaders will discuss regional issues of shared interest and will also review the progress made since their first virtual Summit that was held on 12 March 2021. Prime Minister is scheduled to address the General Debate of the High-Level Segment of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on September 25 in New York. The theme for this year's General Debate is 'Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel allocates portfolios to new ministers, keeps Home department among others||Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Thursday allocated portfolios to 24 newly-inducted ministers, keeping a host of departments including Home with himself and without appointing any deputy. Kanubhai Desai was allocated Finance and Energy and Petrochemicals portfolios. Besides the Home ministry, CM Patel will hold the charge of General Administration Department, Information and Broadcast, Industries, Mines and Minerals, Capital Projects, Urban Development, Urban Housing and Narmada and Ports, an official release said. The allocation was announced in the first cabinet meeting held in Gandhinagar after the ministers were sworn in earlier in the day. Rajendra Trivedi, who was Assembly Speaker during the previous Vijay Rupani government, was allocated Revenue, Law and Justice, and Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs departments as a cabinet-rank minister. Jitubhai Vaghani was given the Education portfolio as cabinet minister, while Rishikesh Patel was given Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education as well as Water Resources and Water Supply. Purnesh Modi will handle Roads and Building, Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism and Pilgrimage Development. Raghavji Patel will handle Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Another cabinet-rank minister, Kiritsinh Rana, has been given Forest, Environment, Climate Change, and Printing and Stationery departments. Naresh Patel will hold Tribal Development and Food and Civil Supply. Pradip Parmar has been made Social Justice and Empowerment Minister while Arjunsinh Chauhan was allocated the Rural Development and Rural Housing. Harsh Sanghavi, youngest member of the ministry, would be the Minister of State (MoS), Home. He would also handle the Disaster Management and Police Housing. Sanghavi was also allocated independent charge as MoS of Sports, Youth and Cultural Activities, NRI, Excise and Prohibition, Border Security and Prisons. MoS Jagdish Panchal has been given independent charge of Cottage Industries, Cooperation, Salt Industry and Protocol. He will also handle Industries, Forest and Environment, Climate Change and Printing and Stationery portfolios. MoS Brijesh Merja has been given independent charge of Labour and Employment as well as Panchayats. He will also handle Rural Development and Rural Housing as an MoS. Jitu Chaudhary has been made MoS for Kalpsar and Fisheries with independent charge and also given the responsibility of Narmada, Water Resources and Water Supply as MoS. MoS Manishaben Vakil has been given the independent charge of Women and Child Development. She would also handle Social Justice and Empowerment as junior minister. While Mukesh Patel has been made MoS for Agriculture and Energy and Petrochemicals departments, Nimisha Suthar was given Tribal Development, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education as junior minister. MoS Arvind Raiyani has been alloted Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism and Pilgrimage Development. Kuber Dindor will handle Higher and Technical Education as well as Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs as an MoS. Kirtisinh Vaghela has been made MoS for Primary, Secondary and Adult Education while Gajendrasinh Parmar is MoS for Food and Civil Supply. R C Makwana has been given Social Justice and Empowerment as MoS. Vinod Moradia has been made MoS for Urban Development and Urban Housing. Deva Malam will be MoS for Animal Husbandry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Completing disengagement of troops could pave way for India-China peace, says MEA||India on Thursday asserted that the completion of disengagement in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh could pave the way for the Indian and Chinese sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. According to a joint statement released by the Indian Army after the 12th round of military talks held in late July, the two sides had a "candid and in-depth exchange" of views relating to disengagement and the meeting further enhanced the mutual understanding. Asked about the developments on the border standoff at a media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "Let me reiterate our position that completion of disengagement in the remaining areas can pave the way forward for the two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations." On whether External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar could have a bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during his ongoing Tajikistan visit to attend a key meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on the situation in Afghanistan, Bagchi said he cannot rule in or rule out any meetings. "Let's wait to see what meetings take place," he added. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February, in line with an agreement on disengagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Booster dose not the central theme of discussion now, says government||The government on Thursday said the Covid-19 booster shot is not the central theme in scientific discussion as well as in the public health domain at the moment and getting the two doses to remain the main priority. Responding to a question at a press briefing, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said administering both the doses is absolutely essential and there should be no breakage in that. "We need to remember one thing very clearly that booster dose is not the central theme at the moment in the scientific discussion as well as in the public health domain. Getting the two doses remains the major priority," Bhargava said. "Several agencies have recommended that antibody levels should not be measured...but the important understanding is that full vaccination of both the doses is absolutely essential and there should be no breakage in that," he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Also, 99 per cent of the healthcare workers have received the first dose while 82 per cent of the eligible healthcare workers have taken the second dose. Bhushan further said that 100 per cent of the frontline workers have been administered the first dose while 78 per cent of them have been given the second dose. So far, all adult people in five states and union territories -- Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Chandigarh and Lakshadweep -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. According to data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in the first 15 days of September has been 74.40 lakh per day, Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Madras High Court stays certain sub-clauses of IT Rules||The Madras High Court on Thursday stayed the operation of certain sub-clauses of the recently introduced Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, passing orders similar to the one by the Bombay High Court on the matter last month. The sub-clauses -- (1) and (3) of Rule 9, which were stayed today, stipulated the adherence to the Code of Ethics. They were inserted to the original IT Rules in February this year. Incidentally, the Bombay High Court had on August 14, granted an interim stay to the operation of parts of the Information Technology Rules, 2021 which require that all online publishers follow the "code of ethics". On Thursday, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice PD Audikesavalu of the Madras High Court granted the stay while passing interim orders on a batch of PILs from carnatic musician T M Krishna and Digital News Publishers Association, consisting of 13 media outlets and another individual, challenging the constitutional validity of the new rules. Prima facie, there is substance in the contention of the petitioners that the mechanism to control the media by the government may rob the media, both print and electronic, of their independence and the democratic principles, the bench said. The court adjourned the matter to the last week of October, when it was informed that similar cases pending before the Supreme Court are scheduled to come up for hearing in the first week of next month. The Bombay HIgh Court, while granting the interim stay in August, had held that "dissent" was vital for democracy. Sub-clauses 1 and 3 of clause 9 of the new Rules were, on the face of it, "manifestly unreasonable", and "the indeterminate and wide terms of the Rules bring about a chilling effect qua (regarding) the right of freedom of speech and expression of writers/editors/publishers" as they can be hauled up for anything if the authorities so wish, it had then said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Shilpa Shetty says she did not know what Raj Kundra was doing as she was 'too busy'||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in a statement to Mumbai police claimed she was not aware of her husband Raj Kundra's activities as she was busy with her work, according to a supplementary charge sheet filed by the city police in a court here in connection with a case pertaining to pornographic films. Shetty's statement is part of the nearly 1,500-page charge sheet filed before a magistrate court on Wednesday by the police against Kundra, 46, and his associate Ryan Thorpe. The case against Kundra, arrested in July this year, is related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. According to the charge sheet, Shetty told the police that she did not know anything about the HotShots and Bollywood Fame apps, allegedly used by the accused for uploading and streaming obscene content. Shetty claimed she "did not know what her husband was doing as she was busy with her work", the charge sheet said. Another actor Sherly Chopra, in her statement, told the police that Kundra had asked her to work for the HotShots app "without any hesitation". She was told that the HotShots app would have more bold and hot videos, but Chopra refused, the charge sheet said. Chopra further told the police that she had signed a contract with the firm Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd for creating the mobile app named 'The Sherlyn Chopra App'. Saurabh Kushwaha and Raj Kundra were directors of the firm, she told the police. Chopra claimed that as per the agreement, she was to get 50 per cent of the revenue, but she never got her share, said the charge sheet. Another witness Sejal Shah told the police that she made three films for the HotShots app during the lockdown in March 2020. Later, Yash Thakur, an accused in the case, asked her to work in a movie, which he claimed to be the remake of a Hollywood film. She was told that it will have very "bold and erotic" scenes, but the film won't be screened in India. But, the movie was shown in India and when she asked to delete the bold scenes, Thakur refused, she claimed in her police statement which is part of the charge sheet. Yash Thakur, a resident of Singapore, and London-based Pardeep Bakshi have been shown as wanted accused in the charge sheet. The case is related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. In April this year, the crime branch filed the first charge sheet in the case against nine people. In the voluminous document, the police have said the probe conducted by the property cell of the crime branch has revealed that Kundra was the "main facilitator" in the porn films case. A lot of evidences against Kundra came to light after technical analysis, statements of witnesses and from documents confiscated from his office, it said. The police said Kundra and Thorpe, in conspiracy with accused arrested earlier, took advantage of financially weak young women who were struggling in the film industry and made obscene movies with them. The pornographic videos were then uploaded on various websites as well as mobile applications, they said. These videos were sold through subscriptions and Kundra "illegally" earned millions from them, said the charge sheet. Kundra and Thorpe were arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on July 19 and are currently in jail under judicial custody. Their bail pleas are pending before a Mumbai sessions court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Govt calls for vaccination, Covid-appropriate behaviour as festive season approaches||As the festival season approaches, the government on Thursday cautioned against a spike in coronavirus infections, and stressed that the call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivities. "Overall there is stabilisation in COVID-19 cases and Kerala has also reported drop in cases.... In the coming two-three months, we need to be cautious that there is no upsurge.... It is also the period of festivities and also when flu cases rise...we request everyone to be careful and retain the gain that we have achieved (in the pandemic management)," an official said at a press briefing. Referring to the coming festivals, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said, "...sudden increase in population density creates a very conducive environment for viral spread. If there is sudden increase in population density then the virus finds it very useful to spread, so the call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivities." The government said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Thirty-four districts in the country are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over 10 per cent and the figure is anything between five and 10 per cent in 32 districts. It said Kerala reported 67.79 per cent of India's total COVID-19 cases last week and that it is the only state with more than 1 lakh active cases. "Overall there is stabilisation and Kerala has also reported drop in cases. Mizoram is a state of concern but we hope condition will improve there by fast vaccination and pandemic response is effective," Niti Aayog member (health) V K Paul said. "In the coming two-three months, we need to be cautious that there is no upsurge and it can be reduced when detected. When people estimate when vulnerability will rise then they indicate October and November as the months and it is also the period of festivities and also when flu cases rise so in coming quarter we request everyone to be careful and retain the gain that we have achieved," he added. With 30,570 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has risen to 3,33,47,325, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,42,923, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,928 with 431 daily fatalities being recorded, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||India to experience extended monsoon this year, says IMD||The country will witness an extended monsoon spell this year as rainfall activity over north India shows no sign of decline till the end of September. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), southwest monsoon withdrawal from northwest India takes place if there is cessation of rainfall activity over the area for continuous five days. An anticyclonic wind has to form over the lower troposphere, and there should also be considerable reduction in moisture content. "There are no signs of monsoon withdrawal from north India for the next 10 days," IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. Last year, the IMD had revised the date for the withdrawal of monsoon from northwest India by nearly a fortnight. This was done keeping in mind the trend of a delayed retreat of monsoon observed over the last few years. The southwest monsoon starts withdrawing from west Rajasthan first. According to the revised date, it starts withdrawing from Jaisalmer from September 17. The southwest monsoon saw delayed withdrawals in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. A delayed withdrawal of monsoon also means a delayed onset of winter. Officially, the southwest monsoon season starts on June 1 and lasts till September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC allows Chardham Yatra to resume||The Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday vacated its stay on the Chardham Yatra and directed the state government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms. Lifting the ban on the yatra, a division bench of the court comprising Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said the pilgrimage will start with restrictions like a daily limit on the number of devotees visiting the temples. Carrying a negative Covid test report and a vaccination certificate will also be mandatory for the visitors, the court said. Putting a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting the famous Himalayan temples also known as the chardham, the high court said 800 pilgrims will be allowed in Kedarnath Dham, 1200 in Badrinath Dham, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri every day. Pilgrims will not be allowed to take a bath in any of the springs around the temples, it said. Police force will be deployed as per requirements during the Char Dham Yatra in Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts. The court order comes as a big relief to the state government which was under pressure from various quarters to start the pilgrimage with which the livelihoods of lakhs of people including travel agents and pilgrimage priests are linked. With the Covid situation being uncertain, the court had on June 28 put a stay on the state Cabinet's decision to start the Chardham Yatra in a limited way for the residents of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts where the temples are located. It had plans to open up the yatra in a phased manner for pilgrims from outside the state depending on the Covid situation. The state government then approached the Supreme Court to vacate the high court's stay on the yatra. As the matter was pending in the apex court, the high court was not in a position to hear the state government's plea seeking lifting of the ban. However, it recently withdrew its SLP in the Supreme Court paving the way for the high court to hear its plea. Advocate General SN Babulkar and Chief Standing Advocate CS Rawat, appearing for the government, demanded that the ban be removed to restore the livelihood of the local people. The advocate general said there is an earning period of the Chardham Yatra and if the season passes, many families will suffer huge losses. The advocate general further pleaded that the initial worry of the Court while imposing the ban has been addressed and there has been a significant improvement in health services. The government also assured the Court that there will be strict adherence to the COVID-19 SOP for the Yatra. In June, the high court had stayed the Chardham Yatra till further orders, while hearing public interest litigations (PIL) related to the increase in Covid cases, lack of health facilities and other factors. Against this order, the state government had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court, which could not be heard. Advocate General SN Babulkar and CSC Chandrashekhar Rawat had recently requested a bench headed by Chief Justice RS Chauhan to lift the ban on travel, but the court refused to consider it, citing the SLP pending before the Supreme Court. The government withdrew the SLP from the Supreme Court and apprised the high court, after which the high court heard the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Man accused of raping minor allegedly dies by suicide in Telangana||A man wanted in the case of rape and murder of a six-year-old girl here allegedly committed suicide with his body being found on a railway track in Jangaon district on Thursday morning, police said. The incident happened two days after Telangana Labour Minister Ch Malla Reddy had said that the accused in the case would be caught and that there should be an "encounter" against him. "It (the incident) is terrible. There should be an incident against him (accused). He will definitely be caught. (We) will do encounter. There is no question of leaving him, Malla Reddy had told reporters on Tuesday. The girl was allegedly raped and murdered in a neighbouring house at Saidabad here on the evening of September 9. Based on preliminary investigation, the accused P Raju, aged around 30, was found walking on the track by gangmen, who asked him to move aside from the track, but he did not and was hit by a passenger train at around 8.45 AM, a senior police official said. "This looks to be a clear case of suicide as of now," Warangal Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi said. Police after being informed, reached the spot and after verification established the identity of the deceased, based on the tattoos on his hands and some other marks to be that of the accused wanted in the case of rape and murder of the minor girl, the Commissioner said. The family members have also identified the body, he said. The body would be shifted to MGM government hospital in Warangal and after inquest and post-mortem, the body would be handed over to the family members, the senior official said. Further investigation would continue, he added. Earlier, Telangana Director General of Police (DGP) M Mahendar Reddy tweeted: "The accused of "Child Sexual Molestation and murder @ Singareni Colony, found dead on the railway track, in the limits of #StationGhanpurPoliceStation. Declared after the verification of identification marks on deceased body." Telangana IT Minister KT Rama Rao also tweeted: "Just been informed by @TelanganaDGP Garu that the beast who raped the child has been traced & found dead on a railway track at station Ghanpur." The incident last week triggered protests by residents of the locality who had raised slogans and demanded justice and quick arrest of the culprit. Police had intensified search operations after forming several teams to nab the accused even as Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Tuesday declared a reward of Rs 10 lakh to any person who gave information/ clue leading to arrest of the absconding accused. Police earlier said the accused was used to taking alcohol and sleeping at pavements and bus stands. On Thursday, Telangana Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Satyavathi Rathod met the parents of the six-year old girl and offered them a cheque for Rs 20 lakh as ex-gratia. The ministers also assured support and help from the state government and stringent action against the culprit as per law and justice rendered as expeditiously possible, an official release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||ECL coal pilferage case: CBI conduct searches in three location of Delhi, Bengal||The CBI on Thursday conducted searches at three locations in Delhi and West Bengal in connection with alleged pilferage of coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) mines in Asansol, officials said. During the operation, the residence of a former ECL director in the national capital's Dwarka area, the residence of the then general manager of the public sector unit in West Bengal's Asansol and the residence of a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector posted at the NTPC in Farakka in West Bengal were searched, they said. The multi-crore coal pilferage scam is related to the Eastern Coalfields Ltd's mines in Bengal's Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, Anup Manjhi alias Lala, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||New ministers sworn into Gujarat cabinet, no one from Vijay Rupani ministry in list||The BJP Thursday inducted 24 members, including 21 who debuted as ministers, into the four-day-old Bhupendra Patel-led ministry, discarding all ministers in the previous Vijay Rupani-led regime in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state, a year ahead of the Assembly polls. Political observers say the BJP expects to make a significant impact ahead of the 2022 state polls with this new-look ministry. The party expects to face the voters with a clean slate, they added. With the fresh inductions, which include two women, the strength of the ministry led by Patel, a first-term MLA and minister, has gone up to 25. Modi congratulated the new ministers. Congratulations to all Party colleagues who have taken oath as Ministers in the Gujarat Government. These are outstanding Karyakartas who have devoted their lives to public service and spreading our Party's development agenda. Best wishes for a fruitful tenure ahead, Modi tweeted. Governor Acharya Devvrat administered the oath to 10 cabinet ministers and 14 ministers of state, including five ministers of state with independent charge. Those sworn in at the 1.30 pm Raj Bhavan ceremony include former Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and former state BJP president Jitu Vaghani. The ministry formation exercise shows that the party has tried to balance caste and regional representation. After picking Patel, a Patidar community leader as the CM, the BJP has given berth to six Patidars and OBCs each, four from scheduled tribes, three from scheduled castes, two each from among Brahmins and Kshatriyas and one member from the Jain community. Like the CM, who is considered close to Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, the new cabinet minister Rishikesh Patel and minister of state with independent charge Jagdish Panchal, are also considered close to the former Gujarat CM. Cabinet ministers Rajendra Trivedi and Kiritsinh Rana are old-timers and considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while minister of state Harsh Sanghvi is known to be close to state BJP president C R Paatil. Soon after the ceremony, a party source said there is widespread dissatisfaction over the dropping of senior ministers, who held key posts in the Rupani ministry. When reporters asked former deputy chief minister Nitin Patel about reports of rumblings in the BJP, he sounded philosophical. "People come and go from the posts. Their supporters feel left out. But now it is not my responsibility. The party leadership has to look after it, Patel said. "I want to congratulate the ministers, they will lead the party in the next election," he added. Bhupendra Patel (59), who was sworn in as the 17th chief minister of the state on Monday, was present at the Raj Bhavan ceremony, along with Rupani, whose sudden resignation from the post on Saturday led to the formation of the new ministry. Rajendra Trivedi, Jitu Vaghani, Rushikesh Patel, Purnesh Modi, Raghavji Patel, Kanubhai Desai, Kiritsinh Rana, Naresh Patel, Pradip Parmar and Arjunsinh Chauhan were sworn in as cabinet ministers. Trivedi, Rana and Raghavji Patel have been ministers earlier. Harsh Sanghvi, Jagdish Panchal, Brijesh Merja, Jitu Choudhary and Manisha Vakil took the oath as ministers of state with independent charge. The nine other ministers of state are Mukesh Patel, Nimisha Suthar, Arvind Raiyani, Kuber Dindor, Kirtisinh Vaghela, Gajendrasinh Parmar, R C Makwana, Vinod Moradia and Deva Malam. Ahead of the swearing-in, there were speculations that senior ministers in the Rupani ministry, like Nitin Patel, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, Kaushik Patel, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, and R C Faldu may not be included. The BJP took the no-repeat formula a step further by not inducting any member of the Rupani ministry. Bhupendra Patel's elevation - he is the first from the Patidar sub-group to be a chief minister - is key to BJP's plans to woo the Kadva Patidar community, which some political observers feel, has drifted away from the party. Making him the CM is being seen as an attempt by the BJP to woo the Patidars ahead of the 2022 polls and retain the grip on Gujarat, which is under its rule for over two decades. Before Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat saw Anandiben Patel, Keshubhai Patel, Babubhai Patel and Chimanbhai Patel as chief ministers from the Patidar or Patel community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Money laundering: ED raids premises linked to activist Harsh Mander in Delhi||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted searches at the premises of human rights activist and retired IAS officer Harsh Mander here in connection with a money laundering investigation, official sources said. They said his residence and NGO offices located in south Delhi's Vasant Kunj, Adchini and Mehrauli areas are being searched under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The teams are looking at financial and banking documents of the two non-governmental organisations (NGOs) linked to him, they said. The 66-year-old Mander, who has authoured a number of books and writes newspaper editorials on subjects related to social justice and human rights, left for Germany along with his wife in the early hours of Thursday. He is stated to be on a fellowship in that country. The ED case is based on a Delhi Police economic offences wing (EOW) FIR filed in February against the Centre for Equity Studies (CSE) that runs two child NGOs. Mander is its director. The police complaint was filed under Sections 75 and 83(2) of the Juvenile Justice Act along with Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) on the complaint of the registrar of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) against alleged violations in Umeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home in south Delhi, both established by the CSE. The police had then said that the case was registered on the basis of an inspection of these homes by NCPCR teams in October last year. The NCPCR, an apex child rights body, had alleged in the past that during the inspection of two NGOs many violations of the Juvenile Justice Act and various other irregularities including the prevalence of child sexual abuse in one of the homes were observed. Mander had then called the allegation "unjustified". "I think it is completely unjustified. We created a very strong system, like we had elder women (caretakers) sleeping with smaller children and we have counselling. It is just an allegation and a rumour," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Modi inaugurates two new defence office complexes in Delhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hit out at critics of the ambitious Central Vista project and asserted that ease of living and ease of doing business was behind the spirit of the work being done under the initiative. Modi made the remarks after inaugurating two new multi-storey office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue for over 7,000 employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces. "Today, in the 75th year of Independence, we are taking another step towards developing the capital of our country according to the needs and aspirations of the new India," Modi said. "These new defence office complexes are going to further strengthen our efforts to make the working of our forces more convenient and effective," Modi said. The prime ministers said the modern offices will go a long way in effectively carrying out all the work related to the security of the nation by the three forces. "This is a big step towards the creation of a modern defence enclave in the capital," he said. The officers and other staffers of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces are moving into the new office complexes from their existing workplaces in pre-Independence era hutments in and around the Raisina Hills. In his address, Modi criticised those who were opposed to the Central Vista project saying they never bothered to find out how the armed forces personnel were working in those hutments. "When we talk about the capital, it is not just a city. The capital of any country is a symbol of the thinking, determination, strength and culture of that country," Modi said. "India is the mother of democracy. Therefore, the capital of India should be such that its central focus should be people," he said. The two buildings, constructed by the Housing and Urban Affairs with resources allocated by the Defence Ministry, have an office space of 9.60 lakhs sq feet. "Today, when we are focusing on ease of living and ease of doing business, modern infrastructure plays an equally important role in this. This is the spirit at the core of the work being done today related to Central Vista," the prime minister said. Modi also said that he was confident that work on the new Parliament building will be completed on time. Fourteen offices are being relocated to the KG Marg complex having a built-up area of 4.52 lakh sq feet while 13 offices are being relocated to the Africa Avenue building that has a total built-up area of 5.08 lakh sq feet, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Delhi reported maximum rape cases, murders among metros in 2020, says NCRB data||Delhi accounted for nearly 40 per cent of all rape cases and almost 25 per cent murder cases among 19 metropolitan cities in India in 2020, according to the latest government data. Altogether, 1,849 murder cases and 2,533 rape cases were reported across the country in 2020, a year that witnessed COVID-19 outbreak and lockdowns, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data showed. The NCRB, which functions under the Union home ministry, classified 19 cities with over 20 lakh population as metropolitans -- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Coimbatore, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Kanpur, Kochi, Kolkata, Kozhikode, Lucknow, Mumbai, Nagpur, Patna, Pune and Surat. Delhi logged the maximum 461 (24 per cent of 1,849) murder cases in 2020 followed by Bengaluru (179), Chennai (15), Mumbai (148) and Surat (116), while Kolkata reported 53, according to the data. A total of 1,849 cases of murder were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 8.3 per cent over 2019 (2,017 cases). The crime rate registered also show a decrease of 1.8 in 2019 to 1.6 in 2020, the NCRB stated. Another 192 cases of 'culpable homicide not amounting to murder' were registered across the metropolitans with Delhi alone accounting for 57 of these cases followed by Lucknow (28) and Bengaluru (10), it showed. During 2020, India reported a total of 2,533 cases of rape across the metropolitan cities, with Delhi accounting for the maximum 967 (38 per cent) cases followed by 409 in Jaipur (16 per cent), 322 in Mumbai (12 per cent), the NCRB data showed. Bengaluru reported 108 rape cases, Chennai 31 and Kolkata 11 during the year. Of the total rape victims in the 2,533 cases, 2,448 were above the age of 18 years while the remaining were minors, according to the NCRB, which is responsible for collecting and analysing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws in the country. A total of 35,331 cases of crime against women were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 21.1 per cent over 2019 (44,783 cases), it stated in the annual crime report. The majority of crimes against women were registered under 'cruelty by husband or his relatives' (30.2 per cent) followed by 'assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty (19.7 per cent), 'kidnapping and abduction of women (19 per cent) and 'rape' (7.2 per cent), it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Gujarat: Bhupendra Patel govt's new ministers to take oath today||New ministers of the Bhupendra Patel-led government in Gujarat will take oath on Thursday at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar amid speculation that the BJP may induct new faces into the state cabinet, with just over a year left for the state Assembly polls. There has been suspense over ministerial faces, whose names have not been declared so far, in the backdrop of the BJP's "no-repeat" formula. Earlier, the ruling BJP announced that the swearing-in ceremony would be held on Wednesday afternoon and preparations for the same had started at the governor's house in the state capital. However, the plan was later dropped all of a sudden and banners of the swearing-in ceremony were also taken down. Neither the BJP nor the state government gave any reason for the postponement. On Wednesday evening, the Chief Minister's Office announced that the swearing-in ceremony of new ministers will be held at 1.30 pm at the Raj Bhavan in the state capital Gandhinagar on Thursday. Patel (59), a first-time MLA from Ahmedabad, took over as the new Gujarat chief minister on Monday after the sudden resignation of Vijay Rupani last Saturday. According to sources, the BJP leadership has decided to try new faces this time and drop almost all the past ministers, even some senior ones, who were part of the previous Rupani government. However, there was no official word from the BJP about it. Many believe that the "no-repeat" formula has been proposed keeping in mind the 2022 Assembly polls as the BJP, which has been in power in Gujarat for more than two decades, wants to go to voters with a clean slate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||India logs over 30,000 Covid cases, 431 casualties in a day||With 30,570 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has risen to 3,33,47,325, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,42,923, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,928 with 431 daily fatalities being recorded, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am. The number of active cases has dropped to 3,42,923, which comprises 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.64 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 8,164 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Also, 15,79,761 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 54,77,01,729, it stated. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. This has been below three per cent for 17 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.93 per cent. This figure has been below three per cent for 83 days now, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,25,60,474, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 76.57 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 431 new fatalities include 208 from Kerala, 70 from Goa and 56 from Maharashtra. "In the last 24 hours, two deaths have occurred in Goa. But 68 additional deaths from August 2020 to June 2021 are added to cumulative deaths and have been reported late from South Goa District Hospital (Margao)," the ministry said. A total of 4,43,928 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,277 from Maharashtra, 37,537 from Karnataka, 35,246 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,987 from Kerala, 22,885 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,613 from West Bengal, the data showed. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Covid: India's estimated human and economic toll higher than reported||India’s Covid-19 deaths may be four to 11 times higher than officially reported and may spawn economic losses equivalent to 30 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product, researchers said on Wednesday after pooling estimates from multiple studies. The researchers at the University of Michigan and the Delhi School of Economics have surveyed existing studies that suggest that India had lost 1.7 million to 4.9 million people to Covid-19 till July 1, 2021, when the Centre’s count was a little over 400,000. Their calculations are the latest among a series of independent efforts to estimate excess deaths from Covid-19 across the country using an array of research methodologies amid concerns in health circles that authorities might have vastly undercounted infections and deaths. “The quality of infection and death reporting remains of great concern for India and masks the true fatality rate,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of biostatistics at the University of Michigan School of Public Health who led the study. Mukherjee and her colleagues pooled the results of multiple earlier studies to estimate infection fatality rates — the proportion of deaths among the total counts of infections — and Covid-19 deaths. The calculations from the pooled results have shown cumulative excess deaths in India to be 1.7 million to 4.9 million, with variations across states. They also used an epidemiological model to generate their own model-based estimate that yielded 1.4 million deaths by July 1. “If you believe the official reported death numbers, the infection fatality rate is 0.1 per cent, but the pooled results of multiple studies on excess deaths point to a range of 0.4 to 0.5 per cent,” she told The Telegraph via email. Over the past eight weeks, two other research groups — one based in Canada, the other in the US — have also published reports with Covid-19 death estimates for India ranging from 2.7 million to 4.9 million, implying large undercounting. The health ministry has rejected such estimates, asserting that India has a “robust” civil registration system for recording deaths and that the ministry has asked states to conduct audits and appropriately report Covid-19 tolls. The ministry has also described reports of undercounted deaths as “totally fallacious” or based on “audacious assumptions”. The researchers borrowed a concept known as the value of a statistical life (VLS) — independently proposed three years ago by Indian economists S. Madheswaran and Agamoni Majumder — to estimate the economic loss to the country from Covid-19 deaths. The VLS is a technical economic concept that calculates the value of life based on the risk of fatal accidents at the workplace and wages associated with various jobs. The estimates peg the notional economic cost of Covid-19 deaths at 9 per cent of the GDP — the sum of all goods and services produced and delivered in India — if the officially recorded deaths are taken into account. The notional cost rises to about 30 per cent of the GDP if the Covid-19 death count is 1.4 million. “The 7.7 per cent official decline in India’s GDP for 2020-21 is thus a gross underestimate once the value of lives lost is taken into account,” the researchers have said. The Centre’s financial rescue package was about 1 per cent of the GDP, which, they said, is a small fraction of the true losses. An Indian economist not associated with the study said that while the overall economic loss to the nation was huge, the impact on households merits more research. “For households that have lost their bread-winners, the impact would be unbearable,” said William Joe, assistant professor at the population research centre at the Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi. “It is important to explore mechanisms to support such households in distress.” Their study is yet to be peer-reviewed, but the Michigan-Delhi researchers have posted it on medRxiv, an online archive for research papers. Sections of health experts have since April this year argued that crowding at funeral sites in multiple cities and bodies dumped in rivers likely reflected large counts of deaths difficult to manage through available crematorium and funeral infrastructure. The experts believe many Covid-19 deaths have likely remained unrecorded because of lack of access to timely diagnosis, lack of medical certification or inadvertent misclassification of the cause of death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Jesuit warns bishops against 'trap of Sangh Parivar'||A Jesuit priest has warned bishops against falling into “the meticulously planned trap of the Sangh Parivar” by lending credibility to the Right-wing narrative about “love jihad” and adding to it by making claims about a “narcotics jihad”. Jesuit priest-activist Cedric Prakash has penned the open letter at a time when a Kerala bishop has kicked up a controversy by making the communally loaded allegation that “narcotics jihad” was leading youths of the state to drugs. Fr Prakash’s letter focuses more on the older claims about love jihad — a Right-wing concoction denoting an alleged conspiracy to indoctrinate non-Muslim women through marriage. The priest has argued that such narratives are a “highly manipulative way” of pushing more urgent national issues to the back-burner. Stating that there are constitutional guarantees for every adult citizen to choose a religion and for that matter even to marry a person of his or her choice, Fr Prakash has pointed out that there are sufficient provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to address forced marriages and kidnapping. “Unfortunately the utterances of some clearly demonstrate how easily one can fall into a meticulously planned trap of the Sangh Parivar that clearly NEGATES the right to preach, practice and propagate one’s religion/faith. It also reinforces the attitude of the Church towards women — particularly when we have begun talking about SYNODALITY!” Fr Prakash’s letter states. Synodality is a process of consultations — a devolution of decision-making — between clerics and the laity that is being advocated by Pope Francis as opposed to the existing top-down approach. Fr Prakash has attached to the letter an article on the “bogey of love jihad” and drawn similarities between Kerala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt accusing Muslims of making Catholic girls victims of “love and narcotic jihad” and former Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani saying his government would deal strictly with those who trap Hindu girls and elope with them. “Both the Bishop and the BJP CM are wrong on several counts — and in fact, their words are patently unconstitutional. Their words are reflective of a patriarchal mindset — which regards an adult Catholic/Hindu woman as a ‘moron’ who is unable to think and decide for herself: be it in marrying the person of one’s choice or for that matter embracing the religion of one’s choice,” Fr Prakash said. “Secondly, both the Bishop and the CM have absolutely nothing substantive to prove their point: the Bishop is certainly unable to say how many Kerala Catholic girls have married Hindus or people from other faiths; or for that matter just left the Catholic Church. It is exactly the same for the CM. “The Bishop needs to have the honesty to address the scandals: financial and sexual within the Church; the CM needs to address the dismal state of affairs on every possible front in Gujarat! Both Bishop and CM should also take a visible and vocal stand in championing the rights (particularly, dignity and equality) of women in the Church and Country,” Fr Prakash added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Rahul strikes at BJP, says party uses religion to grab power||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked why Nathuram Godse killed Mahatma Gandhi, the greatest practitioner of Hindu religion, if the RSS was the protector of Hinduism, contending that the Sangh parivar used religion merely to grab power. Addressing the foundation day event of the Mahila Congress, Rahul said: “The BJP says it is a Hindu party. One person who understood Hinduism and practised it was Mahatma Gandhi. Even the RSS accepts it. Why did then Godse pump bullets into Gandhi’s chest? The entire world looks up to Gandhi as an idol. Gandhi espoused politics of non-violence. Non-violence is the foundation of the Hindu religion. Then why did Godse kill Gandhi?” Though the BJP often says Godse had left the RSS when he assassinated Gandhi, the essence of Rahul’s argument was that he was a product of the same ideology. To make his point, he said there couldn’t be any meeting ground between the ideologies of Gandhi and “Godse Savarkar”. While the RSS-BJP disowns Godse, it is well established that he was a disciple of V.D. Savarkar whom the Sangh parivar still treats as their icon. Savarkar was one of the accused in the Gandhi assassination case but was acquitted because of lack of evidence. Rahul, who is fighting a legal battle for linking Gandhi’s assassination to the RSS, has been constantly insisting that the ideology and the philosophy that created Godse belonged to the Sangh parivar. There are a good few BJP MPs who hail Godse as a “patriot” and a “true nationalist” and even campaign to wipe out the infamy attached to him. Twitter hashtag “Godse zindabad” has trended in recent years, only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power, on Gandhi’s birth and death anniversary. Rahul broached this topic on Wednesday to counter the RSS-BJP’s perceived monopoly over Hindu religion, insinuating that the ideology that eliminated the staunchest Hindu cannot be the true representative of its interest. He has clearly taken upon himself the onerous task of disengaging Hindus from the RSS and demolishing the widely held perception that the BJP is a Hindu party. Rahul again relied on the Durga-Lakshmi metaphor that he used at his recent Jammu rally ostensibly with the twin objectives of contesting the BJP’s Hindu credentials and the propaganda of the Congress being anti-Hindu. He said: “Durga is the symbol of power that protects. Lakshmi is not the goddess of wealth as is widely understood. Lakshmi comes from the word Lakshya (goal). The power that helps you achieve your goal comes from Lakshmi. When Modi did note-bandi, did he reduce the power of Lakshmi or enhanced it? When he brought farm laws, did he reduce the power of Lakshmi in farmers’ households or increased it? When we gave the Constitution, RTI, MGNREGA… we increased the power of Durga and Lakshmi in the hands of the people.” He then mounted a lethal attack on the RSS-BJP: “Ho kya raha hai? Woh apne-aap ko Hindu party kahte hain aur pure desh mein Lakshmi aur Durga par aakraman karte hain. Jahan bhi jaate hain, kahin Lakshmi ko maarte hain, kahin Durga ko maarte hain. Aur kahte hain hum Hindu hain. Ye kis prakar ke Hindu hain? Ye jhoothe Hindu hain. Ye Hindu dharm ka prayog karte hain. Ye dharm ki dalali karte hain magar ye Hindu nahin hain (What is happening? They call themselves a Hindu party and attack Lakshmi and Durga everywhere in the country. Wherever they go, they attack Lakshmi or Durga. And they say they are Hindu. What kind of Hindus are they? They are fake Hindus. They use the Hindu religion. They trade in the religion but they are not Hindus.)” Rahul said Modi had snatched Durga and Lakshmi from the common people and put them in the hands of a few capitalist friends. “Modi’s friends have lakhs of crores, the common people have nothing. Made-in-India is a lie but you can’t talk about it. They are scared of the truth. Modi’s life is a lie. He ran away from truth all his life. You see the Congress symbol — the hand. You will see it in every religion. You see Lord Shiva, Mahavir, Buddha, Guru Nanak and you will see the hand. When Muslims pray, you see the hand. We aren’t scared. We will die but won’t surrender. But the RSS-BJP philosophy is ‘daro, aur darao’. They are frightened themselves. Hate is a form of fear.” BJP national general secretary Arun Singh sought to rebut the Congress leader, saying:   “Rahul Gandhi should not make these statements. He is totally disconnected from the ground. He has no information. That is the main problem.” Rahul’s is doubtless a new discourse, driven by a conscious plan of action to contest the RSS-BJP’s dominance in the Hindu space. This is different from the regular secular-communal discourse that many in the party believes facilitates the BJP’s position as a Hindu party. Rahul has now run the risk of triggering a debate that may attract charges of competitive religiosity but the Congress says the attempt is to argue that secularism is not anti-religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||BHU: Centre's new ad for VC post prefixes 'preferably' to age limit||The Centre has issued a fresh advertisement inviting applications for the post of Banaras Hindu University vice-chancellor, relaxing the age criterion nine months after it began the selection process. The earlier ad, published on December 9, 2020, had stipulated the age criterion as “not more than 67 years of age as on the closing date of receipt of applications of this advertisement”. The new ad put out by the Union education ministry prefixes the word “preferably” to the upper age limit for the applicants for the BHU VC’s post. It says the candidates should “preferably not (be) more than 67 years of age as on 08.01.2021”. The closing date, which is the same for both ads, is January 8, 2021. The new ad floated on Tuesday says the motive is to ensure “a wider choice for selection”. A retired BHU employee, however, expressed the fear that efforts were afoot to appoint a “favourable candidate”. Vishwanath Pandey, former officer on special duty at BHU, told The Telegraph: “It seems they want to accommodate a favourable candidate through this revised advertisement.” BHU does not have a regular VC since March this year when Rakesh Bhatnagar completed his tenure. The process of appointing a regular VC had been started in advance in December last year. A search-cum-selection committee headed by retired bureaucrat Hasmukh Adhia had been set up to screen the applications, conduct a round of interviews and recommend a panel of names. The committee had invited the shortlisted candidates for interviews that were to be held on the BHU campus on March 12. However, the candidates were informed that the interviews had been postponed. No reason was cited. The interviews are yet to be rescheduled. The BHU Act provides for a three-year tenure for VCs and the person can remain in the post till the age of 70. An age cut-off of 67, now eased by adding the “preferably” clause, would mean the new VC would have a maximum tenure of three years. Pandey said there was at least one instance where a BHU VC had been appointed for a shorter tenure. In 1993, D.N. Mishra was appointed VC at the age of 64 when the retirement age was 65 years. The revised ad issued on Tuesday says those who had applied earlier will not have to apply again. However, withdrawal of candidature will be allowed. The fresh applications will have to be submitted to the education ministry by September 24. “Advertisement for appointment of VC, BHU, was initially published on 9.12.2020 in the leading newspapers. However, in order to have a wider choice for selection, the applications, in prescribed proforma available on https://www.education.gov.in/en and www.bhu.ac.in, are invited from eligible persons,” the new ad says. BHU now has an in-charge VC in Vijay Kumar Shukla. Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi University, Sagar University, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, Central Sanskrit University and Rajasthan University also do not have regular VCs. IIT Bhubaneswar has been without a regular director for 17 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||SC castigates Centre on their 'right to reject names for tribunals'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday castigated the Centre after attorney-general K.K. Venugopal asserted that the government had the right to reject names recommended for various tribunals. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana reminded the Centre that India is a “democratic country following the rule of law” and the executive cannot “cherry-pick” names. Tribunals are adjudicatory quasi-judicial bodies set up with retired judges to decongest the regular courts and deal with specialised issues. The selection committees for tribunals have sitting judges of the Supreme Court as members along with other nominees. The special bench, also having Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao, granted two weeks to the Centre to clarify its position on filling up 250-odd vacancies in various quasi-judicial tribunals such as the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) and the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) or face a judicial order. The court was dealing with petitions filed by the Madras Bar Association and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging the constitutional validity of various provisions of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. The petitioners have contended that the legislation is an attempt to scuttle the apex court’s earlier judgments upholding the independence of the tribunals. After the NDA government came to power in 2014, there has been constant friction between the judiciary and the executive over the appointment process of judges to the Supreme Court and the high courts. A thaw in the relationship had appeared to have set in between the executive and the judiciary after the Centre recently cleared the names of many judges recommended by the Supreme Court collegium. The top court is now deeply disturbed by the large number of vacancies in the tribunals as some of the recommendations had been made more than a year ago. “I have seen the selection list of the NCLT. The selection committee recommended nine judicial members and 10 technical members. The appointment indicates cherry-picking of three names from the select list and others from the waitlist, ignoring others in the select list. In service law, you can’t go to the waitlist ignoring the select list. What kind of appointment is this?” CJI Ramana asked Venugopal. Venugopal submitted that “…the government has the power not to accept the recommendations made…”. Justice Ramana replied: “We are in a democratic country following the rule of law. It is under the Constitution that we are working. You (the Centre) cannot say that.” Venugopal cited certain earlier judgments relating to the UPSC selection process where the apex court had stated that the government was not bound to select the recommended names. Venugopal maintained that the government had exhausted the main list of recommended candidates and, thereafter, gone to the waiting list. He said there were no recommendations pending from the selected list of main candidates for at least 15 tribunals. Justice Ramana said: “We are very much unhappy with the way the things are going on and how the decisions are taken. I am also one of the persons and part of the selection committee for the NCLT. We have interviewed 534 candidates for judicial posts and 400 others for technical posts. Out of that, we gave names of 10 judicial members in the list and 11 technical members…. But they (the government) have selected only four judicial members and then gone to the waitlist.” He added: “We travelled across the country. The corporate affairs secretary and the law secretary were there. Another (Supreme Court) judge, Justice Surya Kant, was there. This is a waste of time for us then. We spent a lot of time during Covid. Your government requested us to conduct interviews as early as possible. So we did…. There is no consistency. I am sorry I don’t know why you want to bring trouble in all these matters. It is very unfortunate. The government has to realise this.” Justice Rao pointed out that the selection committee had made recommendations for the TDSAT more than a year ago, but the appointments had not been finalised till date. Venugopal said the government wanted some of the names to be reconsidered. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the Madras Bar Association, said there was also a “disturbing trend, which needs to end”. According to Datar, the government has notified new rules for appointment of members to various tribunals under which the tenure is now for four years or till they reach 67 years or “until further orders”. He took exception to the clause “until further orders”, saying it could be misused by the government to remove members of tribunals arbitrarily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Wall of Grief: Internet memorial for Covid victims||Till now, burning pyres on sprawling grounds and riverbeds and overflowing crematoriums had borne testimony to the enormity of the tragedy. Now, those who died during the pandemic in India are being immortalised on an online “Wall of Grief”. “Our goal is not to criticise. We want people to come together, and demand answers. If we forget what happened, then the system won’t improve…. The second wave showed the inequality in society in terms of how the system worked for some and failed others,” said Mayank Aggarwal, who is leading a group of journalists that has created the Internet memorial. The news agency Reporters’ Collective started the Wall of Grief website after its members visited Gujarat to work on an article on the steep number of excess deaths during the pandemic, with the government’s official Covid toll not matching data from municipal records and the visuals of never-ending queues of the dead outside crematoriums and burial grounds. The Reporters’ Collective decided to use the massive amount of data collected during the Gujarat trip to build an online memorial. The website for now has figures only from certain areas of Gujarat and records over 68,000 deaths from March 2020 to April 2021. It also contains municipal death registers and news articles on the pandemic. The Wall of Grief is a work in progress, with its creators hoping to prepare a nationwide database of those who died during the pandemic. The memorial page has the names of the deceased, one after the other in the run-on format. If the cursor is placed on a name, other details such as the age, gender, location, occupation and date of death of the person pop up inside a box. The records are from 68 of Gujarat’s 170 municipalities that cover around 6 per cent of the state’s population, said Tapasya, an associate lead of the project who goes only by one name. The website says: “They will not be forgotten. They will not be erased from our collective memory. Together we build this wall of grief to commemorate the lives we lost during the pandemic in India.” The website also accepts contributions of memorials from the general public, seeking the above information in addition to a photograph of the deceased person, a copy of the death certificate and an obituary message. The certificates and the photographs are only used for verification and not uploaded. Volunteers are welcome to contribute data or help process the information collated. The names of the deceased have been taken from hand-written death registers maintained by municipalities that formed the basis of the Reporters’ Collective’s news report. The Collective found that deaths in Gujarat in April this year were five to 10 times higher than those in the same month in the past two years. The increase in the total number deaths during the pandemic over the previous year was 27 times the state’s official Covid death toll, indicating that many deaths caused by the coronavirus had not been recorded. The Wall of Grief features all those who died between March 2020 and April 2021, irrespective of the cause. Tapasya said that in the absence of a “clean way to segregate deaths”, counting the monthly deaths in excess of those during the corresponding time the preceding year was the “most effective way to calculate the pandemic deaths, which include deaths due to comorbidities and the saturation of the public health infrastructure”. “While doing the (news) story, we got so much data. The story could merely be condensed into a few numbers to show the immense loss. We thought it would be good to have something in the public domain as a fair way of paying homage,” Tapasya said. While Aggarwal and Tapasya are based in Delhi and are fully committed to the Wall of Grief, they have had help from colleagues at the collective, the National Foundation of India and 101 Reporters, besides groups such as nurses’ and teachers’ unions who are contributing data. Launched on August 25, the website now only has a fragment of Gujarat’s municipal data, but the founders are working on data from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tripura and Odisha. Wallofgrief.org also has the death data sources in spreadsheets as well as news articles, research papers and a link to the Covid Tracker for Nurses in India. “For some districts, for example, we have data but one municipality’s data is missing,” said Tapasya, referring to the gaps in reporting deaths. Aggarwal said they were trying their best to upload more data in the weeks to come. “It actually takes a village to bring this out…. The system is not designed to reveal, but keep (figures) hidden,” he said. “Someone has to answer why deaths increased manifold in 2021. We were not able to find these answers in our news story, which led to this memorial…. People need a space to mourn and share grief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Bengal worker’s plight at  ‘transit camp’ in Assam||Gangadhar Pramanik returned to his home in Bengal on Wednesday from a detention camp in Assam, carrying with him a harrowing sneak preview of the probable fate that awaits countless people when citizenship regimens are enforced blindly in a country with a poor documentation record. Gangadhar, 33, had left his remote village in Bankura in search of work around 10 years ago. He ended up spending over three years at a detention centre in Assam’s Goalpara after he was declared a foreigner. The detention centres are officially called transit camps. He allegedly could not produce documents supporting his citizenship after he was picked up by the border police who are expected to serve notice seeking such papers. Usually, if a person fails to furnish the documents, the case is sent to a superintendent of police who, if unsatisfied, can refer it to one of the several Foreigners Tribunals in Assam. If the tribunal decides the suspect is a foreigner, he or she will be kept in a detention centre. Attempts are expected to be made to deport such foreigners but India does not have a deportation treaty with Bangladesh, the neighbour usually targeted in India over illegal entry although recent trends suggest a sharp decline in such movements. Gangadhar’s case is not linked to the preparation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) — a contentious exercise whose culmination in Assam was followed by the Citizenship Amendment Act that convulsed the country in the latter half of 2019. But his detention shows what might happen to those who cannot prove their citizenship and are kept out of the NRC and the treatment that awaits them at the detention centres. Those who do not figure in the final NRC in Assam will eventually have to move the same Foreigners Tribunals for an opinion on their citizenship status. The BJP, an  advocate of the NRC as well as its extension to the rest of India, found itself questioning the final figures in Assam as they did not match its assumptions. The break-up has not been disclosed but Hindus are said to account for a large number of people who could not furnish citizenship proof and, as a consequence, were kept out of the NRC in Assam. Gangadhar was released on bail from the detention centre following the intervention of Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), a platform of human rights defenders that in the past one year has helped release 50 detained people in Assam. The CJP has also assisted 12 lakh people to fill up forms for the NRC. A CJP team, headed by its Assam chapter in-charge Nanda Ghosh, accompanied Gangadhar to his Radhanagar home on Wednesday and reunited him with his mother Bharati who had been surviving the last three years with aid from neighbours. Gangadhar was detained on December 12, 2017, and sent to the Goalpara detention centre. He was accused of not responding to a notice in Assam and not showing any documents to prove his citizenship. Gangadhar said he did not receive any notice. “I went to Assam around 10 years ago in search of a job. I had planned to return home after making decent savings to help my needy family,” Gangadhar told The Telegraph from his Bankura home. “I used to work at a roadside eatery on the outskirts of Guwahati but my life changed after I was picked up in the winter of 2017 by the police and put in a jail-like place in Goalpara. I was unaware why they dumped me there but I remember I was labelled a foreigner,” Gangadhar added. Recollecting the three years at the detention centre, Gangadhar said he made several attempts to flee from the “hellhole”. When he could not, he had contemplated committing suicide, Gangadhar said. “The police kept round-the-clock vigil and eight of us were confined to a small room. It was difficult to escape and my attempts did not work. I was depressed,” said Gangadhar, who has pledged never to step out of Bengal again in search of work. Struggling for words, Gangadhar said a typical day at the detention centre began with a cup of black tea. At 11am, lunch of rice, dal and vegetables was served. The last meal of the day was at 5pm. Ghosh, who along with CJP advocate Abhijeet Choudhury brought Gangadhar to Radhanagar, said: “We found that all those who have spent a few years at the detention centre have been left mentally traumatised. They have become unusually quiet and find it difficult to recall events.” They arrived at Burdwan station by the Saraighat Express and travelled to Gangadhar’s village from Radhanagar by car. Hearing about the arrival of Gangadhar, a large number of villagers rushed to the near-dilapidated, tin-roofed house of the Pramaniks, Ghosh said. Between the time Gangadhar had left home and returned on Wednesday, his father Mantu Pramanik had passed away and his sister had got married in Bihar. “His father, a marginal farmer, died a few years ago thinking about his son as Gangadhar remained untraced. After his father’s death, his mother Bharati became helpless. We helped her survive with foodgrains and clothes for the past few years. We had no idea that Gangadhar was in a detention camp,” said Ashis Dey, a neighbour and social activist. It was a chance incident that led to Gangadhar’s release from the centre. The CJP team had come to know about him from two persons whose release they had helped secure in July. “We came to know about Gangadhar in July and immediately initiated steps to get him released. The two persons we helped get released had told us that Gangadhar was in a terrible mental condition. The release took time as it was difficult to get someone in Assam who would stand as a guarantor to secure his bail. Relevant documents of Gangadhar’s citizenship will have to be provided over time,” said Ghosh. According to the bail order in Assam, Gangadhar will have to visit Bishnupur police station in Bankura once a week. Ghosh and his advocate went to the police station and the village police camp to inform them of the bail conditions. “We have done all legal formalities and handed him over to his family. It is really a happy moment for us,” said Ghosh, adding that the case to prove Gangadhar’s citizenship would continue. For more on Citizen's For Justice & Peace log on to: https://cjp.org.in/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Delhi teachers resist attendance app that tracks their location||As Covid-19 shuttered India’s schools and overwhelmed its hospitals, teachers in the national capital were roped in for emergency duties — from handing out food rations to staffing vaccination centres, often at great risk to themselves. But many baulked when told to download an attendance app on their mobile phones that could track their location — adding to hefty surveillance measures in Delhi schools that critics say infringe on the privacy of students and staff. Warned by city authorities that their wages would be withheld if they failed to comply, the teachers are fighting back. “We weren’t consulted on this app, we weren’t told about its features — we were just sent a link and ordered to download it on our mobile phones,” said Vibha Singh, a senior vice-president of the Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh (NNSS) teachers’ union. After numerous complaints, the union filed a suit in Delhi High Court last month, arguing that the app violated their privacy. The next hearing is due on September 27. “These are our personal phones, and the app tracks our location at all times. We don’t know what other information it can access, or who has access to the data — what if it gets hacked? Women teachers are especially at risk,” Singh said. Even before the app was launched, some of Delhi’s public schools had closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras with facial recognition technology, a measure digital rights advocates have condemned as an “overreach”. The national capital is among the world’s most surveilled cities, with more than 1,800 cameras per square mile — the highest concentration globally, according to estimates by technology website Comparitech. An official at the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which is the defendant in the teachers’ union’s lawsuit, said the app merely logs the attendance of teachers and poses no privacy or safety risks. “It is a misunderstanding that the app can compromise their privacy. We have held several talks with the teachers to explain the app and to allay their fears,” said Muktamay Mandal, deputy director of education at the SDMC. “We are moving towards increased digitalisation in every sphere — we are downloading so many apps everyday. If they have nothing to hide, what is there to fear?” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The coronavirus pandemic has prompted governments and corporations to launch a wide array of technologies on the grounds of health and safety that can track people, with few privacy safeguards, digital rights experts say. Increasingly, workers are pushing back against what they see as a violation of their rights. Municipal employees in Chandigarh protested last year against GPS-enabled tracking smartwatches they were required to wear, with the data that was gathered linked to performance ratings and salaries. Earlier this year, thousands of government-accredited community healthcare workers — who are mostly women — protested against a mobile app they said tracked their location and recorded their performance. With the attendance app, the level of surveillance from tracking and accessing data cannot be justified as a means to log attendance, said Anushka Jain, an associate counsel at digital rights group Internet Freedom Foundation in Delhi. “There is no need to track them throughout the day; that is surveillance. It’s very problematic that these apps and technologies are being forced upon people without any data protection guidelines,” she said. “The growing pushback we are seeing is not only about the right to privacy, but also because misuse of these technologies is so rampant and people understand that the worst-case scenario is not just hypothetical, it is highly likely,” she said. A long-delayed Personal Data Protection Bill that aims to create a framework for what kind of data can be collected, and for how it is collected, processed and stored, will impose penalties for the misuse of any personal data. But the draft bill contains numerous exceptions, particularly for government agencies, Jain said. Reuters In Delhi, schoolteachers previously used a biometrics machine or logged on to a website to log their attendance, said Singh, a school principal, but these options have been replaced by the app. Several teachers who failed to download the app have had their wages withheld, said Singh, adding that the requirement was also problematic in households with only one smartphone that may be used by other members of the family during the day. “If we must use this app, then give us separate devices that we can use for attendance and other school work,” she said. “We can then leave the device in the school, and know it is not tracking us. We have no objection to that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Covid: New research underlines need to vaccinate all ||Delhi experienced its second Covid-19 wave even though half of its people already had protective antibodies from the natural infection, new research has revealed, underlining the need to complete vaccination nationwide as quickly as possible. A study has found that Delhi’s 50.8 per cent seropositivity level — the proportion of population with anti-Covid-19 antibodies — was not sufficient to avert the capital’s second wave marked by over 737,000 infections and more than 11,000 deaths during April-May. Researchers say the findings also underline the lingering uncertainty about the so-called herd immunity threshold — the proportion of population that needs to be protected either through natural infections or vaccination to prevent any future surges. “This is a reminder that we need to fully vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible,” said Nandini Sharma, professor of community medicine at the Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, and senior co-author of the study. Earlier district surveys had already hinted at Delhi’s high seropositivity levels. But the new findings, based on antibody measurements on around 100 people picked at random from each of the capital’s 274 wards, provide the sharpest snapshot yet of infection prevalence prior to the second wave. During another arm of the survey among 28,169 samples processed from volunteers, the researchers detected antibodies in 14,298 (50.8 per cent), with seropositivity levels ranging from about 50 per cent in North Delhi district to 62 per cent in Southwest Delhi. The herd immunity threshold depends on multiple factors, including transmissibility of the virus. Last year, researchers had calculated that population-level protection of about 65 per cent would be enough to douse the epidemic — after which only a small trickle of cases would persist. The strongest evidence that 65 per cent seropositivity would not be sufficient for herd immunity had so far emerged from Manaus, the largest city of Brazil’s Amazonas state, that experienced a resurgence of infections in January 2021 even with a 76 per cent seropositivity in October 2020. Scientists have attributed such patterns of resurgence across the world, including in the US and the UK, to the emergence and spread of new coronavirus variants — a variant called Gamma in Brazil, a strain called Delta in India — and to the waning of immunity among previously infected people. Sharma and her colleagues found that only 72 per cent of people who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 had antibodies against the disease. But some experts say other arms of the immune system may continue to protect people even after antibody levels have fallen. “The best possible strategy appears to be to speed up the vaccination campaign and at the same time maintain all precautions we’ve been taking so far such as masks and avoiding crowds,” Sharma said. “And maintain high surveillance for any new variants.” India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign had until Wednesday administered around 760 million doses, but only about 186 million people (19 per cent) of the estimated adult population of 943 million have received the two doses needed for full vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||India-China: 25 spots along LAC picked for close vigil||Security agencies have identified nearly 25 sensitive spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the Line of Actual Control that are prone to border incursion and transgression by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, sources in the defence ministry have said. “These 25 spots are very sensitive and require close monitoring. Senior officials of the army and ITBP (Indo-Tibetan Border Police) have been asked to make enough deployment at border posts and also to keep a close eye on the Chinese soldiers with surveillance cameras,” said a ministry official. Senior officials of the army and the ITBP, he said, have been conducting regular flag march and meeting their Chinese counterparts to reduce tension which is higher than usual amid the ongoing border standoff between the two countries. “Most of the 25 sensitive spots have witnessed border incursion by the Chinese army in the past,” the official said. Both sides often accuse each other of transgression and intrusion because of differences in perception of the LAC. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the China frontier and it guards the 3,488km-long LAC, most of which is disputed. The Indian Army remains behind it. The frontier passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Sources in the security establishment said the latest report from the ground suggested that the Chinese PLA have made frontline formations near most of these 25 sensitive spots and are also building infrastructure, including military camps. Sources said the home ministry has also asked the ITBP bosses to intensify patrolling in sensitive zones. At present, there are a total of 180 border outposts of the ITBP along the China frontier. Additional border posts are also being increased to maintain close vigil along the LAC. Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The border standoff in Hot Springs and Depsang Plains is continuing even though there has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Former office-bearers of IUML women’s wing allege 'verbal rape'||Former office-bearers of the women’s campus wing of Indian Union Muslim League on Wednesday levelled serious charges against their male counterparts for unleashing a character assassination campaign tantamount to “verbal rape”. In their first reaction after the controversy erupted in June, the recently ousted office-bearers of Haritha, the women’s wing of IUML student arm Muslim Students’ Federation, slammed the party leadership for turning a blind eye to their grievances and even a written complaint shared with several top leaders. Former general secretary of Haritha, Najma Thabsheera, told a news conference in Kozhikode on Wednesday that what they faced was “verbal rape”. “Like what they say, ‘verbal rape after a rape’,” Thabsheera said, alluding to what they faced after raising their voice against gender inequality and character assassination within the party. The IUML, which is a constituent of the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front, had frozen Haritha in August after 10 of its leaders approached the Kerala Women’s Commission over the alleged misogyny and character assassination with sexually explicit remarks by their MSF counterparts. They also lodged a complaint against MSF state president P.K. Navas and Malappuram district general secretary V. Abdul Vahab. The IUML appointed a new Haritha state committee on Sunday. Police arrested Navas on Friday for making derogatory remarks based on the Haritha complaint to the women’s commission. But he was released on the same day as the charges were bailable. The IUML instead removed Fathima Thahliya, national vice-president of the MSF and a former chief of Haritha, and P.P. Shaijal, state vice-president of the MSF, from their party positions for standing up for the aggrieved women. Thabsheera said it was the MSF president who made derogatory remarks at a working committee meeting held in Kozhikode on June 24. “When I stood up to make my point, he said ‘even prostitutes would have their justifications, so let her speak’. He also said Haritha was being led by a cyber criminal when I sought action against him at that meeting,” she said. She lashed out at an unnamed IUML general secretary for describing Haritha leaders literally as street walkers. “He said we are women who wander in the Kozhikode market,” said Thabsheera. Former president of Haritha, Mufeeda Thesni, said they were victims of a well-organised hate campaign. “They have been saying girls from Haritha are feminists who do not want to deliver babies and we opt for abortions even if we conceive.” She said a section of the MSF questioned even their campaign to encourage women to use menstrual cups instead of sanitary pads. “They questioned our character and intent behind our awareness campaign about menstrual cups,” Thesni said. She slammed an IUML leader who was assigned to settle the matter by dissuading the girls from proceeding with their complaint. “This person threatened us that he (the MSF president) was in possession of objectionable pictures and videos of several Haritha girls who would have to commit suicide if he circulated them,” Thesni alleged, referring to the tactics used to silence them. Thabsheera disputed the claim by several IUML and MSF leaders that the girls of Haritha did not approach party leaders for 18 days after the alleged incident. “The incident happened on June 25. We (Haritha) met the following day to decide on the course of action and submitted a five-page complaint to all the senior leaders of IUML on June 27,” she said, adding that they approached the women’s commission when the party failed to act even after 50 days. Copies of the complaint were sent to senior leaders P.K. Kunhalikutty, E.T. Mohammed Basheer, Panakkad Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal, K.P.A. Majeed and P.M.A. Salam, whom the party later assigned to look into the issue. The party did not react to the allegations. “This is a larger issue that questions the very identity of girls who are part of this organisation,” Thabsheera said, promising to fight for justice by remaining in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
16-09-2021||India||IAF inducts medium range surface-to-air-missile system||The Indian Air Force has inducted a medium range surface-to-air-missile system that is capable of destroying aerial threats, including enemy fighter jets, unmanned aerial vehicles and missiles, at a range of 70km. The MRSAM has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in partnership with Israel Aerospace Industries. It is fitted with Israel’s Barak missile and can travel at a lightning pace. The missile is powered by an indigenously developed rocket motor and control system to achieve high manoeuvrability. The naval version of the MRSAM has been operationally deployed on three Indian Navy warships. The Indian Army is yet to induct the system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
16-09-2021||India|| Naseer wishes Khans of Bollywood had 'more confidence' to speak out||Actor Naseeruddin Shah has said the Khans of Bollywood don’t voice their opinion because they will find it “difficult” to take the “harassment” that will follow, adding he wished they had “more confidence”. Shah, who has never shied away from speaking his mind, said he could do so perhaps because he did not have much to lose. Speaking about Shah Rukh Khan and Aamir Khan, Shah said during an interview with India Today aired on the news channel on Tuesday night: “How much will they lose? They will lose an endorsement or two. It’s not that… it’s the harassment they will be subjected to. They find it difficult to take. And the fact that Aamir and Shah Rukh withdrew completely into a shell after making one harmless statement respectively illustrates this. I suppose I can speak because I don’t have much to lose.” Shah said the film industry had the power to stay independent and wished it had enough courage to do so. “But they are giving in because their interests are too large and too varied and they have too much to lose and they’re easy targets,” he said. Shah cautioned against “rising Right-wing fanaticism”. He said his comments about a section of Indian Muslims celebrating the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan had been misconstrued. “Maybe I made a mistake by not speaking clearly enough and clarifying that I didn’t mean the entire Muslim community, which is how it is being interpreted by interested parties,” the actor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Won't let India become Pakistan or Taliban, says Bengal CM Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asserted that she will not allow the country to turn into Pakistan or the Taliban.  Alleging that the saffron party has claimed the Bhabanipur constituency in south Kolkata will become Pakistan if the TMC wins the by-poll from there, Banerjee accused the BJP of practising divisive politics.  The Trinamool Congress supremo is contesting the by-election from Bhabanipur.  "I don't like the policies and politics of the BJP. They only follow the politics of dividing people on religious lines. In Nandigram, they had said it would become Pakistan (if the TMC wins). In Bhabanipur too, they are saying it will turn into Pakistan. This is shameful," Banerjee said while campaigning.  Banerjee lost to Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP from Nandigram during the assembly election held earlier this year. She has to win this by-poll to retain her chief minister's post.    "I want my country to be strong and will protect my motherland with all my might. We don't want India to become another Taliban (ruled state). I will never allow my country to turn into Pakistan," she said while talking to the voters in the area.  Criticising the state BJP leadership for taking exception to her recent visit to a mosque in the area, Banerjee said the saffron camp has a problem with her visiting a Gurudwara too.  "I have visited a mosque; I have visited a Gurudwara also; and the BJP has a problem with both. I don't bring religion into politics, unlike the BJP leaders who only understand the language of divisive politics," she said.  On the sizeable Hindi-speaking population of the Bhabanipur constituency, the TMC boss said she would stand by them through thick and thin.  "I never differentiate among communities. It is the BJP which destroys brotherhood and social fabric among communities," she said.  To woo the area's business community, Banerjee said she was the first politician in the country who had opposed demonetisation in 2016.  "I was the first to oppose demonetisation. I know the kind of harassment the business community has gone through during demonetisation. I used to regularly visit Burrabazar (the business hub of Kolkata) and talk to the business community members," she said.  Hitting out at the saffron camp over its "ploy" to sell off the country's assets, she said those were not personal property of the BJP.  "The government is trying to sell off the entire country. Railways, airports and ports.... They want to sell everything off. Can you sell the soil of the country?" Banerjee said.  Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in August announced a Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways.  Banerjee said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should speak to the World Health Organisation (WHO) to ensure that Covaxin is recognised so that those who availed that vaccine against Covid-19 can travel abroad.  Later, Banerjee visited the Laxmi Narayan Temple in the area and offered puja. She was also seen offering 'Arati'.  A metropolitan constituency, Bhabanipur is home to a large number of Gujaratis and Sikhs, mostly into business, living alongside Bengalis.  Banerjee, who is herself a resident of Bhabanipur constituency, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, to dare her former protege and now a BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in his home turf. Though Banerjee powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, she lost in Nandigram.  Banerjee is required to win a seat in the state assembly by November 5 in conformity with the constitutional provisions to continue as chief minister.  After her defeat in Nandigram, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to allow Banerjee to contest from there.  Banerjee is pitted against the BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas for the September 30 by-poll. Congress has decided not to field a candidate against her.  The votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Didi's way of saying thank you: a Rajya Sabha seat||For the Trinamul Congress, a Rajya Sabha seat has largely been used as a gesture of thanks or compensation as and when it suited party chief Mamata Banerjee. This has often led to beneficiaries having to serve truncated terms. Late on Wednesday, Arpita Ghosh, who had become close to Mamata during the Singur-Nandigram movement, submitted her resignation to the Rajya Sabha chairman. In a separate letter  to  Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Ghosh has expressed her desire to work for the “party and the people of Bengal without being an MP.” The immediate reason behind her decision to quit midway is not clear. Trinamul sources said she was probably instructed by the party’s top leadership to make room in the Rajya Sabha. Even Trinamul leaders close to Mamata are unsure who would replace Ghosh. Consider the case of former Bengal chief secretary  Manish Gupta, who defeated Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in Jadavpore in the momentous 2011 Assembly polls, when the Left Front was defeated after 34 years. After Gupta lost to the CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty in 2016, the following year Mamata had him sent to the upper House to replace actor Mithun Chakraborty. After Gupta’s term ended last year, he was replaced by Mamata loyalist Subrata Bakshi. That same year, Mamata had nominated former railway minister Dinesh Trivedi, theatre personality Arpita Ghosh and Congress renegade Mausam Noor. All three had tasted defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Ghosh was also made president of  Trinamul’s South Dinajpur unit in 2019. “Didi’s preference for Rajya Sabha seats depends mostly on who is in her good books  at that moment and also if she feels someone from the party was not being properly compensated,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “One cannot be certain of completing the term though," he added. Like Ghosh, Trivedi and Noor, Dr Shantanu Sen was also made a Rajya Sabha MP two years after he lost from the Kandi Assembly seat in 2016. After Mukul Roy left the party to join BJP and resigned from Rajya Sabha, Mamata sent one of her favourites in the party Dola Sen. Sen, a former Naxal leader, who has been with Trinamul since the Singur-Nandigram days, had lost to former junior Union minister Babul Supriyo in 2014. When veteran Congressman Manas Bhuniya defected to the Trinamul, he was sent to the Rajya Sabha. This time in the Assembly election, Bhuniya contested and won from his ancestral seat of Sabang and became a cabinet minister in the Mamata government. Last month, the Bengal chief minister got another retired IAS officer, Jawhar Sircar, to replace him. Another new entrant to the Trinamul, Sushmita Dev, former chief of the Congress’ women’s wing, is next in line to move to the Rajya Sabha replacing Bhuniya. Trinamul has already announced her name. “As long as the policy of alluring with leaders with key posts remains in the party such things will keep happening,” said a heavyweight Trinamul leader. Among the names doing the rounds to replace Ghosh are former Union finance minister and BJP turncoat Yashwant Sinha, former Congress MP and late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijeet and Kunal Ghosh, once arrested for his alleged involvement in the Saradha scam, who has clawed back in favour. “Didi could well spring another surprise by bringing someone unknown,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government decides to take over sand sale||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to take over the Rs 3,500 crore sand trade in Bengal in a bid to generate more revenue at a time the state administration is facing troubles in arranging funds for its welfare projects. “We will engage agencies to extract sand from sand mines and stack it at the stackyards. The state mineral development and trading corporation would auction off the sand to the interested buyers,” said H. K. Dwivedi, chief secretary, after the first meeting of the newly constructed state industrial promotion board at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources in the government said the policy adopted by the government would be a departure from the ageold practice of auctioning off the sand mines to private investors. “This will help the state generate an additional revenue of about Rs 2,500 crore annually. As of now, the state government gets about Rs 800 to |Rs 1,000 crore a year by auctioning off 700odd sand mines and through royalty on the sand extracted from the |mines. Now, the state government would entirely control the Rs 3,500 crore trade,” said an official. The new policy, sources said, would also help the ruling party get rid of infighting over spoils of the sand mines, which are controlled by local Trinamul Congress leaders. As of now, the state government auction off the sand mines for a period of five years to private investors. The successful bidders got the right to mine sand and sell it on their own by paying a royalty to the government. But in the new system, the state would not auction off sand mines and it would mine sand by engaging private agencies. The government would sell off the sand through an online auction. “This means, the government would control the entire trade of sand like it does in case of liquors in the state. Earning additional revenues would help the state run the welfare schemes like Lakshmir Bhandar which were launched recently,” said a senior government official. A section of the officials said that the new system would not come into effect immediately as private investors would continue to operate many of the sand mines till the end of 2022. “The sand mines were auctioned off for five years and the auction took place 2016 onwards. So, the government would take control of some of the mines this year, but the majority of the mines would come under government control next year,” said a source. A section of the officials said implementing the new system would not be easy for the government as many of the sand mines are operated by local Trinamul leaders. “Now, it remains to be seen how the local ruling party leaders will react when the state government would recruit agencies to extract sand on its behalf. If the leaders demand money from the agencies, the state government has to deal with the situation strictly,” said another source. The chief secretary also said the state had received a good response after it had announced that an ethanol policy would be framed for interested investors. “We have received 15 proposals worth Rs 2,666 crore investment which could generate 4,000 jobs. We are trying to set up an industrial park exclusively for ethanol,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Leaders raise pitch for panchayat polls in hills||Hill leaders are raising the pitch for panchayat elections in the region, a demand which could smoothen the path for the state government to hold the rural polls for the first time in two decades. Anit Thapa, the president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, on Wednesday said hill leaders and not the Centre or the state government, should be blamed for the impasse. “Panchayat elections, whether to onetier, two or three, should be held immediately in the hills. These elections could not be held in the past because our leaders wanted to control everything. We should not blame the state or the Centre for this impasse,” he said at Rimbick while addressing the first of the 45planned public meetings of the new party. In 1993, the Constitution was amended to put in place a twotier panchayat system in the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) areas, unlike the threetier system in the rest of Bengal. The three tiers are gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad. However, in 2000, elections were held only to gram panchayats and many believe the then GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh did not want elections to panchayat samitis as he believed that its powers would overlap with the then existing DGHC. After 2000, elections to even the 112 gram panchayats have not been held even though Bimal Gurungled Gorkha Janmukti Morcha had agreed on a three tier panchayat system when the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration memorandum of agreement was signed in 2011. For the threetier panchayat polls to be held in the hills, the Constitution has to be amended, an issue the BJP led government at the Centre has not addressed. To complicate matters, the Siliguri Mahukama Parishad was formed in 1993 for the rural areas of the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. The SMP functions like the zilla parishad, the highest tier of the rural administrative system. The Constitution has provisions for one zilla parishad in one district. However, many hill leaders, for the moment, do not want to get into any further complications. Along with Thapa, who batted for elections to any tier, gram panchayat, panchayat samiti or zilla parishad, other leaders like Ajoy Edwards and Binay Tamang have also taken a similar stand. Edwards on Tuesday said in his Facebook post: “Unless the weaker people of our society are empowered, our society will remain weak. Panchayat system must be revived.” Of late, hundreds of supporters of not only the GNLF but also the Morcha and the Jan Andolan Party (JAP) |are extending support to Edwards who is preparing groundwork to float a new political party. Binay Tamang, who has also dropped broad hints of floating a new party, has also demanded elections to two tiers of panchayat, circumventing the three tier issue. In 2016, the Darjeeling district magistrate had held an all party meeting to apprise the parties of the state election commissioner’s directive to delimit gram panchayats and panchayat samity seats in the hills. However, with hill parties divided in their opinion, the process could not be initiated. “This time, some consensus on the need to hold rural elections irrespective of the tier is evolving in the hills and this could help the state government make up its mind,” said a hill observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Speaker Biman Banerjee hits out at central investigating agencies||Bengal Speaker Biman Banerjee on Wednesday hit out at central investigating agencies for allegedly bypassing the Assembly to take steps against its members and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for his “interference”. “It is mandatory to seek permission from the Lok Sabha Speaker if one has to take action against the members of the Lower House. The same is true for the Assembly. But in the latter’s case permission is being sought from somewhere else. This is against the dignity of the Assembly,” he said at the national meet of Speakers held virtually, his statement coming at a time the ED and the CBI have been targeting various elected Trinamul lawmakers. On governor Dhankhar, the Speaker said: “Many members of the House are meeting the governor... The governor is listening to their complaints and interfering in the nitty-gritty of the House.” Dhankhar later wrote a three-page letter to Banerjee expressing his discontent. The ED filed a chargesheet in the Narada sting operation case against two state ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. Other Trinamul leaders, including MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and state ministers Partha Chatterjee and Moloy Ghatak, have also been summoned by the two agencies. While Abhishek has met the ED officials in Delhi once and has been called again, Ghatak has asked the agency for another date. The two had been summoned in connection with the coal theft case. Chatterjee has been interrogated in his Calcutta office by the CBI in connection with the ICore deposit collection case. Speaker Banerjee on Wednesday also said that matters of the Assembly are being dragged to the court, which in turn is accepting the cases. “This isn’t right for democracy, the parliamentary system is in danger…” Though he didn’t name anyone, it was clear that he hinted at the BJP moving court over the cancellation of Mukul Roy’s Assembly membership. The saffron camp wants the Speaker to implement the anti-defection law against Roy. But while the Speaker was still hearing the petition filed by Adhikari, the BJP moved court. Dhankhar accused the Speaker of a “factually and constitutionally untenable premise”. Banerjee on Monday had summoned two high-level officers, Rathin Biswas of the ED and Satyendra Singh of the CBI, to his office on September 22 for allegedly violating the Assembly's norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government decides to keep Dooars parks open, not forests||The state government’s decision to keep tourists away from reserve forests have put tourism stakeholders of the Dooars in a fix at a time booking enquiries for the Puja holidays have flooded hotels and homestays of the region. From Wednesday, Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri, Padma Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and South Khayerbari Nature Park, which is a rescue and rehabilitation centre for felines in Alipurduar district, opened their gates for tourists. However, the Dooars, which comprises part of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts, is famed for sanctuaries and national parks that are out of bounds for tourists. The Dooars boasts of Jaldapara National Park, Gorumara National Park, Chapramari wildlife sanctuary, Buxa Tiger Reserve and Chilapata forest. The Chilapata forest has an elephant corridor between Jaldapara National Park and Buxa Tiger Reserve. Jungle safari on elephants is popular in Jaldapara. These are the real attractions for tourists. Tourism stakeholders are in a dilemma on whether to accept bookings from tourists as the major attraction of the region is still out of bounds for travellers. Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forest wildlife (north), said: “No order has been communicated till afternoon regarding entry inside reserve forests.” Biswajit Saha, secretary of the Madarihat Lodge Owners’ Association, said: “Unless forests are opened, we will have very few visitors in the region as people would not want to visit the Dooars just to visit the rescue centre.” “The present (Covid-19-induced) restrictions have been extended till September 30 and but with the Pujas round the corner, most of the tourists have started making their travel plans. However, with uncertainty prevailing over forest visits, we are in a dilemma as we can’t give tourists confirmation about anything,” said Saha, adding they were flooded with enquiries from tourists. Apart from the tea industry, tourism is a mainstay of the economy in the Dooars. “Most youths are dependent on tourism. They run lodges and homestays, work as tour operators and guides. Many are involved in the transport sector,” said Saha. Many tour operators hoped that restriction on forests would be lifted. “The (state government’s) Duare Sarkar camps are attracting thousands, many without masks, people are travelling without social distancing, markets are crowded, vistadome coaches have been introduced for tourists, but surprisingly there is a problem when tourists want to enter the forests,” said another tour operator. “We are confident that the state government will look into our concerns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Jeweller held for gold and cash haul in Ranaghat||A jewellery shop owner was arrested after smuggled gold bars worth Rs 48 lakh and Rs 87.77 lakh of unaccounted cash was recovered from his shop in Ranaghat on Tuesday night. A customs team raided GK Jewellers, situated on Subhash Avenue in Ranaghat, and seized gold bars weighing over a kilo with foreign inscriptions on them. “Chanchal Karmakar was taken to Ranaghat’s commissionerate of customs (preventive) for interrogation after he failed to furnish document against procurement of the gold as well as sources of the cash. Later, we handed him to police,” a senior official of the customs investigating team said. A customs official said the smuggled gold bars had been brought to the shop for melting to make jewellery. “We are trying to bust the entire racket involved in gold smuggling and active across the state. Involvement of other persons in selling and purchasing smuggled gold is being investigated and appropriate actions will be taken in due course.” The customs department has alerted the BSF authorities about increased incidents of gold smuggling from areas close to the Bangladesh border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea bonus talks in hills fail over pay in parts||Bonus talks between hill tea garden unions and officials of the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) failed on Wednesday, with industry principals insisting on payment in instalments, a proposition tea union leaders said was unacceptable. Most gardens in the Dooars and Terai on Tuesday had agreed to pay a bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of workers' annual earnings at one go during their first sitting. However, Darjeeling Tea industry officials insisted that the scenario was different in in the hills and the plains. “Darjeeling tea is an orthodox tea and largely rides on exports, and there was total shutdown owing to the pandemic. There is also a crisis of containers because of which tea should not be shipped,” said a DTA source. The official added last year there was a drop in crop produce by 40 per cent and a general contraction in European markets. “The plains garden produces CTC tea which has a domestic market,” the source said. Sources said talks stopped at the very first hurdle.“The planters started negotiations stating they were facing a cash crunch and hence could pay bonus only in instalments. Unions disagreed and negotiations failed,” said a source. There was no talk on the percentage of bonus. Anit Thapa, president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, at public meeting in Rimbick, some 60km from Darjeeling, said they would not accept bonuses below 20 per cent and the same had to be paid in one go. Suraj Subba, the president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union, affiliated to the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, also spoke on similar lines. “The management suggested payment of bonus in instalments, an offer unacceptable to us this time.” Last year, hill gardens had paid a bonus in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent. The previous year bonus was paid in instalments of 12 and 8 per cent. There were allegations that some gardens did not clear installments on agreed dates. Sixty-six gardens from the hills are with the DTA and 12 gardens with the Indian Tea Association. Though there are technically 87 tea gardens under Darjeeling Tea Industry according to lease papers, many are merged for management reasons into 78 gardens. In the hills, the ITA usually sides with the agreement reached by the unions with the DTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP and CPM protest TMC ‘bias at jab centres’ in Siliguri||The CPM and BJP on Wednesday organised protests alleging that Trinamul was controlling some Covid-19 vaccination centres in Siliguri and giving priority to their supporters for the jab. Shankar Ghosh, Siliguri MLA from the BJP, alleged irregularities at the vaccination centre in Bharatnager area under ward 24. “I returned from Calcutta this morning (Wednesday) and local residents told me Trinamul supporters were at the vaccination centre and were getting jab priority,” alleged Ghosh. The MLA said Trinamul cadres confined and heckled him and kicked on his scooter when he protested. Ghosh went to Kachari Road in Siliguri for a sit-in dharna for half-an-hour. The CPM also held demonstrations in Siliguri. “We have been noticing that some Trinamul cadres are influencing the vaccination process... They only allow their party supporters to get vaccinated,” said Sharadindu Chakraborty, district secretariat member. The CPM gave a memo to the commissioner of SMC and threatened an agitation against the board of administrators of the SMC if the alleged practice did not stop. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the BoA of the SMC, visited the vaccination centre at ward 24 and said only those in queue for the jab would be let in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Envoy plans to make Finland ‘visible’ in Bengal||Finland, known as “the happiest country in the world”, is keen to make itself more visible in Bengal as part of the country’s strategy to further Indo-Finnish relations, which date back to 1947 when the Scandinavian country set up its first resident embassy in Asia in Delhi. “Calcutta and Bengal have always been very important for us…. But we think we are not enough visible here and that’s something we want to change,” Ritva Koukku-Ronde, the Finnish ambassador in India, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “I think Bengal is in the same league with Karnataka or Maharashtra and we are very much aware of the potential of the region,” she added. As part of her attempt to expand commercial and cultural ties between Bengal and Finland, the career diplomat from the Nordic country is on a four-day visit to the city, along with Jukka Holappa, commercial counsellor and country director of Business Finland, during which she has been meeting chambers of commerce representatives, prominent business houses and people from the world of art and culture. “We are looking at sending a ministerial delegation for the industry summit,” said Ritva referring to the Global Bengal Business Summit that the state government plans to hold next year. She added that the country was keen on sending Finnish films to the Kolkata International Film Festival and also take part in the Book Fair here to augment cultural ties with the region. Earlier this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Finnish counterpart Sanna Marin agreed on a digital partnership — during a virtual summit held in March — between the two countries to facilitate research and development of 6G mobile technologies, quantum computing and digital transformation of teaching. Modi and Marin also announced a sustainability partnership involving renewable and clean energy, circular economy, and sustainable mobility with the underlying theme of making “green growth” the cornerstone of bilateral cooperation. The Finland government is also trying to woo Indian students to Finnish universities with the tagline, “Future is Made in Finland”, besides promoting its tourism potential, called the country of a thousand lakes and Santa Claus. Finland, however, is known for its research and development focus in a variety of fields, from next generation telephony to recycling technologies capable of producing biodegradable packaging materials and fibre that is used by textile majors across the globe. “In Finland, we know how to come up with new technology in different sectors while Indian companies are known for their abilities to scale up and market the technology,” said Jukka, adding that the two countries can have significant gains with higher degrees of cooperation. Already, some top Indian companies — like Wipro and Mahindra & Mahindra — are in Finland and leveraging the technical prowess of Finnish academic institutes in the field of 6G telephony. Similarly, Nokia, a Finnish company, has tie-ups with the Karnataka government. “The two-way trade in goods and services is little over 2 billion euros, but that doesn’t capture the scale of bilateral relations, which is much broader and bigger,” said Jukka, optimistic about a higher trajectory in the Finland-India partnership in the coming days. The honorary consul of Finland, Shashwat Goenka, said a strong partnership between Finland and the region will be a win-win, and hence will help in expanding the footprint of Finland in the eastern region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Two more children die of fever in Jalpaiguri||Another child and an infant died at Jalpaiguri district hospital on Wednesday with the suspected viral fever sweeping north Bengal districts. The exact illness has not been detected. The deceased were Mrittika Roy, 3, and Papian Roy, aged three-and-a-half-months, both from Amguri in Jalpaiguri district. On Tuesday, Kaveri Roy, 6, of Kuchilbari in Cooch Behar had succumbed at the Jalpaiguri hospital. District health officials said Papian was declared brought dead while Mrittika died while undergoing a Covid-19 test at the hospital. More than 750 children have been admitted to districts hospitals across north Bengal with fever. Sources in the health department said 195 children with fever were under treatment in Malda, 113 in Cooch Behar, 112 in Alipurduar, 92 in Jalpaiguri, 64 in North Dinajpur, 92 in South Dinajpur, 86 in Darjeeling and five in Kalimpong. Sushanta Roy, officer-on-special duty, north Bengal, said over 300 children were admitted to Jalpaiguri district hospital alone in the past week. “The children had fever, cough and minor respiratory problems,” said Roy. Ten samples have been sent to the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine for further investigation. Swabs were also tested for diseases like Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya, dengue, scrub typhoid and Covid-19. However, health officials are advising parents not to delay a visit to the nearest health centre once symptoms appear in children. “In most cases we noticed that parents delayed visiting the nearest health centre. This has been a major reason for the severity,” said Roy. A five-member team of child specialists from North Bengal Medical College and Hospital reached Jalpaiguri district hospital on Wednesday to check on the admitted children, mostly below seven years of age. The team is being led by Gautam Das and Shantanu Hazra. “A viral fever is being suspected because of the change in weather. The parents should immediately rush to the hospital for appropriate treatment,” said Hazra. Helena Roy, a resident of Sukantapally in Jalpaiguri, whose children is admitted at the hospital said she initially was relying on over-the-counter medicines to treat her children. “I rushed my children to the hospital after her condition deteriorated,” said Helena.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Learning abilities survey bares twin blows in Bengal||Around 28 per cent of pupils in government-run primary schools in Bengal have got almost disconnected from academic activities, and a balanced diet has become a distant dream for a significant proportion of the students because of the loss in family income, a first survey of its kind in the state has found. The statewide survey of learning abilities was conducted among 7,204 students from Class I to V by a panel of distinguished social researchers and teachers, including Sukanta Chaudhuri, professor emeritus of Jadavpur University. Besides enumerating the percentage of students connected with academic activities, the survey assessed — through questions on mathematics, Bengali, English and environmental studies — the learning abilities of the pupils who said they were connected with education in some form. “We have learnt from the assessment that more than a quarter of the students we could contact did not receive any help from teachers or others and were almost disconnected from academic activities,” said the report, titled “Learning Together” and prepared by Shiksha Alochana, a collective of primary teachers and educationists set up in 2016 with the aim of improving the quality of schooling at the primary level. The corresponding figures for students’ assessment — through questions on the four subjects at their level and from lower classes — was satisfactory for 44 per cent, average for 32 per cent and very poor for 24 per cent, the report said. The findings, a researcher associated with the initiative said, have proven beyond doubt that the learning ability of students, especially in government primary schools, has been a casualty as pedagogy shifted online during the pandemic. “The students in the government-run primary schools are mainly from working class backgrounds like daily labourers, cultivators and small traders. A significant proportion of them could not afford to switch to the online mode,” said a researcher. If the exposure to academic activities is a concern, the bigger worry, the report has added, is the composition of the food basket for a majority of the students. A simultaneous survey on the economic conditions of parents, by assessing 369 households, showed a huge loss in family income during the pandemic, which resulted in a decline in the consumption of cereals, pulses, fish, meat and vegetables by 14 per cent, 22 per cent, 33 per cent, 44 per cent and 24 per cent, respectively. Besides Chaudhuri, the panel of academics and researchers associated with the survey included Achin Chakraborty, professor of economics and director of the Institute of Development Studies Kolkata (IDSK); Abhijit Chowdhury, eminent doctor and secretary of the Liver Foundation; Dilip Ghosh, former bureaucrat; and Anirban Chattopadhyay, journalist. An almost similar survey in 15 states covering the learning achievements of students from Classes I to VIII — conducted under the guidance of economist Jean Dreze and others — had revealed that the nationwide situation is far dismal as only 28 per cent of rural and 37 per cent of urban students were found “studying at all”. “The situation in Bengal, if compared with the one involving 15 states, is undoubtedly better, but there is little doubt that the situation is grave both at the state and the national levels,” said a researcher associated with the exercise in Bengal. The Bengal report — to be published online on Thursday — has made some suggestions on how to ensure a better life for the students and their families. As the fall in family income and the resulting low consumption of food have made it difficult for students to continue with their studies, there is an urgent need to start mid-day meals. Besides, the report has advocated special measures to fill the learning gap. In the foreword to the report, Chaudhuri has written: “The problem will not go away once schools reopen; rather, that is when it will reveal its full extent. It cannot be solved within the normal curricular framework, or by the inadequate cadres of teachers in often ill-equipped schools. “A special programme has to be created, and dynamically adjusted to the vagaries of the pandemic. It has to be implemented in mission mode, with community participation alongside formal schooling, which might continue to be impaired in the foreseeable future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Arpita Ghosh quits Rajya Sabha, set for Trinamul Congress activities||Arpita Ghosh of the Trinamul Congress has resigned from the Rajya Sabha, just a little over a year into her six-year term. She was elected to the Upper House in April 2020. Trinamul sources in Calcutta said Ghosh had tendered her resignation at the directive of the leadership. “She will be used more in the party’s organisational affairs in Bengal. She had also expressed her willingness to work more in the state and for the organisation,” said a source. Her resignation became public only when it was published in the Rajya Sabha bulletin on Wednesday. Ghosh had won in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Balurghat. But she lost the 2019 polls from the same seat. Within a month of her defeat, she was made the president of Trinamul’s faction-ridden South Dinajpur district, but was removed within a year. She was among the six Trinamul members ordered by the Chair to withdraw from the House for a day during the monsoon session for carrying placards and “disorderly behaviour”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 743 fresh Covid-19 cases, 14 more fatalities||Bengal on Wednesday recorded 741 new Covid-19 cases, 753 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases fell by 24 to reach 8,050. The state government also extended curbs without further relaxation till September 30. Night restrictions from 11pm to 5am stay unchanged. Suburban local trains stay suspended. Bengal has 2.39 per cent of India's active cases, and is seventh among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 130 new infections and North 24-Parganas 142, becoming the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and ahead of the national rate of 97.62. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate for Covid-19, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.86 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.59 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.32 lakh recoveries and 18,613 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
16-09-2021||West Bengal||NGO helps kids relearn letters, maths in remote areas||An NGO has opened at least 50 centres in remote areas of Birbhum, Bankura and Howrah districts involving hundreds of women to teach primary students, many of whom lost their basic knowledge in literacy and numeracy during the Covid-19 pandemic because of long absence from schools. The drive by Liver Foundation, West Bengal, is named as Paralekha and aims to bridge the gap in education — identified by multiple studies on impact of school closure on students since March 2020. The NGO has engaged women belonging to self-help groups for the task. “We have involved the women members of SHGs to teach the basics to those students, who have been detached from all forms of academic activities since the lockdown kicked in.… These women groups are in the field and we are getting good response from the parents of the students,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a renowned gastroenterologist and secretary of Liver Foundation. There are around 21 lakh SHGs in Bengal and the organisers think that if the women members are included in providing basic literacy and numeracy training in remote areas, the students — belonging to marginalised families — can be taught. Over two dozen centres have been opened at two remote villages in Birbhum under Nagori and Pathar Chapri gram panchayat areas. Similar centres are also functioning in Bankura and Howrah’s Bagnan. Three NGOs — like Pratham, Vikramshila and Bagnan 1 Mahila Bikash Cooperative Credit Society — are helping out the women conduct their classes in the districts. Chowdhury said as the initiative — covering over 1,000 students in three districts — seemed to be yielding the desired impact, Paralekha would be rolled out in other parts of the state. “Apart from the SHG women, we are also encouraging the mothers of the children to come to the centres and pick up basic teaching abilities so that they can teach the kids at home,” said an organiser of Paralekha, which is targeting students in the age group of three to eight. According to the plan, the women members of the SHGs are conducting 90-minute classes, including 40 minutes on literacy, 40 minutes on numeracy and 10 minutes on general awareness, cleanliness, good habits, social and emotional learning. The centres have been set up at local clubs or public spaces in neighbourhoods. Jolly Roy, a member of an SHG at the Nagori village of Birbhum, said she was happy with the new assignment. “I have been taking classes of around 14 children in a tribal hamlet for the past three weeks. I was shocked when I found that even students of Classes II or III had forgotten basic numeracy or literacy skills. Many of them even forgot how to write. We are starting from the very beginning now,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Five die as rain flattens homes in West Midnapore||Five persons were killed in West Midnapore on Tuesday night amid heavy showers triggered by a low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal. While many parts of Bengal were lashed by rain, coastal areas of twin Midnapore districts bore the brunt, with over 20,000 homes destroyed. In West Midnapore’s Keshiari and Kharagpur, five people died as their homes collapsed on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified on Wednesday as Arun Shant, Bijli Patar, Kohinoor Bibi, Rakhal Hembram and Ahallya Sai. In East Midnapore's Ramnagar, Class VI student Madhumita Sahoo was purportedly bitten by a snake in her flooded home on Tuesday night. She died on Wednesday morning at a Contai hospital. “Some 20,000 homes in West Midnapore and 700 homes in East Midnapore have been irreparably damaged in the downpour,” said an official. “Five persons were killed by rainfall-related (home) collapses in this district. We are assessing damages,” said West Midnapore disaster management official Sandip Biswas. In East Midnapore, district magistrate Purnendu Majhi said the rain had exacerbated lingering damage from Cyclone Yaas in certain areas. Heavy rains also inundated several parts of Midnapore town, in addition to fields and settlements in and around Chandrakona, Daspur and Ghatal. The railway line near Godapiyashal village in West Midnapore’s Salboni submerged and partially disintegrated. The Salboni-Adra line was closed as a result. A car near the area was submerged in an overflowing pond. Bystanders rescued the driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee visits gurdwara, backs farmers’ agitation||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday went to a gurdwara under the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, where she is a candidate for the September 30 bypoll, and pledged her support to farmers’ movement against three agriculture laws of the Centre. “I completely support the farmers’ movement.… The three bills must be repealed. They had come and met me as well. I had spoken to them over the mobile phone a few times as well. I had also sent my team there.… I totally support this movement,” the chief minister said during her visit to the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road. She went on to add: “Whatever cooperation you need from me, just let me know and I shall execute it. I support Punjab’s movement.” Sikhs and Punjabis make up a sizeable portion of the 2,06,272 voters of the Bhowanipore constituency. Hence, Mamata’s statement was meant to woo this group. Bhowanipore is a cosmopolitan constituency and apart from the Sikh population, more than 35 per cent of the electorate is constituted by the members of Marwari and Gujarati communities. Hence, the Trinamul leadership has planned to reach out to these communities as well. Muslims comprise around 22 per cent of the electorate in Bhowanipore. On Monday, Mamata visited the Sola Ana Masjid. She also went to meet the organisers of a local Durga Puja on the same day. On the other hand, Trinamul Congress leaders are cautious of the Election Commission of India’s instruction to avoid large gatherings and meetings in poll campaigns in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, Mamata will not participate in any major rally. Instead, she has decided to carry out smaller visits and meetings such as the one on Wednesday. According to Trinamul sources, Mamata will meet selected voters from each of the eight wards that come under her constituency over the next few days. To begin with, she will meet selected voters from ward 72 on Thursday. The party will decide on the later dates. Senior party leaders, including cabinet ministers, have been handpicked by Mamata to conduct door-to-door meetings in the Bhowanipore constituency on behalf of her. Firhad Hakim, Mamata’s trusted ally and state’s minister of transport, have hit the streets since the polls were announced. Other senior leaders and cabinet ministers like Partha Chatterjee and Subrata Mukherjee have also been tasked to campaign by the chief minister. Others assigned a similar task include MLAs Madan Mitra and Debasish Kumar and MP Kalyan Banerjee. Mamata’s brother Kartik Banerjee is also a key player of the campaign team. “Since we cannot bring a large crowd to one place because of the Covid-19 protocols, we have decided to reach out to the individual families.… We will leave no stone unturned,” a member of the campaign team said. At the workers’ meeting on September 8, Mamata had them not to suffer from complacency. “Don't think that Didi will win anyway and sit back at your homes,” Mamata had said. Senior party leaders have said t her concern stems from the results of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, where the BJP had managed to secure a lead of 476 votes in her own ward. Although the saffron camp’s candidate, a Trinamul turncoat, actor Rudranil Ghosh suffered a defeat at the hand of Trinamul’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay in the 2021 Assembly polls, Mamata and her party are unwilling to take any risk now. ECI notice The Election Commission of India on Wednesday issued a showcause notice to the BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate Priyanka Tibrewal for violating Covid-19 protocols specified by the poll panel. The showcause was issued on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Trinamul Congress on Monday, where it alleged that Tibrewal had “not only formed a large unlawful gathering in front of Gol Mandir...as well as near Survey Building in Gopalnagar”. The poll panel had asked Tibrewal to reply to the notice by 5pm on Wednesday, explaining “why permissions to hold further political campaigns or meetings must not be stopped with immediate effect...” Tibrewal, in a voice message shared by the BJP’s media cell, said she would reply to the showcause. However, she denied the allegation that there was a large crowd with her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC sets aside rustication of Visva-Bharati students||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday set aside a Visva-Bharati notification that rusticated three students on charges of alleged impropriety. In his order issued on Wednesday, Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also asked the varsity to complete the pending administrative process that was required for the students to resume their academic activities. The court’s Wednesday order comes after it had on September 8 kept in abeyance the varsity’s decision to rusticate the three while holding the move as “excessive and disproportionate”. The court on Wednesday also came down heavily on vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and varsity authorities on issues dealing with Visva-Bharati stakeholders. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to a text message seeking his response to the court order. However, a senior varsity official said the court’s order would be obeyed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
16-09-2021||North East||Congress MLAs in Meghalaya walk out over ‘encounter’ death ||Opposition Congress MLAs in Meghalaya staged a walk-out from the Assembly on Wednesday after the Speaker disallowed discussion on the demand for suspension of the police officials allegedly involved in the killing of a former militant leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in the wee hours of August 13 at his residence in Mawlai in Shillong. Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh disallowed the shot duration discussion sought by Congress’ Mawlai MLA P.T. Sawkmie on the ground that the matter was sub judice, triggering noisy scenes and sloganeering against the government. In support of his demand, Sawkmie had pointed to home minister Lahkmen Rymbui’s reply in the House on Tuesday on the encounter death of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary if the matter was sub-judice. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Dr Mukul Sangma accused the government of trying to protect senior police officials blamed for what the family of the deceased rebel leader had claimed was a “fake” encounter. He said removal of the police officials was required for a free and impartial investigation. The Congress taking a stand on the issue inside the 60-member House, sources said, would further bolster the campaign being led by the eleven pressure groups from Mawlai seeking “justice” for a former HNLC leader killed in a “fake encounter”. The groups, under the banner of Ka Sur Ki Nong Mawlai (The Voice of Mawlai People) have been steadfast in their demand for the suspension of three senior police officials allegedly responsible for the encounter death. The groups had even sought the help of 35 MLAs seeking their support to get the cops suspended. Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui had in response to a queries on the encounter death, including Sawkmie, on Tuesday had said that police’s mandate was to prevent a crime and arrest the accused, not to kill the accused. Sawkmie had asked whether any instruction was passed to the police to arrest or kill the former rebel and how many cops were involved in the operation. The Meghalaya government has ruled out any action against anyone till the report of the judicial commission probing the encounter submits its report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
16-09-2021||North East||Assam ferry passengers can book tickets through a mobile app||Ferry passengers in Assam will soon be able to book their tickets through a mobile app to be launched by September-end. The launch of the first-of-its-kind app was announced by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma after reviewing the safety measures put in place for the smooth movement of ferries and safety of passengers in wake of the September 8 ferry mishap at Neematighat in Jorhat district, which left three dead. A Majuli-bound ferry sank after being hit by another ferry arriving at Neematighat, triggering widespread protests against the government for not streamlining the ferry services for the safety of commuters and delay in constructing the bridge connecting Jorhat with the river island. Immediately after the mishap, the state government had announced a set of safety measures for passengers using water vessels plying between Jorhat and Majuli and elsewhere in the state, including banning the plying of single-engine boats, which started causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. The demand for compulsory tickets for passengers with their names, address and contact numbers was a key demand of the local populace so that everyone could be accounted for in case of a mishap. An estimated 6,000 people used to commute between Neematighat and four other ghats in Majuli before the mishap, compelling commuters to be in long queues for tickets for the couple of available ferries from around 3am. These questions were raised by locals during the inspection by Sarma who responded by saying that passengers can now book tickets from their home once the app is launched by September 21-22. “Once the mobile app is launched, one can book tickets online from their homes. Every passenger will be accounted for,” he said. Majuli, Jorhat and Dhubri are among the districts where inland water transport is used by a significant population. Transport minister Chandramohan Patowary, who has been camping in Jorhat-Majuli since the day of mishap to plug loopholes plaguing the ferry service, told The Telegraph that the app is being developed by Amtron, a state government undertaking, and will be launched in a week. “We are aware of the inconvenience caused to passengers and are working out ways to end it. The app will be initially launched for Majuli and then extended to cover the entire state. Besides the app, we are also trying to make available at least eight boats/ferries for commuters in a week. Life jackets along with tickets to keep account of passengers have become mandatory now,” Patowary said. He also said that the state government will bear the cost of marine engines to be fitted in eight single-engine boats suspended after the mishap to make available more options for transport of goods and passengers. “We have also fixed timings of Ro-Pax vessels and boats with marine engines in operation. They will ply three times a day from both banks,” Patowary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
16-09-2021||Opinion||Editor: Fields on fire||Recently-released data from the National Sample Survey Office show that while farm income has increased a bit, 50.2 per cent of farm households are in debt. The average size of the household debt was Rs 74,121 at the end of the calendar year, 2019. The data have to be viewed in the larger context of the stress on the Indian rural sector in general and on agricultural households in particular. From January 2020 onwards, agricultural households have been under severe pressure given the reverse migration of temporary, informal, urban workers. Debt has naturally increased. Even if average farm income were to increase marginally, the per capita income would go down given that there are more mouths to feed. There has also been a great deal of anxiety among farmers regarding minimum support prices and disruptions in marketing chains and in price discovery methods with the advent of the new and controversial farm laws. The existing micro, small and medium enterprises in rural and semi-urban areas are in deep trouble, with some estimates showing anywhere between 60-67 per cent of these enterprises closing down. This has occurred despite the liberal and flexible credit that the Reserve Bank of India has made available through commercial banks. The prime minister has, on more than one occasion, claimed that the new farm laws would empower small farmers. This is simply not happening at the moment. It is not clear how laws aimed at giving quite a bit of leeway to corporate houses and big industry to enter agricultural production and trade would alter the situation. It is well-known that when large players enter any sector, small businesses are pushed hard into smaller corners. The retail industry is a case in point. Even if the average debt per household of Rs 74,121 were to be written off, it would serve no purpose. First, it would have a huge repercussion on the banking system. Secondly, with average household incomes of a little more than Rs 10,000 per month and with more mouths to feed, agricultural households would be forced into further debt. The only way small-farmer households could be empowered would be to have sizeable new opportunities in industry and services sectors. That growth is still not visible. And all this is happening at a time when an erratic climate has added further stress on agriculture. Is India a country for the kisan any longer?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Novak Djokovic out of US Open||Rising stars Sir — Novak Djokovic’s quest for a record 21st major title and a calendar-year Grand Slam collapsed at the US Open final with a 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 loss to the Russian player, Daniil Medvedev, at Flushing Meadows. Medvedev, playing in his third Grand Slam final, hoisted the trophy, avenging a straight sets defeat at the hands of Djokovic earlier this year in the Australian Open final. Djokovic is one of the greatest tennis players of all time and winning a Grand Slam final against an opponent of his calibre is a remarkable achievement. Medvedev’s serve was excellent for most of the game, but he seemed flustered towards the end, committing double faults at a crucial juncture. Nevertheless, his nerves did not get the better of him and he clinched the title on his third match point. This year’s US Open — in both men and women’s singles — has shown that a new era of tennis has begun. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — Had Novak Djokovic won the US Open final he would have not only secured a calendar-year Grand Slam, but would have also surpassed Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal in the total number of trophies won. But the Arthur Ashe stadium witnessed the rise of a new champion. Daniil Medvedev played remarkably, with Djokovic struggling to establish a rhythm throughout the match. A new crop of players led by Medvedev, Alexander Zverev and Stefanos Tsitsipas seems to be rising to the top of men’s tennis. Although Djokovic, Nadal and Federer have not hung up their rackets yet, their vice-like grip on the Grand Slams has started to loosen. Women’s tennis, too, saw the rise of two teenage sensations. Both Emma Raducanu and Leylah Fernandez were equally impressive. At long last, it seems that tennis is at a new and exciting juncture with fresh faces emerging. Haridasan Rajan,Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — Most of us had thought that Novak Djokovic would complete a career Grand Slam this year by winning the US Open. But all hopes were dashed when Daniil Medvedev defeated the Serbian to win the first Grand Slam trophy of his career. Medvedev’s perseverance and steely nerves — he was booed at match-point — ensured his win. The US Open final was delightful to watch. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — Daniil Medvedev and Emma Raducanu must be congratulated for winning the first Grand Slam titles of their careers. While the women’s singles final saw two newcomers vying for the top prize, few could have anticipated that Medvedev would beat the crowd-favourite, Novak Djokovic, to claim the title. Not only did the Russian player win the final, but also did so by beating the world’s top-seeded player in straight sets. Both Medvedev and Raducanu have bright futures ahead of them. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — For years, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal have dominated men’s tennis. Then, Novak Djokovic burst into the scene and it became a competition between the big three. It is thus a huge relief that men’s tennis has broken out of the clutches of a few star players. After a long time, it is exciting and unpredictable to watch the game. Women’s tennis has been far more dynamic. But what now stands out is the entry of racially diverse players into the top echelons of the game. The rise of mixed-race players such as Naomi Osaka, Emma Raducanu and Leylah Fernandez is sure to boost the confidence of other young players. Keya Sengupta,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Many parts of Delhi have been flooded owing to heavy rainfall over the last few days, bringing various neighbourhoods to a standstill. But rather than owning up to the failures of the Delhi government in improving the drainage system, the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, thought it would be prudent to blame the situation on the “idiosyncratic drainage system” which he says is a “gift” of previous dispensations. Is it not time for Kejriwal to stop blaming his predecessors for the failures of his government? Waterlogging in the capital city of any country is a matter of shame. It is high time that the Delhi government works on improving the situation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Crucial lesson Sir — Pope Francis has sent out an important message by denouncing the use of Christianity as a political tool. His remark came after he met the prime minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, who has repeatedly appealed to Christian sentiment in his anti-immigrant and nationalist rhetoric. At a time when religious extremism has gripped the world, the pontiff’s advice to refrain from using religious symbols for political gains must be heeded by all, irrespective of faith. It is only through a shared notion of brotherhood and respect that we can overcome the crises that assail the world at present. Amiya Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Late confession||The secretary of state of the United States of America, Antony Blinken, informed the US Congress that the Joe Biden administration is likely to review its ties with Pakistan. The reason for this reassessment, in Mr Blinken’s words, is Islamabad’s ‘duplicity’. Pakistan will not be able to brush off Mr Blinken’s charge. For years, the powers that be in Islamabad — or should that read Rawalpindi? — have been guilty of playing a dual, dangerous game: professing support for the US’s initiative against radicalized elements in the neighbourhood while serving as a covert patron of the very forces that the West sought to uproot. The evidence of Pakistan’s hypocrisy is substantial: it ranges from the ‘discovery’ of Osama bin Laden on its territory to tacit support to the Taliban that has resulted in Afghanistan falling to prey to them, once again. Yet, the question must be asked whether the invective, ‘duplicitous’, should be borne by Pakistan alone. This is because the US cannot deny that it was aware of Islamabad’s shadowy activities. Be it the blacklisting of Pakistan by the Financial Action Task Force for terror funding or New Delhi’s voluminous dossiers underlining the organic link between Islamabad and jihadi outfits — the evidence against Pakistan is damning. Yet, geostrategic imperatives forced the wise men in Washington to use Pakistan, a dubious ally at best, as an intermediary in its engagement in Afghanistan. It is possible that the changing global order has forced the rethink. China, Russia and Pakistan have emerged as a triumvirate to influence developments in Afghanistan, forcing the US to look for other shoulders to fire from. India, obviously, is on Washington’s radar. While the US’s newfound scepticism is likely to please India’s mandarins — the prime minister is expected to visit the US to attend the Quad summit — New Delhi should choose to negotiate with Mr Biden from a position of strength. There is already concern that the US is keen on using Indian territory for ‘Over the Horizon’ security operations — a concession, if it is offered, would have to be based on a quid pro quo arrangement. New Delhi has robust ties with some of the new ‘influencers’ in Afghanistan — Moscow being an obvious example — and it must be circumspect about Washington’s overtures. Of course, the fluidity in Asia — the new theatre of the Great Game — would make New Delhi’s choices delicate. But that is a test that Indian diplomacy has been trained to pass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||The case for free speech||The contest between freedom of speech and ‘reasonable restrictions’ on it is a mature one. The dilemma of liberal democratic societies lies in their ambition to strike a balance between freedom of speech and the risk of over-reach. The defence of free speech endorses an absolute liberty of expression that is necessary to take an argument to its logical limit. Yet, competing struggles open up between authority and liberty when it comes to defining the boundaries of free speech within constitutional, democratic traditions. The rise of the Hindu Right electorally has coincided with the employment of ‘hate speech’ to manufacture and propagate a sectarian, communal ideology. The silence of the political leadership on hate speeches by saffron outfits on several instances is an indication of the populism-driven, covert support for the phenomenon to reap electoral dividends. The founding fathers of the Constitution were discreet in their articulation of risk-creating speech that was capable of destroying the multicultural fabric of a post-Partition, infant democracy like India. The Constituent Assembly conscientiously linked the constraints on fundamental freedoms to ‘public order’ and ‘morality’, even though many members objected that any law that punished the publication or utterance of seditious, obscene, blasphemous or defamatory matter would be antithetical to the right to freedom of speech. The Constitution guaranteed the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19. However, it also delineated reasonable limitations on the provision. Responsible speech is essential for liberty under Article 21. In fact, there are elaborate provisions in the Indian Penal Code to deal with the offence related to incitement. Yet, an anti-hate-speech legislation is notoriously difficult to interpret. Mere injury to the feelings of citizens is a subjective proposition and may not be a valid ground for the suppression of free speech or its criminalization. The courts have been diffident when it comes to spelling out the exact elements of hate speech, conceding that the provisions of penal law are sufficient to bring the offenders to book. In Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan v. Union of India, the court, on the one hand, recognized the adverse concussions of hate speech on the affected communities and, on the other, problematized “confining the prohibition to a manageable standard”. The dilemma is classic — whether defining a manageable standard jeopardizes the freedom of speech. In Ramesh v. Union of India, the court harped on the proximity of imminent danger to a community as the punitive premise for defining hate speech. The true test is whether the speech is the real provocation to violence. This is similar to Justice O.W. Holmes’s test of ‘clear and present danger’.  The harm-offence equivalence has to be a ‘spark in a powder keg’ to impose limitations on the freedom of speech and expression. In the landmark Shreya Singhal v. Union of India case, the Supreme Court protected online free speech from arbitrary restrictions but, at the same time, distinguished the three forms of speech — namely, discussion, advocacy and incitement. The threshold of incitement was the key constitutional ground for restrictions on free speech. Any other form of unpopular or offensive speech falls under the exceptions in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The real deficiency lies in the State’s unwillingness to act against the transgression. The lack of political will and the abuse of law for political ends have undermined the enforcement of the law. Jurisprudence on hate speech reiterates the duty of the State to uphold the exercise of the right to free speech and to suppress violence intended to strangle it. An objective circumspection on ‘hate-effect’ and ‘hate-potential’ is the way forward. Freedom of speech and expression must be safeguarded not just as an individual right but as an essential attribute of democratic citizenship. Anita Tagore is Associate Professor, Kalindi College, University of Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||Abject failure||Last week, the United States of America and many countries in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization commemorated the 20th anniversary of the devastating terror attacks on the iconic World Trade Center towers in New York City. The scale of the outrage would have been even more crippling had a third hijacked aircraft, targeting either the Pentagon or the White House in Washington DC, not been brought down by the resistance of the passengers. The commemorations were subdued because they took place in the backdrop of the restoration of Taliban rule in Afghanistan amid scenes of tragic chaos in Kabul airport. Ideally, the political leadership of the West had sought to convey to the world that terrorism does not pay. Instead, as swaggering Taliban soldiers gave triumphalist interviews to the Western media, what resonated was a very different message: the terrorists were having the last laugh. The commentariat didn’t bother to conceal the scale of the debacle. An op-ed article in The Daily Telegraph (London) was biting in its indictment of the US: “Over the past decade, America has veered from one extreme to another; first [Donald] Trump, the pugilistic loose cannon — now the crumpled and pathetically stage-managed figure of [Joe] Biden. The nation seems not just rudderless but leaderless; a sickly patient with a dubious prognosis.” Even the most ardent propagandist of radical Islamism could not have articulated the contempt and rage against the degenerate West any better. The disorientation was particularly severe in Europe. In Britain, the country that once boasted the world’s largest empire not all that long ago, a farce played out over the refusal of its foreign secretary to cut short his holiday break to attend to the evacuation from Kabul. In 1940, a horrible military defeat was converted into a heroic rescue operation when thousands of small boats sailed across the Channel to rescue the remnants of the British Expeditionary Force from Dunkirk. The images from Kabul airport, alas, were far from inspirational. As a writer lamented in The Times (London): “We Europeans, about 600 million of us, are bigger and richer than the [US]. Nobody stopped us being strong. We just chose to be weak... We all relied on the US for leadership and protection. Now Washington... has put its own interests first and left us bruised and fuming... Afghanistan underlines Europe’s protracted adolescence.” The strong words, unfortunately, were couched in a make-believe diagnosis. The problem that confronted Europe — and, indeed, the US — wasn’t infancy or adolescence. The real issue was one of will. The indictment of President Biden and, by implication, the former president, Trump, for negotiating the Doha Accord that accorded de-facto recognition to the Taliban was not centred on leaving a mission incomplete. Whether in the US, the United Kingdom or in Germany, the desire to dig in and complete the destruction of the Taliban had evaporated long ago. Just as the fall of Saigon in 1975 had been preceded by diminishing enthusiasm for a ‘forever war’, the mental defeat of the West in Afghanistan had happened even before President Obama’s final ‘surge’ in 2013. The issue that confronted both Trump and Biden was about responding to domestic public opinion and managing the retreat. The wave of outrage that was witnessed in the final week of August was never about leaving a mission incomplete. It was always about the management of the withdrawal. The Soviet Union had managed it better — the government of President Najibullah endured for nearly three years before it was overwhelmed by the mujahideen militia. The government of President Ashraf Ghani couldn’t even endure a fortnight. The preliminary post-mortem has centred on the failure of the nation-building exercise in Afghanistan — euphemism for the establishment of a Western-style, rules-based, ostensibly modernist order. President Biden’s August 31 address to the nation where he bluntly stated that the US would not undertake “major military operations to remake other countries” has been interpreted to mean that this is precisely what was being attempted in Afghanistan. Yet, it is interesting that prior to 9/11, the Republican establishment seemed deadly opposed to persisting with Ronald Reagan’s post-Berlin Wall democracy project. In an article in early 2000, Condoleezza Rice quoted George Bush as saying that he would avoid “open-ended deployments and unclear military missions”. The former president is quoted as saying, “I don’t think our troops ought to be used for what’s called nation-building. I think our troops ought to be used to fight and win wars.” Although the neo-conservatives had a strong influence on the George Bush administration, their vision of exporting democracy didn’t quite have all-round endorsement. One of the main criticisms of the misadventure in Iraq was that it was a diversion. The former UN secretary-general, Kofi Annan, for example, rued that “[h]uge resources were devoted to Iraq, which focussed away from nation-building in Afghanistan.” Indeed, the charge that the US was trying to ‘remake’ Afghanistan in its own image stemmed from the American distaste for the warlords that constituted the erstwhile Northern Alliance. Additionally, the frenzied activity by Western ‘peace-keepers’ in Kabul to ensure that Abdullah Abdullah didn’t win the 2014 presidential election created complications. It fostered the impression — bolstered by the presence of many hundreds of aid workers and fresh-from-college political consultants in Kabul and elsewhere — that Americans had a stake in creating a compliant leadership. For the Western powers, it was a no-win situation. At one level, they were pilloried for trying to establish political order in what had once been described as a ‘savage society’. At the same time, they were attacked for not being serious in their democratic evangelism. In his book, Descent into Chaos: The United States and the Failure of Nation Building in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Central Asia, published in 2008, the well-informed Pakistani writer, Ahmed Rashid, lamented that “[t]he American failure to rebuild Afghanistan and Iraq or to move Pakistan and Central Asia toward reform and democracy made it almost impossible for Muslim moderates to support the West’s struggle against Islamic extremism or to bring about change in their own countries.” It does not speak too highly of the social depth of moderate politics that it was excessively dependent on piggybacking on American initiatives to make a mark. With radical Islamism making a spectacular comeback as a reaction to impositions of democracy and modernity from above, it may be instructive to revisit the British Indian management of a turbulent region upon which the defence of India rested. In 1919, when the raj first experimented with limited self-government for India, its extension to the North West Frontier Province was resolutely opposed by members of the Indian Political Service. The Chief Commissioner, George Roos-Keppel, a legendary civil servant with long experience in the Frontier, argued that “democratic reforms would be a poor cousin to the already robust jirga system where the Frontier’s leading men could express themselves in a more honest manner than they would in a British-style Assembly.” But what if they strayed outside their zones to create trouble? On August 31, Julian Lewis, a former Chairman of the Commons Defence Committee in the UK, arrived at the grudging conclusion that “[a]ctive containment is the hard-headed solution to an otherwise intractable dilemma: whether to allow terrorists to attack us with impunity or to shoulder the unending burden of occupying every reckless rogue state which shelters and supports them.” Lewis was expressing in a contemporary idiom what British administrators had formalized into policy by the 1880s: “when dealing with the savage tribes the best plan is, to fight as rarely as possible; and when you do fight, to hit them as hard as you can.” Sadly, few strategists read imperial history any longer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Water inundates low-lying areas in and around steel city||Several low-lying areas in and around the steel city were inundated on Thursday due to opening of four sluice gates of Bankabal dam in Mayurbhanj district of neighbouring Odisha and seven radial gates of Chandil dam. The opening of sluice gates of Bankabal dam resulted in a sudden rise in water level of Kharkai River while opening of sluice gates of Chandil dam led to rise in water level of River Subernarekha. Both the rivers were already in spate due to heavy rain in Jharkhand and two neighbouring states- Odisha and West Bengal, caused by a depression originating from the Bay of Bengal. Though the rains stopped in most places on Thursday as the impact of the depression waned as it moved towards Madhya Pradesh but opening of radial gates of both the dams resulted in flash- flood like situation. In the morning people residing in low-lying areas started shifting to safer places with their belongings. The East Singhbhum district administration issued an alert last night and started shifting people to safer places. "We are keeping a close watch on the situation and if required NDRF would be called," said a district administrative official monitoring the flood situation.  The affected areas were Naya Buster at Bagbera, Sankosai and Daiguttu in Mango, Shastrinagar in Kadma and Garib Nawaz Colony in Jugsalai. Water from overflowing drains also entered several houses at Birsanagar, a slum. The low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression which resulted in heavy and widespread rain in Jharkhand since Sunday. On Thursday, the state’s deficit stood at four per cent. Jharkhand as a whole has so far experienced 923.3mm of rain against a normal of 959.1 mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said, "The monsoon trough is active and is expected to result in more rain over Jharkhand later this month.” IMD had earlier forecast normal rain in September, the last monsoon month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad street food now available on Zomato and Swiggy||Dhanbad residents can now order their favourite spicy jhalmuri from the streets of Jharia and mouth-watering Kulcha treats of Saraidhela through online food delivery platforms like Zomato and Swiggy. Over 50 street vendors dealing in different food items on Thursday expressed keen interest in joining hands with Zomato during the concluding day of the training of first batch of 50 vendors being organised by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation as part of fortnight long training, under the Support to Urban Street Vendors (SUSV) component of Deendayal Antyodaya Yojna National Urban Livelihood Mission (DAY NULM). The Zomato representatives were allowed to explain the process of registration to food street vendors during the second day of training in an effort to provide a digital and online platform for better marketing of products as earlier 25 street vendors had already registered themselves with Swiggy at the initiative of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. The training aimed at orienting street vendors about their rights and responsibilities, specific policies and laws related to them, food safety, maintenance of hygiene and waste was organized with the support of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), a statutory body of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The trainees were apprised about the ways of maintaining better hygiene while cooking, storing and packaging food, besides keeping the shops and surrounding clean, using hand gloves and hair band, use of sanitizers amidst increased safety concerns among people. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Chandra Shekhar, City Manager (NULM) of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) said, “The training being organised by all the Urban Local bodies of the state simultaneously on the instruction of state Directorate of Municipal Administration  which is also aimed at ensuring inclusive growth with increased contribution of Urban street vendors to national economy is being imparted by five experts of Food Safety Awareness and Training Organization (FSATO) on behalf of FSSAI.” Altogether 12 hours training of six hours each of two day is being provided to each batch of 50 street vendors on the day of one of which they have also apprised about various laws pertaining to them, ways of preventing food spoilage, food poisoning and illness caused due to sell of spoiled foods; hand washing techniques, cleaning practices, purchase and storage of raw material. On the concluding day of the training during which the vendors were also provided certificates they were also provided guidance about reducing purchasing cost and wastage; besides improving customer service, ways of improving business using digital platforms, ways of availing and various government schemes for financial support to them like PM Swanidihi Yojna. Nisha Devi a street food vendor of Purana Bazar selling chowmin, eggroll etc said, “The training was very useful as we came to know about hygiene as well registration procedures for selling our products Online through Zomato and Swigy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Sindri train services restored after over a year||East Central railway has restored two ferries of Dhanbad-Sindri train from Thursday after the restoration of the first ferry after a gap of 17 months on August 1 this year. A section of Sindri residents, particularly those travelling to Delhi through Purushottam Express however expressed dissatisfaction as the railways abruptly announced short termination of the pre announced journey of NSCB Gomoh Sindri town passenger train from Gomoh to Dhanbad. According to the earlier communication of Railways which was made public through the official twitter handle of Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway the Railway was to relaunch 03601 Sindri town special train from September 16 which was scheduled to leave Dhanbad at 11.40am to reach Sindri at 1pm. The bogey of the same train was to begin its journey at Sindri Town Gomoh Passenger Train (03327) leaving Sindri at 1.40pm to reach Gomoh at 4pm. From Gomoh, the train was again to leave at 4.35pm as Gomoh Sindri town passenger (03328) to reach Sindri at 6.55pm. The same train was to leave Sindri at 7.50pm to reach Dhanbad at 9.10pm. The Railway however citing unavoidable circumstances made changes in earlier schedule and as per the changes the train Sindri town Gomoh passenger train leaving from Sindri at 1.40 pm has been short terminated upto Dhanbad where it reaches at 3.07 pm. The Gomoh Sindri Passenger (03328) instead of earlier scheduled departure from Gomoh will not leave from Dhanbad 5.26 pm to reach Sindri at 6.55 pm. Notably, the services of Sindri Gomoh Passenger train were withdrawn more than 9 years ago on account of revenue loss due to ticketless travelling etc and Sindri residents were happy over the announcement of restoration of trains withdrawn since June 11, 2012. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Deepak Kumar Dipu, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce who also wrote to the railway authorities for the restoration of other ferries of train ever since the restoration of first ferry on August 1 this year said, “We are happy that at least the train ferries have been restored though we are slightly sad over the abrupt change in earlier announcement by railway and short termination train upto Dhanbad only.” D.N. Singh, 78, a retired officer of FCI Sindri who is also the Vice President of All India FCI VSS Employees Association said, “The Gomoh trip would have been much beneficial for those travelling to Delhi from Sindri as large through Gomoh many trains of South Eastern Railway pass heading towards Delhi pass every day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||HEC bans staff from using smart phones within company premises||Ranchi headquartered Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC), one of the earliest PSUs to be set up in the country, has announced a ban on smart phones within the company premises from September 30 for all employees, the decision being greeted with scepticism by staff and  the workers' union. HEC’s manager of personnel and administration Prashant Kumar has issued a circular. “In order to ensure safety and security of the employees and the documents/processes and to avoid distraction in the production activities, it has been decided by the company management to prohibit use of smart phones inside HEC premises with effect from September 30, 2021 till further orders," it said. Employees, however, will be able to carry  basic, non-camera phones for work. The circular applies to category of workers, from regular employees to those on contract and trainees. “As such, use of smart phone/camera at workplace will be treated as an act of misconduct with effect from the date of enforcement of the rule,” the circular said, adding that the board of directors, chief vigilance officer, general managers, in-charges of shops, departments and divisions were however exempt from the rule. HEC has around 4,000 employees. A section of the staff felt the no-smart phone order was linked to the September 13  visit to Ranchi of secretary of the Union ministry of heavy industries Arun Goel. Sources said the secretary was visibly upset to see staff members  using smart phones in key workshop areas and other departments of the company. But a senior official denied it had anything to do with Goel's visit. “The decision to ban smart phones was taken much before but it’s just that the order has been issued now," he claimed. HEC Hatia Project Workers' Union secretary Rana Sangram Singh dubbed the smart phone ban as "mindless". "Phones without cameras are almost out of market today. We will appeal to the management to reconsider the decision,” he said. HEC is reeling under serious fiscal stress. It has work orders to the tune of about Rs 2000 crore from the defence ministry and ISRO, among others. However, salaries of a  majority of employees have been delayed for over five months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand 5th in number of Covid deaths due to lapses: NCRB ||Jharkhand reported at least 10 deaths due to medical negligence, the fifth highest among states and Union territories in 2020, when the first wave of Covid-19 wreaked havoc on the entire country, latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has revealed. While there was no official confirmation from the state government on the causes of these deaths, NCRB findings indicate that patients may have died either due to shortage of beds in hospitals, leading to delayed treatment or unavailability of important drugs, sources from hospitals in the state said. As per NCRB records, Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number of deaths due to medical negligence in 2020, followed by Rajasthan, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh. At least 29 people died due to medical negligence in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, while 23 died in Rajasthan, 16 in Telangana and 11 in Madhya Pradesh during this period. While NCRB has not categorically defined medical negligence in context of its annual report, most legal websites define medical negligence as misconduct by a medical practitioner or doctor by not providing enough care resulting in breach of their duties. As per records with the state health department, about 1000 Jharkhand residents died of Covid-19 in the year 2020. The toll was at least three times higher during the second wave of the pandemic in the year 2021. Jharkhand, however, reported zero deaths due to negligence of civic bodies in the year 2020. At least 13 deaths occurred in Jharkhand due to negligence relating to rail accidents, while as many as 2930 state residents died due to negligence related to road accidents that year, the NCRB report highlighted. A total of 135 deaths due to medical negligence were reported in India in 2020, while 53 people died due to negligence of civic bodies and 52 due to negligence relating to rail accidents, NCRB data revealed. At least 1,33,715 people died due to negligence relating to road accidents in India during this period, NCRB data further highlighted. Even during the Covid crisis, superstition continued to cause deaths in rural Jharkhand. As per NCRB data, at least 15 women were killed in Jharkhand on charges of practicing witchcraft in year 2020, the third highest among states in India. At least one person in Jharkhand also fell prey to the superstitious practice of human sacrifice, NCRB report stated. Jharkhand had topped in witch-hunting cases for five consecutive years from 2011 to 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Chinnamastika Temple prasad to be delivered by India Post ||The postmen will now deliver prasad from the Maa Chinnamastika Temple In Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district at the doorstep of interested devotees. The service known as Maa Chinnamastika Prasadam Seva was launched, following a tie-up between the postal authorities and the Maa Chinnamastika Nyas Samiti, on Wednesday in Ranchi in the presence of S. Mervin Alexander, member (personnel) of Indian postal board. The interested devotees can get the prasad by sending money order to the sub-postmaster of Gola in Ramgarh district, the postal officials informed, adding the same would be available in two types of packets. A 200-gram packet containing a photo of the deity, peda, chura and other items like bel patra would be available for Rs 251 while a 500-gram packet would cost Rs 501. This is, however, not the first prasad delivery service for India Post that had already introduced identical service for prasadam from 57 other well-known shrines of the country, including the Sabarimala Temple in Kerala for which the Kerala postal circle tied up with the Kerala Devaswom Board for introducing it. Any interested devotee living in any corner of the country can get a packet of prasadam from Sabarimala by booking it at a post office for Rs 450. “Even in Jharkhand, the same service had been introduced at Baba Baidyanathdham Temple in Deoghar in June this year,” informed one of the postal officials. India Post started delivering other items during the lockdown last year. When the farmers in Karnataka were wondering how to sell their mangoes during the lockdown last year, India Post came to their rescue. It teamed up with the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation and started delivering mangoes to willing buyers every Tuesday and Friday in April last year. This was followed by a similar service in Surat for delivering Alfonso mangoes and also Shahi Lichi and Zardalu mangoes in Bihar the next month. As the number of letters dwindled, the postal department tried to reinvent itself by diversifying its activities across the country. Its Jharkhand circle had also opened a few shops in cities like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Deoghar that started selling, besides pure and unadulterated gangajal packaged in Gangotri and Rishikesh, various items like khadi and ayurveda products and greetings cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||States's idol height curbs irk Jharkhand puja organisers  ||Durga puja organisers in Jharkhand find the state government’s directive of restricting idol height at 5 feet as impractical and illogical. Puja samitis in the capital Ranchi and Jamshedpur are planning to submit a memorandum for relaxation in the guidelines on Durga Puja issued on Tuesday late evening by the government after a meeting of the state disaster management authority chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. “The directive should have come earlier. With only 24 days left for Durga Puja most of the artisans with whom we had placed orders have already finished the idols and only finishing touches to Goddess Idols are being given. It is next to impossible to alter the size of the idol at this juncture. We will hold a meeting on Wednesday and seek an early appointment with the chief minister and apprise him about our predicament. It is illogical to issue such a directive at this time,” said convenor of Ranchi zilla (district) Durga Puja Samity, Munchun Rai. Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samity (JKDPS), which hosts nearly 350 Durga Puja pandals — largest in Jharkhand, has refused to adhere to several provisions of the guidelines. “We will be submitting our memorandum addressed to the chief minister through East Singhbhum deputy commissioner about ‘impractical’ restrictions imposed on puja by the government,” said general secretary of the JKDPS, Rambabu Singh. The Jamshedpur outfit senior functionary apart from the restriction on idol’s height is also annoyed at government restriction on bhog distribution and not allowing children to the pandals. “Bhog preparation is an integral part of puja ritual, how can we not distribute it to devotees who wait for it anxiously. The restriction on those under-18 from entering pandals is also impractical and an unjustified as large number of minors want to pay obeisance before Maa,” said Singh. The Jharkhand government allowed devotees inside after a meeting on Tuesday. However, priests and clerics of the religious places should have mandatorily taken at least one jab of Covid vaccine. At important religious places earmarked by the district administration (like Baba Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar) a maximum of 100 devotees would be allowed for an hour through e-pass provision to be issued by the district administration while at other religious places 50 per cent of the capacity of the religious place will be allowed to worship with strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour. Devotees, less than 18 years have be strictly prohibited from entering religious places. The government has allowed the construction of Durga Puja pandals but the entry of devotees would be prohibited at pandals and inside pandals, a maximum of 25 persons (or 50 per cent of capacity) would be allowed at one point in time. Fairs, welcome gates, illumination with fancy lights, cultural programs, distribution of bhogs and theme-based pandals have been strictly prohibited. There will be no immersion procession. Dhaks have been permitted for the puja. Idols of Durga would have to be within 5 feet. Schools have been allowed to conduct offline classes for Classes between six and eight. Incidentally, classes nine, 10 and 11 are already having offline classes since August. Sports competitions have been allowed but without spectators. Bars and restaurants have been allowed to operate till 11 pm. The order will be applicable within immediate effect. Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas said that they will discuss before starting offline services of masses in churches while online services would continue as usual. While Eqra Masjid chief imam, Maulana Obaidullah Qasmi said that will follow the government guidelines during namaz at all mosques. Significantly, there have been demands from shrine priests for reopening of religious places for devotees after cases of Covid infection decreased in Jharkhand. Active caseload of Covid in Jharkhand on Tuesday was 111 with a total of 5,133 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
