17-09-2021||Business||GST Council extends concessions on Covid drugs, holds back on petrol & diesel||The all-powerful GST Council on Friday decided to charge food delivery platforms such as Swiggy and Zomato a tax even as it extended concessional tax rates on certain COVID-19 drugs by three months till December 31. The Council, which comprises the Union finance minister and her state counterparts, decided to continue keeping petrol and diesel out of the GST purview as subsuming the current excise duty and VAT into one national rate would impact revenues. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the council at a meeting here, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said GST has been exempted on muscular atrophy drugs like Zolgensma and Viltepso, which cost crores of rupees. It extended the period of concessional GST rates on certain COVID-related drugs by three months till December 31 but decided not to give the same benefit to medical equipment. The concessional regime for certain medical equipment will end on September 30. Sitharaman said 5 per cent GST will be levied at the point where the delivery is made by Swiggy and Zomato. Also, the Council cut GST rate from 12 per cent to 5 per cent on cancer-related drugs and on fortified rice kernels to 5 per cent from 18 per cent. GST rate on bio-diesel for blending in diesel was reduced to 5 per cent from 12 per cent, while the national permit fee for goods carriage has been exempt from GST. Import of leased aircraft have also been exempted from payment of I-GST, the finance minister said. The panel decided to levy 18 per cent GST on all sorts of pens. Specified renewable sector devices will be charged 12 per cent tax. GST Council also recommended new footwear and textile rates from January 1. The council, which also discussed the issue of inclusion of petrol and diesel under the tax structure after a Kerala High Court order, said that all members of the council were against it, according to a report in ndtv.com. “On the direction of court it was brought on to table but members spoke very clearly they do not want it to be included in GST," she said. "This will be reported to the high court as the GST Council felt it was not the time to bring petroleum products under the GST," she added. The tax cuts were based on recommendations by a Group of Ministers amid the pandemic, whose crippling effects on the economy has also hurt household finance, the GST Council - a constitutional body that decides rates for the GST - had said. The Council had decided that no tax will be levied on medicines like the monoclonal antibody Tocilizumab and Amphotericin B, used for treating Black Fungus, a fungal disease that affects people infected with Covid. Earlier, the GST rates on these medicines stood at 5 per cent. The Council had also cut rates on anti-coagulants such as heparin and Remdesivir - a drug for treating COVID-19, from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. Additionally, tax rates on gas, electric, other furnaces for the crematorium, including their installation were reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. The GST rates on ambulances were reduced from 28 per cent to 12 per cent. The tax rates on hand sanitiser was lowered from 18 per cent to 5 per cent, while rates on temperature check equipment was reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. Covid vaccines, however, continue to be charged a GST of 5 per cent. There were also no tax cuts on raw material for Covid testing kits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Sensex ends 125 points lower||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 125 points lower on Friday after scaling a fresh record peak of 59,737 in early trade, as investors booked profits at higher levels. After gyrating 866 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index settled 125.27 points or 0.21 per cent lower at 59,015.89. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.35 points or 0.25 per cent to 17,585.15. It touched a lifetime high of 17,792.95 intra-day. Kotak Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 5 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Axis Bank and Nestle India. On the other hand, Tata Steel, SBI, TCS and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. "While the pace of vaccinations and encouraging export data helped bulls get closer to the 60K mark amidst the FTSE and MSCI rebalancing of flows, profit-taking took away all the gains ahead of the outcome of GST Council meet," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.54 per cent to USD 75.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points to new peak in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points to scale a fresh peak of 59,550.88 in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Bajaj Finance, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid sustained foreign fund inflows. The broader NSE Nifty too surged more than 100 points to reach its new peak of 17,747.80 in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 418.53 points or 0.71 per cent higher at 59,559.69. Similarly, Nifty advanced 113.15 points or 0.64 per cent to 17,742.65 in initial deals. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Tata Steel, NTPC, IndusInd Bank and PowerGrid were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index climbed 417.96 points or 0.71 per cent to its new closing peak of 59,141.16, and Nifty surged 110.05 points or 0.63 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 17,629.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,621.88 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. "The market is now driven by momentum with valuations on the back burner. Even FIIs who were skeptical about valuations and sold heavily in July have come back strongly and are chasing the momentum. FIIs have invested Rs 5,344 crore in the cash market during the last three days," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Nifty has now appreciated by around 10,000 points from the March 2020 lows. Even die-hard bulls would not have foreseen such a ferocious rally. Now the bulls are unlikely to let go of their grip on the market till 18,000 on Nifty/60,000 on Sensex is reached, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. US equities ended on a mixed note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.22 per cent to USD 75.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Bengal to provide stamp duty and registration fee waiver for data centres||The Bengal government will provide stamp duty and registration fee waiver as fiscal incentives for a period of five years to companies willing to set up data centre infrastructure in the state. The incentives are part of a policy framed by the state government on data centres after taking inputs from the industry in August. Speaking at a session organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Thursday, state industry and information technology minister Partha Chatterjee said the transition to cloud has been accelerated by the Covid pandemic, resulting in the need to have more data centres. The state has prepared a policy which focuses on the requirements of companies that intend to put up the requisite infrastructure. “The purpose of this policy is to develop Bengal as a hub of data handling and storage. Data centres will be assisted with easy approvals, self certification, allowing optimal use of land as well as infrastructure such as optical fibre connectivity, quality power and water supply by the government,” said Chatterjee. “We will also provide some fiscal benefits such as 100 per cent stamp duty and registration fee exemption for any transaction related to the setting up of a data centre for a period of five years from the date of start of commercial operations,” said Chatterjee. The state has already seen interest from Reliance, Hiranandani Group, CtrlS and Nxtra for setting up data centres. Industry sources said that the fiscal incentives along with the related data centre storage sharing and electronic data retention guidelines will give a clear picture to the investors in this segment. But the incentives are not materially different from the erstwhile West Bengal ICT Incentive Scheme of 2012 where eligible units were entitled to a refund of 100 per cent stamp duty and registration fee. Chatterjee further said that the state government has extended support to Reliance Jio, including land, for setting up a cable landing station that will boost internet connectivity in the state. However, government sources said that no progress has been made on the project since Jio officials visited the site offered by the state at Digha. Chatterjee further said that the state is also considering a policy to encourage innovation and new initiatives in the IT and ITeS sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Reverse Bank of India defends reverse repo rate action||RBI deputy governor Michael D Patra on Thursday defended the asymmetric cuts in the repo and the reverse repo rate, saying that a sharper reduction in the latter allowed companies and the government to raise a record amount of funds at reasonable rates. The RBI deputy governor said any policy normalisation would only be done over a period of time and this will be communicated through the stance articulated by the monetary policy committee in future resolutions. Patra was speaking at the Financial Markets Summit organised by the CII. After the pandemic broke, the RBI on March 27, 2020 went in for a higher cut in the reverse repo which was then reduced by 90 basis points against a 75 basis point cut in the repo rate. This asymmetric reduction led to the widening of the corridor to 65 basis points from 50 basis points earlier. While repo is the rate at which banks borrow from the RBI, the reverse repo is that which the RBI drains liquidity from the system. The objective of going for a higher cut in reverse repo was to dissuade banks from parking funds with the RBI so that they could be used for productive segments of the economy. However, there were concerns on whether it would reduce the effectiveness of the repo as under conditions of ample liquidity, the RBI has to switch to an absorption mode. This would effectively make reverse repo the policy rate. Tyagi justifies T+1 Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Thursday said the trade plus one day (T+1) settlement cycle is in the interest of all market participants and that the new system will not lead to fragmentation of liquidity. FPIs have said the move would force them to “prefund” trades or pay for any transaction even before they are delivered. Stock brokers body Anmi said it would have to increase the working capital requirement even as it cited several operational and technical challenges in the new system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Sensex scales past 59000-mark, buoyed by telecom reforms||The Sensex on Thursday scaled past the 59000-mark, buoyed by the steps announced by the government to help the telecom and the auto sectors even as banking stocks rallied ahead of a Rs 30,000-crore guarantee for the bad bank. It has taken eight sessions for the benchmark index to move from the 58000 to 59000 whereas the previous 1000 point rally came only in three days. Market circles are of the view that the 30-share gauge may breach the 60000-level before Diwali amid strong portfolio inflows and if the third wave is not be as bad as feared. However, few experts are of the view that stocks may see some correction as valuation have reached expensive levels. “The PLI for the auto sector, greater clarity on telecom dues with the moratorium announcement and the likely announcement of guarantees for the bad bank were the factors that helped the markets rise higher. This was again supported by the muted third wave of the pandemic so far, and the aggressive vaccination programme by the government,” said Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management. He added that there was also comfort from moderation in inflation during August from the higher levels registered in the last couple of months. This could see the RBI persisting with its accommodative stance for a longer time. The 30-share index opened on a positive note at 58881.04 and surpassed 59000 post noon trade. After touching an intra-day record of 59204.29, it ended with gains of 417.96 points, or 0.71 per cent, to close at 59141.16. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 110.05 points, or 0.63 per cent, to its new closing high of 17629.50 after scaling an all-time peak of 17644.60 during intra-day trade. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 7 per cent. It was followed by ITC, SBI, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||Business||Centre starts Air India bid evaluation||The Centre has started the evaluation process of the bid documents for Air India as it looks to complete the exercise by the end of this year. The last date for the financial bids was Wednesday, with offers received from Tata Sons subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd and a consortium led by SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh “The bids have been completed. The central government is evaluating the technical aspects of the bids received. We are very hopeful. We are looking forward to taking the whole process to its logical conclusion,” civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday. An inter-ministerial group would soon meet to take a call on the final reserve price, officials said. The financial bids will be opened “after reserve value finalisation and security clearance”, a senior finance ministry official said without giving a time frame. According to the bid documents, the bidders will be evaluated on the basis of the enterprise value quoted by the airline. The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Drone push Under the productivity-linked incentive scheme announced on Wednesday, the turnover of the drone industry will touch Rs 15,000 crore in five years, Scindia said. The government has approved a PLI scheme for drones and drone components with an allocation of Rs 120 crore spread over three financial years. The scheme follows the liberalised Drone Rules, 2021, released by the Centre  last month. The minister said the three parts of the entire value chain in the drone sector are hardware (drone manufacturer), software and service delivery.  “If you combine turnover of all three parts of the drone sector, this industry will have a turnover of approximately Rs 12,000-Rs 15,000 crore by 2026.” Under the PLI scheme, the incentive for a manufacturer of drones and its parts will be 20 per cent of the value addition made by the company during the next three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea shares surge close to 26 per cent on bourses||Shares of Vodafone Idea (VI) on Thursday surged close to 26 per cent on the bourses after the government announced a relief package for the telecom sector. However, concerns still remain with observers saying that though the company may have got a respite, its sustainability over the long term is in doubt unless tariffs are raised substantially and the firm mobilises capital. Some experts feel that though there would be three private players for now, the sector would eventually turn into a duopoly. On the BSE, the Vodafone Idea stock soared 25.98 per cent, or Rs 2.32, to end at Rs 11.25, leading to a market capitalisation of Rs 32,327.31 crore. In a note, analysts at Edelweiss Securities said the measures announced by the government address cash flow issues plaguing Voda Idea, which faces sizeable non convertible debenture (NCD) repayments of Rs 6,000 crore from December 2021 to March 2022. “However, the major issue plaguing the sector continues to be unreasonably low tariffs. While companies have raised tariffs, meaningful ARPU (average revenue per user) improvement can be achieved only with tariff hikes in 4G pre-paid plans. If VI does not manage any capital infusion and tariff hikes, the industry might move towards a duopoly,’’ the brokerage added. Airtel on moratorium Bharti Airtel will opt for a payment moratorium, which was offered in the telecom relief package, and redirect the cash flow to aggressively build networks, chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal said on Thursday. On interest on payment moratorium, Mittal said Airtel will weigh when the offer comes from the government on whether to go for equity conversion mechanism or pay cash. Meanwhile, Airtel on Thursday hiked prices of mobile prepaid and home broadband plans that come bundled with Disney+Hotstar subscription because of changes in pricing made by the entertainment app. Tax reprieve Telecom dispute appellate body TDSAT on Thursday stayed the telecom department’s demand of Rs 1,376 crore from Airtel in unpaid past dues that Videocon Telecommunications owed. Videocon Telecommunications’ spectrum was acquired by the Sunil Mittal-led carrier in 2016. The department of telecom, after the Supreme Court verdict on the adjusted gross revenue last year, had asked Airtel to pay the dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||Business||Rs 30,600cr guarantee for National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said the government would provide Rs 30,600 crore guarantee to the newly formed National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) or the bad bank. The guarantee will be provided for the security receipts the bad bank will offer to the lenders. The bad assets will be acquired by NARCL  in phases — in the first phase it will acquire Rs 90,00 crore by paying 15 per cent in cash and 85 per cent through the issue of security receipts. In all, NARCL will acquire Rs 2 lakh crore of bad loans. Sitharaman said a debt resolution company would be formed to clean up the stressed assets. While PSU banks will hold a 49 per cent stake in the India Debt Resolution Company, they will hold 51 per cent in the bad bank. Lenders will sell the toxic assets to the bad bank at a discount either in exchange for cash or a mix of cash and security receipts. The receipts are redeemable when the bad bank recovers a loan or on liquidation. Sitharaman said the government guarantee will be invoked to cover the shortfall between the amount realised from the underlying assets and the face value of the security receipts, subject to an overall ceiling of Rs 30,600 crore, valid for five years. Sitharaman said the bad bank will have to pay a fee for the guarantee. The fee for the guarantee would initially be 0.25 per cent, which would progressively increase to 0.5 per cent in case of delay in resolution of bad loans, Anil Gupta, vice-president & sector head — financial sector ratings, Icra, said: “The upfront cash payment by NARCL to banks will immediately be accretive for the profitability and capital of the banks.” “However, the ability of the NARCL to resolve these assets in a time-bound manner will be critical for future provision write-back by banks. We need to see how NARCL raises this cash of Rs 4,000-5,000 crore to be paid upfront to the banks,” Gupta said. According to Anish Mashruwala, partner, J. Sagar Associates, the success of the bad bank, “will depend on the implementation and management of the transferred NPAs and it is likely that the government will keep a close eye on the management of the India Debt Resolution Company”. RBI upbeat The prospects are brightening for the Indian economy achieving “escape velocity” from the pandemic as the second wave of Covid-19 wanes and preparedness for future remains on war-alert status, according to an RBI bulletin published on Thursday. The central bank said the inflation trajectory was shifting down more favourably than anticipated. The softening of prices of various food items is likely to extend into the third quarter of this fiscal and contain the upside pressures stemming from fuel and core prices. The task now is to consolidate these gains and carry them forward into the fourth quarter as well. Retail inflation in August had come down to 5.3 per cent following subdued prices of food items such as vegetables.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||India||Kerala: Ruling CPI(M) cautions against luring educated women to terrorism||At a time when Kerala is witnessing a raging debate on religious extremism and concerns about the radicalisation of youth, the ruling CPI(M) has cautioned against the deliberate attempt by a section to lure educated women studying in professional colleges to the path of communalism and terrorism.  Stating that extremist forces were infiltrating mainstream Muslim outfits and trying to create issues in the southern state, it also said the actions of Sangh Parivar forces had instilled a sense of insecurity among the minority groups.  The Marxist party also asked its cadres to be vigil about the issues.  The significant remarks were made in an in-house note prepared by the ruling party in connection with the inauguration of the upcoming party conventions in the state.  Under the sub-title "Minority Communalism", the note said it should be viewed seriously that even debates, supporting terrorist outfits like Taliban, which was denounced by the democratic world and majority in the Muslim community, were happening in the state.  "Deliberate attempts are being made to lure youth into communalism and extremist ideologies. Conscious efforts are on to make educated young women in the professional colleges to think that way. Both the student union and youth organisation (of CPI-M) should pay special attention to the issue," it said.  Though the Christians in the state generally do not comply with the communal ideologies, the radical influence growing among a small section in the community in recent times should be viewed seriously, it noted.  Deliberate attempts were being made to turn the Christian community against the Muslims in the state, the party note said, adding that such moves would help the majority communalism to thrive in the state.  However, the opposition Congress urged the CPI(M) to show the proof for the allegation as it was a "serious" charge raised by the party which rules the state.  "The CPI(M) leadership should reveal whether any cases had been registered in this regard or whether they have any data to prove their charges. The party and its government have the moral responsibility to reveal them," V D Satheesan told reporters here.  Attacking the ruling party over the issue, the BJP accused it of allegedly turning the southern state into a "fertile soil" for extremist forces.  "The extremists forces would not have gained foothold in the state if they have reacted strongly against them. What sincerity do they have to say now that vigil should be stepped up against terrorism?" BJP veteran Kummanam Rajasekharan asked.  The in-house note of the CPI(M) assumes significance in the wake of ongoing debates over the recent 'narcotic and love jihad' remark by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, which was widely criticised by various political parties including the ruling party.  The CPI(M) and the opposition Congress had objected to the controversial remark, while the BJP came out supporting the Catholic Bishop saying that 'love and narcotic jihad' is a reality.  Kallarangatt had said recently that Christian girls were falling prey to the alleged love and narcotic jihad in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Sino-India relations have own intrinsic logic, says China after Jaishankar meet||China on Friday said it agrees with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's assertion that Beijing should not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country, saying that Sino-India relations have their own "intrinsic logic". Jaishankar, who met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe, conveyed that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. He also told the Chinese Foreign Minister that the two countries need to establish a relationship based on mutual respect for which it was necessary that China avoid viewing the ties with India from the perspective of its relations with third countries. On Twitter, Jaishankar said: "It is also essential that China does not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country." Earlier, a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement on the Wang-Jaishankar talks in the capital of Tajikistan quoted the Chinese Foreign Minister as saying that China has always been positive to seek a proper solution to the China-India border issue . Asked for his reaction to Jaishankar's remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here that we agree with the remarks from the Indian side . "China and India are both important Asian countries. For the two countries to develop relations there is an inherent necessary logic. China-India relations never target any third party," Zhao said. To a follow up question, Zhao said, the development of India-China relations follow its own intrinsic logic. China-India relations do not target any third party and are not based on any third party, he said. In the statement issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Wang noted that the recent communication between the two sides through the foreign and military departments was earnest and effective, and the overall situation in the border area was gradually de-escalated . The Chinese Foreign Minister hoped that India will meet China halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control. "Both sides need to consolidate the disengagement results of the front-line troops, and strictly abide by the protocols and agreements and the consensus reached between the two countries, to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquility of the border area and prevent the recurrence of border-related issues," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Wang and Jaishankar had held a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of another conclave of the SCO in TajikistanDushanbe on July 14. As two major emerging economies, China and India must continue to uphold the strategic consensus of being opportunities of development to each other rather than threats, push the bilateral relationship and practical cooperation onto a healthy and stable track , Wang said during Thursday's meeting. It serves the common interests of the two countries and benefits regional and world peace and development, the Chinese foreign minister said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Afghanistan situation will have greatest impact on countries like India, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the recent developments in Afghanistan will have the greatest impact on neighbouring countries like India and continuing instability in that country will encourage terrorist and extremist ideologies all over the world. In a virtual address at an SCO meeting on Afghanistan, Modi said there was a need for regional focus and cooperation on the situation in the country. "The recent developments in Afghanistan will have the greatest impact on neighbouring countries like us. And therefore, there is a need for regional focus and cooperation on this issue," he said. Modi warned that if "instability and fundamentalism" persist in Afghanistan, it will encourage terrorist and extremist ideologies all over the world. "Other extremist groups can also be encouraged to gain power through violence," he said, adding the change of power in Afghanistan is not inclusive and has happened without negotiation. The prime minister also flagged his concerns over the serious humanitarian crisis unfolding in Afghanistan, noting that the economic woes of the Afghan people are increasing due to the blockage in financial and trade flows. He said the developments in Afghanistan could lead to an "uncontrolled" flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking. "A large amount of advanced weapons remain in Afghanistan. Due to these, there will be a risk of instability in the entire region," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Govt wants to vaccinate eligible people in poll-bound UP, Punjab with at least one Covid jab||Administering at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine to the eligible population in states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year is on the priority list of the government, according to official sources. Also, the target of a landmark 100 crore Covid vaccination doses is likely to be completed by the second week of October, Union health ministry sources said on Friday. "Inoculating eligible people in states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where assembly elections are to be held next year with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine is on the priority list of the government," a source said. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 78 crore on Friday. The government said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Of all the vaccines used, around 87.8 per cent are Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute, around 12.11 per cent are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and less than one per cent Sputnik V. At least 50 per cent of the beneficiaries have been administered the first dose in Uttar Pradesh. The target is to cover the 100 per cent eligible population with at least one shot before the polls, the sources said. Commenting about the delay of Pfizer and Moderna's Covid vaccines in India, the sources said change in the demands of the manufacturers from time to time is leading to delay in making these vaccines available in the country and as to why they have not been given indemnity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium recommends 8 names for appointment as chief justices at high courts||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended eight names to the Centre for appointing them as chief justices of different high courts across the country, sources said on Friday. They said the eight names include acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal, who has been recommended to be transferred as the chief justice of Allahabad High Court. The sources said the three-member collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, has also recommended that chief justice of Tripura High Court Justice Akil Qureshi be transferred to the Rajasthan High Court. They said besides Allahabad, the high courts of Calcutta, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telengana, Meghalaya, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh will get new chief justices. Besides the CJI, the three-member collegium which deals with appointment in high courts includes Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. They have decided to recommend transfer of five chief justices and 28 other high court judges to other high courts, sources said. "The decision on major reshuffle and appointment of chief justices in high courts have taken place following marathon meetings," a reliable source told PTI, adding that meetings in this regard took place on Thursday and today. The collegium decisions, containing the names and details of the judges, are yet to be uploaded on the apex court's website, the source said. The sources said besides Justice Qureshi, the collegium has recommended transfer of chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice Arup Kumar Goswami to the Chhattisgarh High Court, chief justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court Justice Mohd Rafiq to the Himachal Pradesh High Court. They said the collegium has recommended transfer of chief justice of Rajasthan High Court Justice Indrajit Mahanty to the Tripura High Court and Meghalaya High Court chief justice Justice Biswanath Somadder to the Sikkim High Court. Besides Justice Bindal, the Collegium has recommended names of Justices Prakash Srivastava, Prashant Kumar Mishra, Ritu Raj Awasthi, Satish Chandra Sharma, Ranjit V More, Aravind Kumar and R V Malimath for appointing them as chief justices of different high courts across the country, the sources said. They said names of Justices Prakash Srivastava, Prashant Kumar Mishra and Ritu Raj Awasthi have been recommended for appointment as chief justices of high courts of Calcutta, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Similarly, names of Justices Satish Chandra Sharma, Ranjit V More, Aravind Kumar and R V Malimath have been recommended for appointing them as chief justices of high courts of Telangana, Meghalaya, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, they said. The recommendations by the collegium have been made close on the heels of a historic decision to recommend 68 names in one go for judgeship in 12 high courts across the country. Recently, the collegium had recommended 10 names to the Centre for appointment as permanent judges in the Karnataka High Court. These recommendations assume significance in view of the statement made by the CJI in a recent function of the Bar Council of India that it has been his endeavour to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an "urgent basis". Referring to nine appointments in one go in the apex court bench, Justice Ramana had said, Similarly, after I took over, the Collegium has recommended, if I am not wrong, 82 names to various high courts. "I hope the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court. It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41 percent vacancies existing in all the high courts, he had said, adding that in another month, he expected that 90 percent of vacancies will be filled. The 25 high courts of the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges. Prior to this, in a historic decision on August 17, the five-member Collegium headed by the CJI had recommended nine names for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court, including three women. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||India paying price for Modi's failure, says Congress while wishing leader on birthday||The Congress on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday but said the country is paying the price for his "failures" on several fronts and so the day is being observed as "unemployment day", "anti-farmer day" and "high prices day". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi extended his wishes to the prime minister on Twitter. "Happy Birthday, Modi ji," he said. For the Indian Youth Congress and the NSUI, it was "national unemployment day". Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said birthdays of former prime ministers are celebrated as different days, with Jawaharlal Nehru's birthday as "Children's Day", Indira Gandhi's as "National Integration Day", Rajiv Gandhi's as "Sadbhavna Day" and Atal Bihari Vajpayee's as "Good Governance Day". But Modi's birthday is being observed as "unemployment day", she added. She said she prays that God gives the prime minister the wisdom to realise what he has led the country to. "It is the prime minister's birthday and from this platform, we wish him a happy birthday. We pray for his well being, but we do believe that this day is being celebrated in many parts of the country as unemployment day, anti-farmer day, high prices day, crippled economy day, as winning over your crony capitalists friends day, as ED, IT, CBI raid day, and the corona mismanagement day," Shrinate told reporters. "We do believe that in the last seven years, you have failed on several fronts and we hope and pray that God gives you the wisdom to realise that this is what you have led the country to. This is where, you have failed and today as a result, India is paying a heavy price for it," she also said. She claimed India has the maximum number of unemployed people despite Modi's tall promises. She alleged that every month, jobs are being lost and asked, "where are those two crore annual jobs, one would want to ask? Why are 61 lakh government jobs lying vacant?" Noting that farmers are protesting for nine long months without a solution in sight, Shrinate said high prices in gas, diesel, petrol, edible oil, pulses, daily essential items are making lives of people difficult. She claimed demonetisation and GST have crippled the economy and there has been shutdown of MSMEs and small businesses as a result, as investment in the consumption chain is completely broken. "Still, you have put India on sale for a few friends of yours and which is why, it is important that we are calling it the 'punjipati poojan divas' (crony capitalist friends day)," she said. Shrinate also alleged that during Covid crisis, the country faced shortage of vaccines, oxygen, essential drugs as the prime minister was too busy electioneering and the "red flags were being manipulated to suit his image". She accused the prime minister of misuse of ED, IT, CBI, as frontal organisations. "The PM has broken the very framework of our Constitution and they have hurt the very foundation of our democracy and which is why, the 'ED, IT, CBI raid divas' is perhaps an apt coinage here," she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court allows Kerala to hold offline Class 11 exams, government hails move||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea challenging Kerala government's decision to hold physical exam for Class 11. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said a detailed affidavit has been filed and they are taking all measures related to the coronavirus protocol. The top court said holistic approach has to be taken in the matter and the authorities are conscious of their duties. "We are convinced by the explanation offered by the state and trust authorities will take all precautions and necessary steps so that no untoward situation is faced by students who are of tender age and appearing for the proposed examination. Dismissed," the bench said. The apex court said it had intervened on the earlier occasion as there was a possibility of third wave of corona by September. "Third wave is not in offing immediately," the bench said. The Kerala government in an affidavit had told the top court that online examinations will be a disadvantage for students with no access to laptops and mobile phones. The conduct of examination through online mode will prejudice a large number of students who have no access to laptops, desktops or even mobile phones. The students belonging to the lower strata of society are depending on mobile phones or tablets for attending online classes. "In many areas, internet connection or mobile data are not available. These students will never be able to write online examinations," the state government had told the court. Reacting to the verdict, state General Education Minister V Sivankutty said a majority of students wanted to write the examination offline and it will be held without creating any difficulties for them. He said once the details of the apex court verdict are available, the examination date will be fixed in consultation with the Chief Minister and other departments. He said a new timetable will be prepared for conducting the examination. The apex court had on September 3 stayed for a week Kerala government's decision to conduct offline exams for Class XI commencing from September 6 amid the rising cases of COVID saying "there is an alarming situation in the state". The top court had observed that "cases in Kerala are about 70 per cent cases of the country and children of this age cannot be exposed to this risk".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks IT Department stand on Newslaundry plea over data leakage||The Delhi High Court Friday sought Income Tax Department's stand on a plea by online news portal Newslaundry and its co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri to restrain any leakage of the material seized during a survey operation held earlier this month. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla granted time to the department's counsel to seek instructions on giving an undertaking against any leak and asked that the concerned officer join the proceedings on the next date of hearing i.e. September 21. "Ask your client (to join proceedings) so that we can close it then and there. Let him be by your side... If he gives a statement, we can put a quietus to the matter," said the bench to the lawyer who asserted that the fear of leak was a bald apprehension . "Data of thousands of assessees is in safe custody of the department and it can be used only in accordance with law," said counsel for the department Ajit Shamra. During the course of the hearing, the bench orally observed, "Normally, no one's data should be leaked as it is ethically, morally and legally wrong. "We have seen it on channels, people's data that has been seized is being displayed... It should not happen," it remarked. Senior counsel Siddharth Dave, appearing for the petitioners, said that four notices under the Income Tax Act were issued to his client and a survey was held in the news portal's premises on September 10, during which several devices, including a mobile phone and a laptop belonging to the petitioner co-founder, were seized by the IT authorities, which contained several information which were of no relevance to any income tax proceedings. The data may contain personal photos and information pertaining to investigative stories, he said. The senior lawyer argued that any data breach would be in violation of right to privacy and therefore a direction should be passed to the IT authorities to not leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings. It was also contended that any seizure during a survey operation was beyond the scope of survey and that no hash value of the seized data was given. "Please direct them not to leak seized data collected in this purported garb of a survey and allow me to delete (non I-T related) data," the senior lawyer submitted. In the petition filed through advocate Nipun Katyal, the petitioners have said that the income tax officers and authorities do not have any power to interrupt the ordinary peaceful citizens of the country in any manner they like by utilizing the large powers given to them, without keeping strictly within the four corners of those large powers. "The Petitioners are heading a news organization, the Petitioners herein have sources, contacts and other information on the digital machines. It is the fiduciary duty of the Petitioners to protect them and keep it confidential. "It is further submitted that the legal communication regarding existing cases is present in the personal laptop and phone of the Petitioners. If in any circumstances, the leaks are committed, it shall be a clear breach of the attorney-client privilege as well as whistleblowers confidentiality," the plea says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Sukhbir Singh Badal, Harsimrat Badal detained by Delhi Police over protesting against farm laws||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, senior party leader and Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and several other members were on Friday detained by the Delhi Police even as allegations regarding the use of force to stop the party's "Black Friday march" by the authorities surfaced. The SAD chief and others were booked for violating section 144 of CrPc, which prohibits large gatherings, and taken to the Parliament Street Police Station. "We were here to protest... Delhi Police used force to stop us. Police sealed the borders... our workers were lathi-charged. (Arvind) Kejriwal government gave orders that we cannot gather at a gurudwara... central government also stopped us. This is undemocratic," Harsimrat told NDTV. "We had clearly said this will be a peaceful protest," she was quoted as saying. Earlier, massive traffic jams hit parts of the national capital, including Lutyens' Delhi and ITO as SAD members gathered at Delhi borders to mark one year of farmers' protest. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed about closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border and suggested commuters to refrain from using these routes in view of the farmers' movement. Two Delhi Metro stations near Tikri border with Haryana, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests, were on Friday closed owing to security reasons, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said.  The three agriculture laws, which the farmers have been protesting against for several months now, were passed in Parliament on September 17, 2020, and SAD minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||On PM's birthday, daily Covid vaccination count crosses two crore for first time||India set a record on Friday by administering over two crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, in a major push to the inoculation drive on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. The cumulative doses administered in the country reached 2,03,68,343 at 5.27 pm, according to data on the Co-WIN portal. The total number of doses administered in the country has crossed 78.72 crore. "A gift to the prime minister on behalf of health workers and people of the country. On the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi today, India has crossed the historic figure of administering 2 crore vaccine doses in a day, setting a new record. Well done India!" Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted in Hindi. The daily vaccinations crossed the one-crore mark for the fourth time in less than a month. Mandaviya said this is the fastest pace at which one crore doses have been administered. "On PM @Narendra Modi Ji's birthday, till 1:30 pm, the country has crossed the mark of 1 crore vaccines, the fastest so far, and we are continuously moving forward. I believe that today we will all make a new record of vaccination and give it as a gift to the prime minister," he said in a tweet in Hindi earlier along with the hashtags "VaccineSeva" and "HappyBdayModiji". The daily COVID-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. Mandaviya on Thursday had called for a major push to the COVID-19 vaccination drive during Prime Minister Modi's birthday on Friday, saying it would be the perfect gift for him. The BJP has asked its units across the country to help get a large number of people vaccinated on the occasion. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7, the ministry said. The total number of doses administered crossed the 75-crore mark on September 13. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Bharat Biotech awaits feedback from WHO for Covaxin EUL||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has submitted all the data pertaining to its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World health organisation for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. The WHO is currently reviewing the data submitted by the vaccine maker and the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed," according to the update available on WHO website. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled & available in June 2021. All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech tweeted. As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for its other vaccines, the company said it would not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on approval process and its timelines, it further said. "We are continuing to work diligently on obtaining WHO EUL at the earliest, the vaccine maker added in a series of tweets. In an update on its website, the WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech recently had earlier said the EUL process is a step closer to the final decision on Covaxin's 'global acceptance.' PTI GDK SS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Long traffic jams in parts of Delhi amid Akali Dal's anti-farm law protest march||Massive traffic jams hit parts of the national capital, including Lutyens' Delhi and ITO, on Friday amid a protest march organised by members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) against the Centre's farm laws. The Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about closure of specific roads and suggested diversions to avoid any inconvenience. It said most of the calls regarding traffic jam came from New Delhi, Dhaula Kuan, ITO, Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate, Karol Bagh areas. ITO stretch is heavily choked by the vehicles. There was also traffic at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital roundabout. 30-year-old advocate Rohit Tomar said it took him more than two hours to cover a distance of 12 kilometres. "I left my home around 8.45 am for Patiala House court, but got stuck in traffic. The whole section of Vikas Marg from Laxmi Nagar to ITO was jammed. The vehicles were crawling on that particular section. The area of Geeta Colony was also jammed. I somehow managed to reached Patiala House around 11 am, Tomar said. Many commuters took Twitter to complain about the traffic. One of the commuters mentioned that there was heavy traffic from Laxmi Nagar to ITO and it took him one hour to cover a distance of four kilometres. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed about closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border and suggested commuters to refrain from using these routes in view of the farmers' movement. "Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, RML Hospital, GPO, Ashoka Road, Baba Kharak Singh Marg will be full due to the farmers' movement. Please refrain from using these routes," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted in Hindi. "Jharoda Kalan border both the roads have been closed by barricading dye to the farmers movement, please refrain from using this route, another tweet mentioned. "The traffic coming from Gurgaon to Sadar Patel Marg and the traffic coming from Narayan to loop has also been diverted towards Ring Road Moti Bagh, the traffic will remain heavy," the traffic police said in another tweet. Traffic going from Pusa roundabout towards Shankar Road has also been diverted towards Pusa Road, the traffic police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Modi calls for SCO template to fight radicalisation, extremism||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called for developing a template by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to effectively deal with the challenges of extremism and radicalisation. In a virtual address at the annual SCO summit, Modi said the "root cause" of the problems facing the region is increasing radicalisation and the developments in Afghanistan reflected the challenge. "I believe that the biggest challenges in this area are related to peace, security and trust deficit. And the root cause of these problems is the increasing radicalisation. The recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more clear," he said. The prime minister said the SCO should develop a template to fight radicalisation and extremism. Modi said the SCO should work to develop a strong network among moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. He said the fight against radicalisation is not only needed for regional security and trust but also required to ensure a bright future for the youth of the region. The prime minister also said that India is committed to increasing its connectivity with Central Asia. "If we take a look at history, we will find that Central Asia has been a bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values. Sufism flourished here over the centuries and spread throughout the region and the world. We can still see them in the cultural heritage of this region," the Prime Minister said. "Based on this historical heritage of Central Asia, SCO should make a common template of fighting radicalisation and extremism. In India, and in almost all the countries of the SCO, there are moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam," PM Modi said. At the same time, he also said that any connectivity initiative cannot be a "one-way street" and connectivity projects should be consultative, transparent and participatory. Welcoming Iran to the SCO as the ninth member, PM Modi said India is helping increase connectivity in Afghanistan via Iran's Chabahar Port, and such projects should be done by "respecting each nation's sovereignty" - a hint at the so-called China-Pakistan Economic Corridor or CPEC which India doesn't recognise as it passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. "We believe that landlocked Central Asian countries can benefit immensely by connecting with India's vast market... All (SCO) member states must ensure that connectivity projects must not be affected by the situation on ground. Of course, all this must be done respecting each nation's sovereignty," PM Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for early resolution of remaining issues in talks with Chinese counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and that China avoid viewing its ties with India through the lens of a third country. In a meeting on the sidelines of the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe on Thursday, the two foreign ministers exchanged views on the current situation in the region and agreed that military and diplomatic officials of both sides should meet again and discuss resolving the remaining issues at the earliest. Jaishankar also told Wang that India had never subscribed to any "clash of civilisations theory" and that Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). He also said the two sides need to establish a relationship based on "mutual respect" for which it was necessary that China avoid viewing the ties with India from the perspective of its relations with third countries, it said. On Twitter, Jaishankar said: "It is also essential that China does not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country." While Jaishankar mentioned "a third country", the statement by the MEA talked about "third countries". It is learnt that the two sides also exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan after the Taliban''s takeover of the country. In a statement, the MEA said on Friday that the two ministers exchanged views on the current situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh as well as on global developments. It said Jaishankar underlined that it was necessary to ensure progress in the resolution of remaining issues so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in eastern Ladakh as such an atmosphere in the border areas has been an essential basis for progress in the bilateral relations. "In this regard, the ministers agreed that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should meet again and continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues at the earliest," the MEA said. "In this context, the external affairs minister (EAM) recalled that Foreign Minister Wang Yi had in their last meeting noted that the bilateral relations were at low ebb," it said. The MEA said both sides in the previous meeting had agreed that a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side as it was impacting the relationship in a negative manner. "The EAM, therefore, emphasised that the two sides should work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols," the MEA said. "The external affairs minister noted that since their last meeting on July 14, the two sides had made some progress in the resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and had completed the disengagement in Gogra area," it said. However, there were still some outstanding issues that needed to be resolved," it added. The two leaders had held a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of another conclave of the SCO in Dushanbe on July 14. In the meeting, Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. At Thursday''s meeting, the two ministers also exchanged views on the recent global developments. "The EAM conveyed that India had never subscribed to any clash of civilisations theory. He said that India and China had to deal with each other on merits and establish a relationship based on mutual respect," the MEA said. "For this, it was necessary that China avoid viewing our bilateral relations from the perspective of its relations with third countries. Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations," it said. It said the ministers agreed to remain in touch. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||India logs over 34,000 fresh Covid cases, 320 casualties in a day||With 34,403 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has increased to 3,33,81,728, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,39,056, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,44,248 with 320 more fatalities being recorded, it said. The number of active cases now comprises 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.64 per cent, according to the data updated by the ministry at 8 am. It said that active COVID-19 cases in the country decreased by 3,867 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,27,420 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,92,29,149, the data showed. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.97 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 84 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 3,25,60,474, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the vaccination drive has exceeded 77.24 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India recorded two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 320 new fatalities include 178 from Kerala, 45 from Maharashtra and 25 from Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. It said that 4,44,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,322 from Maharashtra, 37,555 from Karnataka, 35,271 from Tamil Nadu, 25,084 from Delhi, 23,165 from Kerala, 22,886 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,620 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||PM Modi turns 71, president, ministers extend wishes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned 71 on Friday and birthday greetings poured in from President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and various leaders across parties while BJP leaders hailed his leadership. To mark the day, the BJP has asked its workers to facilitate the COVID-19 vaccination drive as it eyes record-breaking numbers on Friday. BJP president J P Nadda launched a mega 20-day public outreach, "Seva aur Samarpan", to mark the prime minister's birthday and it will continue till October 7 to also commemorate his 20 years in public life, including the period when he served as Gujarat chief minister. Wishing him a long and healthy life, President Kovind hoped that Modi may continue to serve the nation with his spirit of relentless service. Vice President Naidu said Modi's exceptional vision, exemplary leadership and dedicated service have led to an all-around growth of the nation. He also said amid challenges in the last one year, his efforts to encourage the spirit of self-reliance has borne fruits. Home Minister Amit Shah lauded Modi, saying he not only gave the country the idea to think ahead of time and fulfil its resolve with hardwork but also made it a reality. In Modi, the country has got a strong and decisive leader who gave a dignified life to those who were deprived of their rights for decades, he said. Modi brought them in the mainstream of development, Shah added. The prime minister has shown the world what people-loving leadership is like, he said. A number of opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, also extended wishes to Modi. Pawar tweeted, "Warm Birthday Wishes to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji. I wish him good health and happiness." Gandhi said, "Happy birthday, Modi ji." Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Modi has written many new chapters in development and good governance in his tenure so far and wished that he fulfil his dream of making India a strong, prosperous and proud country. Born in Gujarat in 1950, Modi joined Hindutva organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at an early age and was later drafted into the BJP. Made Gujarat chief minister in 2001, Modi has never suffered an electoral setback when votes were cast on his leadership, leading the BJP to power in the state for three consecutive terms and then at the Centre back to back in 2014 and 2019. The BJP will also be distributing over 14 crore ration kits and holding blood camps besides organising other welfare activities during the 20-day campaign. In his greetings, Nadda hailed Modi as the most popular leader of the world, and said he is dedicated to the progress of the most deprived person in society and symbolises foresighted and decisive leadership besides tireless efforts. The Dalai Lama also wished the prime minister and congratulated him on the growing confidence he had brought among the people, despite challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In his letter to the prime minster, the Dalai Lama also said that as the most populous democratic nation in the world, India's success benefits not only the people of the country, but also contributes to the development of the world as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||‘Om Jai Jagdish Hare’ played by army band triggers debate||A video showing lined-up and uniformed men clapping to the beat of Om Jai Jagdish Hare, being played by the army band, has prompted many veterans to wonder whether the occasion was a passing-out parade and caution that, if so, the happenings violated the army’s secular traditions. Army spokesperson Colonel Sudhir Chamoli denied it was a passing-out parade, insisting the men were performing aarti outside the temple of their unit on a religious occasion and that there was nothing wrong with that. Colonel Chamoli, who said the video showed a religious occasion and not a ceremonial parade, told The Telegraph: “This is nothing new. The Indian Army conducts parades for all religions — mandir parade, gurdwara parade, masjid parade, etc. If a regiment is predominantly Christian, then Christmas is a regimental function and we have a parade.” But many veterans said that several clues — including the youth of the soldiers, the weapons they carried and the general look of the place and event — suggested it was a passing-out parade though they couldn’t be certain about the geographical location. Whether the clip shows a passing-out parade or not or if it turns out to be not authentic, the fact that several veterans chose to express concern mirrors the anxieties that swirl around almost every institution in the nation in the past few years. Colonel (retired) Harinder Chhina saw the development as “introducing Hindutva in (the) army”, while a former IPS officer, N.C. Asthana, tweeted that the “last bastion of a secular State has fallen with this”. It’s common for army regiments to play religious music from the various faiths during holy occasions, and for the soldiers to march to its accompaniment. But, retired officers said, they had never heard of religious music being played during ceremonial parades — such as Republic Day parades or passing-out parades — which are “institution-level” and not regimental events. As the incident sparked a social media controversy, former Lieutenant General H.S. Panag tweeted the video and posted: “Great leap forward for ceremonial military parades....” Former brigadier Sandy Thapar tweeted: “This seems a rehearsal of POP (passing-out parade), GCs (gentlemen cadets) running around.... This is at the start of drill square from where the procedure begins. I do not recollect this procedure of Aarti. Neither as GC nor as instructor there.” A gentleman cadet is a trainee at a military academy. A passing-out parade is held when a batch completes its training. A retired lieutenant general said the video certainly showed a “drill square”, from where a passing-out parade starts. “The video is of a passing-out parade as we can see the new recruits standing in front and a few seniors standing behind them. They are carrying weapons — why should they carry weapons while doing aarti outside a temple at their unit?” he said. Some veterans appeared non-committal. The former navy chief, Admiral Arun Prakash, had raised a query on Wednesday, tweeting the video and tagging the former army chief, General V.P. Malik. “My doubts: Is this clip authentic? & if so, is this drill & bagpipe score as per Indian army custom/ tradition/ SOP for a parade @Vedmalik1,” he had written. Gen Malik tweeted back: “This appears to be a religious event organised by an Artillery Regt. A new event by its nature. Let someone from younger generation answer custom/SOP query.” Admiral Prakash said in another tweet: “Certainly a new event, and a novel drill format wherein the rifle is held between the legs, while parade claps with both hands!” Another veteran, Manoj Kumar Channan, who did not state his former rank, tweeted: “Desecration of sacred drill square, never in my life I thought of witnessing this... sad.” Colonel Chhina wrote: “This (video) seems to be authentic. If true it is against military traditions. For God’s sake, (Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin) Rawat is requested to discard this process of introducing Hindutva in Army.” Former IPS Asthana tweeted: “The last bastion of a Secular State has fallen with this. The tune and the gestures leave no doubt. What a shame to the uniform and its neutral character. Realise how it all fits into the Grand design — on paper a Secular State; in practice a Theocracy. “Their (regiments’) performing religious rituals is however, fundamentally different from such things during ceremonial parades. Ceremonial parades belong to the institutions, and not regts.” A veteran cited how Rawat had on Thursday performed puja for the new defence complex in Delhi that will house over 7,000 personnel. “Such activities were earlier never seen or publicised by the secular Indian Army,” the veteran said, calling it “a very dangerous trend”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Kerala: Hate targets Muslim-owned businesses after bishop comment||Two food-processing companies in Kerala have become targets of a communal hate campaign and boycott call in connection with a bishop’s allegations about a “love jihad” and a “narcotic jihad”. The companies, both based in Erattupetta in Kottayam and owned by Muslims, are being “accused” on social media of facilitating a recent protest march in Pala against Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala Diocese. The bishop had alleged that Muslims were luring non-Muslim women into conversion and radicalism, and non-Muslim youth into drug addiction. Ajmi Flour Mills India Pvt Ltd and KKFM India Pvt Ltd, which sell ready-to-cook breakfast, have denied having anything to do with the September 10 march or with any political party or ideology. Had the companies provided free transport to the marchers — who were from all communities — as alleged, they would have been acting within their democratic rights. Police have started a case based on complaints from the companies, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday instructed his administration to take “stringent action” against anyone spreading communal hatred. Several hate messages were found on a Facebook page named Christian Cyber Warriors. One of the messages said: “Have you ever seen sudapi (a portmanteau derived from the name of an outfit and intended at mocking extremist Muslims) buying anything from other communities?” The page carried a slide calling for the boycott of KKFM and Ajmi and several posts on the marches held at several places in support of the bishop’s controversial comments. “It seems a vehicle belonging to Ajmi had transported jihadis to the protest (against the bishop)…. Like a priest said the other day, we should boycott their products,” a Facebook user named K.D. Murali Kollakonath posted. KKFM has denied a claim made in several social media posts that its owners are related to a man convicted of chopping the hand of a professor, T.J. Joseph, in 2010 for an alleged remark against Islam. Being related to a criminal is anyway not a criminal offence in Indian law, nor a moral offence in most cultures. Recently, the Bangalore-based iD Fresh Food (India) Ltd, which too sells ready-to-cook food, had faced a hate campaign that claimed the company’s iD brand of idli and dosa batter contained cow bones and calf rennet. The company, started by IIM Bangalore graduate P.C. Mustafa and four of his cousins from Kerala in 2005, had lodged a police complaint. Ajmi and KKFM have lodged complaints with the district police, cyber cell and the grievance cells of Facebook and WhatsApp and written to chief minister Vijayan. “We have nothing to do with any protest or political party,” the director of Ajmi food, K.A. Rashid, told The Telegraph on Thursday. He suggested a possible conspiracy by a business competitor. “We can’t rule out a competitor trying to discredit us since we are the market leaders. In any case, the police are investigating and we are sure the culprits will be arrested soon,” Rashid said. He added: “Some people have apologised to us claiming they had shared these messages without knowing the truth. They perhaps chickened out after realising the police were investigating the matter.” Vijayan said on Thursday: “Kerala has a tradition of secularism and brotherhood. There are some attempts from some quarters to destroy this. There will be stringent action against them.” Fayas Mohammed, marketing manager of KKFM, said the allegations were first made at discussions a few groups had held on Clubhouse and Facebook a few days ago. “A local online news portal ran a story without naming us. But then the discussions on Clubhouse and Facebook turned into a hate campaign,” Mohammed said. “Some extremely communal audio clips were also circulating on social media.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court cracks whip, Modi govt reinstates tribunal chief||The Narendra Modi government scrambled on Thursday to reinstate Justice Ashok Iqbal Singh Cheema as chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to enable him to complete his term on September 20 after the Supreme Court threatened to suo motu stay the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. The successor, appointed prematurely, will go on leave until Justice Cheema’s tenure ends next week. Veterans said this was possibly the first time a retired chairperson of a judicial or quasi-judicial outfit had been reinstated and the incumbent sent on leave. The attorney-general consulted the Centre and agreed to the reinstatement after an apex court bench helmed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana warned the government of staying the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, through which the government has arrogated to itself the power to ensure that a tribunal member remains in office “until further orders”. The court is hearing another case challenging the act’s provisions and had on Wednesday blasted the government for saying it had the right to reject names recommended for tribunals. Incumbent NCLAT chairperson Justice M. Venugopal, a former Madras High Court judge, will remain on leave till September 20, when Justice Cheema’s tenure is scheduled to end, as there cannot be two chairpersons. During Thursday’s hearing, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had initially tried to resist the reinstatement of Justice Cheema, abruptly sent on early retirement on September 16 by the Centre that cited the new Tribunal Reforms Act. AG Venugopal reasoned that sending Justice Venugopal on leave would create an “awkward” situation. CJI Ramana replied: “Mr Attorney, tell us, how fair is it? He (Justice Cheema) has some judgments to pronounce. If you retire him, there will be a problem of rehearing those cases. The way these orders were passed was also very awkward. You have created this awkward situation.” After sending Justice Cheema into early retirement with retrospective effect from September 11, the Centre had appointed Justice Venugopal on September 16 itself. Justice Cheema had approached the Supreme Court against the government’s decision. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing Justice Cheema, had on Wednesday urged the CJI to list the matter for urgent hearing. Accordingly, the matter was listed on Thursday before the bench that also had Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. AG Venugopal told the court that the government was willing to reinstate Justice Cheema “only on paper” as it would be “awkward” to send Justice Venugopal on leave. Datar opposed the submission, contending that there was no provision for appointing or reinstating a tribunal chairperson “on paper”. CJI Ramana agreed with Datar and said Justice Cheema had to pronounce five judgments and, therefore, there could not be any question of his reinstatement only on paper. The AG submitted that “it will be odd and awkward” to remove the current officiating chairperson and bring back Justice Cheema to complete his tenure. AG Venugopal said the decision to prematurely retire Justice Cheema was in tune with the new legislation under which the Centre enjoyed “certain powers”. Justice Ramana then warned the government: “We will suo motu stay your legislation.” This prompted the AG to seek instructions from the government. The bench adjourned the matter for half an hour to enable the government’s highest law officer to seek the Centre’s stand. When the hearing resumed, AG Venugopal told Justice Ramana that the government had agreed to reinstate Justice Cheema and allow him to continue till September 20 and Justice Venugopal would be asked to go on leave until September 20. The top court recorded this in its order and closed the case, saying: “The attorney-general has solved the problem. We thank you for this.” Later, the court passed the following written order: “Heard learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner as also Mr K.K. Venugopal, learned attorney-general for India, and carefully perused the material placed on record. During the course of hearing, learned attorney-general fairly states that respondent No. 1 — the Union of India — has no objection… to allow the petitioner to work up to 20.09.2021 as the Officiating Chairperson, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi, to enable him to pronounce the judgments prepared by him.” “…Learned attorney-general further submits that… consequential order will be passed by the respondents forthwith. It is also the submission of the learned attorney-general that respondent No. 3 (Justice M. Venugopal) will proceed on leave up to 20.09.2021. “Taking note of the submissions advanced by the learned attorney-general for India, the writ petition stands disposed of in the above terms. We make it clear that the instant order has been passed taking into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present facts and this shall not be treated as a precedent….” Justice Cheema, a former judge of Bombay High Court, was appointed as a judicial member of the NCLAT in September 2017 and thereafter made its chairperson on April 19, 2021. He was to demit office on September 20 after completing his tenure of five years. According to the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, a member has to retire either after four years of service or at the age of 67 and can stay in office “until further orders”. This is contrary to the Supreme Court’s earlier ruling that a member should have a minimum tenure of five years or until the incumbent attains the age of 70. The new tribunal rules have been challenged before the Supreme Court in separate petitions filed by the Madras Bar Association and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh as being unconstitutional, arbitrary and illegal. They have contended that the new law has been enacted to circumvent the earlier judgments of the Supreme Court that had ruled in favour of complete autonomy and independence of quasi-judicial institutions like the NCLAT. In 2019, a five-judge constitution bench had struck down an amendment made to the appointment and removal process by the government under the Finance Act, 2017. The Modi government had then brought an ordinance with similar provisions, which too was struck down by the apex court in April this year on a petition filed by the Madras Bar Association. Subsequently, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Nageswara Rao reiterated that the constitution bench had struck down some amendments made by the Centre in 2020 to dilute the effects of the 2019 judgment. However, the Centre again came out with a fresh legislation to override both the constitution bench and the subsequent ruling by the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||ED raids premises associated with former IAS officer Harsh Mander||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday raided premises associated with activist and former IAS officer Harsh Mander, a vocal critic of many of the Narendra Modi government’s policies, prompting academics and rights defenders to allege an attempt to “intimidate and try to silence” every dissenter. The raids, carried out purportedly in connection with a money-laundering probe, began between 8am and 9am and were continuing past 8pm. Mander’s home and his office at the Centre for Equity Studies (CES) — a think tank — were raided along with two children’s homes in Mehrauli, South Delhi, with which the CES is associated, ED sources said. Mander had left for Germany with his wife on Wednesday night to join a nine-month fellowship programme at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin. The ED sources said the raids were conducted on the basis of an FIR registered by Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) in February after the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) alleged financial irregularities following inspections of the children’s homes. However, the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights had contradicted the apex child rights body’s report in Delhi High Court. Also, the FIR does not name Mander, the agency sources acknowledged. Mander has been a thorn in the ruling dispensation’s flesh, seeking action against BJP politicians for allegedly inciting the February 2020 Delhi riots and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act. Historian and Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson Rajmohan Gandhi, former navy chief L. Ramdas, former top cop Julio Ribeiro, RTI activist Aruna Roy, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, economist Jean Dreze, senior advocate Indira Jaising, CPI leader Annie Raja, CPIML Liberation leader Kavita Krishnan and around 600 others have issued a statement expressing solidarity with Mander. Thursday’s raids come six days after income-tax officials held “surveys” at the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry, two news websites deeply critical of the Centre. Sources said the sleuths arrived at Mander’s Vasant Kunj home at 8am, and at his CSE office around 8.45am. The raids on the children’s homes — Umeed Aman Ghar for boys and Khushi Rainbow Home for girls — began about the same time. The ED did not issue any official statement on the raids. An ED source said: “The police’s FIR is against the two children’s homes and their parent body, the Centre for Equity Studies, of which Mander is a director. It was based on a report submitted by the NCPCR last year, alleging financial irregularities.” When the NCPCR raided the two children’s homes last October, Mander has said, its officials sought details of their foreign funding and asked whether the kids at the two homes had participated in the anti-CAA protests, and whether shelter had been given to Rohingya children. The NCPCR informed Delhi High Court in July that it had recommended action against the two children’s homes after finding irregularities. Mander had then accused the Centre of a political vendetta. “We had been receiving notices from the EOW since last year and from the ED this year. They were curious why Harsh did not draw a salary and why the CES only functioned from rented premises,” a CES source said. “We don’t know what they are looking for now. The spate of notices increased after Harsh filed a plea in court this year seeking an FIR against BJP leader Kapil Mishra (for allegedly inciting communal riots last year with a speech).” When the ED sleuths arrived at the CES office in Adhchini, south Delhi, only the caretaker was present, an office source said. “They (sleuths) called two senior administrative staff members and have been searching every file in the office,” the source said. “Mr Mander’s home in Vasant Kunj is also being raided. His daughter Suroor (an advocate) has been held inside since morning. We have no contact with her.” The source said the office had hosted a farewell party for Mander on Wednesday before he and his wife left for Berlin. Mander will do the Richard von Weizsäcker Fellowship on development policy, peace and human rights, and social change in Asia and the Pacific. Solidarity The statement issued by over 600 people expressing solidarity with Mander said: “Over the past year, Harsh Mander and the CES have been subjected to continued harassment by multiple state agencies. The false and malicious allegations by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) were definitively countered by the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), a statutory body, which has filed a strong affidavit in Delhi High Court, putting an end to the false allegations against the CES.” “(The) CES has also been subjected to harassment by the economic offences wing (EOW), and the IT department. All these vindictive efforts combined have showed neither diversion of money nor any violation of the law. The current raids by the ED and IT department are to be viewed in this context, as part of a continuing chain of abuse of state institutions to threaten, intimidate and try to silence every critic of the present government.” Actress Nandita Das tweeted: “Having known him personally and worked with him, I can only say, that this raid says it all. In solidarity with @harsh_mander.” Progressive International, a global Leftist organisation, said: “We condemn this attack on PI Council member @harsh_mander. Such raids have been denounced as a common tactic employed by the Indian government to silence progressive voices and critics — a blatant misuse of government authority.” Congress veteran Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “One day after the International Day of Democracy, Modi Sarkar continues with its FDI obsession — Fear, Deception, Intimidation, by harassing a renowned activist and intellectual, Harsh Mander.” BSP parliamentarian Danish Ali cited Wednesday’s visit by income-tax officials to premises linked to actor Sonu Sood and tweeted: “The message is very clear... those who are not with us, ED, CBI and other government agencies will ‘take care’ of them.” Sood, who helped migrant workers return home during last year’s lockdown, had recently been declared brand ambassador of the Aam Aadmi Party government’s “Desh Ka Mentors” programme in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi springs ‘horse’ defence on Central Vista critics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday accused the critics of his government’s Central Vista project of “spreading misinformation” and being driven by “personal agendas” that had no concern for the condition of important administrative offices. Inaugurating new offices of the defence ministry that will be part of the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista, Modi stressed that his government gave the “highest priority and honour” to the armed forces. “People who were after the Central Vista project, spreading misinformation, very cleverly skipped the fact that this (new defence ministry offices) also is part of the project. It will provide modern infrastructure to over 7,000 defence officers who used to work from World War II-era hutments,” the Prime Minister said. “If they (the critics) had done so, their misinformation campaign and personal agendas would have been exposed.” The Central Vista in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi will have a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, offices, residences for the Prime Minister and other ministers and a new PMO. The Prime Minister said the offices were the first to be completed as part of the Central Vista project to provide modern infrastructure to defence officers, who work for the safety and security of the country. The Opposition, particularly Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had castigated the government for going ahead with the project in the middle of the pandemic, terming it a “criminal waste of money”, and urged the government to use the resources to upgrade the health infrastructure to save people’s lives. The Centre, however, has ignored the Opposition’s attacks and continued with the Vista, putting the project in the “essential services” category to allow constructions amid the pandemic. Modi said on Thursday that the country could now see what his government had been doing under Central Vista, justifying going ahead with the project despite the Opposition’s “misinformation campaign”. “It was surprising for me that the defence ministry and some other establishments were run from World War II-era hutments that had been build keeping barracks and horse stables in mind,” the Prime Minister said, seeking to also take digs at the media for never highlighting the pathetic condition of the hutments. He said that as soon as his government came to power in 2014, he wanted to change everything and started by giving first priority to the memory of the soldiers who had sacrificed their lives for the country by building a National War Memorial. “This should have been built long ago,” Modi said. The old offices of the defence ministry spread over 50 acres is being redeveloped as an “executive enclave” that will have a new residence for the Prime Minister. Two multi-storey office complexes have come up at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue. Modi said the new offices were a step towards building a modern defence ministry enclave and said everything was part of the Central Vista project that people with “false agendas” would never tell. Modi said the project was providing work to a large number of workers and engineers, explaining why his government was pushing ahead with the project despite the pandemic. The Central Vista project has also triggered concerns over a possible adverse impact on Delhi’s green cover and the destruction of historically significant landmarks. The construction of the Vista has been challenged in the courts as well. Delhi High Court has allowed some constructions to go ahead despite the pandemic and the Supreme Court has refused to interfere with the order. The Modi government has robustly defended the project, saying the expenses incurred on it will not eat into Covid-management funds and that no historic buildings will be demolished.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Gujarat: BJP dumps all ministers in previous Vijay Rupani government ||The BJP on Thursday went for an overhaul in Gujarat by dropping all the ministers in the previous Vijay Rupani government and inducting 24 new faces, risking dissent that bared the party’s desperation to beat anti-incumbency in Narendra Modi’s home state. In a swift and silent operation believed to have been commandeered by the Prime Minister, the BJP had last Sunday edged out Rupani and picked first-time MLA Bhupendra Patel as chief minister in an apparent move to allay voter anger over Covid mismanagement, in particular, and wider governance failures ahead of next year’s Assembly polls. The new chief minister expanded his ministry on Thursday by inducting 24 ministers — 10 cabinet and 14 junior ministers — none of whom were there in the Rupani government. Of the 24, only three have ministerial experience. The rest are mostly first-time MLAs, tasked to steer ministries 15 months ahead of the elections. The BJP had a narrow win in the 2017 Assembly polls, pocketing 99 of 182 seats. This time, it seems, the leadership fears worse and therefore the wholesale changes in the ministry. Party insiders said the appointment of the new chief minister and the “no-repeat” formula adopted in the selection of ministers was targeted at countering simmering anti-incumbency and anger among the voters. “This is a bold new move by the leadership. We are confident that this will completely alter the image of the government among the people,” a BJP leader said. The list of new ministers was finalised by the central leadership. The move, however, led to murmurs in sections of the BJP on why the party didn’t go for similar changes in Uttar Pradesh from where similar complaints of “abject failure” against chief minister Yogi Adityanath in handling the second wave of the pandemic had been received. “Both Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh had witnessed images of helplessness amid overflowing crematoriums and burial grounds. But why has only Rupani been punished while the leadership hasn’t dared to fiddle with Yogi?” another BJP leader asked. Adityanath had been summoned to Delhi against the backdrop of images of bodies floating in the Ganga during the second Covid wave earlier this year and also charges of “high handedness and inaccessibility” against him by party leaders. After initial signals of going for an expansion of Adityanath’s ministry to address dissent in the party ranks, the leadership backed off and now Modi has used every occasion to heap praise on the chief minister’s performance. “Vijay Rupani was a low-profile gentleman politician while Yogi has established himself as a dominant Hindutva face. So they didn’t dare to touch him,” a BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh said, recalling how the government was totally absent on the ground during the Covid crisis. Other party leaders, however, said the decision to go for changes in Uttarakhand and Gujarat and not in Uttar Pradesh were based on “professional assessments” and no other considerations. “The surveys conducted in Uttar Pradesh showed that despite some complaints, Yogi was the best bet to win the elections. It was not so in the case of Gujarat,” a party general secretary said. The BJP has been in power in Gujarat since 1995, barring a brief break, and so party leaders feel the level of anti-incumbency in the state is high. Gujarat being the home turf of both Modi and home minister Amit Shah, the BJP can’t afford to lose the state, party insiders said, justifying the overhaul to alter the image of the government and the party. The BJP had resorted to a similar change of chief minister ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls, replacing Anandiben Patel, picked by Modi, with Vijay Rupani, seen as Amit Shah’s man. Despite the change, the BJP had narrowly managed to retain the key state. “This time, we have replaced Amit Shah’s choice with Modi ji’s and gone a step further by changing even the ministers. Hope it works,” one Gujarat MP said. “Last time, the gamble was to target non-Patidar voters in the face of angry Patidar protest for reservation. This time, we want to woo back the Patidars by making a leader of the community the chief minister,” the MP added. Party leaders acknowledged that the overhaul could lead to dissent in party ranks with ministers in the previous government being angry over getting dropped but felt that with Modi and Shah at the top they would be able to manage everything. The expansion was scheduled for Wednesday but had to postponed to manage possible dissent, sources said. Modi congratulated the new ministers, terming them “outstanding karyakartas (party workers)” who had devoted their lives to “public service”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Probe PM Narendra Modi over Covid situation: Congress||The Congress on Thursday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi be investigated for criminal culpability for misleading the nation on the Covid situation that left the states, hospitals and citizens unprepared for the deadly second wave. Citing news reports that quoted scientists and doctors saying that data were manipulated and studies warning of a severe second wave suppressed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to please politicians eager to take credit for defeating Covid, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said: “There should be an investigation for criminal culpability against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, then health minister Harsh Vardhan and the ICMR bosses. They are responsible for the havoc the second wave played with the people.” Maken said such a probe should be monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge. “The truth is now coming out. Scientists have started talking about the manipulation of data that led to wrong strategies and lowering of guard before the second wave struck, which is a criminal act. Pressure was mounted on scientists, they were scolded and silenced when they highlighted facts. There are at least four of them who have spoken out — Anup Agarwal, Naman Shah, Shahid Jameel and Somdatta Sinha,” the Congress leader said. Maken claimed that such measures had caused the deaths of lakhs of people. “The Economist has given out the latest estimates of Covid deaths, putting the number of casualties in India between 43 lakh and 68 lakh. The government admits to only 4.43 lakh deaths. But several studies have indicated the (actual) number is very high, around 40 lakh or more. We saw how people were left to fend for themselves amidst a severe crisis of oxygen, hospital beds and medicine,” he said. “In June 2020, a study commissioned by the ICMR concluded that the lockdown had slowed, but would not stop, the virus’s spread. Within days, the authors withdrew it. The ICMR tweeted the withdrawal. Some of the scientists now say they were forced to withdraw the report. In July 2020, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava forced scientists to withhold data, based on serological studies, which suggested that the virus was spreading in 10 cities. This deliberate blunder led to the loss of lakhs of lives,” the Congress leader added. He went on: “In September 2020, eight months before the deadly Covid-19 second wave, a managed and faulty report by the government downplayed the possibility of a new wave or outbreak. They credited Modi (and cited) early lockdown efforts as the reason. When some scientists, including Dr Agarwal, pointed out serious lapses in the report, they were reprimanded. Ultimately, Agarwal had to resign from the ICMR and leave India. Scientists have also alleged that the ICMR released wrong data to suggest that the coronavirus was not spreading in India as virulently as the rest of the countries. “The ICMR approved a wrong ‘super model study’ and released it indicating that Covid would almost end by mid-February. It also wrongly said that India had achieved herd immunity. The study was not founded upon any scientific parameter and whenever the Covid curve changed, they changed the parameter. “‘They had parameters which can’t be measured and whenever the curve was not matching, they changed that parameter,’ said Sinha, a retired scientist who studies infectious disease models and who wrote a rebuttal.” Maken also recalled how a study published in the journal Nature in January 2021 predicted the second wave and called for more testing. “The ICMR made the author (a council scientist) remove his affiliation with it from the paper. Such narratives, contrary to the data and science, created a sense of false confidence amongst the people, who got careless and negligent of the impending second wave. In January 2021, Modi declared that India had saved humanity from a huge disaster by defeating corona, and then health minister Harsh Vardhan predicted the end of Covid-19,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand High Court vacates its stay order on Chardham Yatra ||Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday vacated its stay on the Chardham Yatra and directed the state government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. A division bench of Chief Justice R.S. Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said the pilgrimage would start with restrictions like a daily limit on the number of devotees visiting the temples. A negative Covid test report and a vaccination certificate will also be mandatory. The bench said 800 pilgrims would be allowed at Kedarnath, 1,200 in Badrinath, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri every day. Pilgrims will not be allowed to take bath in any of the springs around the temples, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Kannur varsity likely to withdraw Savarkar's book from PG syllabus||Kannur University vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran on Thursday said portions of books of RSS leader M.S. Golwalkar and Hindu Mahasabha leader V.D. Savarkar would not be taught immediately as part of the varsity’s post-graduate course on governance and politics. Ravindran said the new portions, after necessary changes are made, would be taught in the fourth semester. For now, the varsity will continue to teach the contemporary political theory paper as it had been doing in the past, he said. The VC said a two-member expert committee appointed by the Kerala government to look into the matter had suggested changes to the varsity’s new syllabus. He said the syllabus would be sent to the committee after making the suggested changes. The varsity’s new course material had drawn criticism from various student unions, which alleged saffronisation of the university. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said his government would not glorify leaders who had turned their back on the freedom struggle. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, however, had said intellectual freedom should not be sacrificed at the altar of party politics and under the “foolish” belief that ignorance of someone’s ideas would help defeat them. “I have quoted Savarkar and Golwalkar at length in my books, and refuted them,” Tharoor had posted on Facebook. “If we don’t read Savarkar and Golwalkar, on what basis will we oppose their ideas? Kannur University also teaches Gandhi and Tagore.” According to the student unions, the varsity has included portions from Golwalkar’s books, including Bunch of Thoughts, and Savarkar’s Hindutva: Who Is a Hindu? in the syllabus of the third semester of the governance and politics MA course. The syllabus was not prepared by the board of studies but by teachers of Thalassery Brennen College and it was decided by the VC, they have alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Ramana plea to reintegrate women prisoners into mainstream society||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has said the Centre, states and Union Territories are under an obligation to formulate programmes and services to reintegrate women prisoners into the mainstream society as otherwise they would be subjected to untold stigma and discrimination. Delivering the keynote address as patron of the National Legal Services Authority to mark the 32nd central authority meeting of Nalsa here on Wednesday evening, CJI Ramana said: “Often incarcerated women have to face graver prejudices, stigma and discrimination, which makes their rehabilitation a tough challenge. As a welfare state, we are obligated to provide women prisoners with programmes and services that enable them to effectively reintegrate into the society, on an equal basis with men.” Taking note of the plight of women prisoners, Justice Ramana further stressed the need for measures such as “non-discriminatory access to education and vocational training, dignified and remunerated work”. CJI Ramana appreciated  the work of the legal services authorities during the National Lok Adalat organised on September 11 and congratulated them for clearing more than 29.5 lakh cases across 33 states and Union Territories. Justice Ramana laid emphasis on increasing “access to justice”, stating that “although much has been spoken about increasing access to justice, the question remains as to how to ensure effective and substantive access to justice to all classes of people and how to meet these gaps”. Justice U.U. Lalit, the second seniormost Supreme Court judge and executive chairman, Nalsa, highlighted the issue of overcrowding of prisons and stressed upon the need to take immediate steps in such direction. Justice Lalit also pointed out that due to the pandemic restrictions, schools are shut down and the children living in juvenile, observational and children homes are in an unimaginable situation. He urged law students to come forward and impart education to underprivileged children of the society. Justice Lalit also appreciated the efforts of the legal services authorities of 33 states who successfully organised the National Lok Adalat on September 11 and achieved the historic disposal of cases. The central authority of Nalsa meeting was attended by all the members. The central authority consists of the CJI, Nalsa executive chairman, Chief Justice of Orissa High Court, executive chairpersons of Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka state legal services authorities, secretary, department of justice, Bar Council of India chairman, senior advocates Siddharth Luthra, Meenakshi Arora and K.V. Vishwanathan, social workers Beena Chaintalapuri and Priti Pravin Patkar, and member secretary, Nalsa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Nineteen people injured in blast at Barauni Refinery in Begusarai||Nineteen people were injured in a blast at Barauni Refinery of the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) in Bihar’s Begusarai district, around 120km east from the state capital, on Thursday. The injured include several IOCL staff and contractual workers. They have been admitted to different hospitals. “A unit at the refinery was shut down for quite some time. An explosion occurred in its furnace when it was being restarted on Thursday morning. Altogether 19 people, including five IOCL staff and 14 contractual workers, were injured in the incident. They have been admitted to hospitals,” Begusarai superintendent of police Awakash Kumar told The Telegraph. The sound of the blast was so loud that it attracted a large number of locals to the refinery, while rumours of death of people working inside also spread around. Contractual workers and labourers also assembled at the gates. The crowd held a protest in front of the refinery and demanded safe working conditions at the plant. District administration officials later pacified them. IOCL manager Ankita Srivastava, in a press communiqué, said that the incident occurred at 10.30am while Atmospheric Vacuum Unit – 1 was being started and a blast ripped its furnace. “We are conducting a technical probe into the incident. There has been no death or fire-related incident in the aftermath of the blast, nor the operations at the refinery have been affected. All the injured are in a stable condition. People outside the refinery are also safe,” Srivastava said. The IOCL officials asserted that the injuries were due to the pressure created by the blast. Shutdown and maintenance related works have been carried out at the refinery since August 20. IOCL’s Barauni Refinery is the second oldest in the country, built in collaboration with the then Soviet Union. It was dedicated to the nation in 1965 with a refining capacity of 1 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA). It now receives uninterrupted crude oil supply from Halida – Barauni pipeline and has a refining capacity of 6 MMTPA. Barauni Refinery is primarily a diesel-producing refinery. It also produces kerosene, petrol, naphtha, LPG, raw petroleum coke, sulphur and bitumen. It caters to fuel demands of Bihar, Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and also supplies fuel to Nepal Oil Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal teacher brings classroom to the doorstep amid pandemic||As schools are closed in West Bengal because of the pandemic for one-year-and-a-half, a teacher in West Bengal's Paschim Bardhaman district has brought the classroom to the doorstep of students. The 32-year-old man has painted blackboards on mud walls of several houses on both sides of Jaba village so that children get to know the three Rs of education - reading, writing and arithmetic. "Bengali and English alphabets and mathematics problems and their solutions are written on those blackboards with chalk," said Dwipnarayan Nayek, who has earned the sobriquet "Rastar Master" (the master on the road). The walls on which the makeshift blackboards came up have been given a fresh coat of paint. Colourful graffiti, nursery rhymes and social messages including the need to take vaccines were also painted on them. Classes are taken at regular intervals in the village in the Jamuria area of the district, making both students and their parents happy. Before Nayek, a teacher of Tilka Majhi Primary School in the area, brought the classroom to the doorstep of students, he had started taking classes beside a road under trees in eight spots. "But attending classes under trees was not feasible for everyone due to the presence of insects. Besides, some of them have to help the elders in farming activities. So I decided to draw blackboard on the walls of their homes and take classes there," he said. Initially, there were only two students and now their number has crossed 100. Nayek also considered it important to fight superstition among the villagers. A section of the parents thought that those infected by malaria were possessed by ghosts. "I have managed to bring a microscope to the class in the village and showed them the virus of malaria. I showed them how flowers bloom and how trees grow. Most of these children are in primary stage and they are first generation learners," said the teacher. "I have invented my own teaching manual for them," Nayek smiled as he asked his students, many of them girls, to chant a rhyme written by him on the need to wash hands regularly, and clap after every line. Nayek does not charge anything from his pupils for the service and pulled all his resources. He also gets help from family and friends. "I hope I will be able to ensure zero dropout among children in the area when the school will reopen. But I would like to continue with the present initiative," he said. Rimki Oraon, a student of class six, said they were sad when the school got closed due to corona. "But later, sir started taking classes on road and then at our doorstep. We are very happy now." Sital Baski, a villager, said they thank Nayek for coming forward to teach the children when the school is closed. "The initiative of the teacher is laudable. We are on his side," Jamuria MLA Hareram Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Revamped: Sunderbans’ bungalow of memories||Gosaba Island, an otherwise remote location on the Bay of Bengal, is set to gain a new lease of life as a tourist destination around Durga Puja this year. South 24-Parganas district administration has spent Rs 75 lakh to renovate and beautify the historical Beacon’s Bungalow on the island, where Rabindranath Tagore had visited in 1932 to see the development initiatives in the area by Scottish national Daniel Hamilton, a businessman-cum-social worker who had made Bengal his second home. Hamilton had built the single-storey bungalow in 1903 on this delta island of the Sunderbans, around 100km from Calcutta. It is also an architectural marvel as it had been built on solid wooden stilts. Hamilton was one of the richest men in British India who headed Mackinnon & McKenzie, a shipping company, and had bought 40sqkm (roughly 90,000 acres) land from the government spanning three islands of Gosaba, Rangabelia and Satjelia. Regarded as a pioneer of the rural and economic development of Gosaba, Hamilton began with helping people weave shawls. He also encouraged farmers to better their lot. He helped them form cooperatives to store crops, and also to learn skills such as cattle farming, fishery, horticulture, weaving, and carpentry in an effort towards develop the rural economy. Hamilton also set up primary schools in the region. In December 1932, Rabindranath Tagore had paid a visit to Gosaba and stayed at Beacon’s Bungalow. The reportedly left a deep impression on Tagore and led him to replicate similar development initiatives in Santiniketan. “Though Tagore visited Gosaba in 1932, the poet had been aware of Hamilton’s activities earlier and had shared with the Scottish shipping magnate his vision of development in a letter written in 1930. Much of Tagore’s cooperative initiatives at Sriniketan and Santiniketan were those he witnessed during his visit to Gosaba,” Sukhen Biswas, who teaches Bengali at Kalyani University, told this paper. The district administration here has already started the construction of a nature park encircling this bungalow, and has plans to install the busts of Hamilton and Tagore, in addition to other fixtures. An indoor archive will also exhibit Hamilton’s possessions. “We are in touch with some people in Santiniketan regarding this archive. At the same time, we are trying to contact people who have items used by Hamilton. We are hopeful that the archive will materialise through everyone’s help,” said block development officer, Saurabh Mitra. Authorities are also contemplating building a watch tower near the bungalow. “However, this will only be taken up in the next phase of development,” a district official said. “The initiative is to make the historical bungalow a tourist destination of the region. The renovation and beautification work of the dilapidated bungalow are expected to be completed before Puja,” said BDO Mitra. Left in a dilapidated condition for years, the bungalow’s revival was proposed by the BDO a few months ago. After a proposal and an onsite review by district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, Rs 75 lakh was allotted for the job. “We have renovated the wooden bungalow but have not made changes to its original look, architectural design and ambience. We are hopeful that tourists will have a pleasant visit at Beacon’s Bungalow and experience the essence of the two great personalities,” the BDO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha wants statehood talks||The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha has demanded that the tripartite talks that Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista had announced only discuss the demand of a separate state of Gorkhaland. The newly formed BGPM’s demand is likely to put pressure on the BJP and its six allies in Darjeeling, including the GNLF, as many believe the saffron camp is not keen on Gorkhaland discussion given its pan-Bengal political interest. BGPM general secretary Amar Lama said on Thursday: “Only Gorkhaland and nothing else should be discussed at the tripartite meeting.” After calling on Union home minister Amit Shah with leaders of the BJP’s hill allies in New Delhi on August 6, Bista had said Shah had conveyed to them that a tripartite meeting would be held in the first week of September and the state government, too, would be invited to the talks. Even though the meeting has not yet been called, Bista reassured that the same would be held in September itself. “In this meeting, the aspirations of the hill people (Gorkhaland) should be discussed and an agreement should be reached on,” Lama said on Thursday. Even though the Union home minister will decide on the list of invitees, the BGPM also has an elected representative in Ruden Lepcha Sada from Kalimpong Assembly segment . “If BJP MLAs, Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, are invited to the meeting, then the BGPM will definitely demand that its representative, too, be called. If invited, Sada would definitely speak in public about whatever discussions which take place at the tripartite meeting,” said a BGPM leader. For the BJP, which has promised a “permanent political solution” for the hills, a positive discussion on Gorkhaland would be a damper for the saffron camp in the rest of Bengal, which is largely against the creation of a separate state. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, had claimed earlier that the agenda of the tripartite talks had been changed from “Gorkhaland” to “issues concerning Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” because of pressure from the Bengal BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government issues order for buses to promote motels, shop hubs||The Mamata Banerjee government has issued an order asking all the state-run buses to pull up at locations near the Karmatirthas and Pathasathis, a majority of which have been non-starters, in a bid to generate more footfall at these government facilities. The state government had set up 70 Pathasathis along the national and state highways to offer passengers motel-like facilities during road trips. Similarly, Karmatirthas or shopping complexes — where youths were supposed to get shops free of cost — were set up to tackle the problem of unemployment in the state. But neither venture has seen much success in Bengal. “None of them (the Pathasathis) could be made fully functional as proper services could not be provided. The state wants to run the establishments by engaging self-help groups. This is why buses have been asked to pull up near Pathasathis so that these facilities get footfall,” said an official. In case of the Karmatirthas, an official said there were no takers for “nearly 11,000 shops” in these complexes. Primary findings by government agencies have revealed that as these units are located outside the busy marketplaces, at more isolated places, there has not been any interest among youths to get the shops in these complexes. “This is why the government is trying to ensure more footfall in the complexes by asking buses to give stoppages in front of them,” said a source. According to sources in the government, Nabanna will give special focus to make these units functional as they have the potential to generate income opportunities. “The self-help groups consist of 10-12 women (each, on an average). So, if Pathasathis are made functional, nearly 700-800 women could be given an income opportunity. Rural areas where these units are set up will witness a boost in economy once these units get functional,”said a senior official. In the case of Karmatirthas, there is an opportunity to employ as many as 11,000 youths by distributing shops. “The main target is to create jobs in the state as the chief minister had promised 1.5 crore employment opportunities in the state ahead of Assembly polls,” said another official. Some officials said that the failure of these facilities set up over the last decade  exposed the lacuna in the state's hands-off land policy. “As the state refused to buy or acquire land near marketplaces for these, they had to be set up in isolated places where the state had plots. This has clearly backfired,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Double-decker bus to be back on Cooch Behar road||The North Bengal State Transport Corporation has decided to re-introduce double-decker bus service in Cooch Behar ahead of the festive season to attract tourists to the heritage town. “We have decided to re-introduce the only double-decker bus ahead of Durga Puja. The bus service will be conducted once a week. Any tourists or common people can enjoy the bus ride by visiting the tourists’ spots of the town,” Partha Pratim Roy, the chairman of the NBSTC, said on Thursday. The tentative route is likely to cover Cooch Behar palace-Sagardighi-Madan Mohan Temple and Narendra Narayan Park. The transport authority had introduced three double-decker bus services in Cooch Behar 35 years ago. One of the buses was completely damaged in 2000. Another bus has to be scrapped in 2015. The third remaining bus was also withdrawn from the service in 2015 because of very high maintenance cost. Sources in the transport corporation have said the double-decker bus has a seating capacity of 90. The highest speed the bus can attain is only 30km per hour. The NBSTC has carried out all necessary maintenance works of the bus. There are also plans to conduct a couple of trial runs. “We will soon hold talks with the tour operators and non-governmental organisations and appeal to them to make the bus ride popular here by including it in their tour itinerary. Apart from that, we will also allow any individual or group to charter the bus for organising different events,” Sunil Agarwal, the managing director of the NBSTC, said. The transport corporation has 969 buses and only 600 of them are operational. Its monthly expenses are around Rs 20 crore and earning is Rs 12 crore. The authority is planning to introduce around 150 buses on different routes by filling up vacant posts of driver and conductors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leadership in Malda asks panchayat chief to resign||Trinamul leadership in Malda district has decided to seek resignation of gram panchayat heads against whom resentment is growing to prevent defection of disgruntled party members. On Thursday, Abul Kalam Azad, gram panchayat pradhan of Enayetpur, was asked to tender his resignation. Trinamul had won all 11 seats of Enayetpur in the last rural polls but sources said that at least six members had complained against Azad to district leaders. Subhadeep Sanyal, Malda district INTTUC president and a member of party’s district core committee, said that they had asked panchayat members to bring any discontentment against their head to their notice. “If the majority of the members do not want the panchayat head to continue than the panchayat pradhan would be asked to step down.” According to panchayat rules, no-confidence motion cannot be moved against the rural body head until two-and-a-half years after the formation of the body. Bengal rural elections were held in 2018, which is why Trinamul leaders apprehend that BJP and other opposition parties might encourage their party leaders to move a no-confidence motion. Of the 146 gram panchayats in Malda district, Trinamul is in control of over 80 panchayats. Sources said that similar problems were brewing in some more gram panchayats. “We feel this policy is better than letting our disgruntled members hold hands with the BJP to remove our party village head,” said a senior Trinamul MLA. Some leaders wondered what if the policy rebounded. “The popularity of a gram panchayat pradhan must be gauged very minutely or else the plan might backfire,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda police seize 450gm brown sugar, one held ||Malda police seized 450 grams of brown sugar from a youth on Wednesday night in the district’s Kaliachak police station. Sources said the consignment is worth around Rs 25 lakh in the grey market. Esraful Momin, 20, was arrested from Baliadanga under Kaliachak police station. The banned substance was found on him. “The youth was produced in court and he would be grilled further to know the source of the narcotic substance (obtained from him) in such a high volume,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda superintendent of police. “Although brown sugar from different areas of Baishnabnagar, Kaliachak and Englishbazar police station areas is regularly seized, the quantity seized this time is much bigger,” a police official said, adding it was necessary to get to know from where the substance was received. A case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, has been registered against the youth, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Causes of ‘mystery’ fever in kids found||Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and Influenza B have been detected in some samples of children admitted with high fever to the Jalpaiguri district hospital. The findings brought relief to health authorities as before Thursday the cause of fever among hundreds of children in the region had been a mystery. Laboratory diagnoses have also confirmed dengue in some cases, said a state health official. Sources in Jalpaiguri district hospital said swab samples from 10 children under treatment had been sent to the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine on Tuesday. “RSV was found in three samples and Influenza B in other three samples. Nothing was found in the rest four samples,” a source said. Health officials in Calcutta said on detailed inquiry by the state expert committee, no specific outbreak was found so far. “Fortunately, RS virus infection is generally self-limiting and is cured within three to four days. Death rate is extremely low for the infection.” Sushanata Roy, the office-on-special duty, north Bengal, said: “Presence of this virus (RSV) in a child’s body is very common. It spreads through common cough and cold. RSV is infectious and I request parents to rush to nearby hospitals if symptoms show up.” Although 700 children have been admitted across north Bengal and more than 200 have been admitted with symptoms of fever and pneumonia in hospitals of Purulia district in south Bengal, state health officials have come up with comparative figures to show that the number of cases is not abnormally high in 2021. Citing an example of Jalpaiguri district hospital, a state health official said while 1,195 patients were admitted between September 1 and 15 this year, the figures were similar for September in previous years till 2017, except 2020. “In September 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, admissions numbered 2,279, 2,049, 2,083 and 640. The low numbers in 2020 were owing to Covid-19 pandemic. There were six deaths in September 2017, four in 2018 and no deaths in the last two years,” the official stated. This year, six child deaths have been recorded across north Bengal in the past 72 hours. Health officials, however, said some of these children had comorbidities and that discharge rate of admitted patients was also high. Nevertheless, the state government is sending an expert team from Calcutta to north Bengal districts to further review the situation. Most of the north Bengal districts have also formed committees to monitor the respective paediatric units in hospitals. At the Falakata Super Specialty Hospital in Alipurduar district, there is no child specialist though children are being brought to its OPD by parents. Of the two child specialists at the hospital, one is currently down with Covid-19 while another has recently quit the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Dooars forests now open to tourists ||The state government has decided to throw open the gates of reserve forests to tourists from Friday, causing tourism stakeholders of the Dooars to breathe a sigh of relief. Rajendra Jhakar, chief conservator of forest wildlife (north), said: “This afternoon (Thursday) I received a notice stating that from tomorrow (Friday), sanctuaries and national parks will be opened for tourists.” On Wednesday, the forest department had opened to the public parks like Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri, Padma Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and South Khayerbari Nature Park, the last a rescue and rehabilitation centre for felines in Alipurduar district. But reserve forests were still closed. The Telegraph had reported in its Thursday edition that tourism stakeholders were in a fix about accepting bookings at a time they were flooded with holiday season enquiries as the region’s main attractions were still off bounds. Now, however, tourists can enjoy the reserve forests that are the major attractions of the Dooars region comprising parts of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. They include the Jaldapara National Park, Gorumara National Park, Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary, Buxa Tiger Reserve and Chilapata forest. Elephant and car safaris will also start. Elephant rides are held in Jaldapara and Gorumara, car safaris are organised in all reserve forests. To start with, bookings for car and elephant safaris will have to be done on the spot but officials maintain that online bookings would be available within a couple of days. Tourists, however, have to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols. All aged above 18 will have to carry the final certificate of Covid-19 vaccination (double dose). All government and private establishments will have to be sanitised. “The divisional forest officer has also been given special powers to impose any suitable safety norms as they deem fit,” said a source. Biswajit Saha, president, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association, said he was happy. “The decision has come as a major relief as we can now start accepting bookings for the Puja, and tourists, too, can start making their plans. We are happy that elephant and car rides have been allowed. Elephant rides in Jaldapara and Gorumara are huge attractions,” said Saha. Sources said that national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves located in the Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve will open only from October 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Youth’s desperate hunt for job and documents for survival||Gangadhar Pramanik, the 33-year-old from Bankura who returned to his village on Wednesday after spending three years at a detention centre in Assam’s Goalpara, may be a free man now, but he knows that there are more challenges facing him. For the school dropout, who doesn’t possess any specific skill, the immediate concern is to find a job to survive along with his ailing mother Bharati. The other challenge is equally daunting as he has to get documents to prove his Indian citizenship. “I am happy to have walked free from the detention centre but I have many hurdles to cross before I can get absolute freedom. I need a steady job to feed myself and my ailing mother. My mother also needs treatment for her oldage ailments. I also need to get legal documents to prove that I am an Indian citizen,” Gangadhar told The Telegraph from his village at Radhanagar in Bankura’s Bishnupur. The story of Gangadhar’s life is like any other migrant worker from Bengal. Around 10 years ago, he had left his remote village in Bankura with the hope to make enough savings for his struggling family that consisted of his parents and an unmarried sister. He worked hard at an eatery, on the outskirts of Guwahati, but life took a terrible twist on December 12, 2017, when he was declared a foreigner by one of the several Foreigners Tribunals in Assam and thrown into a detention camp at Goalpara. Gangadhar was found guilty of not responding to a notice asking him to prove his citizenship and also for not having requisite documents to prove himself as an Indian. The Bankura youth managed to walk out of detention on bail following the chance intervention by the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), an organisation pursuing cases of those spending life in the camps. The time spent at the camp has left Gangadhar so traumatised that he hardly interacted with villagers even as he went around Radhanagar looking for odd jobs on Thursday. “I desperately need to earn some money. I went to a twowheeler repairing shop near our village and asked for a job. The owner agreed to give me a job but the wage he offered is not enough to survive. I need a steady income as my mother is unwell and our house is dilapidated,” he said as he struggled to put across his words. Officials of the local Radhanagar gram panchayat, however, turned up at his home to provide Gangadhar with some relief. They gave him 24 kg rice and Rs 2,000 in cash as immediate help. A few villagers have also offered to stand by the family till Durga Puja by providing them with clothes and food. “We are also trying to raise funds to repair their house,” said Ashis Dey, a neighbour and social activist at Radhanagar village. While Gangadhar welcomed the support of the panchayat and his neighbours, he said he was aware that all this support was temporary and he had to start earning. “I thank all who have helped me, but I need a steady job immediately,” he said. Radhanagar gram panchayat officials said they wanted to help Gangadhar but were unable to assign him a job under the 100 days’ programme as he did not have the required documents to get a job card or open a bank account. “He only has a ration card and that too is very old. He does not have documents like Aadhaar or voter identity cards. These documents are needed to provide him with a job under government schemes,” said Suchitra Samaddar, the chief of Radhanagar gram panchayat. Gangadhar said he desperately needed the documents to survive as well as to prove his Indian citizenship to free himself from the case pending against him at the Foreigners Tribunal in Assam. “I know I need such documents but I don’t know the process to get them. I have an old ration card and would request the government to help me out of the crisis,” he said. CJP activist Nanda Ghosh, who had accompanied Gangadhar to his home in Bankura on Wednesday, said the documents were necessary because they wanted to move court and show how innocent people were being harassed at detention centres by labelling them as foreigners. “He is now out on bail and can live at his village peacefully. But we have a plan to move the court to show Gangadhar’s case as an example of how genuine Indians are being tortured in Assam,” said Ghosh, who heads the Assam chapter of the CJP. Bishnupur SDO Anup Kumar Dutta has promised to help Gangadhar get his documents. “I heard about the person and have asked an official to know what kind of documents he has so far. We will help him to get his required documents in accordance with law,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Indian postal department releases specially designed envelope in recognition of Joynagorer Moa||The Indian postal department, in association with the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority, has released a specially designed envelope in recognition of Joynagorer Moa, a centuryold sweet delicacy that had received a GI (Geographical Indication) tag in 2015. The unique delicacy from Joynagar of South 24Parganas district is prepared from popped rice of ‘Kanakchura’ the variety that is held together with fresh date palm jaggery, ghee, khoa kheer, honey and cashew nuts. The objective behind the release of the envelope is to boost the export of the indigenous food items, APEDA authorities said. The envelope was launched on Wednesday at Baruipur head post office by the postmaster general of the south presidency division, Neeraj Kumar. “Our aim is to make the world aware of this unique sweet item,” he said. Sources in Joynagar have claimed that there are 26 authorised Moa makers, which traced its origin to 1904 in the hand of one Ashutosh Das. The members of the Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society, whose contribution is recognised for their tireless initiative for Moa’s GI tagging, have welcomed the joint effort of the postal department and the APEDA. “It is a matter of great pride for us,” the organisation’s secretary Ashok Kumar Kayal said. Postal authorities said 1,000 copies of the specially designed envelope priced Rs 20 each had been printed so far. The copies will be sent to all major post offices of Delhi and Calcutta as well as to the Philatelic Museum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal will protect Hindustan from Talibani mindset: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday projected Bengal as the “protector” of Hindustan and the upholder of “the message of amity”, promising a “fight till the very end” while skewering the BJP’s divisive and communal agenda that she appeared to compare with a “Talibani mindset”. “Hindustan will never become Pakistan…. See, already, in their despicably divisive campaign, they called Nandigram ‘Pakistan’, now they are calling Bhowanipore ‘Pakistan’,” she told a group of voters from various religious and linguistic communities from a cosmopolitan pocket of Bhowanipore from where she is to contest an Assembly bypoll on September 30. “In Bhowanipore, Sikhs, Hindus, Punjabis, Gujaratis, Marathis, Bengalis — we all live in peace and harmony. But even here, there are attempts to drive a wedge between people. A neighbouring nation is being named repeatedly. But we will, yet again, uphold the message of amity,” the chief minister said. “India can never be handed over to people with a Talibani mindset…. Our Hindustan will become an even better Hindustan, and Bengal will protect all of Hindustan,” Mamata added. Since the announcement of the bypoll, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh has accused Mamata of trying to turn Bhowanipore into Kidderpore — a communally loaded reference to the southwestern neighbourhood of Calcutta that has a substantial minority population. Without mentioning chief minister Yogi Adityanath by name, Mamata referred to the recent Uttar Pradesh government advertisement that featured the Maa Flyover of Calcutta. “Nowadays, our development here is being appropriated elsewhere. Actually, in the name of development, they have nothing to show for themselves. That’s why my work is being passed off as their own,” said the Trinamul chief. “Claiming someone else’s thing like this is simply not right. Such cheating should never happen. They could’ve told me, I would’ve taken a picture myself and sent it,” she added. Those who attended Mamata’s half-hour address were from Ward 72, which is mostly made up of Chakraberia, Padmapukur and Bakulbagan. It is one of the eight wards of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency. The session was held at Uttam Udyan in Padmapukur in the evening. Shortly after the Uttam Udyan event, Mamata prayed at two shrines in the area — the Laxmi Narayan Mandir and the Gol Mandir — barely a kilometre apart. In her speech, she criticised the BJP for choosing to attack her over her visit to a mosque — the Sola Ana Masjid in Ekbalpore — during her campaign, although she had been to the places of worship of all major communities in the constituency, such as the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road on Wednesday. “They cannot see, unlike us, that the blood that courses through all our veins is uniformly red…. India cannot be surrendered to them. To ensure that, we will fight till the very end. All of you, please support me in this cause. Please elect me so that I can continue the good fight. In the near future, Bengal will show the way to the entire nation,” said the chief minister, repeatedly underscoring her firm faith in and commitment to the pluralistic, inclusive ethos of Bengal. “We will take the fight to them. We will not stop till they are defeated everywhere… even in Ahmedabad (in Gujarat, the home state of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah),” she said. BJP quarrel The BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal, on Thursday got into an altercation with police officers accompanying her on campaign. She alleged that the police personnel were in civvies to make it appear as though she was violating Covid-19 norms by participating in illegal gatherings. “I was served a notice by the Election Commission asking why I have been roaming with a large number of people.… If you come in police uniform, I’d know that you’re not a civilian,” she said during an argument with a cop who tried explaining to her that he and his team were deployed to ensure her security. Tibrewal said she did not seek it. Her election agent, Sajal Ghosh, later wrote to the commission alleging that Calcutta police were working on behalf of Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Plea to Bengal CM for law to fix MSP of all crops||The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of more than 250 farmers’ organisations, on Thursday sent a “draft Minimum Support Price Bill” to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanding its implementation in order to safeguard the interests of cultivators in the state. The AIKSCC has prepared 28 such draft bills, with minor changes, which will be sent to all chief ministers in India. However, the initiative was launched in Bengal since Mamata has pledged her support to the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three contentious central farm laws, leaders of the committee said. “The chief minister has said she supports the farmers’ movement. MSP is one of the key issues of the movement and hence, we are hopeful that she will be true to her word and implement this legislation in Bengal,” said Avik Saha, the national secretary of the committee. The draft legislation demands the setting up of an independent commission which will determine the MSP for all farm produce in Bengal, ensure that the farmers can realise the MSP for their yield and also make provisions for redressal of grievances in case one is forced to sell the crop at a lower rate. “The commission will not act under the government. It will consist of members from the farming fraternity, private players and the government,” Saha said while addressing a news conference in Calcutta. As of now, the MSP of 23 agricultural products is decided on by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), an attached office of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare. The organisation has demanded the inclusion of all farm products, including those related to horticulture, pisciculture and beekeeping, in the ambit of the independent commission, along with 23 items overseen by the CACP. The Bengal government runs the Krishak Bandhu scheme which ensures an annual monetary help of Rs 10000 to farmers with a cultivable landholding of an acre or more. For farmers holding less than an acre of land, the sum assured is Rs 4,000 per annum. However, sources in the state government said the demand of fixing an MSP for all farm produce in Bengal was “a difficult proposal”. Officials told The Telegraph that the government procures only two kinds of agricultural produce, rice and jute. In case there is a distress call from farmers, the government has procured potatoes as well. However, for almost all other produce, Bengal has to depend on other states. “The open market functions in its own way. If the government intervenes in products other than rice and jute, the natural flow of the economy will be disturbed. Since, we don’t produce a surplus of other products such as fruits and vegetables and largely depend on imports, there is not much logic in defining an MSP for these goods,” a source in the state’s agriculture ministry said. This person added that it was also practically impossible to procure all or even a large share of all that was produced for the government, since it didn’t have enough cold storage chains and other allied infrastructure. “For the potato, we have enough cold chains. Hence, in times of crisis, we can procure it directly. But the same isn’t true for say the tomato or the brinjal. These are all perishable goods. The state will have to incur huge expenses for setting up new infrastructure for these products,” this official said.The AIKSCC, however, said it didn’t want the government to procure the state’s produce. Rather, it wants the state “to perform its responsibilities” towards the farmers by ensuring a minimum earning for them. “Even if the private players are purchasing the farmers’ produce, they must not pay them below the fixed MSP. That is what the government has to ensure,” AIKSCC’s Saha said. “Even if the farmer has to sell his goods below the fixed rate in the open market, the draft law has provisions for redressal. The government just has to enact the law,” he added.The AIKSCC has said it will launch a Singhu-Tikri like farmers’ protests in Bengal if the state government fails to enact the MSP law. “The state doesn’t share the data of farmers’ suicide. It claims the earnings of the farmers have multiplied three times, which is wrong. We hope it will at least accept our draft legislation. Otherwise, we will launch major protests in Bengal,” said Kartik Pal, the state secretary of the AIKSCC. The Sanjukta Kisan Morcha, the organisation spearheading the farmers’ movement across the country, has decided to write to all chief ministers of the country urging them to support the September 27 nation-wide strike called by the Morcha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Over 3 lakh without home after floods in East & West Midnapore||Over three lakh people in East and West Midnapore had become homeless till Thursday as vast areas of the two districts were flooded amid heavy rain in the past two days. Two persons also died on Thursday, raising the toll to seven. Sanatan Soren, 8, drowned in West Midnapore’s Chandmura village. Seikh Firoz, 32, drowned in Kharagpur. The downpour breached embankments of rivers, including Keleghai and Kapaleshwari, causing the floods. The state government has blamed the Centre for not giving funds for multiple projects that could have in large part averted the natural calamity and saved life and property. “At least three lakh people in two districts are homeless following fresh floods on Wednesday. We have opened over 300 relief camps in schools and government buildings. The irrigation department has started work to repair embankments at a few places but the situation is grim,” said Saumen Mahapatra, state irrigation minister. Sources said Sabang in West Midnapore was the worst hit and was facing a calamity of this magnitude after 12 years as embankments of Keleghai and Kapaleshwari rivers had breached at six and four places, respectively, since Wednesday night. “Nearly 1.96 lakh of the 2.92 lakh population of Sabang have been hit by floods as river water entered major parts of the Assembly constituency. Around 61,000 houses have been fully damaged and 20,000 people have been shifted to relief centres,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, water-resources investigation and development minister and Sabang MLA. He, along with Mahapatra and other district officials, visited affected areas on boats. Bhunia said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had been briefed about the situation. Sources said floods were triggered as the two districts received over 400mm of rainfall in the past two days. This led to at least five rivers crossing the danger level and breaching many embankments. Apart from Sabang, seven blocks, including Pingla and Debra in West Midnapore and Patashpur and Egra in East Midnapore, are badly flooded. Ministers and government officials said the second such incident of inundation of these areas within a month proved the lack of central funds had adversely impacted lakhs of people. In August too, vast areas of these two districts and Hooghly’s Khanakul faced devastating floods. Sources said the flood could have been averted if the Keleghai-Kapaleswari project and Ghatal master plan had been implemented. For the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project, the state government had given Rs 650 crore but much work got stuck as the Centre did not send its share of Rs 147 crore. “The state government did the major work in the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project but it could not be complete as the Centre did not give its share of Rs 147 crore,” said Bhunia. Officials said river Kansabati, which inundated a large part of East Midnapore, would have been covered under the Ghatal master plan had the Centre given the funds. A nine-member Bengal team on August 31 met Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Sekhawat and NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar to seek funds from the Centre for implementing at least four projects, including the Ghatal master plan. “In the meeting, the central government assured us to provide us funds and asked to send a report for the due and fresh demands. We were told that the Centre would inform us what per cent of the total project cost Delhi would be able to provide us now. However, we are yet to receive the letter,” said Mahapatra. Apart from the casualties, a fisherman went missing in West Midnapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Calcutta High Court query on rural jab demand and supply||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed the state government to file an affidavit by September 30, stating the actual demand for Covid-19 vaccines in Bengal’s rural areas and the quantity the government sent to those places. The bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, was hearing a public interest litigation alleging people in urban areas were getting jabs but not those in remote areas. A state panel lawyer told the court that people were getting vaccines in both urban and rural areas and at present, there was no vaccine scarcity. On Thursday, Bengal administered over 3.91 lakh doses out of 2,436 vaccination centres (2,123 run by the government), taking the number of doses administered to nearly 4.89 crore, around 48.9 per cent of Bengal’s population. Of them, over 1.41 crore are second doses, with those fully vaccinated forming around 14.1 per cent of Bengal’s population. The corresponding figures for India stand at 43.4 per cent of the population with at least one dose and around 14 per cent with both doses. Of the districts, Calcutta leads the pack, with over 65 lakh doses administered in all, followed by North 24-Parganas at more than 50 lakh doses. Hooghly is third, with more than 28 lakh doses. At the bottom of the pile are districts Alipurduar, Jhargram and Kalimpong. Adverse events following the immunisation were reported in 0.008 per cent of the cases in Bengal. Bengal on Thursday recorded 707 Covid cases, 725 recoveries and seven deaths. Active cases in all dropped by 25 to 8,025 now, with 88 successive days of a fall. Calcutta logged 129 new infections and North 24-Parganas 125, the only two among the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported one death each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its highest in this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.63. Its mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Thursday. The state currently has over 15.59 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March 2020. The total includes nearly 15.33 lakh recoveries and 18,620 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||West Bengal||Coal theft: CBI raids three locations in Delhi and Bengal||The CBI on Thursday raided three locations in Delhi and Bengal as a part of its ongoing probe into alleged coal pilferage. A team of CBI officials carried out searches at the residence of a former ECL director in New Delhi’s Dwarka. Two separate teams of sleuths visited the residence of the general manager of the public sector unit in Asansol’s Kanyapur and his office in the Satgram area and also the official quarter of a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector posted at the NTPC in Farakka. This is the first time that CBI officers searched the residence of an official of the CISF, which looks after security at the ECL. Sources said the inspector was earlier posted in Asansol and was allegedly involved in the pilferage of coal from the mines. Senior CBI officers said the searches were aimed at collecting documents relating to the source of income of some of the officials who are believed to be allegedly involved in the theft of coal worth hundreds of crores of rupees. In July, the central investigating agency had searched the premises of some ECL officials in Bengal, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh in the case involving alleged mastermind Anup Majhi and others. NIA probe A team of NIA officials reached BJP MP Arjun Singh’s residence in Jagaddal, along with scientists from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, to initiate a probe into an alleged bomb blast outside his residence early on September 8. The scientists collected samples from the spot, carried out some measurements while photographers with the team clicked pictures of the spot. While no one was injured in the incident, Singh had claimed one of the bombs had hit the entrance gate of his house. Singh said he had told the NIA officials whatever he knew about the incident. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has already upgraded Singh’s security status from Y+ to Z category and entrusted the duty to the CISF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
17-09-2021||North East||Assam Down Town University hosts 8th convocation ceremony||Assam Down Town University (AdtU) on Wednesday successfully hosted the 8th Convocation Ceremony despite the prevailing situation not being favourable for conducting an event on a grand scale as usually witnessed. The varsity, which has over 64 programs and a faculty strength of 250, awarded degrees to 724 are Graduates, 213 Post Graduates, and 7 PhD achievers. "Education is the most powerful tool of empowerment and road to achieve excellence in our chosen path in the service of the Nation. Here in Assam Down Town University we constantly strive to develop a healthy academic environment for the students which help them not only to excel in the field of education but also prepare them to deal with the complexity of our social fabric. The pandemic situation has brought the world to a standstill for a long period of time. Despite the lockdowns and prolonged halt to physical classes,teaching learning has been a continuous progression in AdtU.The transition of Assam Down Town University has been very smooth and successful as it always believed in the integration of information technology in education," the university said in a statement. AdtU also conferred honorary Doctor of Letters (D.Litt.) to Sri Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, former Chief Minister of Assam and notable Social Activist and to Sri Padma Hazarika, an eminent Social activist and Entrepreneur of Assam. "The pandemic situation has brought the world to a standstill for a long period of time. Despite the lockdowns and prolonged halt to physical classes,teaching-learning has been a continuous progression in AdtU. The transition of Assam Down Town University has been very smooth and successful as it always believed in the integration of information technology in education," the university said. The event commenced with the academic procession of the esteemed dignitaries of the university with the University anthem playing in the background. The programme started with the felicitation of the chief guest of the ceremony Governor Jagdish Mukhi by the Registrar Ashim Barman. After the Governor declared the Convocation open, a welcome address by the Chancellor Dr. N. N. Dutta commenced. Thereafter, the Vice Chancellor (Dr.) N.C. Talukdar also presented his address. Dean of Studies, Prof. Bandana Dutta, presented the PhD Degrees to the research scholars. The Deans of the various Faculty of Study presented the names of the candidates under their respective undergraduate and postgraduate programmes who have qualified for the conferment of Bachelors and Masters Degrees. His Excellency, the Governor awarded the students their respective degrees. The students who had qualified for the award of the Doctorate of Philosophy, Masters’ Degree and Bachelors’ degree in different Faculties of Studies and disciplines but were unable to attend the Convocation were presented by the Controller of Examination, Dr. Joydeep Goswami and their degrees were awarded in absentia by the Governor. Ms. Jyotismita Sarma (BSc. Microbiology)and Ms. Jutima Baruah (Msc. Microbiology)  bagged the Gold Medal for the Best Graduate and the Best Post Graduate of the session 2021 respectively. A befitting award of appreciation for the Best PlacementAchiever of the year was presented to Ms. Debapriya Paul (MBA). Subsequently, the Oath of Dedication was administered to the Degree recipients by Ms Jutima Baruah and the Vice-Chancellor invited each of the three Awardees to speak a few words. Thereafter the Recipients of the honorary degrees, Prafulla Kumar Mahanta and Padma Hazarika were invited to deliver their speeches. After the awards, the Chancellor invited the Chief Guest and the Visitor of the university to deliver his address followed by the tradition of signing the Convocation Book. The Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor also put their Signatures on the Book. After the signatures,the Governor was requested to declare the Convocation closed and the event ended with the National Anthem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
17-09-2021||North East||Nagaland’s business community protests against ‘multiple taxation’ ||Nagaland’s business community on Thursday protested against “multiple taxation” by the Naga political groups (NPGs) and government agencies by observing a 12-hour bandh despite the state government urging the trade bodies to call it off. The bandh, which was successful and peaceful across the 12 districts of Nagaland, was necessitated by the fact that the business community was finding it increasingly difficult to operate under the prevailing circumstances, the Confederation of Nagaland Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CNCCI) president Khekugha Muru told The Telegraph. Those who had called the bandh used the term NPGs to refer to the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) and all its factions. Barring NSCN-K, all factions are engaged in the ongoing peace process with the Centre to resolve one of the longest-running insurgencies in Asia. Those familiar with Nagaland said businessmen and traders not only have to pay “taxes” to the NPGs but also to government agencies. These taxes either force traders to hike the prices of goods or sell them at little profit or no profit. Muru said the bandh was called in protest against the state’s “unsatisfactory response” to their demands placed before the chief secretary on September 9. The CNCCI’s demands included a solution to multiple taxation by the NPGs and civic bodies on commodities that are covered by the goods and services tax (GST) and inclusion of representatives from the business community in the decision-making process of civic bodies among others. The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party-BJP government is in power in Nagaland. “Multiple taxation leads to rise in prices of non-GST items by at least 10-15 per cent above market price. For GST items, we have very little profit or no profit. It has become very difficult for us to conduct business,” Muru said. “Therefore, we want the state government to come up with a solution to the multiple taxation issue. We also want the government to spell out whether these taxes are legal or illegal. We have to pay if these taxes are legal, but if they are illegal the government ought to act. We will only intensify our agitation if the government does not respond to our demands,” Muru added. The Dimapur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI) imposed the bandh in the district, considered the commercial hub of the state. Former Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi had in June raised the “taxation issue” following a claim by a “Naga armed organisation” engaged in the peace process that it had a right to collect “tax” from the people and this right had been “recognised” by the government’s representative negotiating with them. The NSCN (I-M), which had made the claim on June 19, responded by hitting out at Ravi for questioning the “taxation right” of the organisation while asserting that the “nominal taxations” it collected would continue. “The Naga nation does not require permission from the government of India for taxation. The matter remains loud and clear that at no point of time the Nagas became Indians either by conquest or consent. Thus, it is too far-fetched for the governor of Nagaland state to issue such an outrageous statement on taxation,” the NSCN (I-M) had said. The Centre “opposing taxations” by the outfit “violates” the Framework Agreement signed in 2015 wherein the “two entities have agreed to coexist peacefully as two different entities sharing sovereign power”, the outfit added. The peace process between the NSCN (I-M) and the Centre, which began in 1997, seems to have got stalled because of “differences” between Ravi and the outfit. Those in the know view Ravi’s transfer to Tamil Nadu as an attempt by the Centre to put the talks back on track.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
17-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Bitter taste||Ignorance need not be bliss: it can be hazardous when it comes to food. This is why it is significant that, after eight long years, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has decisively advocated the inclusion of labels on the front of food packets, detailing their salt, sugar and fat content, to enable consumers to take an ‘informed’ decision. In the Indian context, this is particularly relevant as this kind of transparency could go a long way in enhancing consumers’ knowledge of healthy consumption and protecting their rights. After all, there have been alarming transgressions on the part of manufacturers of packaged food — apart from the Maggi adulteration controversy, a study by the FSSAI found that 62.8 per cent of the major processed foods contained higher-than-prescribed levels of sugar, salt and fat, which are key contributors to India’s growing burden of non-communicable diseases. However, what is good for public health may not be beneficial for corporations with an eye on profit. It is, therefore, hardly surprising that the Indian processed food industry, estimated to be worth $44 billion and growing at a rapid pace of about 24 per cent every year, is reluctant to comply with the demand of consumer and advocacy groups to include a health warning on the packages. In fact, there have been reports of corporate lobbying against similar proposals since 2017. In a country that has seen its fair share of food politics over the past seven years — vegetarianism continues to be forced down the throats of Indians in spite of widespread undernourishment — the lack of awareness about nutrition among the people only aggravates the problem: more than 90 per cent people in India are unaware of even their daily protein requirements. The absence of political will to safeguard the health of citizens is even more baffling given the success of the warning label model instituted in the case of tobacco products — graphic warnings on packages convinced over 90 per cent people of their harmful effects. The complex food culture of the country, along with diverse eating habits, further complicates the formulation of universal nutritional policies. The key, therefore, is for the government to undertake extensive initiatives — from television commercials to anganwadi programmes — to promote the nutritional value of local cuisines over processed food. More fundamentally, food and nutrition must be seen as sacrosanct rights that cannot be sacrificed at the altar of profiteering or political propaganda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bhupendra Patel becomes Gujarat CM||New face Sir — The installation of a new face, Bhupendra Patel, as the chief minister of Gujarat is an achievement for the Bharatiya Janata Party, given his wide support base in the Patidar community (“CM change bares BJP challenge”, Sep 14). This step is being touted as a game-changer in the forthcoming state elections. Following the unceremonious exit of Anandiben Patel in 2016, the recent replacement of Vijay Rupani has been attributed to various reasons — for instance, the mishandling of the Covid crisis, Patidar discontent, internal convulsions, failure to win over powerful social groups. But this change of guard must also be seen as a means to tackle the anti-incumbency factor. Further, it clearly demonstrates that the party’s real crisis lay in its failure to fill the void left as a result of Narendra Modi’s elevation to the post of prime minister in 2014. The inability to develop autonomous political strength — the figure of Modi remains dominant — in a state where its organization is strong should worry the BJP. It also reflects the tendency of the party to centralize power, as has previously been seen in Uttarakhand, where a smooth transition occurred from Trivendra Singh Rawat to Tirath Singh Rawat and now Pushkar Singh Dhami; in Karnataka where B.S. Yediyurappa gave way to Basavaraj Bommai; and even in Assam where Himanta Biswa Sarma replaced Sarbananda Sonowal. This trend is a reminder of the heyday of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani and of their party’s federal character that produced an array of regional leaders like Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh. This raised the party’s stature to great heights, providing a much-needed bulwark for Modi and Amit Shah to strengthen their sphere of influence. But now, a significant departure from the past is discernible, manifested in the denial of autonomy to regional satraps, preference for new faces over influential politicians as well as excessive dependence on the high command for election outreach. These reflect the new character of the BJP. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital, Uttarakhand Sir — The choice of Bhupendra Patel, considered to be the prime minister’s yes-man, as the chief minister of Gujarat seems random. Gujarat is one of the states worst hit by the pandemic. Modi’s popularity, too, is likely to be declining. This could leave a poor impression on the voters in the run-up to the polls next year. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta  Bold and beautiful Sir — It is not new for the Met Gala to encourage bold political statements in creative ways. This year, too, many eminent personalities decided to wear their opinions on their sleeves. But seldom does a fashion statement translate into concrete action. It is, thus, heartening that the American musician, Billie Eilish, persuaded the brand, Oscar de la Renta — whose gown she wore to the gala — to terminate fur sale. This is an interesting way to bring about positive change in the industry. Others should follow suit.Mehek Chatterjee,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unscientific||In keeping with the ethos of the age of Post-Truth, India, according to a study, has emerged as the biggest source of misinformation pertaining to Covid-19 since the pandemic began. Having trawled through over 9,000 pieces of ‘data’ across several countries, a researcher found that one out of six pieces of misinformation had been generated in India during this period. Some of the nuggets reveal the extent of public ignorance. Many Indians, for instance, were told that camphor, cloves — the researcher did not add cow dung — can neutralize the virus. This, however, was the more benign of the two dangers. The more serious threat, as has been exposed by Indian researchers as well as by documents examined by The New York Times, concerns the engineering of a false narrative to undermine the monstrous scale of the pandemic. Months before India was pulverized by a deadly second wave of the coronavirus, scientists appointed by the government, it is alleged, sought to make light of the situation. Significantly, their faulty assessment coincided with the Centre’s decision to reopen the economy and press ahead with electoral exercises. That was not all: there are murmurs of other kinds of complicity between politician and scientist. For instance, a former chief scientist of the Indian Council of Medical Research echoed the Narendra Modi government’s prejudicial targeting of an Islamic gathering as a super-spreader: the singling out of the congregation by the Centre was, subsequently, reprimanded by the Supreme Court. Even more worrying is the charge of a diktat preventing scientists from publishing data that torpedoed the government’s claim that the situation was satisfactory. The pushback against India’s scientific temper has, in recent years, acquired two distinct — grotesque — forms. The first has been the wilful erosion of the scientific spirit so that myth can pass off as fact. The other is the weaponization of science to suit a political or ideological agenda. The consequences of these kinds of contamination can be deadly. Control over data — scientific, economic, health — would give an elected dispensation unwarranted power to distort public narrative. A second — related — challenge concerns the contraction in the autonomy of scientists and the institutions they serve. The whittling down of medical and scientific institutions — much like the media — is patently undemocratic. The Indian scientific fraternity must come forward to resist these predations by the government. An examination of the history of science would show that scientific thought has always functioned as a form of resistance against dogma and bigotry, both of which ail India’s body politic today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||Learning difficulty||Endear (verb): cause to be loved or liked. Now switch to NDEAR or the National Digital Education Architecture launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week. Addressing the inaugural conclave of the 10-day Shikshak Parv, he said that the transformations in the country’s education sector, besides being policy-oriented, were participation-based. Who are the participants in this grand scheme? When Modi said the teaching-learning process in the country has to be constantly redefined and redesigned to make India’s education sector world-class, did he stop to wonder how this would impact the students and the faculty? How many educational institutions in the country have the infrastructure and wherewithal to cope with an unending state of flux? To make the students future-ready, the prime minister said: “In this rapidly changing era, our teachers also have to learn about new systems and techniques rapidly.” There are challenges aplenty for the ill-equipped and often ill-informed teachers, especially in government institutions. “During Covid, we have witnessed our education sector’s capabilities. There were a lot of challenges, but you solved all. Online classes, group video calls, online exams weren’t heard by many earlier,” he added. Have we really “solved all”? There are many government universities that have not held classes during the pandemic, although the teachers are getting paid and many of them are guest lecturers in private universities where the online mode is in full swing. A professor at a Central university said that the ministry of human resource development had made provisions for internet connectivity on campus, but teachers and students had to depend on their own resources for online classes from home. “There has been some progress in the past year, but it is not enough,” the teacher added. Most faculty members in Central, state, state-aided and private universities I spoke to had no idea about NDEAR or what it entails. The vision statement is lofty: “A globally pioneering effort in education — A unifying national digital infrastructure to energise and catalyse the education ecosystem.” If only! It goes on to explain that NDEAR is “federated, unbundled, interoperable, inclusive, accessible, evolving which aims to create and deliver diverse, relevant, contextual, innovative solutions that benefit students, teachers, parents, communities, administrators and result in timely implementation of policy goals.” If the idea is to eradicate inequality in education and modernize the existing infrastructure, then the Centre will have to address all educational institutions because they cannot function in isolation. When the National Education Policy was formulated, it was tom-tommed as modern and futuristic. The initiative for the ‘education revolution’ was reiterated on the completion of a year of the NEP on July 29, when the Union education minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, tweeted that the NEP “is a guiding philosophy for changing the learning landscape, making education holistic and for building strong foundations for an [A]tmanirbhar Bharat.” Surely in a year there would have been a modicum of impact of these ideals on the employability of the youth, especially students who are the primary beneficiaries of such schemes? But India’s unemployment rate for all ages increased to 10.3 per cent in October-December 2020, compared to 7.9 per cent in the corresponding months a year ago, according to the latest Periodic Labour Force Survey. Should we not have an education policy that makes students industry-ready and employable, instead of giving them crutches labelled “atmanirbhar”? Private universities have gained popularity because of their placement record, even in the pandemic years. Government institutions must follow suit so that students can spend less and learn constructively. If NEP and NDEAR are to endear themselves to us as path-breaking policies, government institutions must stop being laggards and the ministry, instead of drafting what reads like a verbose seminar paper, should undertake a reality check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||A graveyard of strategists||As the Taliban acquired control of Afghanistan and the world saw flashes of Saigon in the messy American withdrawal, it didn’t take long for Afghanistan’s description as a graveyard of empires to re-enter the narrative. Alongside, another group lost no time in dominating the chatter — the tribe of strategists. Where the ground is shifting, there is room to recommend short-term strategy, medium-term strategy and, when newsrooms hazard guess into the distant future, long-term strategy. Contemporary Afghanistan is strategy-packaged as a country. It was its strategy of supporting the communist government that acquired power in 1978 that brought the erstwhile Soviet Union to Afghanistan the following year; it was competing Cold-War strategies that foiled its plans and forced it to leave in 1988, it was post-9/11 strategy and a world reduced to one superpower that brought the Americans to Afghanistan in 2001; it is diminished American strength and a world returned to competing superpowers that inspired their strategy of withdrawal in 2021. The ups and downs of this strategy-laden story ignore the more relevant constants in the background. For instance, among recent news reports on Afghanistan, was the admission of the Taliban that their members aren’t trained to respect women. Everyone knew this from the past and from the spectre of people fleeing after the change of power in August. But said bluntly and publicly, it sat there like shocking dumbness awaiting legitimacy. Does a group that confesses to poor respect for women have the moral right to govern? Before criticizing the Taliban, we must remember that marginalizing women is not an Afghan problem alone. The Taliban represent an extreme manifestation of the malaise. The same tendency, in varying shades, is present in multiple political formations worldwide. In many of these geographies, India included, the solution of the conservatives for women’s rights denied has been to enforce dress codes for women, monitor their mixing with men, and police their presence in public spaces. This disregard for human rights does not seem to have bothered the Doha negotiations, which shaped the Taliban’s return. How could minds informed enough to evolve geo-political strategy miss such fundamental priorities? One reason may be this: in strategies around geo-politics, people (and women therein) are incidental occupants of prized geography. Afghanistan attracts because of its location. The country’s predicament is what may be called the curse of the in-between. In ancient times, it was the route from Central Asia to India. In the days of the British raj, Afghanistan was the theatre of the Great Game, wherein Tsarist Russia and Britain engaged in shadow games; one to further its influence southward, the other to check it. Currently, Afghanistan is the strategic crossroad; the link converging China, Central Asia, South Asia, the Middle East and the Arabian Sea. Everyone intervenes for access to the different directions offered and, of late, the country’s resources, ranging from natural gas to iron ore, copper and lithium. The problem with strategy is its nature. Unlike travellers, strategists rarely talk of the people. Worldwide, the likes of Afghanistan have been chess boards. As much as it is a graveyard of empires, Afghanistan is also a graveyard of strategies. The latter’s ruins as a distinct category escapes the world’s attention because for us on the outside, Afghanistan and strategy have always been one. By definition, tactics and strategy are means to goals. Humanity’s goals are supposed to be humane. But today, thanks to the money and power in its corner, tactics and strategy are bigger schools of imagination, bigger businesses, than goals. Where strategies proliferate, goals remain elusive. That is why Afghanistan is a morass; a logjam of everyone’s self-serving strategies. Delayed time and again, there eventually comes a point when it isn’t strategists who should walk a graveyard of empires but healers. As of mid-2021 and the sight of desperate people falling from planes later, that juncture is upon us. Bringing back the generals, security advisers and spies of the world to Afghanistan would merely mean old wine in a new bottle. They groomed and indulged militancy in Afghanistan as strategy and, finally, abandoned the country to a terrible armed militia. How can their tribe be the solution? Afghanistan needs healers. Those who value the interests of Afghans and those of their country. The Great Game and other games have had their day. Shyam G. Menon is a freelance journalist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||The hand that feeds||A month after the dramatic fall of the old order in Kabul, what is evident in Pakistan is a mix of sentiment ranging from quiet satisfaction to heady triumphalism. Three factors underwrite these views. Foremost is the sense of achievement that a long and risky strategy to instal a ‘friendly’ government in Kabul has paid off. Second is the sense of vindication that the policy of the United States of America — long disliked in Pakistan and one that unites State and street views like almost nothing else — has been exposed with regard to competence and credibility. Thirdly and finally is the gratification at the erasure of the Indian presence in Afghanistan which had long caused as much psychological envy as strategic discomfort. It is not as if there are no voices of disquiet or even prophets of doom; there is concern over the risks of blowback and the catalyzing of Pashtun nationalism across the Durand line; over the future cost that Western and US disapprobation will impose; over the risks at the empowerment that radical Islamic groups in Pakistan feel and derive from the Taliban victory, even though such empowerment is welcomed with regard to Kashmiri outfits. But these doubts are fewer and principally confined to the ‘usual suspects’ and dissenters; they are not representative of the mainstream view. The overwhelming mood remains that such problems as may come up can be handled and that there is a good chance that Afghanistan may finally be on the cusp of a stability that has been elusive so far. In Pakistan, ‘stability’ in Afghanistan is also seen to be synonymous with, and inseparable from, a government ‘friendly’ to Pakistan. Some parallels with the past are inescapable. The Soviet Union’s disintegration in December 1991 was profoundly weakening for the government of the then Afghan president, Najibullah. The resilience he exhibited after the Soviet withdrawal in February 1989 had surprised both supporters and foes. Soviet support, rather than its troops, had been a material factor and the USSR’s collapse meant that the government, which had so far battled the different mujahideen groups effectively, now unravelled quickly. By April 1992, the former mujahideen factions were now running a new government in Afghanistan. But these were not so much different factions as different armies and a civil war was looming. Pakistan’s aim was to make them pull together, but it was also playing favourites with the different leaders. In September 1995, Pakistan realized a new reality was upon it when its ambassador was attacked and its embassy, inherited from the British and described as a grand colonial structure, reduced to rubble. Pakistan had learnt the hard way that the different factions of the mujahideen that it had nurtured and long supported had personalities of their own and the behaviour they had shown in Quetta or Peshawar was going to change once they were in Kabul. The Taliban now emerged as the favoured new force that would restore stability to Afghanistan and also be a government ‘friendly’ to Pakistan. What this meant was and remains is a subject of discussion. Then, as now, the view was that its sacrifices for the Afghan cause entitled Pakistan to a government of its choice in Kabul. The term, ‘strategic depth’, also acquired — and has retained — a certain circulatory and narrative value. But the arguments made in its favour, again then as now, suggested, as better-informed Pakistanis emphasized, a certain naivety on strategic matters. The argument now being heard that being in government would gradually moderate the Taliban also has older antecedents and was heard in Pakistan in the late 1990s too. As it turned out, Pakistan was finally the only nation left making the case for engagement with the Taliban. Pakistan’s expectation post-1996 was that the Taliban’s success in controlling most of Afghanistan and its major cities would lead to international acquiescence and even an acceptance of the changed realities. This did not happen and support of terrorist groups, misogyny, regressive social policies and an inability to compromise forced the Taliban into steadily growing isolation. By 2001, Pakistan was the only country maintaining diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which had earlier recognized the Taliban, had broken relations over the sanctuary provided to Osama bin Laden. These parallels with the 1990s notwithstanding, there are also significant differences now from the Pakistan-Afghanistan interface of the 1990s. Firstly, Afghanistan was very much in a news shadow then and the interests of the US and the West had shifted. The Cold War was over and the overwhelming focus was on a European war in the Balkans. Secondly, politics in Pakistan was significantly different in the post-Zia phase. Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto alternated in power and they were both victims and protagonists in the civil-military contests that characterized Pakistan in the 1990s. Musharraf’s coup settled the dust but thereafter tensions with India remained a principal issue in Pakistan blurring, to some extent, the focus on Afghanistan. Thirdly, a major difference lies in Afghanistan itself. The Taliban seized power in an isolated and war-torn economy and society in 1996, quite unlike the case today. While the country has numerous structural fragilities and a massive aid dependency, it is also much younger in its demographic profile, more educated, more urbanized and, finally, much more connected to the external world. Finally, what has changed most dramatically is China’s role and position in the region. These changes breed hope in Pakistan that this time around its quest for a stable order in Afghanistan with a government ‘friendly’ to it may be more successful. Whether that will happen or not remains a question. Much depends on how much, if at all, the Taliban mindset has changed and evolved in the past two decades. Pakistan is also the country, after Afghanistan, of course, likely to be impacted the most by the answer that emerges from this question. But it is more than likely that what it may find, once again, is the surfacing of the fundamental contradiction between its twin aims of ‘stability’ and ‘friendly’ government. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former Indian High Commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad BJP's 14 - day programme for PM birthday||Dhanbad: The district unit activists of Bharatiya Janata Party as part of the nation-wide 14-day ‘Seva aur Samparpan Abhiyan’ to mark the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modai organised a special programme including an exhibition on his life journey, besides distribution of fruits and essentials among  street dwellers ,inmates of old age homes and inhabitants of Dalit Basti. The inaugural programme began with a photo exhibition at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters which was inaugurated by Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh in the presence of district president of the party, Chandrashekhar Singh, Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha and former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: A 25-year-old woman Santoshi Sardar died by suicide jumping into river Kharkai from the Adityapur toll bridge in Kadma on Friday. According to eye-witnesses the woman, a resident of Ramjanam Nagar, a slum along the Marine Drive in Kadma jumped into the swollen Kharkai River with her two kids- Manisha, the four-year-old daughter and Manish, the one-year-old son. She was carrying both the kids on her lap. Santoshi's husband Govardhan Sardar is a daily wage earner. (Pinaki Majumdar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||IIT (ISM) launches innovation hub for  entrepreneur support||An introductory programme was held on Friday at IIT (ISM) intended at apprising the community at large and local budding entrepreneurs in particular about the  technological guidance, management and marketing strategy support and skill development being offered through its newly established Atal Community Innovation Centre. Deputy Director of IIT (ISM) Professor Shlivahan who presided over the function briefed the gathering about the wide range of activities being conducted by the college to support the industry including the technological support to various small industries. Amit Shukla, Chief Executive Officer of ACIC at IIT (ISM), also explained in details about the activities of the newly developed centre, including providing opportunity for everyone irrespective of their age to innovate, ideate and design impactful solution and also to support community learning by providing enabling infrastructure and linkages. Explaining the deliberation during the programme Shukla said, “Ravi Nishhad, one of the entrepreneur of Bhuli area of Dhanbad engaged in Marigold flower cultivation apprised us about the problem with regard to mulching (removal of weeds) and also lesser profit and thus  based on our experience we suggested them to go for extraction of marigold flower products i.e processing which can be sold at higher rate to chemical or pharmaceutical industry.” “We are considering taking suggestions from the chemistry department for exploring the possibility of extracting phytophenol from marigolds which can be sold at much higher rate than the flower,” said Shukla. “We are simultaneously considering taking the help of the Mechanical Engineering department for developing a low cost equipment for addressing the mulching issue faced by Ravi Nishad and his business venture,” said Shukla. “Another company, LAPLACE Games-Smartifying education engaged in designing innovative physical games for kids incubated by us is facing the problem of high cost wood and bamboo engraving machines which leads to high production cost and thus we are exploring ways of developing low cost equipment or make toys or will offer them machines by procuring them from other manufacturers engaged in production of low cost engraving machines,” said Shukla. Regarding the aim of organising the programme, Shukla said, “We also organised the programme to dispel the myth that IIT (ISM) is only involved in cutting edge technology rather than conducting research for the benefit of common masses and to address the problem affecting their daily life,” said Shukla the centre will also make technology developed at the laboratory available for benefit of common masses. Ravi Nishad of Bhuli who operates the company RPA while sharing his experience during the programme, “The programme was quite useful and we have been asked by the ACIC officials to come to centre on September 23 to discuss and explore the possibility of extracting useful products in the form of chemicals from the Marigold flowers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tejashwi sets sights on Jharkhand, to revive RJD in state||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), a junior partner in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government in Jharkhand,  is aiming to revive the party in the state with an eye on the 2024 parliamentary and assembly elections. RJD leader of Opposition in Bihar Tejashwi Yadav is scheduled to begin a two-day visit to Jharkhand on Saturday, the first of many more monthly visits from now, his party workers said. State RJD president Abhay Singh said on Friday  that a state-level meet is planned in Ranchi at  Dibdih on Sunday where central leader will address  workers and spell out ways to revive the party in Jharkhand. “Tejashwi has now decided to visit Jharkhand at least for two days every month. The idea is to strengthen the party across all the 81 Assembly segments in Jharkhand. By 2024, we hope to emerge as a key player in Jharkhand,” said Singh. RJD currently has only one MLA in Jharkhand _  Satyanand Bhokta, who  represents Chatra constituency,  is a minister in the  Hemant  government handling labour and employment department portfolio. The party contested both Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in 2019 in alliance with JMM and Congress. RJD used to be a potential political force when Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000 with nine MLAs. But later, the  party’s prospects diminished. In 2005, RJD was reduced to seven MLAs, five in 2009 and a decade later, it had oy one Assembly member. Singh said the party was committed to revisit its golden days in Jharkhand for which it has  also  started a mega membership drive with a view to generate 10 lakh new members. “We want to expand to all the 24 districts and strengthen ourselves in our former strongholds of  Palamau, Latehar, Chatra, Godda that  border neighbouring Bihar,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly woman branded 'witch', hacked to death ||An elderly widow was hacked to death on suspicion of being a witch at a village under Seraikela thana area about 43km away from here on Thursday night. The victim, Jalhi Devi, 63, was on her way to a field near her house at Papra village about 9.30pm when a 40-year-old man, Gopal Godsera, attacked her with an axe and continued to strike until she stopped moving. While killing the victim, the assailant was shouting at her to be a witch and fled the spot with the blood-stained axe. As the incident of alleged witch-hunting spread like a wildfire, someone in the village informed the Seraikela thana, about eight kilometres away from the spot, leading a police party to rush to the scene. The OC, Seraikela thana, Manohar Kumar confirmed it to be a witch-hunting case and said that the assailant was arrested from his house on Friday morning. "The assailant, Gopal Godsera had suspicion that the elderly widow was a witch. He had lodged a complaint against the murder victim to be a witch a year ago, claiming two of his children had fallen terribly sick due to the alleged witchcraft practice by the widow. But finally he killed her branding her to be a witch," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. Kumar said though Gopal would consider Jalhi Devi to be a witch, he had a prolonged dispute of a plot of land with the victim. "We are, therefore, trying to find out whether the elderly widow was murdered due to witch-hunting or because of the landed property dispute. We are interrogating the assailant," said the police officer. Kumar said soon after killing, Gopal had fled his village, but had returned home early in the morning today. As soon as the police knew about his home-coming, the OC himself raised his house in the morning and took him under custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand farm outfits back Bharat Bandh call  ||Two prominent farmers’ organisations, both backed by Left parties, have announced to hit to streets on September 27 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three contentious agricultural laws enacted by the Centre. In Jharkhand, the two major farm outfits — Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha and Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) — said  they have decided to make the upcoming Bharat Bandh a grand success and appealed to the ruling parties, namely JMM, Congress and the RJD for their support. General secretary of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha Surjit Sinha said they have prepared 20,000 posters and two lakh pamphlets bearing slogans in support of the bandh. These would be put up across the state from the next few days. “This apart, similar campaign material is being readied in all districts to sensitise people, primarily farmers, about the bandh,” he said. Criticising the Union government, CITU secretary Prakash Viplab said that despite the deaths of scores of farmers during the agitation against the contentious farm laws, the Centre had not changed its mind. "This shows the insensitivity of the Modi government towards farmers, and their cause. After laying the template for selling agricultural land to private players, the Union government is now getting ready to sell other assets of the country via the national monetization project under which it is gearing up to outsource PSUs, roads, railways, airports, et al. This will impact the lives of common men directly," he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has been leading a nationwide stir in the national capital and in other parts of north India since the last 10 months demanding a roll back of the "anti-farmer" legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia water crisis dampens Vishwakarma Puja celebrations||The ongoing water crisis in Jharia caused due to deliberate perforation of pipelines of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) continued during the fourth day on Friday on Vishwakarma Puja causing inconvenience to more than five lakh Jharia residents in performing puja. Leakage in the 30-inch diameter main water supply pipeline used to supply water from Jamadoba based Water Treatment Plant to Jharia at Pathabangla and Jeetpur is the main reason for the water supply disruption. This apart, two large leakages caused due to decay of the 50-year-old pipeline have also taken place including one in 30-inch diameter pipeline at Patharbangla and other in 18-inch pipeline at Phusbunglow further aggravated the water woes for common people. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Arindam Banerjee, a resident of Poddar Pada locality of Jharia who is the Jharia President of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said,“The loss of source of livelihood during the pandemic and lockdown forced many people to resort to sell of water by illegally rupturing the pipeline at more than ten places in between Patharbangla to Jeetpur causing problem for more than 25,000 legal water connection holders besides other families fetching water from public water connections.” Prem Bachchan Das, a resident of Baniahir in Jharia who is also president of Rickshaw Mazdoor Sangh, said, “The water theft is being carried out by organized groups with the help of some local unemployed youth at many places and one can witness 500 liter water drums parked near the illegal connection sites including at Baniahir which are further loaded into mini trucks having 1000 liter tanks sold at rate of Rs 1000 per tanks.” “The issue requires a comprehensive solution involving people’s representatives to address the problem of unemployment” said Das, a renowned social activist of Dhanbad and added the public connection should also be established by the initiative of MP and MLAs to address the water scarcity for those who can't afford household connection due to lesser income. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said, “Yes indeed the illegal water trade by organised groups causing leakage in the pipeline is the main cause of the water crisis in Dhanbad but the responsibility lies on people’s representatives and administration to solve the problem.” Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional officer of water supply division of JMADA, said admitted the illegal leakages as one of reasons for the water supply disruption and said “We have repaired one of leakages in 30-inch pipeline while repair work of 18-inch pipeline will be carried only after demolishing a private house under which the leakage has been caused and repair work is likely to completed tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren hopeful after meeting with Niti Aayog team ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren is hopeful that Wednesday’s meeting with the Niti Aayog team would help bridge the gap between the Centre and the state. “They have assured that a meeting will be organised soon for sorting out outstanding issues between the Centre and the state,” Soren told after the meeting with a 8-member Niti Aayog team led by its member V.K. Paul was over that evening. “We are always in favour of strengthening federal structure of the country and that type of initiatives will surely help us all doing so,” he sounded optimistic while speaking to the media and added the state was assured that some of its grievances would be addressed. Reminding that the Centre had already deducted about Rs 2,800 crore from the state’s consolidated fund and was to deduct Rs 1,100 crore more soon for payment to Damodar Valley Corporation towards electricity charges though Jharkhand had contested the amount claimed and also expressed willingness to exist from the existing tripartite agreement. “We have requested to keep such deductions on hold until the matter is sorted out,” Soren said, adding the Niti Aayog gave a positive reply as they did in case of GST compensation also. “We will get about Rs 1,800 crore towards GST compensation and expect something would come out in the next meeting to be held in Kanpur soon,” the chief minister said. He also said that Coal India Limited owed the Jharkhand government a huge amount towards royalty for coal mined and compensation for the land used for the purpose. “We have also demanded a survey be conducted in the coal belt for assessing the socio-economic impact of century-old coal mining and also ascertaining if it benefited the people at all,” Soren informed. The chief minister further informed that 20-odd matters were discussed in the meeting with the Niti Aayog team that lasted for about three hours. Among other issues that the state government raised included demanding Rs 300 crore for addressing prevalent malnutrition among children and another Rs 600 crore for cleansing Damodar river that became too polluted. The Jharkhand government also demanded special concessions such as relaxation in taxes for SC/ST entrepreneurs as in force in the Northeast. The state government further demanded that 25 per cent quota in allotment of Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals be curtailed and instead given to the state government as “there are not many private hospitals in the state and the people here are not affluent enough to take the jab by paying so much”. “If more vaccines are given to the state well in advance, we can vaccinate up to 3.5 lakh people daily which is now limited to maximum 1.5 lakh people,” Soren explained the reason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||State govt reaches out to industry bodies to address grievances ||The Jharkhand government has reached out to industry bodies in a bid to address their grievances and apprehensions following the launch of the new Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy in Delhi in August. In this regard, industry secretary Pooja Singhal held a meeting with functionaries of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) and Jharkhand Small Industries Association (JSIA) at a private hotel in Ranchi on Thursday evening. “The state government apart from attracting new investments is committed to solving the problems of existing investors. It is the endeavour of the government to ensure that the applications of all investors are executed in time under the single-window system. It is the priority of the department and the government to clear the pending applications for the establishment of industries in the state,” said Singhal. She also announced about the preparation of a rural industry policy. “Following the directive of the chief minister, major changes have been made in the labour and industry policies of the state. The government is also preparing a rural industries policy, so that steps can be taken towards the establishment of agro-based industries in rural areas,” said Singhal. She said a monthly review meeting will be held with the officials of the departments concerned so that entrepreneurs do not face any problem related to setting up of any kind of industries in the state. Entrepreneurs would also be able to participate in the review meeting, she added. Singhal said a directive has been issued to officers of various departments to ensure the execution of pending applications without delay. “The pending applications for forest clearance as well as pollution no-objection certificate would be cleared at the earliest. The new JIIPP enshrines that all such glitches faced by the entrepreneurs would be solved in time. Industrial areas have been notified in Ormanjhi (near Ranchi), Deoghar and Dhanbad and land is also available for the same. The government has already taken steps to ensure that entrepreneurs do not have to make rounds of offices for the establishment of industries,” Singhal said. She also said that as a part of efforts to revive closed or sick industries in the state, a list will be prepared by identifying such units and all possible options will be considered. FJCCI president Praveen Chhabra said that the efforts of the government are commendable. “In the meeting with the officials of various departments, talks were held in a clear and transparent manner, which proves that the department and the present government are sensitive about the establishment of industries in the state,” said Chhabra. The meeting was also attended by senior officials of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board, the factory inspector and officials of the commercial tax department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
